K821x#15complaint
Mr B complains on behalf of himself  and the late Mrs B that CIGNA Europe Insurance 
Company SA-NV (CIGNA) mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) with their mortgage.
For the avoidance of doubt, CIGNA  is not the seller  of the PPI policy, but it has accepted 
responsibility for this complaint. So Ill only refer to CIGNA in this decision.
background
Briefly:
In 2004 Mr B and the late Mrs B took out a mortgage during  a meeting. At the same time 
they also took out PPI designed to protect their mortgage  payments in the event Mr B  the 
policy only protected him  couldnt  work because of accident,  sickness,  hospitalisation or 
unemployment. 
The policy was a single premium policy, which was added to the mortgage amount so it 
attracted interest and was repayable over the term of the mortgage. The premium was just 
under £8,500 and it provided a monthly benefit of a little under £900  matching the mortgage  
payment. The policy  had a term of five years.
The adjudicator upheld the complaint. They said that because  Mr B was a temporary worker 
at the time, he wouldnt have been able to claim for unemployment benefit. But there wasnt 
enough evidence  to show that Mr B was made aware of this. They said that, had Mr B been 
made aware,  he wouldnt likely have taken out PPI. As a result he should  be compensated.
CIGNA didnt reply to the adjudicators findings  despite attempts to elicit a response. So, on 
the basis it is assumed  CIGNA disagrees  with the adjudicator,  the complaint comes  to me for 
a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
handling PPI complaints  on our website and Ive taken into account whats  relevant here in 
deciding this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold this complaint. Ive set out my reasons below.
Firstly  Ive not seen enough evidence  to persuade me that this was an advised  sale where 
Mr B and the late Mrs B were given advice and a recommendation to take out PPI. So 
CIGNA didnt have to ensure the policy was suitable  for them. But it did have to provide them 
with enough clear and timely information about the cover so they could decide for 
themselves if it was right for them.
Because things  happened  quite some time ago, its understandable that there  isnt much 
information now available from the time. What limited information there is appears to suggest  
that CIGNA is relying on a PPI application  form, a brochure and the policy  terms and 
conditions document  as the way Mr B and the late Mrs B were informed about  the policy.
Ref: DRN45253012Im mindful that the sale was carried out during a meeting, so I dont know  what opportunity 
Mr B and the late Mrs B wouldve had to read and absorb this kind of written information.  But 
I dont think its likely  they would have had much time to do so  its more likely  they relied 
more on what they were told by the adviser during their meeting.
But without any record of these discussions  it the written material  that I have relied on to 
decide whether  I think Mr B and the late Mrs B were given clear and timely information  about 
the policy. And having done so Im not persuaded they were.
For example the PPI application form doesnt refer to the brochure or where Mr B and the 
late Mrs B could  find out more about the policy. And while its likely that CIGNA  provided 
them with the policy document  containing  the full terms  and conditions,  this was likely after 
the sale (so after theyd agreed to take it out) because this is what CIGNA was required to 
do. 
So overall, the evidence doesnt  tell me that CIGNA gave Mr B and the late Mrs B all of the 
information they needed - including highlighting in a clear and not misleading way the key 
features and the significant limitations  and exclusions  of cover - before they agreed to take it 
out so they could make their assessment of whether the PPI was right for them.  This means  
CIGNA didnt do all that it should  fairly  and reasonably  have done  in its dealings with Mr B 
and the late Mrs B.
I also think Mr B and the late Mrs B have  lost out as a result  of the things CIGNA didnt do. I 
say this for the following  reason: one of those significant exclusions was that unemployment 
cover wasnt  available for to temporary  workers. I think this wouldve mattered to Mr B 
because he says he was a temporary  worker  at the time  and Ive not seen anything to 
dispute this.
I think if Mr B and the late Mrs B had been  clearly  informed  about this significant  exclusion, I 
think its likely given the not insignificant cost and the fact that I think they wouldve placed 
the most  value on the unemployment cover  element   it was after all protecting their 
mortgage  they wouldve declined the cover and not taken  it out.
It follows that I think Mr B and the late Mrs B have lost out as a result  of the things CIGNA 
didnt do, so CIGNA  needs to put things right.
I would add here that based on the evidence available  I have  some  concerns about the way 
the cost of the PPI policy was set out and whether Mr B and the late Mrs B were  clearly told 
the premium would be added to their loan and so would  attract  interest over its full term. 
However I dont need to make a finding on this as Ive given sufficient reason to uphold this 
complaint.
putting things right
Mr B and the late Mrs B borrowed extra to pay for the PPI, so their loan was bigger  than it 
shouldve been.  They paid more than they shouldve each  month and it cost them more to 
repay the loan than it would have. So Mr B (as sole representative and beneficiary of the late 
Mrs Bs estate) needs to get back the extra they paid.
So, CIGNA should:
Ref: DRN45253013Work  out and pay Mr B the difference between what Mr B and the late Mrs B paid 
each month on the loan and what they wouldve paid without PPI. 
Work  out and pay Mr B the difference between what it cost to pay off the loan and 
what it would have  cost to pay off the loan without  PPI.
Add simple interest to the extra amount Mr B and the late Mrs B paid from when they 
paid it until Mr B gets it back.  The rate of interest is 15% a year until April 1993 and 
8% a year from then on.
If Mr B or the late Mrs B made a successful claim under the PPI policy, CIGNA can 
take off what they got for the claim from the amount it owes Mr B.  
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires CIGNA to take off tax from this interest. CIGNA must 
give Mr B a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  Ive decided to uphold this complaint  and CIGNA  Europe 
Insurance Company SA-NV should put things right as Ive detailed above.  I make no other 
award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B on behalf  of 
himself and on behalf of the late Mrs B to accept  or reject my decision before 3 August  2019.
Paul Featherstone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4525301