K820x#14complaint
Ms W complains Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, will not refund money  which the 
ATM failed to dispense.
background
Ms W complained about two attempts to withdraw  money from an ATM.  She  said that on 
both occasions,  it failed to dispense her money yet this was still debited from her account. 
She complained after the second failed attempt.
Halifax looked into her complaint  but did not uphold it.  It said the evidence  presented  
showed that the money had been  dispensed  correctly and so, it would not be reimbursing 
her.
And when  Ms W came to this service, our investigator didnt think she could ask Halifax  to 
do anything more either.  The matter was then passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Ms W first complained to Halifax in October  2018, she complained about her account  
being debited  twice despite  her only having  made one ATM withdrawal.  That  was clearly her 
complaint because I have listed to the call which she makes.   And  when she initially  came  to 
this service, thats the complaint she re-iterated.
However, whilst  the complaint was with this service,  Ms W changed  her complaint to say that 
two transactions  had not dispensed  each for £40.
The information provided by the ATM owners  show that the money  did in fact dispense and 
that there  were no surplus notes left in the machine when it was looked at.  Everything  
balanced. So, I think its more likely  than not that the ATM dispensed Ms Ws money on that 
day  on both occasions.
In the circumstances, I cant see that Halifax  has done anything wrong by declining her 
claim. And I have seen  nothing to suggest  it has discriminated against  her in doing so.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 February  2020.
Shazia Ahmed
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4076747