K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain that HCC  International Insurance Company Plc have declined  their 
travel insurance claim.
All references to HCC in my decision include its agents.
background
Mr and Mrs R took out an annual travel insurance policy online. They  did this through a price 
comparison website. A few months after this they booked a cruise. They  cancelled  the cruise 
a few days before it was due to depart because Mr R was too unwell to travel  due to an 
infection following  surgery. Mr and Mrs R tried to claim for the cancellation  on their policy.  
HCC declined their claim and said this was because the cause of the cancellation was 
related to a pre-existing condition  that Mr and Mrs R hadnt told it about.
Mr and Mrs R brought  their complaint to our service. They said that although Mr R had 
previously had an operation before taking out the policy, they didnt  think Mr Rs more recent 
condition was related to this.
I issued a provisional decision on 25 September 2019, where I explained why I intended to 
uphold the complaint. In that decision I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs R have said they dont  believe their claim was related to Mr Rs pre-existing 
medical condition.  But having reviewed the medical  notes, I think  the condition  that led to 
them cancelling the holiday is related to the condition Mr R had before he took out the policy. 
I say this because  Mr R had shoulder surgery before he took out the policy. Letters  from the 
consultant surgeon  show  Mr R continued to experience problems with his right shoulder 
following this. He was told that he could have  surgery but this had risks which included 
infection. Mr R then went on to have the surgery and was unable to travel  because of a post-
operative infection. 
I acknowledge the policy Mr and Mrs R took out excludes claims resulting from pre-existing 
medical conditions  and HCC has relied  on this exclusion to reject their claim. But I dont think  
allowing HCC to do this would result in a fair and reasonable  outcome in this case. Ill 
explain why.
This is because I think Mr and Mrs R made  a misrepresentation when they took out the 
policy. And its this that has led to his claim being  turned  down. So, I think  to reach  a fair and 
reasonable outcome in this case I need  to apply the principles set out in the Consumer 
Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA). This is because  CIDRA is 
designed to make sure consumers get the appropriate remedy from their insurer  if they 
make a qualifying  misrepresentation. 
Ref: DRN40725362Mr and Mrs R had a responsibility  to take reasonable care when providing information to 
HCC. If they didnt take reasonable  care (and made a qualifying  misrepresentation) then I 
need to decide if their actions were careless or deliberate or reckless. If the 
misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, HCC is entitled  to avoid the policy  and refuse 
all claims. If the misrepresentation was careless then HCC can do what it would  have done  if 
Mr and Mrs R had given clear and accurate information.
was there  a misrepresentation?
Mr and Mrs R took out the insurance  over the internet via a price  comparison site. HCC has 
sent us screenshots to show what Mr and Mrs R would have seen at the time. It says that 
during the initial  quote they would have  been  asked: Do you or anyone  in your party have, 
or have  you or anyone  in your party had any pre-existing medical conditions?  Followed by a 
yes and a no box. Below this it says please tell us about your medical history.  You wont 
always be charged extra but failure  to tell us about  any medical conditions, past or on-going 
could potentially affect specific claims for medical  treatment, flights  or even the whole policy.
HCC says that Mr and Mrs R selected  no. It says that they would have then gone on to its 
own site and seen  the following:
Medical Conditions
You have  chosen  a policy which  excludes  cover for all pre-existing medical conditions during 
your quote  on the price  comparison website. This excludes any hospital investigation and/or 
treatment for any undiagnosed  or unresolved condition or set of symptoms  that you are 
receiving or waiting for at the time of purchasing your insurance. Failure to disclose all and 
accurate information  in relation to your pre-existing medical condition  may result in us 
refusing to deal with or reducing the amount of any relevant claims, even if the claim is not 
related to the undisclosed medical  condition. If you need to change  or add screened 
conditions please  start a new quote on the price comparison  site.
HCC has also sent a screenshot  of the important information box that it says Mr and Mrs R 
wouldve seen which says that its made  several assumptions to provide a quotation which  
includes that they are not, or have  not in the last five years  suffered from any Health 
Conditions that you have not declared  to us.
HCC has sent us copies of the medical  documentation it used to assess his claim. From 
these I can see that Mr R had surgery around four months before he took out the insurance. 
Theres a letter dated the month before he took out the policy  which says he was attending 
physiotherapy weekly and the consultant  had suggested seeing  him in three months with    
x-rays.
Given that Mr R had recently had surgery and his treatment was ongoing,  I think  Mr and  
Mrs R should have  answered yes to the question  about having a pre-existing medical  
condition. So Im satisfied  that Mr and Mrs R made a misrepresentation when  they took out 
the policy.
Ref: DRN40725363was the misrepresentation careless or deliberate or reckless?
For me to decide that the misrepresentation  was deliberate or reckless,  HCC would need to 
show that Mr and Mrs R knew the information they provided was untrue or misleading or did 
not care that the information they provided was untrue or misleading  and that they also knew 
what they misrepresented was relevant  to HCC or didnt care whether or not it was relevant  
to HCC.
HCC hasnt provided  anything to show that the misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless. 
So based  on what Ive seen so far, I think that the misrepresentation was more likely to have 
been careless.  
what would  HCC have  done if Mr and Mrs R had given  clear  and accurate information? 
If the misrepresentation was careless then HCC is entitled to do what it would have done if 
Mr and Mrs R had given clear and accurate information.
HCC says that if Mr and Mrs R had made  it aware  of Mr Rs medical  condition  it would have  
done a medical  screening before offering them  the policy.  It didnt  have the opportunity to do 
this at the time, so its asked the underwriters to do a retro screening to show how being 
aware of Mr Rs condition  might have affected  its offer of the policy.  The information  its 
provided from the retro screening shows that HCC would still have offered the policy to Mr 
and Mrs R. But it would have charged a higher premium - £185.26  instead  of the £111.25  
Mr and Mrs R paid. 
The information shows that HCC would still have entered  into the contract  with Mr and Mrs R 
and would have  provided cover  for his medical  condition had it been declared  but charged  
a higher premium.  The relevant legislation says HCC is only entitled to proportionately  
reduce the amount to be paid on the claim to reflect  the fact that Mr and Mrs R paid less 
premium than they should have. Mr and Mrs R paid around 60% of the full premium. 
So I think the fair and reasonable outcome in this case is for HCC to pay 60% of Mr and   
Mrs Rs cancellation claim, subject to any policy limits that apply and less any excess  
applicable. 
responses
HCC said it agreed with the findings of my provisional decision.
Mr and Mrs Rs representative said the operation  Mr R first had before taking out the policy  
had fully healed  with no complications. A few years  later he needed  a second operation due 
to pain and arthritis in his shoulder. The holiday had to be cancelled due to infection 
developing following the second operation not the first.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN40725364A letter from Mr Rs consultant dated December 2016 refers  to Mr R having had bilateral 
shoulder surgery three months before. It says he was attending physiotherapy weekly and 
the consultant had suggested seeing  him again in three months with x-rays of both 
shoulders on arrival. 
Mr and Mrs R took out the policy around a month later (in January 2017). Given that Mr R 
was still receiving treatment for his condition, I think that Mr and Mrs R should  have 
answered yes the question  about having  a pre-existing medical  condition.  So Im satisfied 
that they made a misrepresentation when they took out the policy.
A letter from the consultant dated  March  2017 refers to Mr R struggling with right shoulder 
function.  It says there  was a possibility (the shoulder) will improve sufficiently over the next 
few months.  The only alternative would be an operation which  would be a very major 
undertaking.
Theres a letter from the consultant dated September  2017 which  says that Mr R is 
becoming very frustrated  regarding his right shoulder function. He has very little movement 
and the movement he does have is painful. The pros and cons  of an operation were 
discussed. It says the consultant made it clear to Mr R that surgery  would be a major 
undertaking with significant risk of complications which included infection. It says Mr R was 
quite clear he would like to proceed  with it and his name was put on a waiting list.
I can see Mr R went on to have the discussed surgery  in December 2017. Theres a letter  
from the hospital dated December 2017  saying he appeared to have developed a 
postoperative infection and he was advised  to cancel  his holiday booked for January 2018 
because of this.
Having considered the above, Im satisfied  that the condition that led to Mr and Mrs R 
cancelling the holiday was related to Mr Rs pre-existing  medical  condition.  
So Mr and Mrs Rs representatives comments havent made a difference to the conclusions 
I reached in my provisional  decision.
putting things right
HCC should pay 60% of Mr and Mrs Rs cancellation claim, subject to any policy  limits that 
apply and less any excess applicable. HCC should  also add interest  to whats  due to Mr and 
Mrs R at 8% simple  per year from the date of the claim until the date the settlement is paid
*If HCC considers  that its required by HM Revenue  & Customs to take off income tax from that 
interest, it should tell Mr and Mrs R how much its taken off. It should also give Mr and Mrs R a 
certificate showing  this if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate.
It should pay this within 28 days of us telling it Mr and Mrs R have accepted my final 
decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained I uphold this complaint and direct HCC International 
Insurance Company Plc to put things  right by doing  what Ive said above.
Ref: DRN40725365Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  18 November  2019.
Anne Muscroft
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4072536