K821x#15complaint
Ms C says Bank  of Scotland  Plc  trading  as Halifax - mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI)  policy.  
background
Ms C bought the policy in 2002  at the same time as taking out a credit  card.  
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Ms C disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Ms Cs case.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold Ms Cs complaint. Ill explain why. 
Ms C says she was told she wouldnt get the credit card unless she took the PPI. Halifax  
shouldve made  Ms C aware  she had a choice about  taking  out the policy.  Halifax has sent 
us a copy of Ms Cs signed  credit agreement. The form isnt very clear but it looks like the 
form was filled in and printed  off by Halifax and was then signed by Ms C. 
The form has a section  for the PPI and this has been marked  with an x to opt for the policy. 
It also contains Ms Cs personal information, such as her job, mothers maiden name  and 
date of birth. This suggests a conversation took place between Ms C and Halifaxs employee  
and the form has been filled in based  on what was discussed. So I think  its likely Ms C was 
aware of the contents of the form and she chose to take the policy  although I can 
understand why she cant  remember this. 
Halifax says it recommended the PPI to Ms C so it had to check  that the PPI was right for 
her. And based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time,  I think  that it was. For 
example she wasnt  affected  by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover. 
Ms C says she would  have received some sick pay benefits from her employer. The policy 
would have paid out alongside her benefits, as well as covering her repayments if she 
became unemployed. And it doesnt look like Ms C had any other means   such as savings  
 she could have  used. So Halifax wasnt wrong to recommend the policy to her. 
Its possible the information Halifax gave Ms C about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it shouldve  
been. But she chose  to take it out - so it looks like she wanted  this type of cover. And it 
seems like it would have  been useful for her if something went  wrong.  It also looks  like it was 
affordable. So I dont think better information  about  the PPI would have put her off taking out 
the cover. 
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Halifax doesnt need  to refund everything 
Ms C paid for it. But Halifax has already offered to give Ms C back some of the cost of the 
PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.  
Ref: DRN47349422Halifax will make arrangements  to pay Ms C now Ive issued my final decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Ms Cs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 February  2019.
Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4734942