K820x#14complaint
Mr H says Lloyds Bank  PLC mis-sold him payment protection insurance (PPI).
background
Mr H took out a mortgage through Lloyds in 1988  and it seems he was sold the PPI at 
around the same time.
Mr H says the PPI was added to his account without his consent and, when he found out 
about it afterwards,  he assumed  it was compulsory. He also says he didnt need the policy  
and it wasnt suitable for him.
The adjudicator who looked at Mr Hs complaint didnt uphold it. Mr H disagrees and so his 
complaint has come  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account here.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Hs complaint. Ill explain why.
Lloyds needed  to make  it clear to Mr H he had a choice about  PPI and get his agreement to 
it. But it has no documents or other  records from the time of the sale of Mr Hs PPI to show  
how it did this. All Ive seen is a mortgage  proposal  which says Mr H will be given  a quote for 
PPI and that Lloyds  recommends customers take it out. And Mr Hs recollections of the sale 
arent detailed. But I dont think any of this is surprising, because  the sale was such a long 
time ago.
To uphold  Mr Hs complaint on this point, Id have to think it was more likely than not Lloyds 
added the PPI to Mr Hs account without his knowledge or consent. The information I have  
essentially, what Mr H says  isnt enough  on its own and without anything  to back  it up for 
me to think  this would  be a fair and reasonable conclusion. Based on what  we know about 
Lloyds sales of PPI with mortgages in this period, I think its more likely  Mr H agreed to the 
PPI at the time, knowing  he had a choice about  it  although I do understand thats not how 
he remembers things.
Lloyds says it recommended the PPI to Mr H, so it needed to make  sure it was right for him 
in his circumstances. I dont know what steps  Lloyds  took to do this. But from the policy 
details Lloyds has sent us and from what Mr H says of his circumstances  at the time, I think  
it was right for him. I say this because:
It seems  Mr H was eligible for the PPI. And he wasnt  affected  by any of the main 
things the policy  wouldnt have covered  like known health problems or unusual 
employment arrangements. So I dont think there was anything to stop Mr H claiming 
the full policy  benefit if hed needed  to.
Mr H says hed have  got some sick pay from his employer  if he couldnt work  
because of sickness or injury. And he also says he had some  savings. But the PPI 
policy wouldve paid out for longer than his full sick pay lasted, and this wouldve 
Ref: DRN49914082been on top of his sick pay. It would also have paid out for up to 12 months if he lost 
his job. So, although  I know  Mr H doesnt  think the policy  was suitable for him, I think  
it was of some benefit to him. I say this especially bearing in mind  a mortgage is a 
significant and long-term financial commitment and your home is at risk if you fall 
behind on your mortgage repayments.
I havent seen  anything to make  me think Mr H couldnt afford the policy or that its 
cost made it unsuitable for him.
As well as making sure the PPI was right for Mr H, Lloyds also had to give him enough  clear  
information about it for him to be able to decide  in an informed way if he wanted to buy it. 
Again, I dont know what steps  Lloyds took to do this  and it may be that it didnt make 
some things as clear to Mr H as it shouldve.  But, as Ive already said,  I think  its likely Mr H 
agreed to the cover  and I think it was right for him in his circumstances. So I think clearer 
information, if it had been needed, would only have confirmed this to him and wouldnt have 
changed his decision. I dont think Mr H has lost out because of anything Lloyds did wrong.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 June 2019.
Jane Gallacher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4991408