K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a monthly  premium payment protection  insurance  (PPI) policy  taken 
out in 2010 alongside  a personal loan.  Mr D says Police Credit  Union Limited  (PCU) mis-
sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ds case.
Ive decided the PPI wasnt  mis-sold and Ill explain why. 
Mr D has said PPI was not explained. PCU has said the optional nature of the policy would 
have been clear. Where theres a dispute about  what happened, I have to base my decision 
on what I think is most likely to have happened, taking  into account all the evidence  that is 
available.
Both parties  agree Mr D would have phoned  PCU  initially before being  sent documents  to 
complete, sign and return. PCU  no longer have a recording of the call, which  isnt surprising 
considering how long its been  since the sale took place. 
But based  on the evidence I do have, I think PCU made it clear  that Mr D didnt have to take 
out the PPI and he chose to take it out  although I can understand why he cant  remember  
this. I say this because PCU have provided a copy of the credit application completed at the 
time. I can see there is an option  to select or decline  PPI and PPI has been selected. Mr D 
has signed the form which I think indicates that he agreed with all the information on the 
form, including the selection on PPI. If Mr D didnt want  PPI, he could have ticked to decline 
it. 
PCU has also provided the separate PPI application form completed at the time. I can see 
there are three options: 
to take accident,  sickness and unemployment  cover (ASU);
to take accident  and sickness only (AS); or
to not take insurance. 
ASU cover has been selected  and Mr D has signed the form  so I think this indicates  that 
he chose to take the policy, with that specific cover, knowing that he could refuse it if he 
didnt want it.
PCU didnt  recommend the PPI to Mr D so it didnt have to check if it was right for him. But it 
did have to make sure Mr D got the information he needed to decide  if it was right for him. 
Its possible the information PCU gave Mr D about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But he chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like he wanted  this type of cover. Based 
on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it doesnt look like he was affected by any 
of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover - so it would  have  been  useful for him if 
something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont think better  
information about the PPI would have put him off taking  out the cover. 
Ref: DRN41548532Mr D has said he didnt need  PPI as he would have received  six months full followed by six 
months half sick pay from his employer. But the PPI provided cover for 24 months per claim 
for accident and sickness as well as 12 months per claim for unemployment. So the PPI 
would have covered Mr D for longer  than his sick pay. Mr D has said he wasnt told that the 
PPI would not pay out alongside his sick pay  but this isnt correct. PPI would pay out in 
addition to his sick pay. 
Mr D has said he had a life and critical illness cover policy with his wife so he didnt need the 
PPI policy. But this is separate product  to PPI and would not have  covered  the same  thing  
that a PPI policy would have. 
So overall, I still think Mr D wouldve found  the PPI useful.
Ive thought about everything Mr D has said but these points dont change my decision.
Ive also thought about the commission Mr D paid on his PPI  and whether PCU treated him 
unfairly. PCU has told us that the commission for Mr Ds PPI was less than half of what  he 
paid for each premium.  Weve looked at how PCU has been working this out and based on 
what weve seen it looks like its right  Mr Ds commission was less than half the cost of the 
PPI. As thats the case, I dont think it needed to tell him about the commission  so I dont 
think PCU treated  him unfairly.  This means  it doesnt need to pay Mr D back  any of the 
commission he paid for the PPI. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 February  2019.
Sonia Hussain
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4154853