K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that Nationwide  Building Society  mis-sold him a payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy in 1993  when he applied  for a mortgage.
background
Mr H took out a mortgage in 1993,  and alongside it a monthly paid PPI policy. The policy 
gave Mr H accident, sickness  and unemployment cover. It cost around £16.75 per month 
and wouldve covered his mortgage  repayments of around £283 per month for up to 24 
months per successful claim.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr H didnt accept our adjudicators  view and so 
his complaint has been passed to me to consider. He said, in summary, the policy  wasnt 
worth the cost to him. He said it wasnt clearly  explained  that he would not be able to make  a 
claim if he accepted any work,  however poorly  paid. He said he also wasnt  made aware  of 
the three month  waiting period before he could make a successful claim. He said in 2002, he 
needed to make a claim and the policy was, in effect, useless and a total waste of money.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Our approach to complaints  about  the sale of PPI is on our website and Ive followed it here.
Ive taken into account everything that Mr H has said,  but Ive decided not to uphold  his 
complaint. Ill explain  why.
Nationwide had to make it clear that PPI was optional and Mr H had to agree to take it. Ive 
seen a copy of Mr Hs mortgage application, hes selected the box to say he wants  PPI. The 
paperwork made it clear PPI was optional.  And from what  Mr Hs said about his recollection 
of events, I think he understood he didnt have to take PPI, but chose to do so. 
From what  Ive seen in Mr Hs case,  and what weve  learnt generally about Nationwides  
sales processes, I dont think Nationwide recommended this policy to Mr H. So, it didnt have 
to check if the PPI was suitable for his needs.  But, Nationwide still had to give Mr H clear 
information about the PPI so he could decide  for himself whether he wanted to buy it. 
Ive looked carefully  at what Mr Hs said. But, I cant see that the policy was inappropriate for 
him at the point  of sale because:
Mr H was eligible for the PPI  that is, he qualified to be covered by the insurance;
Mr H wasnt  affected by the main limitations  or exclusions  in the policy  so he couldve 
benefitted from everything the policy  offered.  So, I cant see that having better 
information about the things the policy didnt cover wouldve  changed  his decision to take 
out PPI;
Mr H said he was entitled  to six months  worth  of sick pay and one months worth of 
redundancy pay.  The policy wouldve paid out on top of his work  benefits, and possibly 
for longer,  for up to 24 months  per successful  claim. So, I think it couldve provided him 
Ref: DRN47890302with a useful benefit to protect his home. It wouldve allowed him to use his work benefits 
to meet  his other household expenses if he was out of work. Given that the policy  was 
protecting his home, possibly his single  largest  asset, and he could  make  repeat claims 
on the policy, I think PPI couldve provided him with useful long term protection.
Mr H said his parents wouldve helped out with his repayments. Whilst I accept they may 
have wanted to, help of this kind cant always be guaranteed  when  the time comes. So, I 
havent placed much reliance on this. I still think PPI couldve  been valuable to him, in his 
circumstances.
Its possible that Nationwide couldve made  the costs of the policy clearer. But, it seems 
likely Mr H wouldve  thought the cost was acceptable and affordable  given that he 
decided to take out the policy. It was a monthly paid policy  so he couldve cancelled  it at 
any time without losing out financially.
I think the terms and conditions of the policy made  it clear that there was a waiting period 
before he could make a claim. It also set out that a claim could only be made if he was fully 
unemployed or off work due to sickness or accident. Its not unusual for PPI policies to have 
these types of conditions, I cant see that he was misled about  what the policy  covered him 
for. Im sorry to hear that the policy didnt provide him with cover when he needed it in 2002.
I dont think Mr H has lost out because of anything that Nationwide mayve done  wrong  when 
it sold the policy to him. So, I dont  uphold his complaint about the mis-sale of this policy.   
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I do not uphold Mr Hs complaint.
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 July 2019.
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4789030