K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that the mortgage provided  to him by Masthaven Bank Limited  was lent 
irresponsibly and that it was unaffordable.
background
In April 2018 Mr H applied  for a mortgage  with Masthaven via a broker.
After reviewing his application  Masthaven agreed to offer Mr H a mortgage of £192,624 over 
35 years.  The interest rate was to be fixed at 3.94% for the first two years and then revert  to 
0.25% above  Masthavens administered variable rate (AVR), which at the time was 5%. 
Mr H agreed to the mortgage and it completed  in May 2018. 
In December 2018 Masthaven increased its AVR to 5.25% and wrote to Mr H to confirm this. 
The interest rate payable  on his mortgage  at this point remained unchanged as he was still 
within his initial fixed rate period.
Mr H complained to Masthaven about  the mortgage  he was given. He didnt think 
affordability had been  assessed  properly when comparing the amount of borrowing to his 
salary. He also felt that the interest rates,  particularly the rate that his mortgage would revert 
to after the fixed  rate period, were  too high and he was concerned  he would become trapped 
on this rate. So he felt Masthaven  had acted unfairly and as a result  he said he was looking 
to remortgage away from this product as soon as possible.  He  was also unhappy  that this 
meant he would  incur an Early Repayment  Charge (ERC).  
Masthaven didnt  think it had done anything wrong as it felt it had considered  the application 
correctly when assessing affordability. It also reminded  Mr H that hed incur an early 
repayment charge  if he moved to another lender within the fixed  rate period. Unhappy with 
this response,  Mr H complained to our service.
Our investigator looked into this and didnt think Masthaven had done anything  wrong. 
Based on the information Masthaven provided  from its underwriting notes, he was satisfied 
that it had assessed the affordability of the mortgage appropriately. Mr H disagreed.  As a 
result his complaint  has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The mortgage was applied for through  a broker who would  be responsible for the advice  
given to Mr H about the type of mortgage to apply for, how long it should last, how it could be 
repaid, the best interest rates available  and which lender to apply to. After  this advice Mr H, 
via his broker, asked  Masthaven  to provide a mortgage. And it has assessed whether it was 
willing to do so  on the basis Mr H requested. That lending decision by Masthaven  is what  
Ive considered  not the advice that preceded it. Any complaint about this would need to be 
directed to the broker who arranged the mortgage  and gave  advice on the suitability.
Ref: DRN47492622Lenders must lend responsibly. This means  that, before they lend to someone,  they should  
check the customer can afford to pay back money they borrow in a sustainable way. Lenders 
have their own internal  processes for assessing  this. And lenders  can exercise their 
commercial discretion when deciding whether and on what terms theyre  prepared  to lend to 
their customers. 
Masthaven has provided copies of the mortgage  application and supporting documents,  
including wage slips and bank  statements, it took into account when assessing affordability 
here. Some of Mr Hs outgoings were assumed  and it has explained the assumptions 
made  based  on national  averages.  Masthaven has explained  it considered affordability not 
only at the initial fixed interest rate but also at the variable rate the mortgage  was going to 
revert to. And it says it also considered affordability at an even higher stressed rate to 
account for potential further increases in the AVR and has provided evidence to support this. 
Having considered this information Im satisfied that Masthaven did assess the affordability 
of the mortgage  before  agreeing to lend.
In terms of whether  that assessment was carried out fairly and the mortgage was affordable  
- I know  Mr H has disputed some  of the figures used as part of the assessment by 
Masthaven. But the figures used appear  to have been based on information he provided as 
part of his application, backed  up by the evidence obtained, and averages from the Office of 
National Statistics (ONS).  Which I think is reasonable.  And the evidence provided indicates  
he had sufficient income, after deducting  outgoings, to afford the monthly repayments. 
Mr H has said he is concerned with the total amount lent in relation to his annual  salary. But 
this isnt considered  in isolation  so a high level doesnt immediately  mean a mortgage was 
unaffordable. Lenders can use their own discretion about this ratio and what  level they are 
willing to allow. And they consider it against how long they are being asked to lend for and 
the monthly repayments required to maintain this  which  as Ive said the information  
suggests Mr H could  afford. And I havent  seen anything to suggest  that the amount 
borrowed overall, which was in line with what Mr H requested as part of his application, 
made the mortgage unaffordable. 
Mr H has also said he felt the interest  rates on his mortgage were  too high. Interest rates are 
again set at a lenders  discretion. They form part of the monthly repayment  which  again  the 
information suggests Mr H could afford. And based on what Ive seen I think  Masthaven  has 
correctly considered these rates, and what would  happen  if they increased, when it thought 
about whether  the mortgage  was affordable.  I also think the mortgage offer made the 
interest rates payable  on the mortgage clear to Mr H at the point  he applied, and that they 
could vary after the fixed  rate ended, and he was under no obligation to proceed if he was 
unhappy with them.
Ive also taken into account that the mortgage  repayments appear to have been maintained. 
Mr H has said he was left with limited  disposable  income after entering into the mortgage - 
but again he wasnt obliged to take it out and knew what the payments would be for the first 
two years.  The fact that Mr H later decided he thought they were too high and chose to seek 
to move to a new lender, potentially incurring an ERC, was a decision he made based on 
information he was given before he agreed to the mortgage.
Taking everything into account  I think Masthaven has assessed the application fairly and the 
mortgage was affordable  to Mr H at the point  it was lent. As a result I dont think it needs to 
do anything further  and cant reasonably ask it to waive or refund the early repayment  
charge.
Ref: DRN47492623my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 August 2019. 
Ben Stoker
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4749262