K820x#14complaint
Mrs W says Canada Square  Operations  Limited  mis-sold her a payment protection
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy Mrs W took out in 2002. It was added  to her 
account when  she applied for the card online.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs W disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  
so the complaint was passed to me.
I sent Mrs W and Canada  Square my first provisional decision on 6 December 2018 
explaining why I was intending  to uphold Mrs Ws complaint.  In short,  I said that as 
Canada Square  hadnt agreed to share screenshots it said represent the relevant internet 
screens Mrs W wouldve seen and worked  through to take out the PPI, I didnt think  it was 
fair to rely on them. 
Canada Square  then agreed to share  the screenshots with Mrs W  copies of which were 
sent for Mrs Ws attention.  And I issued a second provisional decision dated  
21 February 2019 explaining why this meant I was no longer intending  to uphold Mrs Ws 
complaint. 
I said that before I made my final decision Id look at anything else anyone wanted to give 
me  so long as I got it before 21 March 2019.
Neither Mrs W nor Canada Square sent me any new information for me to consider in 
response to my second provisional decision.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same  conclusions as in my second provisional  decision, 
and for the same  reasons.  Ive explained  my reasons again  below.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ws case.
Ref: DRN44299602Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Ws complaint because:
The policy was sold to Mrs W when she applied for her credit  card online. Canada  Square 
has sent us screenshots that it says show how the PPI wouldve been  presented  to 
Mrs W. This is consistent with what I know of Canada Squares sales  processes at the 
time, and I think the screenshots  are reliable. It looks  like, from the screenshots, that 
Mrs W wouldve been presented with two equally clear  options   to say yes or no to the 
PPI. Ive not seen  enough evidence to say that Canada  Square  didnt otherwise present 
the PPI as optional.  So I think Canada Square made Mrs W aware  that she had a choice 
about buying the PPI, and that she chose to take it, even if  understandably   she cant  
remember that now.
Canada  Square didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs W so it didnt have to check if it was 
right for her.
Its possible the information Canada Square gave Mrs W about  the PPI wasnt  as clear  as 
it shouldve been.  But Mrs W doesnt appear  to have  been affected  by the main things the 
policy didnt cover   and based on what I know about  her circumstances it looks  like the 
policy couldve been useful to her. So I dont think better  information  wouldve stopped  
her buying it.
Ive taken into account Mrs Ws comments, including what shes  said about her sick pay 
entitlement, her savings,  and her secure  employment. But circumstances could change, and 
I still think Mrs W wouldve thought the PPI could be useful. So for these  reasons, and the 
reasons explained above, these points dont change  my conclusion.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 July 2019.
Neil Bridge
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4429960