K820x#14complaint
Mr I has complained that his mechanical breakdown insurance policy  was mis-sold by 
Motorway Direct Plc (trading as Car Protect).
background
Mr I bought a dealer  backed warranty when he bought his car. When  the policy was due to 
lapse Motorway Direct  phoned  Mr I to sell him a new one. Mr I said he bought the policy as 
he understood it was the same as his previous  one. 
After making a claim which was turned down by the insurer Mr I said he realised  his new 
policy was different. He said hed been misled into thinking the policy  was the same as his 
old one and questioned how Motorway Direct had his number and car details. He brought  his 
complaint to us. Mr I said he hadnt  received  his policy documents so couldnt have checked 
them.
Motorway Direct said it administered Mr Is dealer backed warranty and the new policy under 
different trading names.  It said as Mr Is warranty was due to lapse it let him know  what was 
available at the point in a non-advised sale. It also said it had sent Mr I the policy  documents 
after the sale so he could check it was suitable.  Motorway Direct didnt think  it had mis-sold 
the policy. 
Our investigator didnt  recommend Mr Is complaint be upheld. She listened to the sales call 
and said Motorway Direct had done  enough to let Mr I know the policy  was different to the 
one he had previously. She said Motorway Direct  was the administrator  of Mr Is previous  
policy under  a different trading name,  which was why it had contacted him. 
Mr I didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans decision, 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold it.
Under industry guidelines  (ICOBS) Motorway Direct  had a responsibility to provide Mr I with 
information that was clear,  fair and not misleading when it sold him the policy.
Ive listened to the call and can hear the call handler said we administrate the dealer 
guarantee on your  car and wanted to let Mr I know about the options available.  The call 
handler says Mr I is eligible for prestige cover and gives some  details  about  what  the policy 
would cover. She told Mr I that Car Protect is a trading  style of Motorway  Direct. Mr I queried  
the price of the policy as he said it had gone up. The call handler said thats because  the 
dealer backed  guarantee he had previously is done differently to this one. The call handler 
also told Mr I that shed  send out the documents so he could check the policy was suitable. 
Based on the conversation Ive heard Im satisfied Motorway  Direct provided Mr I with 
information that was clear,  fair and not misleading. I dont  think it told him the policy  was a 
continuation of the one hed bought from the dealer and told him the payments were 
calculated differently. 
Ref: DRN44253202At the end of the conversation Mr I asked if Motorway Direct  was the same company whod 
provided his previous policy. The call handler said Yeah, we the ones that provide the 
warranty now. We administrate  the dealer guarantee youve got now. I appreciate Mr I said 
this means he didnt understand and was asking if the policy was the same as his old one. 
But I dont think it was unreasonable for Motor way Direct to not understand that from the 
question, and it gave him the correct  information in its response.
I also think Motorway Direct made  it clear Mr I could check the policy  was suitable  for him 
and cancel within the cooling-off  period it wasnt. Mr I said he didnt  receive the documents 
but I can see they were  addressed correctly so I think its most likely the documents  were  
sent. And I dont hold Motorway  Direct  responsible if Mr I didnt receive them.  
I appreciate Mr I doesnt think Motorway Direct should have called him as it was a different 
trading name of the company that dealt with his dealer  guarantee policy.  But I don think  that 
matters to my decision. Thats because even  if I thought it shouldnt  have called  him, Im 
satisfied that in this particular  case it gave  him enough information to know that the policy 
was different to his previous one and to enable him to make  an informed choice about 
buying it. So Im not going  to ask it to refund  his premium. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 April 2019.
Sarann Taylor
ombudsman
 
Ref: DRN4425320