K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M have  complained about  the amount of the premium quoted by U K Insurance 
Limited (UKI) for their landlord  insurance  policy.
background
Mr and Mrs M had insured their buy to let property with UKI for several years.  Before the 
policy was due for renewal in January  2018,  UKI sent them a renewal quotation for £140.98. 
It gave a breakdown  of this amount and explained  that it was £93.24 for the renewal 
premium, £32.63 for legal  expenses cover and insurance premium tax of £15.11.
Mr and Mrs M decided  this was more than they wanted to pay. So they rang UKI and asked  
them to remove the legal  expenses cover. UKI said the revised premium  would  be £117.19.
Mr and Mrs M complained to UKI. They thought  the revised premium should have been 
£108.35. They felt UKI was trying to penalise them for not taking out legal expenses  cover.
UKI said legal  expenses cover is provided  by a third party. The cost shown on the document  
was the price UKI paid to the third party for providing that cover.  It said there  were  other  
factors that could  affect the total price  charged to a consumer.  These  include the way a 
property is rated, discounts and the minimum premium for a policy.
Mr and Mrs M didnt  renew the policy. They complained to this service.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold their complaint. He accepted UKIs explanation that the price  
on the schedule  for legal expenses cover was correct but effectively Mr and Mrs M hadnt 
been paying the full price for that cover  as part of the total premium. He didnt think Mr and 
Mrs M should  receive any compensation from UKI because theyd taken out satisfactory 
cover with another provider and hadnt been  inconvenienced to the extent that compensation 
was justified.
As Mr and Mrs M didnt agree, the matter  has been referred to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I cant tell UKI what price it should charge Mr and Mrs M for their landlord insurance. Thats 
for it to decide, based in part on the risk it thinks there is of them  needing to make  a claim 
and its wider commercial requirements. I can only look at whether UKI has treated  Mr and 
Mrs M fairly,  in line with its own internal guidance  and underwriting criteria, and in the same 
way as it would any of its other customers.
When calculating the price, UKI will have taken  account of a number of things. Those include 
the risk its taken on for Mr and Mrs M and all of its other customers. And the total number 
and value of claims it thinks theyre  likely to make  in that year. Itll also factor in its profit 
requirements and administration costs. So although UKI was quoting £32.63 for legal 
expenses cover, it didnt  necessarily mean  that Mr and Mrs Ms total premium would be 
reduced by that amount if they didnt take out the additional cover. 
Ref: DRN43193152I cant share with Mr and Mrs M the confidential, business sensitive, information that UKI has 
sent to us showing how it calculated their premium.  Having checked it, I can see that UKI 
hasnt treated them unfairly. Its up to UKI what  the minimum  amount  of profit  is that it wishes  
to make from each customer and what administration costs each customers premium 
should cover. These would be applied to all UKIs customers.
Im glad that Mr and Mrs M found  alternative cover  that cost less. I can understand that the 
renewal process with UKI was rather annoying for Mr and Mrs M but overall  I dont think  the 
way UKI showed the breakdown of the premium  on the renewal quote has had a significant 
impact on them. They havent lost out financially and any inconvenience was relatively small. 
In the circumstances I dont feel that any compensation is justified.
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr and Mrs M but I dont feel UKI has treated them  unfairly or 
unreasonably.
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  24 February  2019.
Elizabeth Grant
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4319315