K820x#14complaint
Mrs R complains that Virgin Money  plc failed  to carry out an ISA transfer  which resulted in a 
lost business opportunity.
background
Mrs R told Virgin Money to transfer  money from her stocks and shares  ISA to her cash ISA 
in July 2018. She says Virgin Money  sent money from the wrong ISA and then lost the 
cheque it sent to the cash ISA. Mrs R says as a result of the delays she lost a significant  
amount of money  due to a lost business  opportunity. And spent a considerable amount of 
time trying to sort out the problem including whilst she was on holiday.
Virgin Money accepts it made  a number of mistakes by selling the wrong  fund and by 
returning the cheque.  Its sorted  out its mistake about the selling of the fund and has sent 
Mrs R two cheques for £50 and £75 compensation to reflect  the loss of interest  of about £21 
and the time taken  to sort matters out.
Mrs R brought her complaint to us but our adjudicator thought Virgin  Money had dealt fairly 
with the complaint and had paid a fair and reasonable amount of compensation. He thought 
Virgin Money had sorted out its fund sale mistake but didnt think  Mrs R had provided any 
evidence of a lost business opportunity.
Mrs R doesnt accept  that view and says she thought the cheque for £75 replaced the 
cheque for £50. She says she told Virgin Money about the lost cheque  and that overall the 
compensation offer isnt enough  for whats happened.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to a similar 
overall conclusion  as the adjudicator that the offer of £125 compensation is fair and 
reasonable. I realise Mrs R will be disappointed by my decision.
There is no question here that Virgin Money has made a number of mistakes which took 
some time to sort out. I have no doubt  that Mrs R was caused distress  and inconvenience. 
And I appreciate her frustration that Virgin  Money  couldnt electronically transfer her money 
rather than sending a cheque between its departments.
But I can see that Virgin Money has sorted out the problem with the wrong fund being sold 
and has paid for the lost interest  which was about  £21. Im also satisfied that its offered a 
fair and reasonable amount of compensation of just over £100. I think  that offer fairly reflects  
the level of mistake and the time taken  to sort matters  out.
I appreciate Mrs R says she lost out on an investment opportunity and as a result has lost 
thousands of pounds.  But Ive not seen any evidence of that lost investment and so I cant 
fairly order Virgin Money to pay compensation for it. I also make  it clear that I dont think  
Virgin Money would be responsible for that lost investment in any event unless it had been 
made clear to it the circumstances and reasons for the ISA transfer. I can also see that Mrs 
Rs intention was to transfer one of her ISAs to another  and it wasnt  until much later that 
she told Virgin Money about the lost investment.
I accept that Mrs R was caused some  confusion about the two cheques Virgin Money sent 
her. Im satisfied that Virgin Moneys intention was to offer her total compensation of £125.  I 
Ref: DRN42731922can see that Mrs R has both cheques  and of course its up to her if she wishes to cash them. 
I understand why she hasnt done so yet.
my final decision
My final decision is that Virgin Money  plc has made  a fair and reasonable offer of £125  
compensation. Mrs Rs acceptance  of that offer would be in full and final settlement of this 
complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 February  2019.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4273192