K820x#14complaint
Mr B says Northern Bank Limited mis-sold him a payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy Mr B took out in 1996. It was added to his 
account when  he applied for the card in person.
I issued a provisional decision saying I was planning  to uphold the complaint. Northern Bank 
replied to say it had nothing further  to add. 
Mr B replied  to say he had no recollection  of any discussion  about  PPI and was totally 
unaware of the existence of any Payment Protection  Insurance. He was shocked and given 
cause to doubt Northern Bans commitment to customer  care. So, he feels that an element 
of compensation  should be included.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Bs case.
Ive decided to uphold Mr Bs complaint because Northern Bank  recommended  the policy  to 
Mr B  but I dont think it was right for him. Mr B had six months full sick pay followed by six 
months half sick pay through his work. And he also had savings worth  more than six months 
of his salary. So, if hed been off work  due to sickness or accident,  he couldve kept up with 
his credit card repayments  for over a year without the help of the PPI - and for at least  six 
months if hed been made redundant. 
In addition to this, Im not persuaded that Northern Bank gave Mr B clear enough information 
about the cost and benefits of the PPI. The PPI wouldve paid 10% of the outstanding 
balance on his card for up to 12 months for accident, sickness  or unemployment claims. And 
it wouldve  paid off the outstanding balance if hed died. This means  the only parts  of the 
cover that wouldve been  of any real use to Mr B would be half the unemployment cover and 
the life cover. Had he understood  this, I dont think hed have thought the PPI was 
worthwhile given how much it cost.
In summary,  I dont think Mr B wouldve  bought the policy if Northern Bank  had made clear it 
wasnt right for him or if Northern Bank had given him enough information about it. So, I think 
Mr B has lost out because  of what Northern Bank  did wrong.
putting things right
Northern Bank should put Mr B in the financial position hed be in now if he hadnt taken out 
PPI. The policy should be cancelled if it hasnt been cancelled already and:
A.Northern Bank should find out how much Mr B would owe on his credit card if the policy 
hadnt been added to it.
Ref: DRN41308542So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges.
Northern Bank should then refund  the difference between what  Mr B owes  and what he 
would have owed.
If Mr B made a successful  claim under  the PPI policy, Northern Bank can take off what  
he got for the claim from the amount it owes him.
B.If  when Northern  Bank works out what Mr B would have owed each month  without PPI 
 Mr B paid more than enough to clear his balance, Northern  Bank should also pay 
simple interest on the extra Mr B paid. And it should carry  on paying interest until the 
point when Mr B wouldve  owed Northern Bank something on his credit  card.  The 
interest rate should be 8% a year.   
C.Northern Bank should tell Mr B what its done to work out A and B.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Northern Bank to take off tax from this interest. Northern  
Bank must give Mr B a certificate  showing how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Ive decided to uphold  this complaint. Northern Bank Limited  
should put things right by doing what Ive said above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 January 2020. 
Phillip Lai-Fang
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4130854