K820x#14complaint
Mrs Cs complaint is about her esure Insurance Limited motor  insurance policy  being  voided 
(cancelled from the start) because she didnt declare some previous claims.  
The details of this complaint are well known  to both parties, so I will not repeat  them  again 
here. Instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs C has provided detailed  submissions  to support her complaint. Ive read and considered 
them all. But my findings are expressed in considerably less detail. And they focus on what  I 
think are the main issues.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator  for these reasons:
Mrs Cs car was stolen and she made a claim on the relevant esure policy. Shes 
unhappy that her policy was voided because she hadnt declared some  previous 
claims and that esure will not deal with her claim.
For esure to void a policy it must show it asked clear questions  when the policy was 
sold and that Mrs C provided inaccurate information in response. It must also show  
that if itd been given  the correct information  it wouldnt have offered cover.
Mrs C held a number  of motor insurance policies covering a number of vehicles. 
When taking out the policy on the phone for the relevant vehicle on 19 August 2019 
esure asked Mrs C whether the information  on her documentation was still correct or 
if she had any other  claims that may affect her cover. I think that esure asked her 
clear questions  about her recent  claims history.
But the documentation wasnt correct as its been established that Mrs C didnt 
declare some claims she had made in 2016 and they werent  noted  on the esure 
documentation. Mrs C says esure wouldve been  aware of these claims as it handled  
them but that isnt the case. These claims were made through  another  insurer before 
the relevant esure  policy on the relevant car started in August 2017. And esure  isnt, 
as Mrs C suggests, obliged to check a policyholders  history when the policy is taken 
out. It is entitled to rely on what it is told by the policyholder and is most likely to only 
investigate matters  in more detail after a claim is made.  So, esure  wouldnt have 
been aware of the additional 2016 claims unless Mrs C had disclosed them,  which 
she didnt.
Esures underwriting guide shows  that if it had been told of these additional claims 
whether recorded  as fault or non fault ones  - it wouldnt have insured Mrs C as she 
wouldnt have met its underwriting criteria having more applicable claims than it 
would consider. 
Consequently I think esure has acted fairly by voiding  Mrs Cs policy and declining to 
deal with her claim. I also note esure  said in its final response  that it has refunded  the 
premium she paid and cleared  the remainder of her balance so she doesnt  owe 
Ref: DRN48967952anything on this policy. That seems  fair. Overall  I cant reasonably  require esure to 
now do anything more  or differently as Mrs C would like.
For these reasons, although  I understand this will come as a disappointment to Mrs C, I 
cannot uphold  her complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about esure Insurance  Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 May 2020.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4896795