K820x#14complaint
Mr T complains about the additional premium hes paid to Aviva  Insurance Limited for 
extended trips under his travel insurance policy. 
background
I set out the background  to this complaint in my provisional decision, which forms part of this 
final decision. I said I didnt intend  to uphold  this complaint. I include an extract from my 
provisional decision here:
Mr T has travel insurance with Aviva Insurance Limited. The insurance is provided as an 
additional pack with his current account, for which he pays  a monthly fee. The travel 
insurance is provided as an insurance  includes cover for trips of up to 31 days  both for Mr T 
and his wife Mrs T. 
In 2016 Mr T phoned Aviva to extend the travel insurance as he and Mrs T were  taking  a trip 
of longer than 31 days  and would be away for around 8 weeks.  Aviva explained that he 
wasnt paying to extend the travel insurance  from 31 days up to his longer trip length.  
Rather, he was paying a premium for the full length of the trip. It said he could shop around 
for quotes.  Mr T did pay the quoted  premium of just under  £170  to Aviva. 
In 2017 Mr T twice more  paid premiums of around  £230 and £180 respectively to Aviva  for 
extended trips abroad. But he complained because he didnt think it was fair he had to pay 
an additional  premium.  He thought Aviva was double charging him because he was 
already paying  for travel insurance for 31 days,  and it was charging him again by taking a 
premium for the full length of his trip  not just the additional days  over 31 days. 
Aviva said that if Mr Ts trip was longer than 31 days hed not be covered at all under the 
packaged bank  account policy, without the policy upgrade. Mr T didnt think this was fair and 
came to us.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She said Aviva had treated Mr T the same  as 
other customers in his position. Mr T asked for a review, as he didnt think the way Aviva 
charged him was fair. 
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont intend to uphold 
this complaint. Ill explain why. 
Providing they treat consumers fairly,  we generally think  insurers  can charge the amount 
they think they need to charge to cover a risk. 
Aviva has given us details of how it arrived at the premiums it charged Mr T for his and his 
wifes extended trips abroad. The information  its given us is commercially sensitive, so 
I cant share it with Mr T. But I can say that the difference  in policy  price  is mainly driven by 
the different  lengths of time he spent abroad, and that this would have been the same  for all 
other customers in the same position. 
Ref: DRN47257192Mr T thinks that he should be paying only for the time over and above the 31 days hes 
already paid for as part of the travel insurance  policy  with the packaged bank account. But 
I think Aviva  is correct  when it said this isnt how it works. It told him the Aviva  travel cover 
with the packaged bank  account didnt apply for any trip longer than 31 days.
Ive looked at the policy terms  to see whether Aviva made it sufficiently clear that it would 
charge Mr T in the way it has. 
The policy explained on page  3 under things to know  that it covered holidays of up to 
31 days that start and end in the UK. It also said the cover could be extended up to 90 days  
by the consumer calling the given telephone number.  The policy referred  the consumer to 
the keyfacts policy summary on page 8. 
The keyfacts section  of the policy described its benefits and features, and said trips must 
start and end in the UK and last no longer than 31 days. The policy  also said that individual 
trip upgrades were  available for various  risks including extended  trip durations.  
The keyfacts section  went on to say under significant or unusual  exclusion or limitations 
that There is no cover  at all for any trip that is longer than 31 days  and we will not insure 
any part of any trip that is longer than 31 days unless you have purchased an appropriate 
trip extension upgrade  before you leave  home  to start your trip.
Mr T is concerned that he wasnt, in fact, extending  or upgrading the cover   rather Aviva  
told him he was buying cover for the whole trip duration. I can see his point that Aviva could 
have explained  this more clearly in its policy. It said it wouldnt insure a trip longer  than 
31 days unless hed bought the trip extension upgrade, which arguably suggests he was 
upgrading existing cover  rather than buying cover for the entire extended trip.
But even if Aviva had explained the way the upgrade worked more clearly I cant see that 
Mr T was disadvantaged. I say this because he continued to pay for his packaged bank 
account, to include  the travel  insurance, even after Aviva explained to him the way it priced 
the trip extension upgrade. He went on to pay the additional premium in 2016  and twice 
more in 2017. He could  have decided to take a different type of insurance altogether but 
continued with the packaged  bank account. So I dont think I can fairly say Aviva must do 
anything more to resolve  the complaint.
responses to my provisional  decision
Mr T thanked me for my decision. Hed not ever said hed been treated differently from 
others by Aviva.  He said his complaint was about  Avivas unfair practice  of charging him 
(and other account  holders) for the full travel  period,  ignoring the 31 days  cover  already paid 
for. As he said this obviously fell outside  our remit he asked which organisation could 
address this unfair practice. 
Aviva said it had nothing  to add.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN47257193Ive thought about Mr Ts additional points but I still dont uphold this complaint for the 
reasons Ive set out in my provisional decision and here. 
I appreciate Mr T has not said hes been  treated differently from other  customers. The 
reason I commented  on this in my provisional  decision is that this is one of the 
considerations I take into account when I decide  whether an insurer  has acted fairly.
In my provisional decision I explained  why I dont think Aviva has acted unfairly  in the way 
its charged him for his extended trips.  I remain of that opinion. 
Our investigator has given  Mr T details of Avivas regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA). As she explained, Mr T is able to refer his concerns about Avivas charging practice 
to the FCA although we understand that it wont investigate or report back to him on his 
individual complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 February  2019.
Amanda Maycock
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4725719