K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs E are unhappy about  a drainage claim with National House-Building Council 
under the Buildmark home warranty. Mr and Mrs E also said NHBC hadnt  handled  the claim 
fairly.
background
Mr and Mrs E were  unhappy about  smells they said were coming from their drainage in their 
rear garden. They contacted NHBC who investigated the smells. An investigation report was 
produced, and this accepted the claim under  section  three of the warranty. NHBC said the 
drainage needed to be reconfigured with another manhole added  to alleviate three drains  all 
running into one. It also said the fall of the drain needed to be improved. The works were  
done but Mr and Mrs E said the smells remained an issue. Further  investigations were 
undertaken, and at one point a blockage was cleared by jetting  the drain. Experts said later 
the drain was flowing  adequately. Mr and Mrs E remained unhappy and said the smells 
persisted despite  the work and checks undertaken by NHBC.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She said NHBC dealt with the claim and did the 
work within a reasonable timescale. She said further  investigations and works  were 
reasonably dealt with and the issue with the odour and smells didnt fall within the warranty 
definition of a defect or damage.  Our investigator said Mr and Mrs E would need 
independent expert  evidence to show there  was further damage  and they would need  to 
present this to NHBC for further  consideration. She also said NHBC dealt with the claim 
fairly in terms of the service provided. Mr and Mrs E didnt accept this and asked  for their 
complaint to be passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The warranty refers to putting right actual physical  damage caused  by a defect. Its clear 
that at the outset of the claim damage was accepted and works were undertaken to alleviate 
the problem. I note that Mr and Mrs E have referred to the additional manhole as irrelevant, 
but I can see from the report that experts  felt this would resolve the problem.
At one stage  jetting  took place to clear  a blockage and although Mr and Mrs E fear this 
problem will just return it did deal with the issue.
The investigation reports Ive seen lead me to think NHBC has dealt  with this claim 
reasonably under the terms of the warranty. The evidence these reports  present and the 
actions, visits and work undertaken by NHBC I think  deal with the issues  put forward by 
Mr and Mrs E. The drains were jetted, the drainage was reconfigured leading  to the new 
manhole and further tests  later on showed  that the system was in working  order. I can also 
see on an inspection visit to the property after the extra manhole had been put in place that 
a flush test was undertaken. The experts  confirmed that this showed  no further issues  with 
the drainage.  Even though Mr and Mrs E raised  issue with the smell persisting this shows 
further investigation was again undertaken and the system was working effectively. The 
experts said there was no smells or odours when they undertook  the further tests.
Ref: DRN45428052Mr and Mrs E have  taken issue with the fall on the drain. But I note that was covered in a 
report too where experts said following a CCTV survey the drains were  left free running  and 
fully functional. Whilst a minimal fall on the pipework was noted. I think  this shows  NHBC 
has acted reasonably in dealing with the claim.
With the drainage  now operating NHBC didnt think it needed to undertake any further works 
in relation to the odour  and smells under the warranty. On the basis of the need for physical 
damage caused by a defect I think NHBC has acted fairly and reasonably and in line with the 
terms of the warranty.
Regarding the timescales and service provided  by NHBC I think  NHBC dealt with matter 
reasonably and fairly. I dont see any lack of service  or unreasonable  delays. It dealt with the 
initial issues. When further  inspections  and investigations were  requested  it dealt with these  
reasonably. It acted as the warranty requires it to do and in line with the terms and 
conditions. Our investigator did suggest  to Mr and Mrs E that they would require 
independent expert  evidence to be able to take further action with NHBC. But as theres  
been no evidence  produced, I think NHBC has dealt  with the claim and the service  fairly and 
reasonably throughout.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
I make  no award against National House-Building Council.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs E to 
accept or reject my decision  before  3 July 2020.
John Quinlan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4542805