K820x#14complaint
Mr B says GE Money Home Lending Limited (GE Money)  mis-sold  him a payment 
protection insurance (PPI)  policy. 
background
Mr B took out a PPI policy with a mortgage  in 2006. He paid a monthly amount for the policy. 
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. GE Money disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion,  so 
the complaint  has been passed to me.
I issued my provisional decision in respect of this complaint on 19 September 2019,  a copy  
of which  is repeated below, and so it forms part of this final decision.  In my provisional 
decision I set out the reasons why I was minded  not to uphold Mr Bs complaint. 
I asked the parties  to the complaint to let me have any further representations that they 
wished me to consider by 19 October 2019.  At the time of writing I have received no further  
submission from Mr B or any request for an extension. The decision was sent to the correct 
addresses for Mr Bs representatives, so I consider that Mr B has had sufficient time to make 
a submission had he wanted to. GE Money has acknowledged receipt of the provisional 
decision and has said it does not want to make any further submissions. So I am proceeding 
to my final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered again all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Bs case.
In my provisional decision I explained  that,
Where there isnt much evidence or theres contradictory evidence  for me to consider,  I 
need to make my decision based on a balance of probabilities  that is to say, Ill consider 
what I do have, look at what  both sides have said, and make a decision based on what  I 
think most likely  happened.  
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill confine my comments  to what  I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it, but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach  what  I think  is the right 
outcome in the wider context. 
Im currently  minded not to uphold Mr Bs complaint.  Ill explain why.
I think GE Money made it clear that Mr B didnt have  to take out the PPI and he chose to 
take it out. I say this because Ive been given a copy of the application form Mr B completed 
at the time. I can see that PPI had to be selected  to get it. Mr B signed  for the cover  which  
was separate  to his signature for the mortgage. And if he hadnt wanted  the cover  he had no 
need to complete the application as he did. There is nothing  in the documentation Mr B 
signed that suggests that getting the mortgage was dependant on him having to take the 
Ref: DRN40961412PPI. In fact the mortgage offer refers to the PPI as Optional Insurance.  So it seems most  
likely to me that Mr B chose to take the cover and did so knowing he had a choice.
GE Money  says it recommended the PPI to Mr B. This meant GE Money needed to take 
reasonable steps to find out about  his needs and make sure the policy  was suitable  for him. 
At the time the sale was made the regulatory  guidance that applied was the Insurance  
Conduct of Business (ICOB). ICOB 4.3.1R says, 
Requirement for suitability 
1.(3) 
An insurance intermediary  may make  a personal recommendation of a non-
investment insurance  contract that does not meet all of the customer's demands and 
needs, provided that:
2 (b)
the insurance intermediary identifies to the customer,  at the point at which the 
personal recommendation is made,  the demands and needs that are not met 
by the contract  that it personally recommends.
So it seems  that GE Money had to recommend  something suitable to Mr B. But if there were 
aspects of the policy that were unsuitable  to Mr B, GE Money  could still recommend that the 
PPI to Mr B if it had other  aspects that he could have benefited from, but they had to point 
out the specific aspects that were less suitable  to Mr B. 
So, in this particular  case, did GE Money  make  clear to Mr B those aspects of the policy that 
were less suitable for him?
The application form for the PPI was signed  on 10 July 2006, which  was the same day the 
adviser issued the letter  titled INSURANCE RECOMME NDATION & PRODU CT 
SUITABI LITY. I have redacted the actual details of Mr Bs medical  condition,  but in the letter 
the adviser said, 
Recommenda tion
Based  on information  you provi ded I have recom mended  that you take outPPI
The reasons  for the recomme ndations are:
Produ ct A
You told me that you curre ntly had no mortg age payment  prote ction insurance  in place to cover 
your mortgage  in the event that you was (sic) unab le to work as a result  of accident, sickness  
and unempl oyment.  I am there fore recomm ending  that you take out the above policy to 
protect  you against  any such event. You told me that you had suffered  from (condition  
redacted) in May 2006.1  would like to remind  you that as discussed  this policy does  not cover 
.(condition redacted)  any pre-ex isting cond itions that you may have suffered  or seen  your 
doctor  with in the last 12 months  or unemploym ent that occurs within 60 days of the start date 
of the policy. As you are self employed  I also made you aware  that you can claim 
Unem ployme nt Benefit  if your business has stopp ed trading,is in the process  of being wound  
up and is in the contro l of an insolvency  practi tione r.
Ref: DRN40961413This letter was issued the same day that Mr B chose to take the policy.  So I think  it probably  
reflected the conversation between Mr B and GE Moneys representative. Had it not mirrored  
that conversation  I would have expected Mr B to have raised this before he eventually  did. 
In this particular  case, the representative made Mr B aware that there were policy  conditions  
that specifically  applied to his pre existing medical condition and his employment  status  as a 
self employed man.  And it seems  that Mr B chose to take the policy knowing about the 
possible exclusions or limitations of benefit.  In fact it seems to me the adviser overstated the 
onerous nature of the self employment terms, which may not have been  a reason the policy  
was less suitable for Mr B. But in any event, based  on the terms that were communicated to 
Mr B, which were possibly worse than they were in actuality, Mr B, knowing his own 
circumstances, chose  to continue with the purchase for reasons of his own.  
Consequently, I cant identify a failing with the advice in this particular  sale in this regard. 
And I have  considered Mr Bs other circumstances at the time of the sale and there appears 
to be no fault in the advice given in regard to them. I say this because:
I think that Mr B was eligible for the policy. I say that whilst noting that in bringing  his 
complaint Mr B told us he had been  self employed for less than three months and 
worked less than 16 hours a week. Whilst I dont doubt that this represents  Mr Bs 
best recollection of his circumstances  at that time, I must have regard for any 
documentary evidence that is available to me as well. In this case  the mortgage fact 
find dated 10 July 2006 records that Mr B was working full time and had been  doing 
so for 16 months. And Mr B signed  this document to confirm his agreement  with its 
contents. So I think that Mr B was eligible  for the policy.  
Mr B would not have  got any sick pay if he was unwell as he was self employed and 
he told us he had no other means  he could rely on in that event, or if he lost his job. 
In fact the mortgage fact find that Mr B signed  records that he had missed two 
mortgage payments  earlier in that year. And this may explain why that same 
document records that when  asked how he would  pay his loan repayments if 
sickness or work affected his income, Mr B said I am interested  in having  ASU 
cover. Mr B signed  this document. The PPI policy  wouldve covered Mr B for up to 
12 months if he couldnt work through accident or sickness or if he lost his job. So, 
considering all of this, and the potentially serious consequences  of defaulting on a 
loan secured on his home, I think Mr B couldve found the policy  useful. 
The policy cost appears  to have been comparable  to other similar  policies at the time 
and it appears to have  been  affordable. (I note it was afforded for some time). 
As well as checking the policy  was right for Mr B, GE Money also had to give him clear  
enough information about the policy so he could decide if he wanted to buy it. Its possible 
the information GE Money gave Mr B about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve  been. But 
for the same reasons  Ive mentioned above  that I think the policy  was mostly  suitable for 
him, I dont  think better information wouldve stopped him from buying  it. 
I know Mr B feels strongly and has put time and effort into his complaint. I realise hell be 
disappointed by the outcome. But on balance, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont think  Mr 
Bs lost out because  of anything GE Money  mayve  done wrong.
I have considered again all of the evidence and arguments from the outset in order  to decide  
what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. In the absence  of any 
Ref: DRN40961414further points  for me to consider, I find no reason to depart from my original findings as set 
out in my provisional  decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, and within my provisional decision, I do not think  the PPI 
policy was mis-sold  so I do not uphold Mr Bs complaint  against  GE Money  Home  Lending 
Limited.
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr B either to 
accept or to reject my conclusions, in writing,  before  5 December 2019.
Douglas Sayers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4096141