K820x#14complaint
Mrs M, who represents the estate of the late Mrs N, is unhappy with what  
DFS Trading Limited  (DFS) has offered  to put things right following a complaint that it mis-
sold a payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy.
background
In 2005, Mrs N bought some furniture from DFS on interest-free credit terms  so shed pay 
for the furniture over 48 months. At the same time, DFS sold her a PPI policy. Mrs M thinks  
the PPI was mis-sold.
DFS investigated Mrs Ms concerns  and thought  the complaint should be upheld.  It offered to 
refund what Mrs N had paid towards  the policy. It worked out compensation of £357.70.  
Mrs M thinks  she should get more.
Our adjudicator looked at the complaint and thought  that what DFS had offered was fair. 
Mrs M doesnt  agree. The complaint has been referred to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where I decide  or a business agrees  that a complaint  about  the sale of PPI should be 
upheld, Id expect  the business  to put the consumer in the position theyd be in if they hadnt  
bought the policy.
Based on what Ive seen,  this policy cost Mrs N an extra £7.98  a month. The business that 
provided the finance has told us Mrs N repaid  the credit after 25 months. This means Mrs N 
paid an extra £199.50 towards the PPI  which is the amount DFS has used in its refund.
As Mrs N was out of pocket, DFS has also added simple interest  the rate is 8% per year  
to each payment,  from the date Mrs N paid it until her estate gets it back.
In total, DFS offered  £357.70. 
Mrs M thinks  DFS should pay more, and Ive thought about this. I appreciate  that Mrs M 
feels strongly that Mrs N was defrauded. But any award Id make is designed to put the 
consumer in the position theyd be in if they hadnt bought PPI. Its not designed to punish 
the business, but to reflect the impact  its actions had on Mrs N. 
Im satisfied that the amount  DFS has offered  includes everything Mrs N paid towards  this 
policy, and compensates her for the time her and her estate has been  out of pocket. So DFS 
has done what Id expect it to.
In all the circumstances, I think what DFS has offered is fair.
 
Ref: DRN41739852my final decision
For the reasons  above, my final decision is that DFS Trading Limited has offered fair 
compensation for mis-selling  PPI in 2005.  If it hasnt done so already, it should  now pay this 
to the estate of the late Mrs N.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M, on behalf 
of the estate of the late Mrs N, to accept or reject my decision before 21 March  2020.
Edward Hardman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4173985