K821x#15complaint
Miss R complains that National Savings and Investments  (NS&I) made a series  of mistakes 
when she tried to take out some of her money.  She lost out on an important purchase 
because of that.
background
Miss R wanted to take some of her money out of bonds held with NS&I. She lives overseas, 
so the procedure is slightly more complicated.  And NS&I didnt have  a signature on file for 
her. Both of these things caused some delays. But more delays were caused when NS&I  
first failed to issue her a password, and then made  a mistake  which  suspended her 
password. It didnt spot that error at the time either. When it did, it asked  her for a signature, 
which she had already sent. 
NS&I has accepted responsibility for delays, and paid £70 to say sorry. Miss R complains 
because she says that just isnt enough.  When she complained to us, NS&I offered £50 
more.
Our adjudicator didnt  think that NS&I had paid enough, but he didnt agree with miss Rs 
suggested amount  of £250 either. He thought that a total payment of £150  would be the right 
amount in this case. NS&I agreed, but Miss R said that still didnt seem fair, she still thought 
that £250 would be the right amount to make  up for what  had gone  wrong.  Miss R wanted an 
ombudsman to make a final decision on her complaint, so the case was passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive reached the same overall conclusion  
on this complaint as our adjudicator, and for broadly the same reasons.
I know that Miss R has found this to be a deeply  frustrating  process.  And I can understand 
why. Its unfortunate  that a series  of mistakes by NS&I extended the time it took for her to 
access her money. And I know  she missed out on an important purchase,  as a result. 
Miss R said that it took over six months to get her money out. But I dont think  all that delay 
in this case is NS&Is  fault.  Some of the time that this took, was just because Miss R didnt 
have any signature  on file at NS&I,  and because she lives overseas. That means a different, 
and unfortunately  more  lengthy, process applies for getting access  to her money. And its 
also likely to mean that post takes longer to reach her. Those  things arent NS&Is fault.
But this process still didnt need to take as long as it did, and it shouldnt have taken this 
long. Ive considered  all the circumstances  of this case, and I agree with our adjudicator  that 
NS&Is payment of £70 wasnt enough to make  up for whats  gone wrong here. I also agree 
that a total payment of £150 is the right amount to provide a fair and reasonable outcome to 
this complaint. Thats the amount I wouldve suggested in this case, if he hadnt done so 
already. So thats what  I propose to award. 
my final decision
My final decision is that National Savings and Investments must pay Miss R an additional 
£80 in compensation.
Ref: DRN45696462Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 October  2019.
Esther Absalom-Gough
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4569646