K820x#14complaint
Mr H says Lloyds Bank  PLC, mis-sold  him a payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy  when 
he took out a credit  card in 2001.  The PPI insured Mr H against  losing  his job or being 
unable to work. 
Mr H says he never agreed to PPI and didnt even know  he had it.
background
Lloyds has already paid back to Mr H some  of the commission it got from selling  him the 
PPI. However, Mr H still thinks the PPI was mis-sold  in the first place. 
One of our adjudicators assessed  Mr Hs complaint about the mis-sale and said that it 
shouldnt be upheld. Because he disagrees,  Mr Hs complaint has been passed to me for an 
ombudsmans final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.  
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Hs complaint.
I certainly dont doubt that Mr H now honestly and genuinely believes he was mis-sold this 
cover. But as these  events took place over 17 years ago, I think  its obviously possible  that 
he may have forgotten that he actually  agreed  to having the PPI with his card.
I say this because  we now know he made  a postal application  not over the telephone as 
he recalls. I know  this because weve been sent the actual postal application form which  he 
used to apply  for the card. There was a section on the form about PPI under the heading 
Optional Features . And Mr H ticked the box to have PPI, leaving the box to reject it blank. 
Mr H then signed the application  and would have returned it to Lloyds.
I was also sent some  of his credit card statements. These show  that when being  charged  for 
PPI, it showed up on Mr Hs monthly statements as Cardholder Protection Plan  with the 
costs also clearly shown. So I think Mr H would  have  been able to see he had PPI over an 
extended time period and if he hadnt  have wanted it, he would have been able to ask why 
he was being  charged.  
As this was a postal  application, it wouldnt have been an advised sale because  hed have  
probably filled out the form in his own time. So it was for Mr H to decide for himself  what  he 
wanted to do. Lloyds  duty was restricted to providing enough information  for him to make  an 
informed choice.
I can see ways in which the form could have been set out in a better way. But overall,  I think  
Mr H would have had enough information  because I think some  details  about  the cover  
would have been attached to the application  leaflet. 
Ref: DRN41967592I also think the evidence  shows  that Mr H wanted  this type of cover.  I note he didnt have  
much sickness protection with his job and in the event of a successful claim Mr H wouldve 
been able to have his outstanding balance reduced  by 5% each month for up to 12 months. I 
also think the price of the policy  was affordable for him.  So I think  the policy  was of use to 
Mr H.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint about the policy being mis-
sold to him. 
I understand Mr H has already received  a payment from Lloyds in respect of the commission 
which was over 50% of the policy premium. I dont require Lloyds Bank  PLC to do anything  
more.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4196759