K820x#14complaint
Mr R has complained about the way in which Cabot Credit Management Group Limited  
(Cabot) has sought to recover payment  from him in relation to a debt it purchased.  
background
Cabot bought a credit card debt that belonged  to Mr R in October  2017.  The outstanding 
debt was around £3,000. Mr R agreed to pay £10 per month towards  the debt in 
March 2018. From what I can see, he made  this payment for the next two months. Following  
on from this, it looks  like Mr R entered into discussions with Cabot  about  settling the debt. An 
agreement was reached for a reduced settlement of £1,500, payment due by 14 June 2018. 
As the settlement wasnt paid, a few days later, Cabot wrote to Mr R letting him know  and 
asking for contact. It wrote  to him again twice in July 2018 saying as there  was no plan set 
up and it wasnt receiving  payment that it might start legal proceedings. And the following 
month, as it hadnt heard  anything, it wrote to Mr R to say it had passed the debt to its 
solicitors  who Ill refer to as M  to issue a claim. 
M sent a Letter of Claim to Mr R in August 2018  and in September  it issued a formal claim. 
Mr R was unhappy with how things were being handled so he complained  to M and Cabot.  
Mr R was concerned about the legal action that was taking place and didnt think  hed been  
given a fair opportunity to resolve things. He wanted  to set up a payment arrangement with 
Cabot to repay the debt. 
Cabot and M liaised with each  other and responded to Mr R. Both parties didnt think  theyd 
acted unfairly. Cabot urged Mr R to contact M to discuss his options.  Following on from this, 
I understand Mr R did liaise with M about the account. And in April 2019,  he brought his 
complaint to our service. In summary,  he said:
He was away in August  2018 when M sent the Letter of Claim, and he was unhappy 
he didnt get a chance to respond.
He was unhappy he wasnt able to enter into a payment  plan. 
He thought M purposely wrote to him in August knowing most  people are away.  
He wasnt updated properly following his complaint. 
He was given  conflicting information. 
He was given  a Tomlin order which he didnt fully understand or why it had taken so 
long. 
It was having  a negative effect on his health.  
To resolve  the complaint,  Mr R said he wanted  the Tomlin order  removed and a payment 
plan set up. He said he wanted  an apology for the time spent resolving  the complaint and 
wanted court  costs  removed. 
As it looked like there were legal proceedings ongoing when the complaint was brought to 
our service,  we initially said this was a complaint  that should be dismissed. But after having 
confirmed the legal  proceedings were not ongoing,  and that  the case having settled by 
consent  the court  hadnt made  any findings  about the underlying  issues, an investigator  
sent an assessment  on Mr Rs complaint. 
In summary,  our investigator said:
Ref: DRN49067592She didnt think Cabot started  legal proceedings too soon. She thought it had been  
made clear to Mr R well in advance that legal proceedings  were a possibility. She 
said Cabot had contacted Mr R various  times throughout  2018  when payments 
werent received  to let him know his account might be reviewed for legal action. 
She didnt think that 30 days was an unreasonable amount of time to give a customer 
to make contact, even in August. And she said Mr R was actually given slightly  
longer  35 days  before the claim was issued. 
Where M was acting in the course of litigation services relating to debt collecting,  it 
wasnt carrying out an activity we had the power  to look at. So, we couldnt consider 
a complaint against Cabot about Ms actions. 
She didnt think Cabot provided conflicting  information to Mr R. She said Cabot had 
directed Mr R to speak to M to avoid the risk of miscommunication. 
She noted Mr R said Cabot told him his account  would be placed on hold only to be 
told that wasnt the case when he spoke to M. But she thought  this was more likely 
because the calls were  less than 30 minutes apart and so she thought  there hadnt 
been enough time for the message to be communicated.  
She also noted that, since  the complaint had been brought to us, Cabot accepted  a 
partial settlement  from Mr R of £800 and would not be pursuing him for further  
payment.  
Overall, she didnt  think  Cabot needed to take any further  action. 
Mr R did not review or comment on the investigators view  on receiving it he asked 
immediately that the case be passed  to me to make a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  When considering what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable, Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, 
guidance and standards; codes of practice; and what  I believe  to have been good industry 
practice at the relevant time.  
Firstly, I want to say Im very sorry to hear that the matter has negatively  impacted Mr Rs 
health. I appreciate  the time and effort it has taken him to bring his complaint to our service. 
Secondly, I think itd be helpful to set out why I am able to make  a decision on this complaint 
against Cabot  at all, but also to make clear  which elements of his complaint I am not able to 
consider. 
Our service was set up by Parliament under  the Financial Services  and Markets  Act 2000 
(FSMA). Its important to make clear that  as a public body - we dont have a general,  at 
large power to investigate  any complaint.  We can only investigate what FSMA and rules 
made under FSMA say we can  those set out the boundaries of our jurisdiction. And we 
have no legal power to investigate complaints that are beyond our jurisdiction.
FSMA gives the Financial Conduct  Authority (the FCA) the power to say what  complaints 
we can and cant consider. The FCA has set these  out in the Dispute  Resolution  chapter of 
the FCA Handbook (also  known  as DISP or the DISP  rules). Paragraph  2.3.1 of DISP lists 
the complaints  we can look at. 
Ref: DRN49067593DISP 2.3.1 says we can look at a complaint  where  it is about a regulated activity. 
Regulated activity  is defined in the Glossary to the FCA Handbook - Ive included  a link 
here:
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/glossary/?starts-with=R 
Broadly, the regulated activities we can consider are those set out in the Financial Services  
and Markets Act 2000 (Regulated Activities)  Order 2001 (the RAO). 
One of those relates to when a business  exercises,  or has the right to exercise, the lender's 
rights and duties under  a regulated credit agreement. So, I think when Cabot was speaking  
to Mr R about the repayment of the debt  it was carrying  out a regulated  activity  which  we 
have the power  to consider complaints about. 
In Mr Rs case, Cabot is the respondent business.  But there is another  business  involved 
that carried out legal work  for Cabot   M. Sometimes we can fairly hold the respondent 
business accountable for certain  acts or omissions  carried out by one of its agents.  But this 
isnt always possible.  There  are certain  exclusions  I need to bear in mind.  As Mr R hasnt  
said he accepts what our investigator has said, I think it would be helpful to explain a little bit 
more about the relevant exclusions.
In this complaint,  because  Mr R is unhappy  with some of Ms actions,  Ive had to consider 
whether I can fairly hold Cabot responsible for any acts or omissions carried  out by M. 
Like our investigator pointed out, debt collecting on behalf of a third party is a regulated  
activity under Article  39F of the RAO and is one of the regulated  activities that we can 
consider under the DISP  rules. Debt collecting is described in Article 39F of the RAO as:
Taking steps to procure  the payment of a debt due under a credit  agreement is a specified 
kind of activity.
If M was simply  debt collecting on behalf of Cabot, I think  I could  fairly  hold Cabot  
responsible for acts or omissions carried out by M. Our service has the power to look at 
complaints about  debt collecting. But I also have to bear in mind that M is a solicitors firm, 
and that activities  carried out by members  of the legal profession are excluded from Article 
39F in certain  circumstances   such as providing litigation services. Litigation  services 
means:
Any services  which it would be reasonable to expect a person  who is exercising, or 
contemplating exercising, a right to conduct  litigation in relation to any proceedings, or 
contemplated proceedings, to provide for the purpose of those proceedings or contemplated 
proceedings.
The relevant  exclusions can be found in Article  39K of the RAO. 
When M contacted Mr R in contemplation of starting legal proceedings, it was carrying out a 
litigation service because  it was acting on behalf of its client, Cabot, in asserting its legal 
right to recover a debt. It first contacted  Mr R by sending a Letter  of Claim in accordance 
with the Pre-Action Protocol for debt claims: https://www.justice.gov.uk/courts/procedure-
rules/civil/pdf/protocols/debt-pap.pdf.  
Ref: DRN49067594And, again, like our investigator  has pointed out, the Solicitors  Regulation  Authoritys (SRA) 
website says in its case studies that:
The issue  of the Letters  of Claim and the steps  taken under  the Pre-Action Protocol would 
not constitute debt collecting since they are services which it is reasonable to expect the 
firm to provide for the purpose of contemplated proceedings  and would fall within  the 
exclusion at article 39K of the RAO.
What this means for Mr Rs complaint  is that, in this case, Im unable  to consider any of Ms 
alleged acts or omissions when considering the complaint against Cabot  M was carrying  
out a litigation  service. As set out above, our service  can only consider complaints about 
matters that the FCA Handbook defines as being  within our jurisdiction. That does not 
include complaints  about litigation services. 
I also note that Mr R has explained that the reason the debt became an issue  in the first 
place was because  of the interest that was being charged. This wasnt  part of the complaint 
against Cabot  that was originally brought to our service. But, for the avoidance of doubt, if 
Mr R is unhappy with the way the original creditor dealt with any financial difficulties  hed 
have to take it up with the original creditor. This isnt something we can fairly consider 
against Cabot.  And if Mr R is unhappy with the original creditors response to his complaint, 
we may be able to look into things for him. 
So with all that in mind, and while I appreciate it narrows things considerably,  Ive gone on to 
decide whether  or not  in relation to the matters within our jurisdiction - I think Cabot  has 
acted fairly  up to the point Mr R brought his complaint to our service and, if it hasnt, whether 
it needs to do anything to put things right for Mr R. 
Did Cabot act fairly?
Cabot took over the debt in 2017. It spoke to Mr R in early  2018 and he agreed  a repayment 
plan which  he kept to for two months.  But he stopped making payments under the plan.  For 
completenesss sake, although it isnt central to my decision, I note that Cabots contact 
notes say that in a call with Cabot on 24 May 2018  Mr R advised  that at the end of 
September 2018 he would be going to Vancouver, would not be returning for at least seven 
years, and would  not be making  any further  payments. Following  on from this, I see that 
Cabot and Mr R agreed a partial  settlement  of £1,500 for the debt, due by 14 June 2018. But 
the settlement  wasnt made. Cabot tried to contact Mr R several times over the next few 
months. As it didnt  hear back from Mr R, it passed the debt to M. 
From what  I can see, Cabot wasnt receiving payment, Mr R hadnt paid the £1,500 agreed 
on by the parties  to settle the debt, and Cabot wasnt  receiving responses from Mr R. Taking 
all this into account, I dont think Cabot acted unfairly or jumped the gun by passing the 
debt over to M. Im conscious that Cabot had a right to seek  recovery of the debt and, in 
circumstances where  (i) a partial  settlement hadnt  gone ahead, (ii) it wasnt  receiving 
payments, and (iii) Mr R wasnt responding to correspondence, it was reasonable for Cabot 
to instruct lawyers to recover the debt. 
Ive already set out why I cant fairly hold Cabot responsible for Ms actions in relation to the 
court claim. Further, Im not satisfied  that it would be appropriate for the Ombudsman service 
to consider complaints about a firm such as Cabot seeking to assert its legal rights in respect 
of a debt in the courts  those objections are properly for the courts themselves in the 
context of a claim. 
Ref: DRN49067595However, I think I should point out that even  if I could  look at Cabots decision to use the 
courts, I would not uphold the complaint. The rules for such claims are those made by the 
Ministry of Justice and set out in the Civil Procedure Rules, which  includes a number of Pre-
Action Protocols. The Pre-Action Protocol for debt claims states at paragraph 3.4 that if the 
debtor does not reply to the Letter  of Claim within 30 days of the date at the top of the letter,  
the creditor may start court proceedings. Given that M filed the claim on behalf of Cabot  35 
days after the date at the top of the Letter  of Claim and considering  that attempts to arrange 
a settlement and payment plan stalled  well before that, Im satisfied that there  was nothing 
unreasonable about the claim being  filed on 12 September 2018. 
For completenesss sake, I note that Mr R claims to have been away  for part of the time 
between when M sent the letter before claim and when it issued the claim. However,  he 
hasnt given a clear account of precisely when  he was away, and Im satisfied that the 30-
day time limit in the Pre-Action Protocol for debt claims  takes such  absences into account in 
any event. In all the circumstances,  Im satisfied  that theres nothing unreasonable about 
Cabots decision to pursue legal proceedings.
Although the court  proceedings were  going  on in the second half of 2018  and the early part 
of 2019, Mr R did continue to have some communication with Cabot.  
Mr R contacted Cabot  as he wanted  to set up a payment plan directly with it because he was 
unhappy with M. I understand Cabot agreed to look into things and to arrange to have the 
account placed on hold. Mr R was unhappy  that when he spoke to M shortly after, the 
account wasnt on hold.  Given  M said this call only happened within half an hour of the call 
with Cabot, while I can understand  why Mr R was frustrated,  its not clear  that Cabot acted 
unfairly or unreasonably here  its not obvious to me that Cabot needed to pass  these 
instructions on instantly. I find it more likely the instructions simply hadnt  reached M at that 
point. After Mr R contacted it, Cabot reviewed  things and responded to him within  a week  
which I think was reasonable. And given the roles the parties  were  carrying out, I dont think 
Cabot acted unfairly by suggesting Mr R spoke  to M about the debt. 
Following on from this, Mr R continued to deal with M. But a few months later,  he spoke to 
Cabot again, unhappy with how M was arranging the Tomlin order and how long things were 
taking. It looks like Cabot spoke to M for Mr R and asked it to contact him. I think  it also 
suggested Mr R speak  to M about  the order. Again, while I can understand why Mr R was 
unhappy things  hadnt been resolved  by then, when considering this complaint, M was the 
one dealing  with the legal  proceedings.  So, I think Cabots response and suggestion Mr R 
speak to M was fair. 
All things  considered, I can appreciate  why Mr R was concerned and unhappy  about  the 
legal proceedings, but I dont think theres  sufficient evidence to show that Cabot has acted 
unfairly. Therefore,  Im not going  to direct Cabot  to take any further action.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 May 2021.
Ref: DRN49067596Simon Wingfield
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4906759