K821x#15complaint
Ms B has complained about  pension advice  she received from Hammond McNulty Wealth 
Management Limited in 2011.
background
Ms B held a personal pension worth  around  £52,000. She had been considering transferring 
the funds to a self investment personal pension (SIPP) so that she could invest  in an 
overseas development. She had paid a deposit for that investment but she then changed her 
mind and didnt  proceed. 
Ms B was then referred to Hammond  McNulty  and it advised her to transfer her pension  into 
a SIPP  and invest into two alternative  investments, one in Brazil and one in Canada. Ms B 
followed that advice  and set up a SIPP and then made investments totalling £50,000 into the 
two investments. 
At the same time she received a kickback of £2,000 which  she was told was a portion of the 
advisers commission.
To date there has been no return on either  investment and Ms B has had to pay ongoing 
administration fees and SIPP charges from her own funds.
Ms B complained to Hammond McNulty but it didnt  uphold the complaint and so the 
complaint was referred to this service.
The complaint was considered by an adjudicator. He felt that it should be upheld.  Essentially 
he didnt consider that the advice to invest almost all the pension funds into alternative 
investments was suitable for Ms B. The adjudicator also set out how redress should be 
calculated.
Hammond McNulty didnt agree. It said that Ms B had been offered a multi-asset type 
investment but she had declined. She wanted  to take a higher risk strategy to achieve higher 
returns. The timescale was 10 years. She was 55 and aimed to retire at 65. The investments 
themselves had FSA/FCA  approvals  and permissions.
As no agreement has been reached the case has been referred to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Ive reached the same conclusion as the adjudicator. Ive decided to 
uphold this complaint and Ill explain why.
Hammond McNulty was under a duty to advise on the suitability of the SIPP, which  included  
the suitability of both funds it recommended to Ms B. Both funds were  alternative 
investments and carried a significant degree  of risk. The funds were non-mainstream  and 
based overseas.  The funds depended on the development and completion of resorts that 
were under construction  and were  both potentially illiquid. Both investments would carry a 
risk of total loss.
Ref: DRN44826692Whilst there is reference to Hammond  McNulty  suggesting other, more mainstream 
investments as possibilities, these two alternative investments were the investments it 
recommended. It could have advised  against these investments and treated Ms B as an 
insistent client if she still wished to proceed, but it didnt. I can appreciate  that Ms B may 
have aspired to gain higher returns by taking higher risks but its not apparent that she was 
truly in a position  to take this degree of risk or that she had sufficient capacity for loss.
Ms B was 55. This pension was her only personal pension.  The pension  was invested in a 
mainstream pension  fund. The SIPP investments were  significantly  more risky. There  is no 
evidence that Ms B had any significant investment experience.  Her attitude to risk was 
assessed at 7 on scale of 1 to 9 but it was recorded that she was prepared  to take maximum 
risk of 9 for these investments. Its not clear  how these risk assessments were reached,  and 
its not easy to see why Ms B was advised to take this level of risk with all of her main 
personal pension  provision at age 55.
Considering Ms Bs circumstances, I dont think the recommended investments were  
suitable for her. The investments were too risky, potentially illiquid, and she did not have any 
significant capacity  for loss. 
Ive considered whether Ms B relied on the advice she was given and Im satisfied that she 
did. I dont believe she would have  transferred  her pension  and set up the SIPP without  this 
advice. Im satisfied that with suitable advice she would probably  have  left her existing 
pension in place.  
I uphold this complaint.
Putting things right  
To compensate Ms B fairly Hammond McNulty must:
Establish the current transfer value of the original personal pension  had it remained  in force  
and if the contributions that Ms B has paid to the SIPP had been paid to the original personal 
pension on the same dates. This is the notional  value.
The notional value  should  then be compared with the actual value. The actual value is the 
current value of Ms Bs SIPP, less any outstanding  fees, plus £2,000.  The £2,000  represents  
the money that Ms B received  from the initial commission.
If the notional  value is more than the actual value, this is Ms Bs loss.
If there is a loss, this must be into Ms B's pension plan, to increase its value to the notional 
value.
The payment should  allow for the effect of charges and any available  tax relief available  on 
what would  be a third party contribution.
Compensation shouldnt be paid if into the pension plan if it would conflict  with any existing 
protection or allowance.
If the compensation cannot be paid into Ms B's pension plan, it should  be paid direct to her.
Ref: DRN44826693(It appears that Ms B will probably be a non-taxpayer in retirement.  Therefore,  the payment 
should not be reduced to allow for income  tax).
Details of the calculation should  be provided to Ms B in a clear, simple  format.
If, at the date of the comparison,  the investments are illiquid (meaning they cannot be readily  
sold on the open market),  it may be difficult to find the actual value of the investments. So, 
the actual values should be assumed to be nil, to arrive at fair compensation. Hammond 
McNulty should take ownership of the illiquid investments by paying a commercial  value 
acceptable to the pension  provider.  This amount should be deducted from the compensation 
and the balance paid as above. (This purchase price  would not represent a third party  
contribution as its simply the purchase price  of the assets purchased from the SIPP.)
If it is not possible to purchase  the investment, the actual value should be assumed  to be nil 
for the purpose  of calculation. In that case,  Hammond  McNulty may wish to require  that Ms 
B provides an undertaking to pay any amount she may receive from the investment in the 
future. That undertaking must allow for any tax and charges that would be incurred on 
drawing from the pension plan. Hammond McNulty will need to meet any costs  in drawing up 
the undertaking.
Had suitable advice  been given, I don't think there would have been a SIPP.  Its not fair that 
Ms B may have to continue to pay the annual SIPP fees if it can't be closed.  I think  
Hammond McNulty should  be able to take over the investments to allow the SIPP  to be 
closed. This is the fairest way of putting  Ms B back in the position she would have been in.
But I don't  know  how long that will take. Third  parties are Involved. To provide certainty  to all
parties, I think  its fair that Hammond McNulty pay Ms B an upfront lump  sum equivalent to 
five years' worth of SIPP fees (calculated  using  the previous year's fees).  This should 
provide a reasonable period for the parties to arrange for the SIPP  to be closed. This will
give Ms B with some confidence that she will not be subject to further  fees.
In my view, awarding a lump sum for an amount equivalent to five years fees strikes a fair 
balance. Its possible that the investments could be removed from the SIPP in less than five 
years' time. But I think it could take longer to resolve. So using a figure  of five years' worth of 
fees is an approximate  and fair award  to resolve  the Issue now
Ms B is at retirement age, but, because of the advice, she cannot take benefits from her 
pension and she has also had to pay further  contributions for SIPP fees and investments. 
This has caused her worry  and financial hardship.  
Hammond McNulty should  pay Ms B £750 for the distress and inconvenience  caused by 
this. Ms B will probably need to take advice about arranging transfer to a suitable pension 
arrangement. So it should also pay her £500 towards the cost of taking fresh advice.
Ref: DRN44826694my final decision
I uphold this complaint  about Hammond McNulty Wealth Management Limited.  It must 
calculate and pay redress as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 April 2020.
Keith Taylor
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4482669