K820x#14complaint
Mr M and Mr N are unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC said they didnt meet  the criteria for 
a mortgage they were  interested in applying for. They said its wrong to say they cant afford 
a £300 a month mortgage when they clearly can, and if they cant afford  it no one can.
Mr M and Mr N want Barclays to stop advertising  products  that arent available, compensate 
them for the time and trouble of collecting the information Barclays  was looking for and the 
time and trouble of complaining.
background
Mr M and Mr N wanted to apply for a buy-to-let mortgage with Barclays as theyd seen a 
product advertised  that they were  interested in. Once theyd provided their income and 
expenditure information to Barclays it said the application didnt meet its affordability criteria.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr M and Mr N disagreed and so its been  
passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I trust Mr M and Mr N wont  take it as a 
discourtesy that Ive condensed their complaint  in the way that I have. Although  Ive read 
and considered the whole file - and listened  to Mr Ms phone  call with the investigator - Ill 
keep my comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont  comment on any specific  point  its not 
because Ive not considered it but because I dont think I need to comment  on it in order  to 
reach the right outcome.  
This service is impartial between, and independent  from,  consumers and businesses. What  
this means is that we dont represent  either party, and I dont act under eithers  instructions  
or take directions on how a complaint will be looked at or what  questions  should be asked 
and answered. Im aware Mr M and Mr N think our investigator has shown bias towards  
Barclays. Were required to assess all of the evidence from all the parties. Insofar as he 
didnt agree with Mr M and Mr Ns view of the complaint, that wasnt - in itself - indicative of 
bias, however unwelcome Mr M and Mr N found his conclusions.
I appreciate Mr M and Mr N feel Barclays is being unfair. But it isnt my role to tell lenders 
whether to lend to particular consumers. Lenders  are able to use their commercial 
judgement to decide how much, if anything, to lend to consumers.  My role is to ensure such 
judgement is applied fairly and reasonably; it isnt to substitute my judgement for the banks.
In this case, Barclays applied its lending criteria to Mr M and Mr Ns proposal.  This criteria is 
commercially sensitive  so were unable to disclose it to Mr M and Mr N, but Ive seen it and 
Im satisfied Barclays fairly applied it to the proposal. It follows  that Im satisfied Barclays 
didnt act unreasonably in being unwilling to take Mr M and Mr Ns proposal forward.
It seems  from the phone conversation between Mr M and our investigator that Mr M is 
conflating failing an affordability calculation (that is, whether Barclays says Mr M and Mr N 
cant afford a £300 a month mortgage payment) and not meeting Barclays affordability  
criteria. This proposal couldnt be taken forward because Mr M and Mr N didnt meet the 
Ref: DRN46285812affordability criteria. There are many other things in the affordability  criteria other than the 
straight question can the consumer afford  this mortgage based  on their income?
Barclays doesnt have  to give any further information to Mr M and Mr N about  why it couldnt 
proceed with the proposal as thats  commercially sensitive, and so it would be inappropriate 
for me to pass that information to Mr M and Mr N. But, as I said, Ive reviewed the 
information and Im satisfied that Barclays fairly  applied its lending criteria.
Mr M and Mr N say Barclays should stop advertising products that arent available. But this 
product was available, just not for the proposal Mr M and Mr N put forward. Lenders  are 
allowed to advertise their products without that meaning that everyone  is eligible for them,  
regardless of the proposal theyre putting  forward.
Mr M and Mr N say Barclays didnt  investigate their complaint properly,  saying no one called 
them to discuss it and they only received a standard letter with a few changes  to it. They  say 
that to investigate the complaint, Barclays needed  to speak with them and ensure it had all 
the information, not just one side of the story  from a colleague. And that Barclays only 
seemed to respond officially to the complaint after we were  in touch asking for information. 
Barclays can set up its complaint handling functions how it wishes, so long as it meets  its 
regulatory requirements, which this did. Barclays handling of this complaint didnt breach 
any regulations. Just because Mr M and Mr N wanted it handled differently doesnt mean 
Barclays did anything wrong.
As Barclays didnt do anything wrong in not agreeing to take Mr M and Mr Ns proposal 
forward, I dont award  any compensation for the time and trouble Mr M and Mr N were put to 
in collecting the information Barclays needed  to reach that decision, or for the time and 
trouble they were put to by complaining about  this. If a person wants  to apply for a mortgage 
they need to provide the information required by the lender, thats  normal  and not something 
for which compensation is due for if the application  cant be progressed.
my final decision
I dont uphold the complaint. My final decision concludes this services  consideration of this 
complaint, which  means well not be engaging  in any further consideration or discussion on 
the merits of it. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask 
Mr M and Mr N to accept  or reject  my decision before 10 February 2020.
Julia Meadows
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4628581