K821x#15complaint
Ms H complains that NRAM Limited has unfairly  declined her application to remove  her ex-
husband from the mortgage. She thinks NRAM hasnt applied the transitional arrangements 
properly.
Ms H would like NRAM  to agree to her interest  only mortgage being  transferred into her sole 
name.
background
In 2007 Mrs H, and her then husband Mr H, re-mortgaged with Northern  Rock.  This loan was 
later transferred to NRAM following the collapse of Northern Rock. Mr and Mrs H have since  
divorced. Mrs H wants the mortgage loan to be in her name  only going forward.  Mrs H lives 
in the property and says shes made the mortgage  payments without  help from her ex-
husband for years.
Mrs H made  an application to change the mortgage  from a joint mortgage  to a sole mortgage 
in early 2019. NRAM declined the application and Mrs H complained.
NRAM issued its final response  on 11 March 2019.  It didnt uphold  Mrs Hs complaint. It said 
it had been right, and followed its policy, by not agreeing to transfer the mortgage into her 
sole name. It said the transitional  arrangements  that Mrs H is referring  to dont apply  to 
change of borrower applications,  like the one she was making. And, it said it had a 
responsibility to make  sure that Mrs H could afford both the monthly mortgage payments and 
the mortgage balance in full at the end of the term. Because  it didnt think  Mrs H could repay  
the balance at the end of the term, it wouldnt  agree to convert  the mortgage into Mrs Hs 
sole name.
Mrs H brought the matter  to us. Our investigator  thought the complaint should be upheld. He 
thought NRAM  should have agreed to accept Mrs Hs application to change her mortgage 
into her sole name. NRAM disagreed and asked that an ombudsman look at the complaint 
again. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This complaint concerns  the regulations that have flowed from the Financial Conduct 
Authoritys Mortgage  Market Review (MMR).  This has led to a series  of major changes, 
effective since 2014, in the way residential  mortgages are regulated. 
MMR regulations have  brought  about stricter lending assessments, aimed to protect 
consumers and encourage mortgage lenders to act more responsibly. The transitional 
arrangements are an important part of this regulation. Theyre  intended to make sure that 
existing mortgage  customers, whose mortgages were taken out before the new rules  
introduced in 2014, dont  get treated unfairly  as an unintended consequence of this stricter 
regulation. 
Ive thought carefully about these rules,  and everything that Mrs H has said about her plans 
in the future and the fact that she has been paying this mortgage  on her own for a 
Ref: DRN43999992considerable period of time. Ive also considered everything NRAM has said and why it says 
it declined Mrs Hs request.
NRAMs shared its policy with us. It seems  that NRAM followed its policy and I can see why 
NRAM refused Mrs Hs change of borrower application. It said it would allow Mrs H to 
convert this mortgage  into her sole name  if shed agree  to turn the mortgage into a capital 
repayment mortgage. This would mean  the loan would be repaid in full over the remaining 
term. As I understand it, Mrs H has said this isnt affordable for her. I cant see that an 
affordability assessment  then went ahead.  
NRAMs said it was worried that Mrs H didnt  have a credible way to repay  this interest  only 
mortgage at the end of its term. And so, for this reason, NRAM decided  it would be 
irresponsible to agree  for this interest only mortgage to be transferred into Mrs Hs sole 
name. The only way it says it could get comfortable  was for the mortgage to be switched to a 
capital repayment  loan.
Im mindful that NRAM is a closed book lender. Because of this, it doesnt actively  seek 
further mortgage business.  In fact, its objective is the reverse and it typically seeks 
repayment of borrowing  where possible.  This is confirmed in the policy  it shared with us.
It isnt clear to me whether an income  and expenditure  assessment was completed to see 
what sort of surplus Mrs H might  have after repaying  her interest  only mortgage each month. 
However, I think its reasonably safe to assume  that Mrs H is able to repay her interest only 
mortgage. I say this because she said that shes managed to maintain her mortgage 
payments in full each  month for years without any contributions from Mr H. Ive relied on 
what Mrs H has said in this regard, and also the fact that NRAM hasnt challenged this or 
suggested otherwise.
I dont think it was unreasonable  that NRAM wanted  to carry out an affordability assessment 
to make sure that the change in borrower (moving this mortgage from joint to sole) was 
going to be affordable for Mrs H. And the transitional arrangements  dont say that NRAM 
mustnt carry out an assessment. In fact, where  there is a material  change to the mortgage,  
such as a change  of borrower,  I think it can often be in the consumers best interests to 
make sure the mortgage is affordable  for one borrower on their own going  forward.
However, NRAMs position regarding Mrs Hs ability to repay her mortgage in full at the end 
of its term is where Im concerned about  unfair  treatment. NRAM said Mrs H must  convert  
her mortgage to capital  repayment because she doesnt have a way to repay the mortgage 
in full at the end of the term. NRAM has said it must be a responsible lender under the new 
rules. But I interpret the rules differently. I think it can overlook a borrower not having the 
means to repay this interest only mortgage  (other than by selling the property), if it thinks 
agreeing to the application would otherwise be in their best interests. Given  that Mr and Mrs 
H have been separated  for many years and want to move on with their lives independently, I 
think that would be in their best interests. But in any event, in this case Mrs H does have a 
means of repaying  it, though not one without some risk. 
Mrs H has explained her situation to us, and I believe shes told NRAM her plans  too. Shes 
said she plans to repay the mortgage in full by selling her property in the next few years  
when her children have left home. I note Mrs Hs children are now adults, but shes said they 
still live at home. Mrs H plans to sell this family  home, and will use the equity released  to 
downsize to a one bedroom property. This may be a credible repayment strategy, but NRAM 
didnt explore this. It simply  said it will not allow Mrs Hs mortgage  to continue  on an interest  
Ref: DRN43999993only basis. I think this approach has resulted in NRAM treating  Mrs H unfairly and would 
force her to sell her property now unnecessarily.
Ive also thought about the risk that NRAM was willing to take when it made the mortgage  
available to Mr and Mrs H in 2007.  Ive looked at the mortgage  application  when the loan 
was taken out in 2007.  Mr and Mrs H didnt  declare  any investment vehicle or repayment  
strategy at that time. In fact, it isnt clear that NRAM carried out a risk assessment as to how 
the loan would be repaid  at the end of the term when the mortgage was taken out. At 
present, Mr and Mrs H appear to have  no repayment strategy for this interest  only mortgage 
borrowing other than sale of the property in the circumstances Ive set out above. And the 
strategy Mrs H has set out depends  on her being able to raise enough from the sale of the 
property both to repay  the mortgage and to downsize. Theres  a risk that wont  be possible if, 
for example, property  prices were to fall. So I can see the argument that its in her best 
interests to convert to repayment  terms if thats possible  the problem here was that NRAM 
made consideration of the change  of borrower  application conditional on that.
what do I think should happen now?
I think its in the interests of both Mrs H and NRAM for an income  and expenditure 
assessment to be completed. Mrs H is aware  that her mortgage is interest only.  It is 
important that Mrs H plans ahead to prepare for her financial  future. It may be that Mrs H can 
afford to convert her mortgage  to a part repayment and part interest only basis.  If this is 
affordable to Mrs H, it would put her in a better position in future  years. 
To be clear, the reason  I think  an income  assessment should be completed  is to help Mrs H 
and NRAM determine  whether further capital repayments might be affordable to Mrs H. It is 
not for the purpose of deciding whether Mrs Hs change of borrower application can 
succeed. 
Ive decided that NRAMs assessment of Mrs Hs change of borrower application has led to 
unfair treatment. It didnt explore whether Mrs H had a credible repayment  strategy  at the 
end of her mortgage  term. I also think its unfair that when NRAM gave her and Mr H the 
mortgage, it didnt  assess how the mortgage would be repaid at the end of its term. And, by 
introducing this test now, without fully considering the transitional  arrangements  and what 
might be in Mrs Hs best interests,  this has resulted in her being treated unfairly.
Our investigator thought that NRAM should pay Mrs H £250 for the upset caused by its 
decision to decline her application. Mrs H has explained  how much this matter has upset  her 
and I can appreciate what an unsettling situation  this must be. Im also mindful of the wider 
personal situation that Mrs H is in and how upsetting  this will be. In light of the particular 
circumstances of this complaint, and the part NRAM has paid more  recently  in Mrs Hs 
efforts to get the mortgage transferred into her sole name, I think  £250  is reasonable to 
settle the matter.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against NRAM Limited. I direct NRAM 
Limited to do the following to settle  the matter:
- agree to Mrs Hs change  of borrower  application as a policy  exception, allowing her 
mortgage to remain  on its existing terms;
Ref: DRN43999994- explore  Mrs Hs income and expenditure with her to see if it is possible that she can afford 
to convert her mortgage (in full or in part) to capital repayment  but if it is not affordable, 
that should not prevent  the change of borrower application going ahead;
- pay Mrs H £250 for the trouble and upset it has caused to her by its handling of her change  
of borrower application.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 June  2019.
Emma Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4399999