K820x#14summary and background to complaint
Miss M has complained that Freemans Plc (Freemans)  will not refund any commission  it 
received from the payment protection insurance  (PPI)  premiums for the policy  she took out 
with her catalogue shopping  account  in around 2001.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
To be clear, my decision  only deals with Miss Ms complaint  about  commission. Thats 
because the mis-sale of the PPI took place prior to the date when  businesses  selling 
insurance became  regulated. 
Im not upholding Miss Ms complaint. I know this will disappoint her, and Ill explain why. 
In 2017, following a Supreme Court judgment, the Financial  Conduct  Authority (FCA), 
issued some rules about how businesses should deal with complaints about  the 
non-disclosure of commission where PPI was sold. 
The FCA said that if a business got a high level of commission and profit share  from the PPI 
policy  more than 50% of the PPI premium  and it didnt tell the consumer, then that could 
create an unfair relationship between the parties.  So to put that right, the FCA said that 
businesses should  pay back  the amount of commission and profit share  that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium.
But these  rules and the Supreme Court judgment relate to the unfair relationship  provisions 
in the Consumer Credit  Act 1974. The unfair relationship provisions  which  were  added to 
the Consumer  Credit Act in 2006  came into force on 6 April 2007. The changes  made in 
2006 explained that the unfair relationship  provisions would only apply to credit  agreements 
taken out on or after 6 April 2007, or agreements taken out before then, which were still 
running on 6 April 2008. 
         
GE Money  has given  me information  that shows Miss Ms catalogue  shopping account was 
taken out in around 2001 and that the last premiums she was charged  were in December 
2006. So based on what Ive said above, I dont think the unfair relationship provisions in the 
Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme  Court judgment, or the rules and guidance made by the 
FCA in relation to the non-disclosure  of commission  apply here.
So Freemans doesnt need to refund any of the commission Miss M paid for the PPI she had 
with her account.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 October  2019.
Ref: DRN43974672Rachel Ellis
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4397467