K820x#14Complaint
Ms H complains National Westminster Bank  Plc (NatWest) unfairly questioned her about the 
current accounts she held with them, and then unfairly closed  those accounts.  She says 
NatWest failed to appreciate how vulnerable  she is, and how difficult  it was for her to arrange 
alternative banking.  She asks that they pay her compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience they caused  her.
Background
Ms H had several accounts  with NatWest. In February  2019,  NatWest took the decision to 
close the accounts and sent her a letter letting her know she had 60 days to make 
alternative banking  arrangements.
Prior to this NatWest had contacted Ms H to ask her questions about transactions on her 
accounts, including the origin of funds and evidence  of transactions she said she made.    
Ms H says she answered their questions,  but felt their questioning was inappropriate and 
interrogatory, as she kept her accounts  in good  order.
Ms H complained to NatWest about  their decision  to close her accounts. She told them she 
has a serious illness  for which she is undergoing medical treatment, the effect of which  
meant she would  find it very difficult to find another bank.  She said no-one could help her do 
this and they were  putting her receipt  of important benefit payments at risk. NatWest  refused 
to keep her accounts  open and said theyd made a commercial decision to no longer keep 
her as a customer.  
Ms H was able to open another account  with a different bank through  the help of friends.  
She attempted to get her regular payments transferred over via the current  account switch 
guarantee, but NatWest refused. Ms H complained about this, and I address this matter  in a 
final decision  under  a different complaint.
Ms H says NatWest knew about  her health before questioning her about  activity on her 
accounts, and before they decided to close them.  NatWest, however, say they didnt know 
about her circumstances until after they sent her their notice to close her accounts, but her 
situation wouldnt have  impacted on their decision.
An investigator at our service looked into Ms Hs concerns  but decided  not to uphold her 
complaint. In summary, they found:
-NatWest had the discretion to choose not to continue  its relationship  with Ms H, in the 
same way she could decide she didnt want to bank with them.  Theyd followed their 
account terms  in giving her 60 days notice to find alternative arrangements.
-NatWest have  a wide variety of ongoing legal and regulatory obligations they must meet  
when providing  accounts to customers. To comply with those responsibilities, they may 
review accounts and question customers about the activity that takes place on them.  
While this was an upsetting experience for Ms H, NatWest werent unfair  in asking her 
questions.
Ref: DRN42308462-NatWest acknowledged that waiting  for 30 minutes in branch  to answer their questions 
wasnt a pleasant  experience for Ms H. They apologised  for this, which  was fair.
Ms H disagreed with the outcome the investigator  reached and has asked for a final decision 
from an ombudsman. As a result, the complaint  has been passed to me to decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold the complaint for broadly similar reasons to those  given by our investigator.
I must make clear  that my considerations in reaching this decision are limited to whether 
NatWest acted as it shouldve when deciding to close Ms Hs accounts. I address the subject 
of NatWest refusing  her request  to allow her payments to switch to a new account  under a 
different final decision.
Ms H thinks  NatWest shouldnt have questioned her about the activity  on her accounts and it 
felt like an interrogation. I appreciate this is the way she feels, and that being questioned 
about payments  and the origin  of funds may be uncomfortable. But NatWest have extensive, 
ongoing legal and regulatory obligations  they must meet when providing accounts  to their 
customers. So, in order to fulfil those obligations,  its not unreasonable  for them to monitor  
accounts and ask questions in relation to payments  and/or require evidence to verify what a 
customer tells them. If they didnt, theyd risk serious  sanctions.
Ive listened carefully  to what Ms H has said in terms of her being a responsible  customer  who 
maintains her accounts. But even so, NatWest could  still decide not to continue  its relationship 
with her, in the same  way she couldve decided  she no longer wanted to transact with them.  
Their decision is not something we would  generally interfere with, as this would impinge on 
their freedom to decide who they want as a customer, including  existing  customers.
NatWest should,  however, consider  their customers individual  needs and circumstances when 
making decisions in relation  to them. Ms H says they shouldve considered the severity of her 
medical condition  and the treatment she is undergoing, which impacts on her ability  to 
organise her affairs, including changing  banks.  NatWest  may not have understood Ms Hs 
situation prior to deciding  to close her accounts,  but I find they were made aware  several days  
after they sent her the notice to close letter through Ms H contacting  them. So, they ought to 
have considered whether her circumstances meant they should  do anything differently.
But having  reviewed NatWests basis for terminating their relationship with Ms H, Im 
satisfied their decision to close her accounts  was legitimate, in spite of the impact  this may 
have had on her. I see that with the help of a friend she was able to find an alternative bank, 
so she wasnt left without  a banking facility prior to her accounts closing. And, I also find that 
NatWest complied with the terms of Ms Hs account by providing her with 60 days notice to 
close. I dont think they needed to keep  her accounts open  for any longer than they did.
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 April 2020.
Ref: DRN42308463Liam King
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4230846