K820x#14complaint
Mr C has complained that he was mis-sold a payment protection  insurance  (PPI)  policy 
when he took out a credit card with Capital  One (Europe) plc (Capital  One).
background
Mr C took out a credit card in November 2005  and he took out a PPI policy alongside that 
card. The PPI cost £0.79 per £100  of his outstanding balance. It paid out 10% of his monthly 
balance if he wasnt able to work  due to accident,  sickness or unemployment for up to 12 
months. It also had life cover that paid off the total balance  in the event of his death.
PPI was cancelled  on Mr Cs account  in 2008 and in 2010  his credit card account defaulted, 
as he wasnt able to pay back  everything he owed when it fell due. In 2013 Mr C came to an 
agreement with Capital  One, so he paid back around half of the outstanding balance and in 
return Capital One agreed not to chase him for anything more.  
Mr C said PPI was added to his card without  his agreement. He also said he wasnt told 
anything about  the PPI, for example how much it cost. 
One of our adjudicators looked  at how PPI came to be sold to Mr C and they didnt uphold 
the complaint.  Mr C disagreed and asked for the complaint to be looked at by an 
ombudsman.
But after the adjudicator gave that answer, Capital  One made Mr C an offer. It said after it 
sold him PPI, over 50% of what he was charged in premiums was to be kept as commission  
and profit share. But it didnt tell him about  this at the time, so that was unfair.  To put that 
right Capital One worked out that, had Mr C paid back everything hed borrowed, it would 
have to pay him £647.71. But as Mr Cs credit  card account had closed with an outstanding 
balance, Capital One used the compensation to reduce that outstanding balance.
One of our adjudicators thought what Capital One had done was fair, but Mr C disagreed.  So 
the complaint  has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Cs case.
I dont think the policy  was mis-sold and I think what Capital One has done  with Mr Cs 
compensation for the undisclosed  commission and profit share  is fair. Ill explain why.
The sale took place  in 2005.  Mr C spoke to one of Capital Ones  sales advisers over the 
phone, and he then filled in and returned a credit  agreement in the post. 
Unfortunately there isnt a recording of the call Mr C made in 2005, but Im not surprised  by 
that as it happened so long ago. So Im not entirely  sure what,  if anything, about PPI was 
discussed in that call. I note that Mr C says he doesnt remember talking about PPI at all and 
Ref: DRN47653812Capital One said this call was just to get his details, before sending out an application  form. 
So I dont  think its likely  PPI was discussed in this call. 
Ive seen the credit agreement that was sent out for Mr C to sign to take the card.  On the 
agreement there is a separate section for PPI. It says I wish to purchase Optional  Capital 
One Payment Protection  Insurance  and a box next to it that is ticked. And Mr C has signed  
directly below that to indicate he wanted  to take out the insurance  this is separate to where  
Mr C signed to take out the credit card. Having looked  at the credit agreement, I think the 
PPI was presented  as optional and Mr C chose to take the policy out.
Mr C thinks Capital One recommended  he take out PPI, but it says it didnt give a 
recommendation. As I think  Mr C selected  to take out PPI when filling  in a form and I agree 
with him that PPI wasnt discussed during the phone  call, I dont think  Capital One 
recommended to him that he take out PPI. So Capital One didnt have to check  whether the 
policy was suitable  for his needs. But it did have to make sure he got the information he 
needed to decide if it was right for him.
Im not sure that Mr C was given all of the information about the PPI policy at the time it was 
taken out, for example the exclusions arent  detailed on the credit agreement. But he chose 
to take out the policy so it appears  that he wanted this type of cover.  Based on what Ive 
seen of his circumstances at the time,  it doesnt look like he was affected by any of the main 
things the policy didnt cover.
At the time he took out PPI, Mr C has said he was entitled to between six and twelve  months 
of sick pay from his employer and he had some savings, but he cant remember  how much. 
But the PPI would have paid on top of any sick pay and potentially for longer,  should he 
have needed it. And this would have meant he didnt have to use any savings he did have at 
what was likely to have  been a difficult time. And theres nothing about  Mr Cs circumstances 
which suggests it wasnt affordable at the time he took out the PPI. I dont think  there  is 
anything in the information he didnt  have that would  have put him off taking it out. So I think 
that he would have taken it even if he had all of the right information.
This means  I dont  think the PPI policy was mis-sold to Mr C.
But Capital One has made an offer to Mr C because of the high level of commission and 
profit share he was charged out of the PPI premiums, but not told about. Capital One has 
worked out the difference between what Mr C was charged for PPI and what he would have 
been charged if the commission and profit share  it got hadnt been over 50% of the cost of 
the PPI. It has included the extra  interest charged on the account  because of this. Capital 
One has also worked out 8% per year simple interest on the extra payments Mr C made  
because of the high level of commission and profit  share. This came to £647.71, after tax, 
and I think Capital One worked  this out in the way I would have expected it to.
Mr C hasnt said there is anything wrong with Capital Ones calculation, but he doesnt  think  
its fair that Capital One arent  paying  this directly  to him. He says he doesnt have an 
outstanding balance with Capital One as he agreed  a settlement with them in December 
2013 to close  his account.
Ive seen a letter sent to Mr C by Capital  One in December 2013. Part of that letter  reads:
Ref: DRN47653813We have received  a payment  of £4,018.48 in partial settlement of your account. The 
remaining balance of £3,968.75 will remain on your account, although we will not be 
pursuing payment  of this balance.
So I think its clear that Mr Cs credit card account  was closed with an outstanding balance of 
£3,968.75 left on it, albeit that Capital One agreed  not to ask him to pay anything further.
Wed usually say a business  can use a customers compensation to reduce their outstanding 
balance if the PPI policy was sold alongside  the account that balance  was one. In this case  
Mr C had a balance on his credit card, which Capital One used the compensation to reduce 
in June 2018. And the PPI was sold alongside the same account.
So, Capital One owed Mr C something (£647.71), but he owed it more (£3,968.75). I think  
any reasonable person would say it was fair for Capital One to use the compensation to 
reduce the debt. I dont think the status  of Mr Cs account changes this. And as this 
complaint isnt about Capital One asking Mr C to pay his outstanding debt, I dont think  this 
in any way breaches the agreement reached in December 2013.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont think Capital One (Europe) plc mis-sold  Mr C PPI.
But I do think Capital One (Europe) plcs offer to Mr C for the commission and profit share  it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premiums is fair.
As Capital  One has already used the offer to reduce Mr Cs outstanding balance, it doesnt 
need to do anything further.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 March  2019.
Mark Hutchings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4765381