K821x#15complaint
Miss A complaint is that Citifinancial Europe Limited mis-sold her payment protection  
insurance (PPI).  
background
This complaint is about a single premium  PPI policy taken out in 2003 at the same  time as a 
loan. 
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint be upheld.  Citifinancial disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.
Ive considered Citifinancials comments, but I have still decided  to uphold  this complaint. 
This is because some  of the significant  costs  of the PPI were not made clear to Miss A.
I say this because  the loan document  gave only the initial cost of the single premium,  but did 
not clearly set out how much the premium  would cost after interest was added. The PPI 
application form also didnt give this information.   
I agree  with Citifinancial that in theory  Miss A could  have calculated  the true cost of the PPI. 
But I think most people  would have found  it difficult to work it out. So I dont think the 
information given  was clear and fair.  
I think Miss A wouldnt have taken the PPI, if it had been clear the PPI would cost more  than 
double the quoted amount, once  interest  had been  added. 
I think Miss A lost out as a result  of Citifinancials failings in this case.  I dont think  Miss A 
would have taken  out the policy  if Citifinancial had given  proper  information.
fair compensation
Miss A borrowed extra to pay for the PPI, so her loan was bigger than it shouldve been and 
she paid more than she shouldve each month. So Miss A needs to get back the extra shes  
paid. 
So, Citifinancial  Europe  Limited should:
Work  out and pay Miss A the difference between what she paid each month on the 
loan and what she wouldve paid each  month  without PPI.
Add simple interest to the extra amount Miss A paid each month from when she paid 
it until she gets it back. The rate of interest  is 8% a year.
Ref: DRN48928052If Miss A made a successful claim under the PPI policy,  Citifinancial Europe Limited 
can take off what she got for the claim  from the amount it owes  her.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Citifinancial Europe Limited to take off tax from this 
interest. Citifinancial  Europe Limited  must  give Miss A a certificate  showing  how much tax 
its taken off if she asks for one.
If Citifinancial has already  made  any payments to Miss A in respect  of undisclosed 
commission, it may deduct that from the above  amount. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold Miss As complaint. 
I require Citifinancial Europe Limited to pay Miss A compensation in accordance with the 
calculation of redress set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 March 2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4892805