K821x#15complaint
Mr M has complained that Indigo  Michael  Limited (trading as Safety Net Credit (SNC)) didnt  
carry out sufficient affordability checks before granting him a Safety Net facility.  Mr M also 
says, had SNC carried out sufficient checks,  it wouldve  seen that he couldnt  afford  it. 
background
Mr M approached SNC for a Safety  Net facility in April 2013.  This was a running credit 
account where a consumer could either  request funds up to their credit limit, or funds would 
be deposited into their bank account  once  their account balance fell below  a safety net 
amount of the customers choosing. 
Mr M was initially given  a facility with a £100 credit limit in April 2013. His limit was then 
increased incrementally until it reached £170  in September 2013.
SNC reviewed Mr Ms complaint and offered, as a gesture  of goodwill, to write off the 
remaining balance of £190, which included unpaid capital of £121.02.  Mr M didnt accept this 
offer and brought his complaint to our service. 
One of our adjudicators looked  at Mr Ms complaint. She thought the checks SNC carried out 
before granting  this facility were proportionate.  However, the information SNC had available  
to it suggested  that Mr M wouldnt  be able to afford  the repayments. 
The adjudicator could see in the period  leading  up to the facility being approved that Mr M 
had taken out and repaid a significant amount of short-term lending. This suggested  he had 
wider financial difficulties.  In addition to this, the adjudicator could see that Mr M was 
spending significant sums on betting websites, which  shouldve  suggested to SNC that Mr M 
may not be able to repay his borrowing. 
Overall, the adjudicator didnt think that SNC shouldve granted  the facility, or any of the 
additional credit  limit increases. 
Mr M appears to have agreed with the adjudicators  recommendation, about whether the 
facility shouldve been provided.  However, he has asked for an additional  payment of 
compensation. He says the default  recorded by SNC has impacted his ability  to obtain  
further credit  main stream  credit  providers. Mr M says as a result of not being able to borrow 
from high street lenders, he has had to borrow a significant sum from more  expensive credit 
providers. He considers  a sum of £1,000 to be reasonable.  
SNC didnt  respond  to the adjudicators assessment. So we dont know what  it thinks about  
it. No agreement was reached,  so the case has now been  passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice  at the time the loans were  offered.
Having carefully thought  about everything  Ive been  provided with, Im upholding Mr Ms 
complaint in relation to SNCs decision to provide the facility. But I wont be upholding Mr Ms 
claim for further compensation. Ive explained my reasons for doing so below. 
Ref: DRN46662142the relevant regulations in place  at the time Mr M was given the Safety Net facility 
I think it would be helpful for me to start by explaining that SNC  gave Mr M this facility  when 
it was regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). And the relevant regulatory 
rules in place at the time were  set out in the Consumer Credit  Sourcebook  (CONC)  section 
of the FCA Handbook of rules and guidance.
Section 5.2.1(2) of CONC set out what a lender needed to do before agreeing to give a 
consumer a loan of this type.  And it says a firm had to consider the potential for the 
commitments under  the regulated credit agreement to adversely impact the customers 
financial situation  as well as the ability of the customer  to make repayments  as they fall due 
over the life of the regulated credit agreement, or for such  an agreement  which  is an open-
end agreement (like Mr Ms Safety Net facility), to make payments within  a reasonable 
period.
CONC 5.2 also includes some guidance  on the sorts  of things a lender  needs to bear in 
mind when considering  its obligations  under CONC 5.2.1.  Section 5.2.4(2) says a firm 
should consider  what  is appropriate in any particular circumstances dependent on, for 
example, the type and amount of credit  being  sought and the potential  risks to the customer.  
The risk of credit not being sustainable directly  relates to the amount of credit  granted and 
the total charge for credit relative to the customers financial  situation.
And CONC 5.3 contains further guidance on what  a lender should bear in mind when 
thinking about affordability. CONC 5.3.1(1) says In making the creditworthiness assessment 
or the assessment required by CONC 5.2.2R (1), a firm should  take into account more than 
assessing the customers ability to repay the credit ..
CONC 5.3.1(2) then says The creditworthiness assessment and the assessment required 
by CONC 5.2.2R (1) should include the firm taking reasonable steps to assess  the 
customers ability to meet repayments under  a regulated credit  agreement in a sustainable 
manner without the customer incurring financial difficulties or experiencing significant 
adverse consequences..
In practice all of this meant that a lender  had to take proportionate steps to ensure a 
consumer wouldve been able to repay what they were borrowing in a sustainable  manner 
without it adversely impacting on their financial situation. Put simply, the lender had to gather 
enough information so that it could make an informed decision on the lending.
Although the guidance  didnt set out compulsory checks it did list a number of things a lender 
could take into account before agreeing to lend. The key thing was that it required a lenders 
checks to be proportionate.  And any checks  had to take into account a number of different 
things, such as how much was being  lent, and when that was due to be repaid.
To be clear, Mr M wasnt given a payday  loan where he had to repay all of what he borrowed 
plus the interest due when he next got paid. He was given a facility where there  was an 
expectation that hed repay what he borrowed plus the interest due within a reasonable 
period of time, and at the start of the facility the minimum payment Mr M wouldve  been 
expected to make was less than £20 per month. CONC doesnt set out what a reasonable 
period of time is. So I think  its important to note that a reasonable period of time  will 
always be dependent on the circumstances  of the individual case. 
Ref: DRN46662143Ive kept all this in mind  when thinking  about whether SNC did what  it needed to before 
agreeing to Mr Ms Safety  Net facility. As explained, Mr M was given what  was an open-
ended credit facility. So overall I think that this means the checks  SNC carried out had to 
provide enough information for it to be able to understand whether Mr M would likely be able 
to service and then repay this facility within a reasonable period of time.
SNC says it reviewed Mr Ms bank transaction data for the 90 days prior to the facility  being 
approved. And having done so, it says it was satisfied Mr M wasnt experiencing difficulty  
meeting his existing  commitments. So therefore,  it was likely he would be able to afford the 
payments he was committed to making.  
SNC also carried out credit checks before the facility was provided,  and it has provided us 
with the results.  At the time of the facility  being  approved it was aware of some adverse 
information recorded with two credit  reference agencies. SNC knew  that within  the last three 
months an account of Mr Ms had defaulted, and he owed around £8,800 to other creditors  
excluding any mortgage. 
I dont think this information on its own wouldve automatically led to SNC declining  Mr Ms 
request for a facility. But I do think, based on the combined results of its review  of Mr Ms 
banking transactions  and the credit check,  that SNC couldnt  reasonably  have believed  he 
would be able to maintain  the facility he was offered. In short, what SNC hasnt done  is react  
to the information that it saw in either Mr Ms bank statements or the credit check results.   
SNC hasnt  commented  on the adjudicators findings, which means it hasnt offered any 
evidence or arguments  against them.  So taking on board what  Ive seen,  I do agree that this 
facility wasnt sustainable for Mr M from the onset, and for broadly the same reason as the 
adjudicator came to. 
At the point that SNC approved the facility, it seems  to me, that they had a fairly accurate 
idea of what Mr Ms salaried income was  around £2,600  per month.  However, SNC says 
that Mr Ms income was actually larger than this. It has included  benefit payments in reach  
that conclusion,  which I dont consider to be unreasonable as these payments are used 
towards living costs. 
However, I do have some  concerns as to what  SNC  was counting  as credits into the 
account. It seems there are instances, where  it has categorised payday loans and gambling 
winnings as income,  which,  in my view is not correct. These werent  regular sources of 
income, and indeed, this is money that either wasnt guaranteed or needed  to be repaid. And 
so SNC  appears to have inflated  Mr Ms income.   
As Ive mentioned  above SNC had read only access to Mr Ms bank statements for the 90 
days leading  up to the facility being approved.  And in that period, it was aware of a 
significant number  of short-term loans being taken out and repaid. Indeed,  some  of these 
payday loans  havent been  categorised  by SNCs system correctly. So the number and 
amount that Mr M had taken was greater than SNCs system led it to believe.  
From the bank statements that SNC  has provide it looks  like that Mr M had repaid nearly 
£2,600 to some lenders, and had borrowed just over £2,700 from the other short term loan 
providers. 
Ref: DRN46662144Given the amounts  Mr M was borrowing, relative to his income  and what SNC believed to be 
his disposable  income, I think  it ought  to have had some concerns that Mr S was having 
problems managing his finances. After all, Mr M was repaying other short  term lending  
companies on average nearly  £900 each month.  
The overview of Mr Ms account  balance,  showed that throughout the course of the time that 
he borrowed  from SNC his account  was significantly overdrawn. Although on its own,  this 
wouldnt be a reason to automatically decline the facility, taken with the betting websites, and 
use of other  short terms loans this shouldve indicated to SNC that Mr M wasnt  in a position 
to take on this borrowing. 
I can also see some payments to debt collection agents. While  individual these payments 
wouldnt have affected the overall  affordability, they do suggest  that in the recent past Mr M 
had had some financial  problems to the extent that companies were engaged in collection 
action  which ought to have raised some concerns with SNC around Mr Ms ability  to repay  
this facility.
Finally, I can see a number of online betting  payments,  Mr M appears to have spent around 
£1,200 on gambling in the 90 days leading up to the facility being approved. Again, on its 
own, this may not have  been enough  to decline the facility. But when combined with all the 
other factors that Ive seen, I think this showed  that Mr M was in no position to sustainably  
repay the borrowing he was asking for. 
Overall, I dont  think SNC shouldve provided  this facility to Mr M, so it therefore  follows that I 
dont think SNC shouldve allowed any of the credit limit increases either. 
other considerations 
Mr M has asked  us to consider a payment of around  £1,000  for the impact  that the default 
SNC applied  to his credit  file had on him which included  affecting his ability to obtain credit  
from high street providers.  
Firstly, Im very sorry to hear about the impact Mr M says this facility  had on his finances  as 
well as his health.  And although, for the reasons Ive outlined below Im not intending to 
make an award, I am no way dismissing  the health  and financial problems Mr M says he 
had. 
While I have no doubt having this facility didnt  in the long run help Mr Ms finances,  this is 
already reflected in the award, as were  asking SNC  to add 8% simple  interest,  in reflection 
of the fact that he has been deprived  of the use of these  funds.  
However, what I cannot conclude, given what I can see on the bank  statements is that the 
sole reason or even  main, for the financial difficulty he has suffered  is as a result  of this 
facility. After all, I can see that Mr M was already borrowing from other  short-term  loan 
providers at least 90 days before this facility was approved. 
Equally, while  SNC will need now need  to remove the default,  Ive not seen anything to 
suggest that the sole or main reason that Mr M has been unable to make use of main stream 
credit providers is as a result of the default  applied by SNC.  In short, the evidence  does not 
suggest that Mr Ms financial situation,  or his credit  file, wouldve been in any way 
substantially better had SNC not agreed to this lending. 
Ref: DRN46662145And so, taking everything together  including what Mr M has told us, it seems  that while SNC 
shouldnt have provided him with this facility, I cant agree  with his request to pay him 
£1,000.   
what SNC  should do to put things  right
To put things right for Mr M, SNC  should:
remove any unpaid  interest fees and charges  from the current outstanding  balance and 
then refund  all the interest and charges applied to Mr Ms Safety Net facility; 
add interest at 8% per year simple  on the above interest and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement ;
then deduct from the above refund any unpaid principal that remains due. If the above  
refund is sufficient to repay what Mr M owes, then the remainder of the refund should 
then be paid directly  to Mr M. 
If, however, the refund above isnt sufficient to repay the outstanding principal, then 
SNC and Mr M should try and come to a mutually  agreeable repayment plan in order to 
repay what  is owed. But Id remind SNC of its obligation to treat Mr M fairly.  
remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ms credit file as a result  of this facility 
having been given to him.
HM Revenue & Customs requires SNC to take off tax from this interest. SNC must give
Mr M a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  Im upholding Mr Ms complaint. 
Indigo Michael Limited should pay Mr M compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 December  2019.
Robert Walker
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN4666214