K821x#15complaint
Mr H was involved in a non-fault road traffic accident. Hes unhappy  with how 
Aviva Insurance Limited dealt with the repairs to his car.
background
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint on 6 November 2019, a copy  of which is 
attached below and forms part of this decision.
In summary,  I said that the facts of this case werent disputed.  But, because the other 
companies were working as agents for Aviva, I thought it was reasonable that Aviva  had 
overall responsibility for Mr Hs complaint. I thought that the overall compensation Mr H had 
been offered was reasonable,  and that Aviva  should take responsibility for ensuring he 
received all of this. 
Both Mr H and Aviva have been  given the opportunity to comment  on my provisional 
decision. Neither party has disagreed.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Because neither party have disagreed with my provisional decision, and because  Ive 
havent seen any further evidence that would alter my view, my provisional decision remains 
unchanged.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above I uphold Mr Hs complaint. Aviva Insurance Limited  should  
pay Mr H £300 to compensate him for the frustration and inconvenience  caused by the 
issues surrounding the collection of his car; and ensure that Mr H receives the £225 
compensation offered by the companies  who dealt with the collection of his car.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 January 2020.
Andrew Burford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN41119092copy of provisional decision
complaint
Mr H was involved in a non-fault  road traffic accident. Hes unhappy with how Aviva Insurance Limited  
dealt with the repairs to his car.
background
Mr Hs parked car was hit by another driver, who admitted liability. Mr H arranged  for the repair  to his 
car through his motor insurance policy  with Aviva.  His car was due to be collected on 17 August 2018, 
and Mr H was going to collect  a hire car the same day. But his car wasnt collected on 17 August.  An 
attempt to collect  the car was made on 18 August,  but this hadnt been arranged with Mr H and he 
was at work. The car was finally collected on 20 August, when two recovery vehicles  arrived at the 
same time.
The repair to Mr Hs car was delayed  because parts hadnt been ordered beforehand, despite Mr H 
having sent Aviva photographs of the damaged area. Mr H was told on 29 August that his car would 
be returned the next day, so he arranged a day off work. The car was returned around 9am on 30 
August. On 31 August Mr H noticed an issue with the brake lights resulting from the repairs, which 
had to be rectified.
Mr H has complained about  the service he received. Hes unhappy  with having to take time off work  
when the collection of his car didnt happen  as promised;  and having to take a day off for delivery 
when the car was returned at 9am  he thinks he couldve  been given a much narrower  timeslot. Mr H 
has found the entire situation frustrating, stressful and inconvenient.
Aviva acknowledged that Mr H had received an unacceptable service  and apologised for this. They 
offered Mr H £300 to compensate for the inconvenience caused  by his car not being collected when 
expected. They also confirmed that this compensation was in addition  to the compensation  Mr H 
would receive from the car hire company. Ive also seen that Mr H was also offered compensation for 
the companies involved  in the recovery of his car. Mr H didnt accept this offer, and brought  his 
complaint to the Financial  Ombudsman  Service  for an independent investigation.
Our adjudicator agreed that the service Mr H received couldve  been better. But he thought the £300 
offered by Aviva  was fair and reasonable  in the circumstances. So he didnt  think they should  do 
anything more.
Mr H didnt agree with the adjudicator.  He said he understood  that the Financial  Ombudsman Service 
were only looking into the service provided by Aviva, but he thinks  the service  provided by the 
companies involved  in collecting his car was the worst part of what happened  to me. He believes 
that Aviva have failed to manage  this and that he is owed at least £300 from each party. My 
compensation should be £900  not £300  in total.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
The facts of this case arent disputed, so I wont repeat them here. Aviva have said Mr H couldve 
been provided  with a better  service. But there  are four companies involved in this complaint  the 
company who arranged for the collection  of Mr Hs car, the company who actually collected  the car, 
the company who were  providing Mr H with a hire car while his was being repaired, and Aviva. 
Ref: DRN41119093I understand the other companies have  been  working  as agents for Aviva. While theyve already 
considered the service  they provided direct to Mr H, and individually offered  him compensation for this 
(which I understand totals £295, only £70 of which  has currently  been paid to Mr H), as they were 
acting as agents for Aviva,  I think its reasonable  that Aviva have  overall responsibility for Mr Hs 
complaint.
Mr H was put to a lot of inconvenience by what happened, and I appreciate the frustration  and upset 
this caused him  he shouldve  been able to reasonably expect his car to be collected  when he was 
told it would be, and he couldnt have  expected the collection process to have taken  four days. 
Because of this, Im satisfied  that the £525 compensation Mr H has been offered (in addition to the 
£70 hes already received  from the car hire company) is appropriate in the circumstances. But Aviva 
should be responsible for ensuring that all of this compensation is paid to Mr H. 
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  explained above I uphold  Mr Hs complaint. Aviva Insurance Limited should  pay Mr H 
£300 to compensate  him for the frustration and inconvenience caused  by the issues  surrounding the 
collection of his car; and ensure that Mr H receives the £225 compensation  offered  by the companies  
who dealt with the collection of his car.
Ref: DRN4111909