K820x#14complaint
Mr H is unhappy with the level of customer service he received from Nationwide Building  
Society after his debit card was blocked.  Hes particularly  unhappy  with the way it has dealt 
with him once he complained about this issue. He wants Nationwide to pay him more 
compensation than its done so far. 
background
Mr H attempted to use his Nationwide  contactless debit card in a local supermarket.  But his 
card was declined.  Mr H tried again  several more times, including using his personal  
identification number  (PIN). But his debit card was still declined. 
Mr H then went to several  different cash points but his card still wouldnt work. He called 
Nationwide. It told Mr H that his card had been blocked for security reasons. It seems that 
the pattern  of spending on his card had been  flagged as out of the ordinary. This meant 
Nationwide had temporarily blocked  Mr Hs card to protect the money in his account. 
As Mr H confirmed  it was him using  the debit card, Nationwide removed the block.  But Mr H 
wasnt happy with the inconvenience this had caused. He said he wanted a minimum of £20 
in compensation  for this. But Nationwide didnt agree. So Mr H logged a complaint about this 
issue and about  the service  hed received when hed called  Nationwide.  
Nationwide issued a response to this complaint a few days  later. In brief,  it repeated that 
Mr Hs card had been restricted for security  reasons. Nationwide  also said that it felt hed 
been treated appropriately when he called up about the problem. 
Mr H wasnt happy with this response. So he called Nationwide again and asked for this 
matter to be looked into further. Mr H then chased  Nationwide several times for a response. 
It wrote to him again.  It accepted thered  been a delay in following up Mr Hs concerns and 
that he didnt receive  a text message alerting him that his card had been  blocked. 
Nationwide also paid £100 directly into his account.
But it seems  Mr H didnt receive this letter. So he called Nationwide again.  It said it believed  
the outcome reached on Mr Hs complaint  was fair. He wasnt  happy with this and brought 
his complaint to us where it was looked  at by one of our investigators.
Our investigator didnt  think this complaint  should  be upheld. In short,  he said Nationwide  
applied the block  on the debit card in line with the terms of Mr Hs account. The investigator 
thought Nationwide handled Mr Hs calls in a fair and reasonable manner and the £100 
compensation it had already paid was fair. 
Mr H wasnt happy with our investigators  view.  In summary, he said the investigator had no 
idea of the totality of his circumstances or the different  aspects of his complaint, and had 
never understood or respected  his complaint  properly. 
As Mr H didnt  accept the investigators view, this complaint  has been passed to me for a 
final decision. 
Ref: DRN49449392my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold it. Ill explain why.
But first, Im aware  that Ive summarised  this complaint very briefly  and in my own words.  No 
discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what  I think is the crux of the matter 
here: has Nationwide dealt with Mr Hs complaint fairly and reasonably? 
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal  nature  of our service  as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres  something Ive not mentioned,  it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every  individual  point or argument  to be 
able to reach what I think is the right outcome. 
Mr H has given us details  of his personal  situation,  including the health problems affecting 
his wider family. I really  can appreciate  the difficulties Mr H has, and is continuing to 
experience. While I have  taken these circumstances into account, Ive not gone into the 
details in order to preserve his and his familys privacy. 
Im also very aware that Mr H wanted to be contacted by an ombudsman  to discuss his 
complaint and our investigators view. I would explain here the role of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. We were  set up pursuant to the Financial  Services  & Markets Act 
2000 to be an independent, impartial service  to resolve disputes  between consumers and 
financial businesses, deciding what we think is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.  
We are not a consumer  champion and our function isnt to represent consumers in their 
disputes against businesses.
When we investigate a complaint it is up to us to decide what  information we need and what 
questions to ask both the consumer and the business in order to reach a fair outcome. We 
dont take instructions from either  party, nor do we allow the parties to direct  the course  of 
our investigations. Were we to do so, this would  compromise our independence and 
impartiality.
With that in mind, Ive looked at all the points  Mr H has raised. Im satisfied that hes been 
able to state his case, and how it has affected  him, very clearly in the submissions hes 
made to our service and in the numerous calls he made to both Nationwide and us. 
Im aware that Mr H feels  that, up to this point,  we havent fully understood his complaint. 
As above, Ive looked at, and considered all the available  evidence.  If I dont agree  with 
Mr Hs position, it doesnt mean  Ive not understood his complaint. It just means  Ive 
interpreted this information differently to him. 
I would repeat here that what Im required  to do is decide if Nationwides  actions have been 
fair and reasonable. Im not looking to see if it acted without fault or blemish. Im looking to 
see if its overall treatment of Mr H met the standards that I think are reasonable. I fully 
accept that he might  disagree  with my thoughts on what is or isnt reasonable  and hes 
perfectly entitled to disagree with my decision. 
Ill now turn to the blocking of Mr Hs debit card. My starting point here is that the debit card 
given to him to use with his account  belongs to Nationwide,  not Mr H. The terms and 
Ref: DRN49449393conditions for his account allow Nationwide  to suspend the use of the debit card if it has 
security concerns or suspects the card is being used  fraudulently.  
I can see from Nationwides records that Mr Hs card was temporarily blocked due to the 
pattern of contactless  payments hed made.  This was compounded by Mr H, quite 
understandably, trying to make the contactless  payment another  seven or eight times. 
Im satisfied that its for Nationwide to decide  what spending patterns trigger  a block on a 
card. This is an internal  security matter for Nationwide.  I wouldnt expect details  of this to be 
included in the account terms and conditions, or to be in the public domain at all. Clearly, this 
could play into the hand of a potential fraudster where a debit card is lost or stolen. 
Also, its not within the remit of our service to tell Nationwide what  security  systems it should 
have. Nor do we have  the power  to tell it to change these systems. What I can look at is how 
the temporary block on Mr Hs card affected  him. 
So Ive thought about what  happened  when the card was blocked. Mr H was in a local 
supermarket when this issue occurred. Nationwides  records  show it sent Mr H a text 
message to alert him to the problem. Mr H told us that he never  received the text. I accept  
this. Mr H called Nationwide the same day. It apologised to him straightaway and 
immediately unblocked  his card. Im satisfied this was a fair and reasonable response. 
But I can see Mr H wasnt happy with this. He told Nationwide that hed had to drive to three  
or four cash points  and this had taken  a large amount of time and hed incurred quite  
considerable petrol costs. He wanted  a minimum of £20 in compensation. I dont agree  that 
this was a reasonable request. 
Firstly, Nationwide was quite within its rights  to block Mr Hs card if it had security concerns. 
Also, once Mr H called Nationwide, the block was removed straightaway.  I know  Mr H was 
unhappy that it took some time to find the correct  phone number for Nationwide,  but his card 
was unblocked  on the same day the issue arose. I repeat here, Im satisfied this was fair and 
reasonable. 
Mr H told us that he had to drive to several  cash points. That course of action was down to 
him, not Nationwide. It was a course of action he was perfectly entitled to take. But Im not 
satisfied it was a necessary course  of action.  
Im aware that there are more than a dozen cash points  within  what  I think  is a reasonable 
walking distance  of the supermarket Mr H was in when  his card was blocked. He could have 
walked to any of these. 
Even if Mr H preferred to drive to a cash point,  I know  he would pass five of these on his 
short journey  home  from the supermarket. So, notwithstanding that Nationwide was perfectly  
entitled to block  the debit  card, I dont  accept that visiting three or four cash  points should 
have caused Mr H an unreasonable amount of inconvenience.  It certainly  shouldnt  have 
meant he incurred the quite considerable petrol  costs he told Nationwide about.  
Taking in all the circumstances here, theres  no basis for me to find that it was reasonable to 
expect Nationwide  to agree to pay Mr H £20 for blocking the debit card. 
Ill now turn to the service Mr H received when he called  Nationwide  about the issue. I know 
Mr H is particularly unhappy  with how he was dealt with by the supervisor he spoke to on the 
Ref: DRN49449394day his card was blocked. When Mr H asked for a minimum  of £20 compensation, he was 
transferred to this supervisor. 
I think the supervisor  was polite and professional when speaking to Mr H. I accept she 
incorrectly told him that his card was blocked  because hed already made  three contactless 
payments that day. But Mr Hs card had already been blocked  and then unblocked by this 
time. So Im satisfied this shouldnt have affected  Mr H unreasonably. 
I think the supervisor  treated  Mr H fairly and reasonably throughout  the call. I know Mr H is 
unlikely to agree with me here. But I definitely  dont recognise his later description of the 
supervisor as a jumped up snooty piece  and that muppet. I think this description is both 
unfair and unreasonable.
At the end of the call, the supervisor tried to transfer  Mr H back  to the original  call handler to 
log his complaint. Its unfortunate that the call became disconnected. But the available 
evidence doesnt  show this was deliberate. 
I know Mr H feels  very strongly that the supervisor herself should have logged his complaint. 
But again,  how Nationwide chooses to organise  its complaints department  is an internal 
matter for it to decide. Its not something that falls within the remit of our service. 
Despite being  cut off on his previous call, Mr H was still able to log his complaint with 
Nationwide that same day. It then issued its response to him nine days later. This is well 
within the required regulatory timescale  for responding to this type of complaint. 
I can see that Mr H says he was promised a call within three  days  of making the complaint. 
But thats not quite right. Nationwide told him it would aim to call him back within  three 
business days. Thats not the same as promising to call him back. In any event, I can see 
Nationwide wrote to Mr H five days after he complained to let him know when it hoped to be 
abler to resolve  his complaint.  I think this was a reasonable response. 
I also know Mr H was very unhappy with Nationwides final response.  He said it was 
confrontational and abrasive. I dont  agree.  I accept that Mr H didnt agree, and wasnt happy 
with the response. But that doesnt mean  Nationwide did anything wrong. 
I think the response was accurate and professionally written. It complied with Nationwides  
regulatory requirements. I know, among other  things, Mr H wasnt  happy that Nationwide 
suggested he may wish to make alternative  banking arrangements. But the letter  also said if 
Mr H wanted to continue  banking with Nationwide, it hoped they could move forward in a 
positive way. So Im satisfied Nationwide treated him fairly and reasonably here. 
I can also see Mr H was unhappy  with another letter he received shortly  after his card was 
blocked. This was automatically generated to tell him about the issue. Mr H says this letter  
caused him undue  worry  and distress. But I dont  think this is a reasonable position. Thats 
because Mr H told Nationwide he could see the letter was clearly automatically sent. Also,  
by the time he received the letter, Mr H had already  spoken to Nationwide.  So he knew  what 
the issue was and why his card had been blocked  and by this point the block  had already 
been lifted. 
As above, when Mr H received Nationwides response to his complaint,  he asked for it to be 
looked at again. I would  point out here that there is no regulatory requirement,  or set 
Ref: DRN49449395timescale for Nationwide  to do this. It had already met its regulatory obligations by issuing a 
timely response to the complaint and giving Mr H the right to refer it to our service.  
I accept that Mr H had to chase Nationwide several  times for a further response. Nationwide  
also accepts there  were delays  so theres no need  for me to detail these. As Ive just said, 
there was no regulatory time limit in which  Nationwide had to respond  to Mr Hs request to 
look into his complaint further. And he was able to bring his complaint to us at any time 
during this period. So I dont think the time it took Nationwide  to respond was unreasonable. 
In any event, Nationwide apologised for these  delays. It paid £100 directly  into Mr Hs 
account. This was to cover the delays, Mr H failing to receive the text message and his 
associated fuel costs.  
Its unfortunate that Mr H didnt receive the letter outlining  why this payment had been  made.  
But I can see it was addressed correctly. I cant hold Nationwide  responsible  for the letter not 
being delivered  and I think  its reasonable to expect Mr H to have noticed  that £100  had 
been paid into his account.  
I would make it clear that if Nationwide  hadnt already paid anything to Mr H, I wouldnt have 
directed it to pay any compensation to him. Thats because, as outlined above, Im satisfied 
that Nationwide did nothing wrong when  it blocked Mr Hs debit  card for legitimate security 
reasons. Im also satisfied  its met its regulatory  responsibilities and treated Mr H fairly and 
reasonably throughout. It follows that theres  no basis for me to direct  Nationwide to do, or 
pay, more than its already done.  
I appreciate my decision is likely to disappoint Mr H. He is of course free to reject it. If he 
does, neither he nor Nationwide will be bound by my decision. This would  leave Mr H free to 
pursue this matter  through  other means,  such as the courts,  should he wish to do so. 
As Ive already  said, our service is a free alternative to the courts. Mr H will know that taking 
legal action is often  very expensive.  If this is something Mr H wants to pursue, he may wish 
to seek independent advice before doings so. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This decision marks the end of our consideration of this complaint. This means  that I will not 
be entering into any further discussion with the parties about  the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 May 2020.
John Miles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4944939