K820x#14complaint
Mr D complained because  Nationwide Building  Society refused to refund  him for a 
transaction which he said he hadnt authorised.
background
Mr D received his Nationwide credit card statement which included his January 2019 
transactions. He saw a £99 debit dated  22 January which he didnt recognise, so he 
contacted Nationwide. Nationwide refunded the money to Mr D on a temporary basis  while  it 
investigated, and it issued a chargeback to the merchant.  
The merchant who had debited  Mr Ds account replied that the transaction  was valid, and 
sent documents to back this up. On 7 March, Nationwide wrote to Mr D with a copy  of the 
documents. It said it was sending it to Mr D for review, and asked him to let Nationwide  know  
within 10 days whether  he still wished to dispute  the transaction.
Mr D replied to Nationwide,  saying:   
 Yes I agree  with you this does seem  a very convincing fraudulent credit card transaction...  I 
would suggest  that you pursue this with the National Crime Agency or the FCA and report 
this to them so they may be able to forewarn  other  customers. I dont mind if you decide  to 
pay this bill but I dont  want it added to my account thank you.  
Nationwide replied on 21 March, saying that on the basis of the information provided  by the 
merchant, it was unable  to take Mr Ds claim further, and it had re-debited the £99. 
Mr D complained. Nationwide  didnt uphold his complaint,  saying that the merchant had 
provided evidence  of Mr Ds order. All the details had matched Nationwides records,  so 
Nationwide had had to decline Mr Ds dispute.  Nationwide noted that Mr D said the society 
had acted against his wishes in raising a fraud case, but it had records  showing that Mr D 
had requested a fraud case to be raised.
Mr D wasnt satisfied and complained to this service.  
He told our investigator that hed seen an internet advert for a health supplement. He 
accepted the offer,  thinking he was paying  £3.75  for postage  and packing,  on a free sample. 
The sample was delivered on 16 January, and Mr D believed he didnt have to do anything 
more. But then he saw the £99 debit.  Mr D said he hadnt signed any confirmation for the 
merchant to take his money. He said hed contacted the merchant, which said it would have 
been happy to refund the transaction, but as Nationwide had reclaimed  it, that wouldnt be 
possible. 
Mr D said hed contacted  Nationwide and had told it not to repay the money back  to the 
merchant, because that would mean the merchant couldnt  pay him back. Mr D said 
Nationwide had deliberately ignored his instructions and had paid back  the merchant.  So 
hed had to pay the disputed amount and this was completely unfair.
The investigator didnt  uphold Mr Ds complaint.  She said that the merchants paperwork had 
included a copy of Mr Ds application form, a payment receipt,  proof of delivery of the 
sample, and a copy of the terms and conditions. There  was also a note confirming  that the 
merchant had the IP address and that would confirm  whether the transaction  had taken 
Ref: DRN46881982place at Mr Ds address. The investigator  saw that the order  details, name, address, phone 
number, and credit card details all matched. And although Mr D hadnt physically signed 
anything, hed agreed online to the terms and conditions.
Paragraph three of these terms and conditions said:
How Does the Auto-Ship Trial Offer Work?
A. You will receive the product for free; however,  you must pay Postage and Packaging 
of £3.75 for us to send you a 7 day free trial..We consider the end date for your 
trial period  to be 7 days after you place your order.
B.If you do not call our customer  service to cancel within 7 days  of ordering your free
trial you will continue with out auto-ship program. See details below.
Auto-Ship Program  Unless you cancel before the end of your trial periodyou..will  be 
automatically charged £99 per product.   
The investigator pointed  out that this makes it clear  that if the subscriber doesnt call to 
cancel within  seven  days of the free trial, then they will be charged £99.00.  Mr D hadnt said 
he contacted the merchant  within this timescale.  So the investigator concluded that Mr D 
hadnt cancelled  the payment authority with the merchant  in time.
Mr D didnt accept the investigators view. He said Nationwide had impeded his refund from 
the merchant  by its actions. He said that the merchant had confirmed this, meaning that 
returning the items meant he wouldnt get a refund. He told the investigator she should just 
get on with getting his money back from Nationwide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant  regulations  for disputed transactions taking place on in early 2019  are the 
Payment Services Regulations 2017.  In general terms, the bank is liable if the customer  
didnt authorise  the payments, and the customer is liable if he did authorise them. 
Ive therefore  looked  carefully  at the terms and conditions of the agreement  which  Mr D 
accepted when he ordered  the health  supplement product online. Hes said that he didnt 
sign to agree, but that makes no difference  because he accepted  the terms and conditions 
as a part of his online order. Mr D has told us he believed  he was accepting  a free sample  
for £3.75 postage and packing. But as Ive set out above, the terms and conditions  clearly 
show that this would be ongoing if Mr D didnt contact the merchant to cancel and return the 
sample within seven  days of the order.
I dont have any written or phone  call recording evidence about complaint communication 
between Mr D and the merchant after the debit.  But I note that Mr D first contacted 
Nationwide on 15 February, after he received  his statement showing that there  had been a 
£99 debit on 22 January. So I consider its likely that Mr D didnt realise that £99 had been 
debited until 15 February. That would already have been well outside the seven day 
cancellation window,  which  is set out in the merchants terms and conditions.  This means 
that I think its unlikely  that the merchant would have agreed  to refund Mr D if he contacted 
the merchant  on or after 15 February.
Ref: DRN46881983When he first contacted this service,  Mr D sent us a copy of his 14 March letter to 
Nationwide. Ive quoted this above, and in it Mr D said that this does  seem  a very 
convincing fraudulent credit card transaction.. that I do not recognise. So Im not persuaded 
that Mr D told Nationwide not to pay the money  back to the merchant, at least before 14 
March. I find that Mr D told Nationwide he didnt recognise the transaction, and wanted 
Nationwide to attempt  to retrieve the money. 
And by 14 March, Nationwide had already submitted the chargeback claim against the 
retailer, and had already received the merchants defence of the claim. Under the 
chargeback scheme  rules, a bank has to drop a chargeback  case if the merchant provides 
appropriate evidence.
Ive looked at the evidence supplied by the merchant.  I consider that it does indeed  indicate 
that Mr D agreed to the continuing payment authority as part of the terms and conditions. So 
the merchants  case was coherent and Nationwide didnt have a choice about  dropping  the 
chargeback case it had put forward  on Mr Ds behalf.
Mr D has claimed  that Nationwides actions meant that he couldnt get a refund from the 
merchant by returning the goods.  But Nationwide hasnt held on to the money itself. It initially 
credited Mr Ds account with £99 on a temporary basis, and then re-debited  it when  the 
merchant provided  evidence that the money  should rightfully go to the merchant. So the 
money ended  up with the merchant. I cant see why this would mean Mr D couldnt get a 
refund if he returned  the goods. I think its more  likely that the reason Mr D couldnt get a 
refund from the merchant  was that he didnt  complain to the merchant within seven  days of 
ordering his free trial. 
But in any case,  Nationwide  was bound by the way chargebacks  work,  and once  it received  
the merchants  reasonable  defence, it didnt have any option but to drop its claim on Mr Ds 
behalf.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 May 2020.
Belinda Knight
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4688198