K822xcomplaint
Miss B (by the way of a representative) says PDL Finance  Limited (trading as Mr Lender)
didnt carry out sufficient checks before providing  her with a number of loans. Miss B says,
that, had Mr Lender carried out further  checks it wouldve realised that she couldnt afford
the loans as her credit  score was poor and she had repeatedly defaulted on loans with other  
lenders.
background 
Miss B took four loans  from Mr Lender between August  2015  and May 2018. A summary of 
Miss Bs borrowing, based  on the information provided to us from Mr Lender,  can be found 
below:
  loan number
            received dateactual  
repayment 
datenumber of 
instalmentsloan amountmax monthly 
contractual 
repayment
1 19/08/2015 11/11/2015 3 £200.00 £137.06
2 23/11/2015 06/01/2016 3 £400.00 £251.73
3 19/12/2017 18/05/2018 6 £750.00 £353.00
4 18/05/2018 outstanding 12 £1,000.00 £209.33
Miss B had some difficulties repaying  her final loan and an outstanding  balance remains.
As a gesture  of goodwill and to resolve the complaint, Mr Lender  agreed to remove all 
interest and charges on loan 4 leaving a principal  balance of £433.54.  Mr Lender also 
confirmed it was happy for the outstanding balance to be repaid via an affordable  repayment  
plan. And it would remove any negative information from Miss Bs credit  file once the loan 
had been repaid. 
As Mr Lenders offer for loan 4 was in-line with our services recommendations had we 
upheld the loan, our adjudicator only investigated  loans 1  3. Our adjudicator thought 
Mr Lender had treated  Miss B fairly when it gave her the first three  loans. 
Mr Lender accepted the adjudicators findings.
It appears Miss B disagreed with the adjudicators findings because she said she was in debt 
to other  creditors when she took out these loans.  This point didnt change  the adjudicators 
view. 
No agreement could  be reached regarding loans  1  3 so the case has been passed  to me 
for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.
Ref: DRN41501242Mr Lender needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out reasonable checks  to understand whether
Miss B could repay  her loans in a sustainable  manner. These checks  could take into account 
a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment  amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure.
Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of 
how much  information  it gathers and what it does to verify that information  in the early  
stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, the consumers income  was low or 
the amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the 
risk of it becoming unsustainable  and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed 
expect a lender  to be able to show that it hasnt continued to provide these loans to a 
customer irresponsibly.
To begin with, I want to make it clear that as Mr Lenders offer for loan 4 is in-line with our 
approach had we decided  it shouldnt  have approved the loan, I wont  be making a finding 
on that loan in this decision. But Mr Lender  has confirmed that this offer is still available  to 
Miss B. 
Mr Lender says it agreed to Miss Bs first three  loans after she provided details of her 
monthly income and expenditure.  And, solely based on the information Miss B declared  
about her circumstances, it seemed that she would  be able to afford the repayments she 
was committed to making. 
Mr Lender also completed a credit check before each loan was approved. These  checks 
revealed Miss Bs credit score, along  with information such as IVAs, bankruptcy, mortgage 
balances and unsecured loans. Having  considered  all the information Mr Lender obtained 
about Miss Bs circumstances, I dont think there was anything obvious to suggest Miss B 
wouldnt be able to sustainably repay  these loans.
Im sorry  to hear that Miss B was struggling financially and repaying these loans has proved 
difficult. And I accept  that Miss Bs full financial circumstances may not have been reflected 
in either  the information she provided, or the other  information Mr Lender  obtained  from its 
credit checks. And it might be that Miss Bs actual  financial position  may well have been 
apparent if further  information  such as bank  statements had been obtained. 
But at this stage  of the lending relationship,  I dont  think  proportionate checks  wouldve 
extended to Mr Lender asking Miss B to evidence what she was declaring about  her income 
and expenses. Miss B had only taken out three loans, had paid them  without incurring any 
additional costs  and there was also a break of around 2 years between loan 2 and loan 3  
which is significant. 
I think this break was substantial enough for Mr Lender to have  thought that there  may have 
been a change in Miss Bs circumstances as, after all, she didnt return for further  borrowing 
for around  two years. The other implication of this is that loan 3 effectivity became loan 1 in a 
new chain of lending.  And it therefore follows that Mr Lender could rely on the information 
that Miss B provided  which suggested  she was in a position  to make the repayments she 
was committed to making.   
Ref: DRN41501243Whilst further, more in-depth  checks may well have been necessary had Miss B continued to 
borrow, I dont think it was unreasonable of Mr Lender to have approved loans 1  3. 
As this is the case, Im not upholding Miss Bs complaint about these loans. I appreciate  this 
will be very disappointing for Miss B. But I hope shell  understand the reasons for my 
decision.
Whilst Im not upholding loans 1  3, Mr Lender  has agreed to uphold  loan 4. I think 
Mr Lender should  put things  (if its not done  so already) as it has already agreed to do and 
Ive set this out below.  
putting things right  what Mr Lender  needs to do
remove all unpaid interest, fees and charges from the outstanding balance  on loan 4
Mr Lender  should  then rework the account, and apply all payments made by Miss B 
as if they had gone towards the principal sum borrowed.
Mr Lender  and Miss B should try and come to a mutually agreeable repayment  plan 
in order to pay the outstanding principal sum.
remove any negative information  about loan 4 from Miss Bs credit  file once the loan 
has been repaid;
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Mr Lender to take off tax from this interest. Mr Lender  
must give Miss B a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if she asks for
one.
It seems  likely an outstanding balance will still be due to be repaid by Miss B and I remind  
Mr Lenders obligation  to treat her fairly.
my final decision
My final decision is that the offer made by Sunny is a fair resolution to the complaint. 
Elevate Credit International Limited should  put things right for Miss B as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 March  2020.
Robert Walker 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4150124