K820x#14complaint
Mrs Y complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy alongside a credit  card.
background
In 2006, Mrs Y took out a credit card with RBS.  At the same time, she was sold PPI to 
protect the repayments  on her card if she wasnt able to work because  of an accident, 
sickness or unemployment. 
In 2018 Mrs Y complained to RBS that the PPI had been mis-sold. RBS didnt uphold  her 
complaint the PPI was mis-sold. But it said she may have paid some  unfair  commission  and 
offered to pay her compensation of £1,209.96  in relation to this unfair commission.
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint the PPI was mis-sold  should be upheld.  Mrs Y 
disagreed with the adjudicators view,  so the case has been passed to me to consider.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ys case.  Having done so, Im not upholding the 
complaint for reasons  that Ill explain.
Mrs Y says that, at the time she applied for her credit card she was unaware that the PPI 
had been added to the card account and she hadnt agreed to it and didnt need  it.
RBS has provided a copy of the postal application form which  Mrs Y completed for her credit 
card. Theres a section  on the form headed  Payment Protection. And I can see that Mrs Y 
has ticked a box and signed in this section  to say that she wanted to take out the PPI. 
Theres nothing on the form suggesting that the PPI was compulsory, or that taking it would 
help her to get approval for her credit card. 
Mrs Y says the tick in this PPI box is not the same as her other ticks and also that the 
signature in this box is not hers.  She says someone at the bank must have added  them  in. 
Ive looked carefully  at the form and I think the ticks in all the boxes differ  slightly but the tick 
in the PPI box is very similar to that entered in the section selecting  the type of card.
I have also looked  carefully at the signature. There is another signature in a box on the form 
to take out the credit  card, just above the PPI selection box. Whilst the signatures are not 
totally identical I think they are very similar. Ive also looked at the signatures on the forms 
that have been submitted as part of this complaint. And again  none of them are identical with 
another, but they are all similar. 
So I think its most likely that Mrs Y did choose  to take out the PPI when completing the form 
at home,  but perhaps does not remember fully, as this was over 10 years  ago. As the PPI 
was actually selected on the form I think Mrs Y would have understood that the PPI was 
optional and that she decided to take it knowing she had a choice.
Ref: DRN46144672I also think Mrs Y should have understood she had the PPI as it appeared as a separate  
item on her credit card statement  every month  until it was cancelled after 12 months. So if 
Mrs Y hadnt  wanted the PPI or not understood what it was, I would have thought she would 
have asked about the charge on her statements  after the first statements were received.
When the PPI was sold, it was taken  out through a mailshot. So Mrs Y completed  the 
application form at home.  RBS didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs Y, so it didnt have to check 
that the PPI was right for her. But it did have  to give her enough information to decide for 
herself whether  or not to take out the policy. I think its likely that the information RBS gave  
to Mrs Y wasnt  as good as it should have been. But from what I know about her 
circumstances at the time, I dont think better information  would  have changed her mind  
about taking it. I say this because:
Mrs Y would appear to have  been  eligible for the PPI policy  and not affected by any 
of its main exclusions or limitations.
Mrs Y says she was entitled  to some sick pay from her employer. But this policy  
would have paid out in addition  to this, allowing her to use any sick pay to pay other 
living expenses.  So I still think  she would have thought the policy  gave her extra  
security which  could  have  proved useful if things went  wrong.
Ive no reason to think the PPI premiums were  unaffordable for Mrs Y. And as these 
premiums were  paid monthly,  she could  have cancelled the policy  whenever she 
wanted to, which  it seems happened after 12 months.
So I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold, which means RBS doesnt have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI. But RBS has offered  to pay back some of the cost of the PPI because: 
RBS got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs Y about that when she took out the policy.  
Because RBS didnt  tell Mrs Y, that was unfair. 
To put that right, RBS has offered to pay back the amount of commission  and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think  that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so The Royal Bank of Scotland  Plc does not have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs Y.
But The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc does  have to pay back to Mrs Y any commission  and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  I understand it has already 
done this in December 2019, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs Y to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 June 2019.
Ref: DRN46144673Christine Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4614467