K822xcomplaint
Mr R complains of numerous faults with a new car he acquired through a Hire Purchase 
Agreement with Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited  (VWFS). He would like to reject 
the car.
background 
Mr R says he took out a Hire Purchase  Agreement in September 2018 for a new car. He 
says he says he has had numerous problems with the car. For example the handbrake had 
to be replaced, the child lock mechanism fixed,  the rear seats were  faulty  and one of the 
windows didnt work. He says he was particularly concerned that the rear seatbelt was faulty  
because his child sat in that seat.
He doesnt think  its reasonable to have had so many problems with a new car. He feels its 
fair to be allowed to reject it.
VWFS said it investigated the problems  Mr R had. It found there were  no faults with the 
windows, the middle  seat belt was subject to a manufacturer recall and had been dealt with 
and the handbrake issue  was subject to a manufacturer repair  there were no faults  found  in 
relation to the windows.
It said in recognition of Mr Rs dissatisfaction it offered a refund of one monthly  payment 
(£255.32) but Mr R declined this.
Our investigator upheld  Mr Rs complaint. He found that the front window had been fixed  in 
January 2019.  At this point  an issue was noted  with the handbrake which  was booked  to be 
looked at in March 2019. However the handbrake was within tolerance in January 2019. A 
brake nut was fitted in March. The problem Mr R raised in June 2019  with the parking brake 
coming loose again  was repaired  in July 2019.  He found the issues disappointing,  but not 
that the car was of unsatisfactory quality.
He noted that Mr R had paid £210 in September 2019 to supply and fit front brake pads and 
two new tyres but felt that these items were subject  to wear and tear and didnt indicate the 
car was faulty at the point  of sale
He acknowledged  that VWFS  had offered to refund a months payment of £255.32 but Mr R 
had rejected this. Our investigator  felt that due to all the problems it would be reasonable for 
VWFS to pay additional £100  compensation (£355.32) in compensation,
VWFS accepted this view but Mr R didnt.
Mr R said he bought  the car believing it to be brand new but had had numerous problems. 
From first getting  the car the handbrake was weak, the child lock button was jammed, the 
passenger window would jam, and the cruise control  sensor gave random warnings saying it 
was impaired and needed replacing and the entertainment systems freezes.
He said the manufacturer recall of the rear seat belt was particularly  stressful  as he a child 
used this seat. He doesnt  feel the car is safe to use.
He added he had to have the handbrake replaced  three times and on one repair  the car had 
body and paintwork  damage.
Ref: DRN47770502He said he had to take time off work to take the car to the garage which caused a financial 
loss due to not being  paid. And that he lost his job as a result  of constantly taking time off to 
get his car sorted.
Our investigator considered these points but didnt change his view.  
He confirmed the only evidence he had of issues was a job card in January 2019  and a 
technicians report in March 2019. The handbrake when first seen was assessed  as within 
tolerance but was subject  to a manufacturer repair.
He added the child lock was re secured but the issue with the passenger window jam wasnt 
replicated. He had no evidence of the cruise control  being impaired or the entertainment  
system freezing.
He acknowledged  that the handbrake needed a further readjustment and found  this 
disappointing but not a reason  to say the car was of unsatisfactory quality.
He noted Mr R did have  use of a courtesy  car whilst his was being repaired. But 
acknowledge the overall inconvenience  to Mr R which is why he had recommended  a higher 
level of compensation  than VWFS offered.
Mr R didnt accept this further view. He felt the level of compensation wasnt appropriate for 
the time and effort involved  in dealing  with the issues. He didnt believe the car was safe to 
drive. He said he felt discriminated against  and that he had been  sold a second hand car as 
a new car.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr R feels strongly  and I do appreciate  this. So I realise he is going to be disappointed as 
Ive reached the same  conclusion as our investigator.
Ive noted that since  our investigator issued his last view Mr R has sent in details of a further 
problem he has since had with his car on 4 March 2020. This relates to a whistling noise on 
acceleration. 
I dont feel I can take this into account for two reasons.  Firstly the business arent aware  of 
this new problem so hasnt had a chance  to comment on this. Secondly  when  problems 
develop more than six months after the point of sale the onus is on the consumer to show  if 
the new problem  was one that was present or developing at the point of sale.  The 
information Mr R has given us doesnt indicate that. 
I think if Mr R feels  this is a new fault that VWFS  is responsible for he might  want to get 
some evidence to show  a possible point of sale issue and put this to VWFS  in the first 
instance.
Mr R has also commented that he feels he has been discriminated against. He hasnt 
specifically said why he feels this. But looking  at all the information I have I can find no 
evidence of any kind of discrimination from any of the parties involved.
Ref: DRN47770503In terms of all of the other issues Mr R has had with his car there is obviously some 
disagreement as to what has been an issue and what hasnt.
I dont think there is any dispute that the handbrake was a manufacturer repair issue  and the 
middle seat belt was a manufacturing recall issue. The middle seat belt as I understand it 
was remedied as was the handbrake although  that did take three  attempts partly  due to a 
delay in a technical solution being  issued. The other issue there is no disagreement over is 
that the child window lock had to be re secured.
Mr R has raised  a number of other issues. Ive seen evidence to show that the dealership  
was unable to find any fault with the front passenger window  and Mr R hasnt given us any 
evidence of this. A possible  problem with the infotainment systems is noted on the job card 
dated January  2019 but I have no other  information  about that. So I dont know if there  was 
an issue that was resolved.  Or whether no issue was found.
Mr R hasnt given us any specific evidence  of problems with the cruise control. And I havent  
found any evidence  of this issue in the customer contact notes, information from VWFS or 
the dealership.  Without any evidence I dont think I can reasonably conclude  that is an 
ongoing problem,  was present at the point of sale, for which VWFS  would be liable.
In terms of the issues that its agreed Mr R has had with this car  the handbrake, middle 
seat belt and child window lock. Its clear that these issues arose within six months  of Mr R 
having the car.
We normally say its the business responsibility if issues  arise within six months  to show if 
these were present  or developing at the point of sale.  And we usually allow the business one 
opportunity to repair.
We also take into account in looking at what are reasonable factors such  as the age and 
mileage of the car. In this case  Ive got some sympathy with Mr R. He bought a new car and 
as such could reasonably have expected it to be fault free and for some time.  So its 
unfortunate he has had the issues that he has.
I appreciate Mr Rs concerns about  child safety but I feel re-securing the child window lock 
was a relatively minor  and easy to fix problem which has been  addressed.
The handbrake and seat belt issues were subject to a manufacturer  repair  and manufacturer  
recall and have  now,  as I understand it, been resolved.
I appreciate Mr R says he doesnt  feel safe in the car. But I have no evidence to say that the 
car is unsafe. Its unfortunate the car was affected by a manufacturer  repair and a 
manufacturer recall.  But as these problems have now been resolved I dont feel its 
reasonable to allow  the car to be rejected.  
I do feel its appropriate to pay some compensation as I feel Mr R has been put to some  
inconvenience particularly  with the handbrake needing three attempts to resolve.
Mr R has told us that he suffered financially as he had to take time off work to take the car to 
a garage. And as a result of this has lost his job. Unfortunately  Mr R hasnt given us any 
evidence of this that I could  take into account.  So on that basis I dont  think it would be fair to 
expect VWFS to increase  the compensation payment on this basis.
Ref: DRN47770504I agree  with our investigators view that an additional £100 along  with a refund  of one months  
payment (£255.32) is fair in the circumstances.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
In full and final settlement  Volkswagen Financial  Services (UK) Limited should:-
-Refund Mr R one months payment of £255.32  (if it has not already done so) 
-Pay Mr R £100 for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 May 2020.
Bridget Makins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4777050