K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that he received £1,125 less on a trade in of his car than was agreed in the 
finance agreement  he took out with Mercedes Benz Financial Services UK Limited in 2016.
background
In May 2016  Mr H acquired  a Mercedes Benz car with the benefit of a hire purchase 
agreement with Mercedes  Finance.  The agreement  stated  that at the end of the agreement, 
Mr H could buy the car outright on payment of the Optional Purchase Price  of £19,875. The 
supplementary notes  to this agreement said the Option Purchase Price  (OPP) was the same 
as the Guaranteed Purchase  Price  (GPP).
In 2018 Mr H decided  trade this car in for a newer  model. He was offered £18,750 on the 
trade in, some £1,125 less than the guaranteed price in the agreement.  He then found out 
his car was being  advertised by the dealership at t at £22,000, some £2,250 more than the 
trade in price. He thinks this is unfair  and hed like the shortfall credited against the new 
finance agreement.
Mercedes Finance said the GPP depended on market forces  so there  could be some 
fluctuation. And it said the figures  in the finance  only applied  if Mr H was planning  to make a 
final payment to purchase the car (the OPP)  or to trade it in against  a new finance 
agreement with Mercedes  Finance  (the GPP). It had no control over the price offered by a 
dealer on trade in or on the price it put on the car for sale afterwards.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. He said the figure  in the 2016  agreement only 
applied if Mr H had wanted to purchase the car from Mercedes Finance. But Mr H had 
traded it in instead and as such,  it was open  to the dealership to offer a different price.  
Mercedes Finance had no involvement  with this so he couldnt  say it had done anything 
wrong. In the same  way the dealership  set the resale price of the vehicle and Mercedes 
Finance wasnt responsible for this.
Mr H said the finance agreement had been  arranged by the dealership on behalf  of the car 
company, of which Mercedes Benz Finance was a subsidiary.  On that basis,  he felt it had 
some responsibility for what  had happened. He said at no point had he been told the GPP  or 
OPP might be less than stated in the agreement or that there  could be a shortfall on trade in. 
He asked for his complaint to be referred  to an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
conclusion as the investigator and for the same reasons as Ill now explain.
Ive seen that when Mr H took out the finance agreement in 2016 he was also provided  with 
an Adequate explanations  document  that stated 
Your agreement includes an Optional Purchase Payment of £19875.00, which  is equal  to the 
Guaranteed Future Value of the vehicle. This means  that at the end of your agreement you 
have the following options:
To pay this amount  and keep your vehicle, or 
Ref: DRN47584372To return your vehicle to us, or
To Part Exchange  the vehicle  in return for a new vehicle.
I realise Mr H feels theres a link between Mercedes Finance  with whom he made  this 
agreement, Mercedes UK and the dealership but the 2016  agreement was specifically 
between Mercedes Finance and Mr H so realistically the figures  will only apply to any 
arrangement between them.
If Mr H had decided to make a final payment to buy the car outright or to trade it in against 
another car through Mercedes Finance, then the figure of 19875 would have been relevant. 
However in this case, Mr H decided  to do the trade in through  the dealership and as that 
dealership was a separate business to Mercedes Finance,  it wasnt  bound by the figure set 
out in this 2016 agreement. I understand why Mr H feels disappointed but I cant  agree 
Mercedes Finance is responsible for this-or  for the sale price the dealership  then marketed 
the car for afterwards.
I realise Mr H may be disappointed by my decision but in the circumstances, I dont consider 
Mercedes Finance has done anything  wrong  and for that reason I wont  be asking it to do 
anything more.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 April 2019.
Cerys Jones
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4758437