K820x#14complaint
Mr M is unhappy  with the way Aviva Insurance Limited handled a claim he made under his 
home emergency insurance policy.
background
In June 2018, Mr M found a leak coming from his shower and contacted  Aviva  to investigate. 
An engineer  visited  the property and found  there was an issue  with the shower  waste  trap. 
Mr M says the engineer  stopped the leak by applying a waterproof sealant  to some of the 
shower parts. And he says he was told not to use the shower  for 24 hours to allow the 
sealant to set. 
On the job notes the engineer completed, he made reference to the fact that there was some 
pre-existing issues with the shower  trap that would need some further work, but as a 
goodwill gesture he applied some sealant  to stop the leak in the meantime.
A day or so later Mr M turned on the shower and found that water was now leaking from a 
different part. He believed this was the engineers fault so he asked Aviva to look again and 
fix the problem.  Aviva  agreed to investigate further,  and following a number of phone  calls, 
some missed appointments  on Avivas part, and two further engineer visits, Aviva told Mr M 
that it believed  the leak was happening  because the shower hadnt been installed  correctly. 
And it said this isnt covered under his policy, so it wouldnt  carry out any further  repairs to 
Mr Ms shower. 
Mr M said this wasnt fair and complained to Aviva. It said it hadnt found any additional leaks 
on the shower waste trap  other than the original one Mr M reported. So it didnt accept  
liability for any damage. But it did say that if Mr M provided  evidence  of this  such as a 
report  it would consider  this again.  Mr M didnt do this, so it didnt reconsider this part of his 
complaint.
Aviva did agree with Mr M about its poor customer service  in relation to the missed 
appointments and some  of its communication with him. It apologised for this and offered 
£250 compensation for the trouble and upset caused. Mr M didnt accept  this so he came to 
this service. He also made  a Subject Access  Request (SAR) to obtain all of the information  
Aviva held about him. A CD was sent by regular  post (not recorded delivery) and the data 
wasnt encrypted  against what itd said previously. Mr M says he complained to Aviva  
about this, but he felt it didnt take this seriously.
Our investigator looked into things and said Aviva acted fairly in declining Mr Ms claim. The 
reports from Avivas  engineers supported what it said. And though  given the opportunity, 
Mr M hadnt provided any supporting evidence to the contrary.  She agreed Aviva  had given 
Mr M a poor service,  but she thought the £250  compensation  itd already offered Mr M was 
fair in the circumstances. So she didnt recommend that it do anything  more. 
Mr M accepted the £250 compensation for poor service. But he didnt accept that the claim 
was fairly  declined. So the complaint was passed to me to make a decision. I issued a 
provisional decision on this case in April 2019.  In it I said:
Ref: DRN42334022my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Based on what Ive seen so far, I dont 
intend to uphold Mr Ms complaint and Ill explain why.
Mr M made two claims under his policy  one for the first leak and one for the second. The 
second claim is the one Mr M complains  about  in this case. And it concerns the previous 
workmanship carried out by Avivas agent,  which he says is the cause of the second  leak.  
Aviva disagrees and says the leak is happening because of poor installation.
Mr Ms policy says,  we will not cover you for any damage that may be caused to the 
property, its contents, fixtures, fittings,  floorings or sanitary ware  (unless  the damage is 
caused by our engineer's  negligence). So taking  that term into consideration, if it could be 
proven, on balance, that Mr Ms leak happened as a result of Avivas  engineer  failing to 
take reasonable care, I would likely  expect  it to put things right for Mr M. So Ive 
considered the evidence  from both parties  in relation  to this.
Mr M has sent us a picture which he says shows the damage caused by the engineer, 
which has now resulted  in a second  leak. This photo  seems to show  areas where  sealant 
is applied, but it doesnt show me that the engineer caused any damage to the shower. So 
Im not persuaded by this evidence, to agree with Mr M that they were  negligent.
Aviva has provided evidence from the engineers  who attended Mr Ms property.  They say 
Mr Ms waste trap has been  fitted incorrectly because its lacking the relevant support and 
framework, which  is causing the waste pipe to move and flex, and this movement has led 
to the waste trap leaking. The engineers have also said theres  no evidence of a second 
leak, and that the water  is escaping from the same  place  as before.
In the absence of supporting evidence to reasonably  challenge Avivas conclusion, I put 
more weight on the expert reports Ive been  given. And so, based  on what Ive seen so 
far, Im persuaded that the cause of the leak is as a result of a fault in the shower  
installation, and not because the first engineer was negligent in their actions. This means  I 
dont plan to ask Aviva to cover Mr Ms claim under the part of the policy that relates  to 
this. So Ive considered whether it would be covered elsewhere  in the policy.
Mr M is claiming  under a home  emergency  policy. So the first point that needs to be 
established is whether the claim falls under the definition of an emergency and, as such,  is 
an insured peril. Mr Ms home emergency  policy defines an emergency as;
A sudden and unforeseen  incident  at the property which is set out in any of the What is 
covered sections below and which 
exposes  you or a third party to a health risk, or 
causes  a loss of essential services or damage to the property, or 
makes the property uninhabitable.
Ref: DRN42334023Mr M hasnt  mentioned any health  risks  or that the second leak has made the property 
uninhabitable. And from Mr Ms description, the second leak now only happens  when the 
shower is turned on. So its unlikely to be causing any damage  unless Mr M chooses to 
use it. What Mr M has said,  is that the second leak has resulted in him and his family not 
being able to use the shower. Taking into consideration  the definition  of an emergency 
under this policy, no access to shower or bathing facilities might  be considered as an 
emergency, if it amounted  to the loss of an essential service.
Essential services are defined in the policy as; mains  drainage, up to the boundary  of the 
property, or water,  electricity and gas supply to and within the property, or the main source 
of heating in the property.  So, taking  that definition into account, Ive thought about how 
the leak has impacted  the supply of water  to  and within,  Mr Ms property. The water  
supply to Mr Ms property  and within it, wasnt interrupted, and is apparently working as 
it should. So Im not persuaded  that theres a loss of an essential  service. 
Even if the inability to use the particular shower  was considered a loss of an essential 
service, which  in the circumstances of this case I dont think it is, Mr M and his family had 
access to a second shower at the property.  And while  I appreciate Mr Ms comment that 
this second shower  lacks  the same pressure  as the one with the leak, I have to think 
about whats fair and reasonable in this case.  
He still has access to running water at his property and can still use shower facilities. So 
while the second leak may have made  showering more of an inconvenience  for Mr M and 
his family,  I dont think it falls under the definition of an emergency  in this case. Therefore, 
I dont think Mr Ms claim is covered under his home emergency policy.  So I dont plan to 
ask Aviva to do anything else in relation to Mr Ms claim.
Im aware Aviva told Mr M the claim had been  declined because poor installation isnt 
covered under the policy terms. But its been unable to provide me with enough  supporting 
evidence to show why the term its pointed to, applies to Mr Ms specific circumstances.  
So Im not persuaded the term its declined  Mr Ms claim  under, wholly  applies in this 
case. But either way, this doesnt change my provisional conclusion,  as I dont think  
theres been an insured peril in the first instance, for the reasons Ive already  explained.
Ive considered all of Mr Ms comments,  including what hes said about Aviva covering the 
first claim, so in turn, it should cover the second. From what Ive seen  Aviva  stopped  the 
first leak to isolate it and to prevent further  damage  not because it was an insured peril.  
Aviva chose to do this as a goodwill  gesture and I cant  see that Mr M lost out by it doing 
this. In any case, I can only consider whats happened in the claim thats in dispute, and 
Ive already explained why I dont think this should  be covered. So these points dont  
change my provisional conclusion.    
Mr M has contacted the Information Commissioners Office (ICO) about Avivas  handling  
of his data. But hes also unhappy it failed to log a formal complaint  about this. Under our 
rules, complaint handling isnt a regulated  activity   so I cant consider these points.
I asked both parties to send me anything else theyd  like me to consider before  I made  my 
final decision, but neither party responded with any further information.
Ref: DRN42334024my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint.  
The content of my provisional decision  is detailed  above. And neither party  has sent me any 
further information to consider in response to this. So the outcome I reached in my 
provisional decision remains unchanged. I see no need to repeat my reasons for not 
upholding Mr Ms complaint, as Im doing so for the same  reasons Ive detailed within my 
provisional decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold  Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 June  2019.
Rosie Osuji
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4233402