K820x#14complaint
Mr B and Ms B say Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, mis-sold them a mortgage 
payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.  
background
In 2001, Halifax  sold Mr B and Ms B a monthly  premium PPI policy to protect their joint 
mortgage repayments if either of them were unable to work because  of disability or 
unemployment. It was sold as part of a package  called  a Total Mortgage  Protection Plan 
(TMPP).
This complaints about the sale of the PPI and not the other elements, such  as life and 
critical illness cover, which could be included in the TMPP package.
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld. Mr B and Ms B disagreed,  so 
the complaint  was passed to me to review  afresh.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve  set out our general approach  to complaints 
about the sale of PPI on our website. And Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr B and 
Ms Bs case.
Having done so, Ive decided the PPI wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why. 
Halifax has provided a copy of Mr B and Ms Bs signed mortgage  application form. It 
included a section  headed Total Mortgage Protection Plan (TMPP)  and asked Mr B and 
Ms B to sign in the relevant spaces if they wanted PPI  which  they did. 
So I believe  PPI was discussed with Mr B and Ms B at the time and that they agreed to take 
it knowing they didnt  have to.
The parties agree that Halifax recommended the PPI to Mr B and Ms B. That meant Halifax  
needed to take steps  to ensure its advice was right for them.  Regardless  of what  steps it 
took, I think the PPI it recommended was right for them  in any case. 
For example, from what Mr B and Ms B have told us about their circumstances,  they were  
eligible for the cover and I cant see that theyd have  found the monthly  premium  
unaffordable. 
I dont think Mr B and Ms B were affected  by any of the main things the policy  excluded  or 
limited cover  for either. I realise  Mr B says he had a pre-existing medical condition which 
meant the PPI wasnt right for him. But Ive checked the policy  terms and the PPI doesnt  
exclude claims for pre-existing medical conditions.
It seems  as though Mr B and Ms B were entitled  to enhanced sick pay from their respective 
employers for a time. But the PPI benefits  would have paid out alongside that pay and for 
longer, at up to 24 months per claim. They included unemployment benefits too. Considering  
Mr B and Ms B had entered into a long-term  financial  commitment that was secured against 
their home, I think theyd have valued  the extra security the PPI provided.  
Ref: DRN44528572Halifax also needed to give Mr B and Ms B enough information about  the PPI to allow them  
to decide for themselves if it was right for them. I think its possible that the information  it 
gave them could  have  been better than it was. But, for much the same  reasons that I dont 
think the PPI was unsuitable for them, I dont think that better  information  would  have 
changed their decision  to take it. I think they would still have thought it gave them  a useful 
benefit at an affordable cost.
Taking everything into account,  I dont believe Mr B and Ms B have lost out because  of how 
Halifax sold them the PPI.
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B and Ms B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  8 February  2019.
Nimish Patel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4452857