K821x#15complaint
H, a limited company,  complains that The Co-operative Bank Plc did not follow the terms of 
a loan agreement  and forced  it to accept less favourable  amended terms which caused 
financial loss.
background
H took at loan from The Co-Op in 2012  for a business project. There were a number of 
financial covenants  tested using a financial model.  If the covenants were met then funds 
could be paid into an operating account for distribution. A key figure in the model was the 
forecast price for future product sales. H intended  to make distributions from the operating 
account to repay a directors loan.
H made requests  to make distributions  in July 2013  and January 2014 and these were 
agreed. But the request  in July 2014 was declined. One of the conditions  of making any 
distribution was that the agreed  future sale price was at least equal to the price  used in the 
model. The Co-op said that the reason the request was not agreed was because the actual 
price that H was contracting to sell its product (the PPA) in the future was less than the 
forecast in the model. The Co-op had started  using  a published  market  forecast  price,  rather  
than the price that H had contracted for future  sales. H disputed  the use of this price stating 
that its agreement  to change the model  was required. 
But amendments to the agreement were made to allow  distributions  provided equal 
prepayments of the bank loan were  also made.  In March  2015 H made a distribution and an 
equivalent prepayment  to the bank  loan. It has since made further prepayments.
In 2017 H made a complaint about the interest  rate swap it was required to take as part of 
the loan and also about its dispute  about the forecast price  in the model  and the implications. 
It had stopped making any prepayments after that.
our adjudicators view
Our adjudicator considered that The Co-op  had not acted fairly when it applied the new 
forecast price in the model. She referred to a number of parts of the original lending 
agreement. The key ones being:
"Financial Model" means the financial mode/ prepared by the lender relating to the Project  
including any updates or amendments as agreed between the borrower and
lender from time to time
Schedule 7  16 Distributions
The Borrower agrees..it  shall not, except with the prior written consent  of the
Lender (which the lender may withhold in its discretion)
16.1.2 pay any Distribution, if 
16.1.2 (b) there are less than 24 months  remaining  before the expiry of the fixed price  
period of the PPA and no alternative fixed price  arrangements satisfactory to
the Bank have been put in place in respect  of the PPA
18 PPAs

18.1.4 during  the term of any PPA the price payable by the purchaser(s) is equal  to or
Ref: DRN49217362more than the amount forecast to be payable under the PPA in the financial model.
The initial forecast  in 2012 used the three year PPA H had agreed  to 2015. By July 2014 
there was less than 24 months of that contract  remaining. H provided  the two year future 
prices it could then achieve.  The Co-op  substituted  the published market price  in the model.  
She did not think that there was anything  that allowed  The Co-op to do this without the 
agreement of H. It had not acted  fairly.
She said that she could  not look at the effect  on the director of not receiving repayments to 
the directors loan.  And H had not been  paying interest on this loan and so had not paid any 
more interest. The Co-op had now made  an offer to settle the complaint which she thought 
was fair. It had said it would refund the legal costs of the loan amendments of £5,220,  pay 
£1,000 in compensation and also interest of £183  on the funds held in the operating  account  
after the complaint was made.
H did not accept  this. Hs original plan had been  to repay  the loan over the term of 15 years -
not any faster. It said that it had been denied access to its own money and was concerned 
about the safety of the funds. The Co-op had the benefit of its money after 2017.  It had now 
decided to repay the whole loan and would incur  further break costs. The compensation for 
the inconvenience was insufficient  given that this had been going on for over four years and 
it did not even  cover the costs of a directors meeting with The Co-op. It wanted a substantial  
award. 
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 2 July 2019. I set this out below.  
I said that the original  loan agreement was a complex document. But in summary the 
financial model was used to test whether  the covenants had been met. And to determine 
what funds could be available for distribution  by the company. The financial model used a 
price for the sale of the products of H in the future. That was initially based on the price  it 
had contracted.  The issue  is the price used after that.
H had demonstrated  that it would never have been able to sell its products at the central  
market price projection. It showed that the initial PPA was below that projection by at least 
20 per cent. And it provided evidence from its counterparty in September 2014  stating  the 
the fixed  price that we offer  includes discount  to cover costs (hedging, imbalance etc) 
making it less than the prevailing wholesale price  and by inference less than the projection.
Id also seen evidence  from that time from The Co-op showing that based on the PPA which 
H proposed the covenants would be met. So it seemed to me that the sole reason for 
refusing a distribution was condition 18.1.4  set out above. I didnt consider that The Co-op 
could impose that index  without agreement with H. And I didnt  think  its insistence in using 
that index was in any event fair given that it meant  H would be unable to make  distributions.
My view was that H should  have  been  allowed to continue to make distributions based  on its 
actual forecast sales price, provided  all other terms of the loan were  met. It should not have 
been required to make equivalent pre payments. In resolving this complaint I needed to 
decide how to put H back in the position it ought to have been  in. I looked at this in parts. I 
made clear that I had seen the schedule  of losses from H that it wants to be paid and I was 
going to explain  what I thought about this.
Ref: DRN49217363the interest rate swap
I could see that H has already  referred  complaints to this service  about the sale of the 
interest rate swap that ran alongside  the loan and whether the later correction by The Co-op 
of an over-hedged position  should  have taken place.  I was not looking into those specific 
aspects which have  been dealt with separately. However, I did need  to consider how the 
actions of The Co-op in restricting distributions  affected H through the operation of the swap.  
Following the amendment to the agreement H was required to make  prepayments to the 
loan at least equal to those distributions.  Those prepayments  by definition created an over-
hedged position as they had not been anticipated when the swap  was written. The creation  
of that over-hedged position was made apparent to H. But in September  2017 The Co-op  
decided to correct  that position and apply breakage costs. The Co-op says that as a gesture 
of goodwill  it covered those breakage costs of £84,856.04. However, it required H to pay the 
breakage costs of £17,466 relating to a prepayment of £170,000 on 30 September  2017  and 
would expect it to do so for any further  ones. A letter from the representative of The Co-op 
also said that the over-hedged position had resulted in H paying  an additional £31,912.90 to 
30 September 2017.
The breakage costs as I said arose from the prepayments.  I noted  that after March 2015  H 
had decided not to make any further distributions but only to make prepayments. The total 
prepayments were  £1,070,000.  It could have instead  made a total of £535,000  of 
distributions and it chose to only make  £140,000.  So in my view it could have made 
£395,000 less of prepayments.  On a very simple proportionate basis it could possibly have 
avoided and mitigated say about 37% of the break costs. The additional interest it paid 
would have also been lower - as would prepayment fees. So I considered  that the settlement 
from The Co-op compensated H for the break  costs,  and additional interest it would  have 
had to incur by making the minimum prepayments.
I noted that H has now repaid the loan in full and incurred further break costs of 
£121,038.36. The Co-op said it did agree  to waive related prepayment  fees which were of 
three months interest.  I understood the directors had personal reasons  for doing this. But I 
said I cant fairly hold The Co-op responsible for this break  cost.  My settlement of the 
complaint would have given H the option of continuing the loan on the previous terms.
interest on funds held in the operating account
H decided not to make any more  prepayments after 30 September 2017 knowing that it 
would have had to pay swap breakage costs. A balance  built up in the operating  account.  
The Co-op has offered  to pay interest  on that balance assumed to be an average of 
£610,000. The interest figure is £183.  I checked  with The Co-op  that its intention was only to 
pay 0.03 per cent mindful that it offers a significantly higher rate for business deposits. It said 
that the figure it offered  was right.
H wanted to use the funds  to pay down the interest free directors  loan. So on one view if it 
had been allowed to do that it would  not have saved  any interest.  However, H was prevented  
from accessing its own funds on acceptable terms. It did not want  to have to pay the break  
costs. It wanted to reduce borrowing in its balance sheet. In the meantime as it says The Co-
op had the benefit of those deposits and was also applying interest on the full loan balance  
which I understand to be at a margin of 2.5 per cent over LIBOR.  Often  this service takes the 
view that compensation  of simple interest  of 8 per cent per annum is appropriate where a 
complainant has been  deprived  of access to its money as has effectively happened  here.  I 
Ref: DRN49217364didnt think thats  warranted here. But I also didnt accept that the offer from The Co-op is at 
reasonable rate. So taking all this into account  in my view the fair resolution was that H be 
paid interest on the actual  balances at the fixed  rate of interest  applicable to the loan. 
inconvenience and costs
The Co-op did not act fairly. So H was inconvenienced and had to spend time reviewing and 
then executing new loan amendments. There were  ongoing consequences.  The Co-op has 
agreed to refund the legal  costs  of £5,220 it passed onto H for the amendments to the 
agreement. Again these were complex  matters reflected in the level of legal fees. There 
were two separate amendments. The time the directors needlessly spent on this in my view 
should fairly be considered as it took them away  from productive activities for H. Also there 
was the continued inconvenience for H over an extended period - the compound  result  of the 
errors. I assessed this overall impact for H to fairly be £2,500. But I said I saw no reasonable 
basis for the award  of £158,000 requested  by H for its time here based on what is says was 
10 hours per week over 46 months.
my award
Subject to any further comments or evidence by H or The Co-op I said I intended to uphold  
this complaint in part and to require The Co-op to:
1)Refund legal costs of £5,220
2)Pay H interest on the balance in the operating account from 30 September 2017 to 
the date the loan was repaid at the interest  rate applicable to the loan.
3)Pay H compensation of £2,500.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I received no comments from The Co-op  about  my provisional decision.
H said that it was pleased with my finding  that The Co-op  acted unfairly. And it noted my 
comment that I would have put it in the position it ought to have been in, had the loan not by 
now been repaid.  H considers that all the costs of changes to the agreement necessary as a 
result of The Co-ops actions are losses for it.
H said that the vigour of The Co-ops  defence of its actions meant that trust was destroyed. 
So it says that this led to the decision to repay the loan. Its money was trapped and there  is 
no reason why it should not receive  the standard eight percent simple interest on this. The 
compensation of £2,500 is derisory given the time spent and the inconvenience forced on it. 
The directors of H had spent countless  hours trying to reason with The Co-op and preparing  
this complaint. In addition  to the legal  fees awarded it had to pay a further £5,100 in legal 
costs to The Co-op to terminate the agreement and it gave me a copy  of the invoice. It says 
that The Co-op had bullied a small family business and should compensate it for what 
happened.
I have considered these  points  carefully. I did make some provisional findings  on the 
decision of H to repay the loan. And I note in a letter of 6 February  2019  to this service  a 
director had said that this was to simplify  our activities  and alleviate  stress. I appreciate  it 
Ref: DRN49217365was some time after that when this complex complaint was passed to me. But that decision 
by H did limit the options. This service  tries to put complainants back in the position they 
ought to have been in. 
Until a decision was made I think it was reasonable for H to mitigate the impact  of any losses  
and only make decisions that were in its best interests. Im afraid I cant  see any basis  to find 
that a breakdown in trust meant that it was essential  for H then to repay  the loan to protect 
its position. And I cant look at the position  of the directors here  only at that of H. But I dont  
see that they made a decision to repay the loan with any certainty  H would be compensated 
for this. And Im afraid I remain  of the view that all the related costs  of terminating the swap  
and repaying the loan at that point  remain  fairly those of H.
I looked closely before at the funds that H had deposited with The Co-op. The eight per cent 
interest award it asks for is one designed  to reflect what might have been  done with that 
money. But here its made clear that it wanted to repay the directors loan  on which it was 
not paying any interest. Having said that, H was at the same time paying  interest  on 
borrowing to The Co-op. I didnt think it fair that The Co-op benefitted in this way, as H had 
pointed out to me in some  of its earlier  comments. So the reasonable approach in my view 
remains that H receives interest  on its deposits  at the rate it was paying  on the loan  
effectively offsetting  that part of the interest.
Finally Ive reviewed what I said about compensation. To be frank  Hs earlier claim of 
£158,000 was excessive and not substantiated. This service  does not award punitive 
damages and there were  only so many times H could argue  its position before making and 
referring a complaint. We dont tend to make  awards  for units of time or for bringing a 
complaint itself. And once H was clear about The Co-ops position  and the financial 
implications I just dont see on the evidence provided what  ongoing time was spent on this 
rather than the normal operation of its business albeit within  the constraints The Co-op  set. 
The award Ive already  indicated is a significant one. And having  balanced  all the factors Im 
afraid I remain of the view that this is the fair amount for what  happened  and the related 
inconvenience. 
So I know  that the directors of H will be disappointed when I say in conclusion that I wont be 
departing from what I said in my provisional decision.
Ref: DRN49217366my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part and I require The Co-operative Bank Plc to:
1)Refund legal costs of £5,220.
2)Pay H interest on the balance in the operating account from 30 September 2017 to 
the date the loan was repaid at the interest  rate applicable to the loan.
3)Pay H compensation of £2,500.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 October  2019.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4921736