K820x#14complaint
Ms B, on behalf of Mr Y, complains that his account with TSB Bank  plc has been  
compromised. As a result it is claimed  Mr Y has lost a substantial sum of money.  
background
An investigator has already considered this complaint.  Overall  he felt he was unable to 
uphold this complaint,  based on the evidence which had been provided  to our service.  
In light of Mr Y not accepting this view, this case has now been referred to me for 
consideration. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  A lot of information has been  provided to 
our service,  including further submissions  since the investigator issued their view.  
I too have also decided not to uphold this complaint, for reasons in line with those already 
expressed by the investigator. 
online faster  payments 
I think TSB was right to place a temporary  block on Mr Ys account, whilst they investigated  
the series of online transactions which had taken  place. As I understand, Mr Y contacted 
TSB to explain that he recognised these transactions and had made  them. According to 
TSBs notes  Mr Y told them the payments had gone to another account he held with a 
different bank and were  for paying  business expenses. Having  been  told this, I agree TSB 
was right to lift the block on Mr Ys account. 
Mr Y later claimed  he only told TSB this in order to get the block  on his account lifted, so he 
could see what was going on. And that the other bank account the payments had been sent 
to was in fact an old account of his which he thought hed closed some time ago. Mr Y has 
explained to our service  that he never  said he recognised  any of the transactions. He says 
the TSB representative  told him they might have to put it down on their system as I 
recognise the unrecognised transactions  so they could unblock  his account. Upon 
considering all of this, Im afraid I have concerns with Mr Ys recollection of events and am 
minded to give more  weight to the evidence provided by TSB.   
I believe theses online transactions were authenticated transactions. Mr Ys personalised 
security details were provided. And as I understand the payments all went  to another  
account held in Mr Ys name at a different bank.
cash withdrawal 
I note in recent submissions to our service Mr Y has advised that regarding  the cash  
withdrawal I am satisfied  I might have taken it out myself.  Prior to this Mr Y also disputed 
this transaction.  I do find the inconsistent testimony  of Mr Y concerning.  In any event I would 
add that Ive carefully looked at the ID provided  and signature on the cash  withdrawal slip. 
Im satisfied that TSB followed the correct process  before allowing the cash withdrawal to be 
Ref: DRN46233712made. Im satisfied the cash  withdrawal was authenticated and Mr Y should be held liable for 
this transaction.  
other issues
I believe TSB followed their processes correctly for all of the disputed  transactions.  I also 
think TSB made  reasonable efforts to contact  Mr Y by telephone to discuss this matter. 
I dont accept that any TSB system  issues were  linked to the disputed  online faster  
payments. I dont think any system issues caused Mr Ys personal banking details to be 
compromised. 
Based on the evidence  provided to our service, Im not going to be asking TSB to refund any 
of the transactions Mr Y has disputed.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms B, on behalf of 
Mr Y, to accept or reject my decision before 30 January 2020.
Robyn McNamee
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4623371