K821x#15complaint
Mr Ns unhappy with how Monument Insurance dac dealt with his claim made under a 
payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy  covering his mortgage.
Mr N also made a claim under another  PPI policy he held with Monument  and weve  been 
dealing with his complaint  about  that separately. 
background
Mr N made  a claim, which Monument  accepted,  under  the policy after becoming 
unemployed in late 2016.  Mr N went back to work  between March and May 2017, during  
which time his benefit payments stopped. 
It was when Mr N tried to re-start his claim from May 2017  (and until December 2017, when 
he returned to work) that the problems began. Thats because,  rather  than continuing to pay 
the claim based on the same sort of information  it had relied on before,  Monument asked to 
speak to Mr N for more information  about his claim. Mr N was unhappy  as he believed  hed 
already provided  enough information  with which Monument could  re-start  his benefit 
payments. He felt Monuments enquiries  could  be made in writing, as they had been 
previously and as per his preference, rather than over the phone.
Monument agreed it could have made its request for information differently  and better 
explained why it wanted to speak  to him. For that, it offered him £100 although it said it still 
needed more  information about  his employment  circumstances as it had reason  to believe 
his claim might need to be assessed on a self-employed,  rather than on an employed, basis.  
Unhappy with Monuments response, Mr N brought his complaint to us. Our adjudicator 
considered the complaint and recommended that it be upheld.  He accepted Mr Ns work 
situation was complex  but found  that Monument  should assess the claim as though Mr N 
was employed.
The parties didnt  agree with the adjudicator, so the complaint was passed to me to review 
afresh.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint in part. Ill explain why.
Mr Ns raised  a number of issues and points in the course of his complaint. While Ive 
carefully considered  everything hes said, Im not required to address each and every  one of 
them in this decision. I think its fair to say the crux of his complaint concerns Monuments 
uncertainty over his employment situation  and how its gone about  trying to gather further 
information.
Monument argues  its important to ascertain whether Mr Ns employed  because the policy  
terms it would use to assess  the claim would differ accordingly. So whereas Mr N would 
essentially need to show among other things (and with evidence from his accountant)  that 
hed stopped trading permanently if he was self-employed,  hed only need to show he was 
Ref: DRN43617842out of work, was actively seeking employment,  was registered with the Department  for Work 
and Pensions (DWP) and was in receipt of Jobseekers  Allowance  (JSA) if hed been 
employed.
While I agree with Monument that unemployment  claims from those in employment and 
those in self-employment might need to be assessed differently, I dont agree that it would 
be fair for it to apply  the self-employment term included  in Mr Ns policy.  I say that because  
of the Association  of British Insurers 2013 publication Consistent  Policy Interpretations 
Payment Protection  Insurance   Statement of Principles For The Payment Protection 
Insurance Industry (the statement), which Mr Ns referred to and I believe  represents good 
practice for PPI insurers generally. The statement includes:
1.8 Self-employed

The self-employed are customers who own their own business as sole traders 
or are able to control the affairs of their company. Claims will be accepted  if 
they have involuntarily ceased trading because they could not find enough  
work to meet  all their reasonable business and living  expenses  and have  
declared this to HM Revenue and Customs.
If a company  or business  has not ceased  to trade then the policyholder will be 
asked to provide  alternative evidence of unemployment, which may include:
 written notice from an accountant that they are not generating revenue  
through their business,  
 evidence that a main-contractor has ceased to trade where the 
policyholder entirely  relied  on being  a sub-contractor to that firm.
The statement  goes on to say:
1.9 Company Directors,  Partners etc.

Claims will be accepted if the claimant  has involuntarily ceased trading 
because they could not find enough work  to meet all their reasonable 
business and living expenses and have declared this to HM Revenue and 
Customs. If a company or business  has not ceased to trade then the 
policyholder is an employee and they will need to provide alternative  evidence 
of unemployment,  for example proof that they were made redundant.    
I note that the statement doesnt  say anything about  the policyholder having to permanently 
cease trading before being  able to claim unemployment benefits  as Monuments policy terms 
do. So I dont  think the terms are consistent with the approach outlined in the statement and, 
arguably, Mr N wouldnt  need to meet the requirements despite their inclusion in the policy.   
That said,  Im not persuaded that it would  be fair for Monument to consider Mr N as self-
employed in any event. While I accept his work situation was by no means straightforward, 
Monument dealt  with previous unemployment  claims by Mr N as though  he was employed. I 
havent seen enough evidence to show that should no longer have been the case,  or that the 
situation had materially changed, by the time he became  unemployed again  in May 2017. 
Ref: DRN43617843Thats not to say I think Monument should now pay Mr Ns claim as hes requested.  Im 
aware that other policy terms  might apply to the claim and it wouldnt be fair to deny 
Monument the opportunity to assess the claim against them. As such  I cannot, at this time, 
fairly direct Monument to pay the claim or award  interest on any further benefit payments 
that might  be payable. 
In terms of Mr Ns request that Monument  make  a payment to him for its poor conduct, Id 
emphasise that we dont  regulate financial businesses. Which means we have no power  to 
punish or fine them for their actions. But we can make directions and award  compensation 
for financial and non-financial loss. I note that, in this case, Monument accepted  in its final 
response letter of August  2017 that it could have handled his claim better initially. It 
apologised and sent him a cheque for £100 as compensation  (for its handling of both 
claims). In the circumstances, and given the complex nature of the circumstances 
surrounding Mr Ns claim, I believe the offer was fair.    
One of Mr Ns other main  concerns is that Monument seeks further information as a way of 
re-opening past claims, and possibly re-claiming  benefits already paid.  Monument  confirmed 
to us in August 2018 that this is not the case.  I see no reason to doubt that.
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  Ive decided to uphold the complaint in part. I require Monument 
Insurance dac to:
complete its assessment of Mr Ns claim with his reasonable co-operation; and
pay a total of £100 as compensation for its handling of the matter, if it hasnt already 
done so. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 August 2019.
Nimish Patel
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN4361784