K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain  about the way that Kensington  Mortgage  Company Limited  
administered their mortgage account.  Kensington  told them  there were some  errors in the 
way it treated the arrears on their mortgage.  Mr and Mrs P dont think that its offer 
adequately compensates  them for the stress,  worry and illness its mistakes caused.
background
In May 2018, Kensington wrote to Mr and Mrs P. It said that following guidance from the 
Financial Conduct  Authority (FCA) it accepted  that it had been incorrectly administering their 
mortgage. It said that it had included the arrears balance when calculating  the monthly 
payment but continued to ask customer to repay  the arrears balance  even though  it was 
effectively being  collected as part of the monthly payments.
Kensington said it had reviewed Mr and Mrs Ps mortgage and reworked it as if it had 
calculated the monthly  payment correctly, not including  the arrears  balance. It agreed to 
adjust the arrears balance by £11,386.67,  pay interest  at 8% simple  per year on that amount 
and refund associated charges with interest.  But it deducted 20% of the amount of interest 
for income  tax.
Mr and Mrs P say that Kensingtons offer doesnt properly take into account  the stress  and 
worry its actions  and in particular taking action  to repossess their home  have caused to 
them. In particular, they say that it led to Mr P suffering  a serious  illness.  They are also 
unhappy that Kensington has deducted income  tax from its offer.
Our investigator said that Kensington  had applied redress  in line with the guidance from the 
FCA  and this was a fair way to make  sure that Mr and Mrs P hadnt lost out. He said that 
Kensington were  obliged  to deduct  tax from the interest amount, but they could claim it back  
from HM Revenue  and Customs if it wasnt due. 
The investigator acknowledged that Mr and Mrs Ps situation as extremely stressful.  But the 
mortgage would still have been  significantly in arrears even if Kensington had administered 
correctly. Its error meant the arrears were  higher than they should  have been. But the 
investigator was satisfied it would still have taken  legal action had it acted correctly. He 
accepted that Kensington had acted unfairly. That meant Kensington was collecting a 
monthly payment  that was higher than it should have been when Mr and Mrs P were  already 
suffering financial  difficulty. It also meant the arrears  balance  was overstated  by a significant 
amount. The investigator said that Kensington should pay Mr and Mrs P £300 to reflect  the 
distress this caused. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs P have  raised a number  of points during the course of the complaint that werent 
part of their original complaint to Kensington or us. I understand the reasons why Mr and Mrs 
P think that all of the maters are connected and would like them to be dealt  with here.  But I 
have to look at their complaint in line with our rules. And therefore I can only deal with the 
complaint they made that was dealt with by Kensingtons  final response letter of 28 August 
2018 and that they referred  to us in their complaint form of 21 January 2019.
Ref: DRN44360092automatic capitalisation
Its not in dispute  that Kensington wasnt administering Mr and Mrs Ps correctly.  It should 
not have automatically  capitalised  the arrears on their mortgage  that is calculating the 
monthly payment  so that the arrears balance was repaid without agreement of the 
borrowers, yet still treating the mortgage as being in arrears.  But Kensington has shown  us 
that it has reworked  the mortgage in line with the guidance from the FCA. That guidance is 
something that I must  take into account  in deciding what I think is fair and reasonable in the 
individual circumstances  of this complaint. Im satisfied that reworking  the account in line 
with the guidance from the FCA is a fair way to put things  right in the individual  
circumstances of this case.  
Mr and Mrs P say that Kensington should  go further and compensate  them for its bad 
practice and the way this matter has affected their health. But Im afraid I dont have  the 
power to ask Kensington to pay Mr and Mrs P compensation  just because it has acted 
unfairly or because the FCA found  Kensington (along  with other  lenders) was likely to be in 
breach of its rules and principles. Under our rules I can only make awards for:
financial loss (including  consequential or prospective loss)
pain and suffering
damage to reputation
distress or inconvenience
Mr and Mrs P have  not shown that they have  suffered any financial loss that has not been 
addressed by Kensingtons review of their mortgage. So I cant say that Kensington should  
do anything further  in respect  of the mortgage. I also cant  tell Kensington to pay Mr and Mrs 
P compensation just because it has made a mistake or because of the FCAs guidance.  
But it isnt in dispute that Kensington  hasnt treated Mr and Mrs P fairly in the way it 
administered the mortgage. I can consider how that has affected Mr and Mrs P  and I can 
tell Kensington  to pay them compensation if that has caused them pain, suffering, damage to 
reputation, distress and/or inconvenience.  I will consider this below.
trouble and upset  
Mr and Mrs P say that the way Kensington has treated them has caused them a seriously 
bad mental state,  physical  tiredness,  exhaustion and depressionwhich led to [Mr Ps] brain  
haemorrhage.
Im sorry  to hear of the very difficult time that Mr and Mrs P have been through.  I do not 
doubt or wish to downplay the very serious impact that dealing with the arrears on their 
mortgage has had on them.  But Mr and Mrs Ps mortgage was significantly in arrears  and 
that would  still have been the case had Kensington administered their mortgage correctly in 
the first place. So a large part of the distress and worry they have experienced was as a 
result of arrears that were legitimately on the account. I cant say that Kensington should 
compensate them for that.
Ref: DRN44360093Kensington has provided evidence to show that it would  still have taken  legal action when it 
did had it not automatically capitalised the arrears. Ive very carefully considered the 
information it has provided. I accept that if it had correctly administered the mortgage it was 
still reasonable for it to take legal  action when it did in view of the level of arrears on the 
mortgage.
I accept that the arrears  were inflated  by the automatic  capitalisation and that would have 
added to their distress.  But in all of the circumstances I think  the investigators proposed 
amount of £300  is a fair and reasonable way to compensate  them for the impact of 
Kensingtons unfair treatment.
income tax
Kensington was entitled to deduct tax from the compensation  interest. Mr and Mrs P can 
claim this back  from HM Revenue & Customs if they are due a refund. Kensington should 
give them  a tax certificate if it hasnt already.  
my final decision
My final decision is that Kensington Mortgage  Company  Limited should pay Mr and Mrs P 
£300 in total.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  2 September 2019.
Ken Rose
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4436009