K820x#14complaint
Miss W complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC,  trading  as Tesco  Bank, wont refund a 
number of payments,  which she says have been duplicated by various merchants.
background
Miss W says that since 2017  payments have been  charged to her credit  card more than 
once by the same merchant on a single day and this has happened  repeatedly.  She says 
that whilst  she accepts  that she made the first payment she didnt make  or authorise the 
subsequent payments. She thinks its unlikely that when she shopped she forgot  something  
and then returned a little while later to spend  another large  amount  of money. She thinks  that 
something has gone wrong  with her card, with the second transaction  being processed in 
error, but Tesco wont refund the duplicated  payments.
Tescos has said that when it looked  into this it found that all the disputed payments were  
separate transactions, made to a variety  of retailers at different times and for different 
amounts, so it didnt  think it had charged Miss Ws card in error.
Our investigator didnt  think this complaint  should  be upheld. He wasnt  persuaded that the 
disputed transactions  were duplicate payments but thought they were separately made 
transactions.
Miss W didnt agree.  She said, in summary, that the card was only used by her, and no one 
else, and she only ever visited  a store once on any particular day. Some of the duplicate  
payments were to stores not local to her, which she would have only visited  whilst  passing. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss W has disputed  more than 50 transactions made using her credit  card to about 10 
different retailers. She says that the payments are duplicated on the same day that she 
made a genuine  payment. She says that she wouldnt have gone back into a shop a short 
time later to spend  another  large  amount of money.  She says that she has been  charged 
fees and interest  on these  transactions which has added  to her financial difficulties.
The disputed transactions took place from September  2017  and throughout 2018. The 
regulations relevant to these are the Payment Service Regulations 2009 and the Payment 
Service Regulations 2017. In short, the basic position is that Tesco  can hold Miss W liable 
for the disputed payments if the evidence suggests its more likely than not that she made or 
authorised them. But for me to be satisfied that these payments were  authorised,  I first need 
to determine whether  they were authenticated.
Ref: DRN40194872Authentication is the use of any procedure by which  a bank is able to verify the use of a 
specific payment instrument, including its personalised security features. Im satisfied from 
the evidence Tesco has provided that whoever  made the transaction had both the genuine  
card and PIN. I say this because Tesco has shown that Miss Ws genuine  card was used:
For the card payments where a PIN was required to be entered, Tescos data shows 
that the chip embedded in the card was read and the correct PIN was entered.  
Some payments were made as contactless  payments. Again the payments were  
authenticated as the embedded Chip was read.
The online payments  required  Miss Ws long card number, expiry  date and security  
number to be entered.
The regulations relevant  to this case say that it is not, on its own, enough for Tesco to hold 
Miss W liable, just because her genuine card,  PIN or security number were  used. So I also 
need to consider whether  the evidence suggests its more  likely than not that she consented  
to the disputed transactions being made.
Miss W has been consistent in saying  that she hadnt written  down  her PIN and she kept her 
card safe in her purse, which is always with her. She says that she hasnt allowed anyone 
else to use the card and she hasnt shared  her online account security  details with anyone. 
She has been very clear that her card has never been used by a third party.  She considers 
the disputed payments are duplicates processed in error by Tesco.
Miss W accepts that she made  other card payments herself between the disputed  or 
duplicated payments.  Some  of the disputed payments were made within sort time of the first 
payments, so I dont  think Miss Ws card could have been taken by a third party,  used and 
returned to Miss W for her to use again,  all without  her knowing.
I appreciate that Miss W thinks  it very unusual for there to be so many occasions  where  her 
credit card has been used  to pay the same merchant more  than once in a single day. I have 
carefully looked at all of the transactions, the amounts, the times when they took place and 
how the payments  were  made. I find that all the payments made  to the same  merchants took 
place at different  times of the day, were  for different amounts and often one of the payments 
was made  by Chip and Pin and the other was a contactless payment. I also see that on at 
least one occasion,  although it seems the payment was made to the same merchant the 
second one was at a different store. 
I have also looked  at the online payments, many  of which were made through an online 
payment system account. Miss W has said that no-one knows  the security  details for her 
online account and she hasnt shared them with anyone. There  isnt any plausible  
explanation of how someone  could  have used Miss Ws account  to pay for online purchases. 
And Miss W hasnt provided  any information relating to her online account to show the 
payments she made.
So from all that Ive seen  Im not persuaded that any of the transactions  are duplicates,  
processed in error by Tesco.  Im sorry to disappoint  Miss W but, on balance,  I consider it 
more likely than not that she made these payments herself. It follows that Tesco is entitled to 
hold her liable for them.
Ref: DRN40194873my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 July 2020.
Karen Wharton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4019487