K820x#14complaint
Mrs Ls representative, her daughter Mrs B, complains on her behalf that she was mis-sold 
life cover by Phoenix  Life Limited. 
Mrs B says:
No consideration  was given by Phoenix for Mrs Ls vulnerability.  
Mrs L wasnt encouraged to seek unbiased  financial advice or family  advice.
The information provided to Mrs L wasnt clear and didnt clearly point out that she 
can pay more than the cash pay-out.
In 2010, Mrs L was extremely stressed and overwhelmed  with ill health. Mrs B 
questions whether Mrs L understood exactly what she had agreed to by signing the 
sales documentation. 
background
One of our investigators  considered the complaint but didnt think  it should be upheld. In 
summary, she said:
This was a non-advised sale so shes unable  to consider the suitability of the policy.
There was also no need for the business  to consider Mrs Ls needs. 
The information provided made  clear  that she could speak to members  of her family 
but Mrs L chose not to. 
Although Phoenix didnt give any advice, it was still obliged to provide documentation 
that made clear  the nature and operation of the policy.  
In this instance Mrs L chose the premium she wanted to pay and got £1,330 worth of 
life cover that was payable after 2 years of having the policy.  
The terms and conditions made clear that the premiums paid could  exceed  the pay-
out.   
Mrs B disagreed with the investigators conclusions  and asked for an ombudsmans  
decision. 
As no agreement has been reached the matter  has been passed to me for review.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusions for much the same reasons. 
Im not going  to uphold this complaint. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what  Mrs B says, Im not persuaded 
that the business has done anything wrong  in the circumstances.  
Before I explain further why this is the case, its important for me to note I recognise  Mrs Ls 
strength of feeling  about this matter.  
Mrs B has provided detailed submissions on Mrs Ls behalf  to support the complaint, which  
Ive read and considered carefully.  However, I hope Mrs L wont  take the fact my findings  
Ref: DRN42116072focus on what I consider  to be the central issues, and not in as much detail, as a 
discourtesy.
The purpose of my decision isnt to address  every  single point raised. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented  by Mrs B and Phoenix, and reach what  I think is an independent, fair 
and reasonable decision  based on the facts of the case.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must take into account the relevant law, regulation 
and best industry  practice but Im not bound  by this. Its for me to decide, based  on the 
information Ive been given, whats more  likely  than not to have happened.
On the face of the evidence, Im satisfied that the policy was taken out on a direct basis.  In 
other words it was sold without financial advice. Its likely Mrs L bought the policy in 
response to an advert or telephone call  as a result  Im unable to consider the suitability  of 
the policy.  
Im aware that mis-selling can take place based on the nature  of advertising and the 
representations contained within. But in this instance Im satisfied that the documentation  
supplied to Mrs L before she accepted the policy  was clear, fair and not misleading. 
I think the documentation made  reasonably clear  the amount payable upon  claim. And that 
because the policy had a fixed sum assured and premiums, it was possible that more could 
be paid in than paid out in the event of death. It made this point clear in the policy 
documentation. 
I agree  with the investigator that the onus was on Mrs L to make sure the policy was suitable  
for her circumstances. I appreciate she had a lot going on at the time including ill health, but 
I cant blame the business for this. I note she wouldve been given cancellation rights, in 
case she changed her mind. If Mrs L didnt read the documentation provided I dont think  the 
business can be held responsible for that. 
Mrs L is likely to be disappointed with the potential surrender value if she decides  to cash in 
the policy early. Shes permitted to cancel anytime but is likely to get back  less than what  
she paid in because  the policy is designed  to provide life cover. 
Its important to note the surrender values isnt a full refund of all the premiums  paid since  
the policy began. The premiums Mrs L has paid have been used to cover the cost of insuring 
her life since the policy began, and the expenses Phoenix has incurred setting up and 
administering the policy. 
I understand that the sum assured and premiums were fixed  from the outset based  on a 
number of factors including Mrs Ls age, sex, health  and mortality tables. I note Mrs L paid a 
relatively large sum of money  over the period  shes had the policy.  
But if Mrs L lived longer  than her predicted  age it was a natural consequence  that she would 
have paid substantially  more than the sum assured. And had she died earlier the policy  
wouldve paid out more than the amount  of premiums paid in. Thats  just how these policies 
operate and isnt unique  to the business.   
Whilst I appreciate Mrs Ls frustration Im unable  to require the business to do anything 
because I dont think it has done  anything wrong.  
Ref: DRN42116073In conclusion, this was a non-advised sale, as I think  it was, and sufficient policy 
documentation was provided that made  reasonably clear the nature and operation of the 
policy, Im not persuaded the policy was mis-sold.  
I appreciate Mrs L will be unhappy  Ive reached  the same conclusion  as the investigator. 
Furthermore, I realise my decision  isn't what she wants to hear.
But on the face of the available evidence, Im unable  to uphold this complaint and give her 
what she wants.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 October  2019.
Dara Islam
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4211607