K820x#14complaint
Mr K complains that National Westminster Bank Plc allowed a payment to be made from his 
account which he didnt  authorise.
background
Mr K was abroad.  He was taken ill in May 2016 and admitted to a local hospital.  NatWest 
received a fax from the British Embassy there enclosing  a letter  from him asking that 
$15,000 be transferred  urgently to his daughters  account held locally. NatWest  accepted  it 
had been signed by him and made the payment. Mr K was discharged  from hospital and 
returned to this country and spent time in hospital  here. He says he disputed  the payment in 
June 2016 as he was estranged from his daughter and didnt sign the letter. He heard 
nothing and raised a complaint in September 2018.
NatWest said it wouldnt  be refunding the money.  It had no record of him contacting it in 
2016 about this payment. It said that the signature on the letter was verified and a match.  
And that it believes identification  would  have been  taken before the Embassy sent the fax. 
NatWest questioned why he hadnt  chased this for two and a half years.  It said it could also 
not rule out the possibility of Mr K asking his daughter  to carry this out. And Mr K would need  
to pursue any dispute as a civil matter with her.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint be upheld.  He said that:
-Correct personal information about Mr K and his account were  given and used  to 
authenticate the payment. NatWest had shown the checks  of this it had made.
-He had spoken to consular services who had said that an Embassy wouldnt act on 
behalf of a British national  unless  authorised  to do so.
-He thought that the signature  on the faxed letter dated 14 May 2016  was very similar 
to the one NatWest  held for Mr K. 
-Mr K had cancelled his debit card on 28 March 2016 when he made  a previous fraud 
complaint about withdrawals made  abroad through a cash point. But he had then 
made transfers from his account on 5 and 14 April 2016  with a total of £5,046  which 
he hadnt disputed.
-Mr K had said that he had been  trying to visit his daughter who lived abroad. The 
nature of the relationship then or now wasnt supported  by any evidence.  Mr K says 
his daughter knew all his personal  information.  She had been called by his hotel 
when he collapsed and she forced  the hotel to hand over his belongings. When he 
was discharged she forced him to stay with her and then forced  him to go home.     
Mr K said he didnt  think local police  would have been interested  and didnt think to 
contact the Embassy  himself.
-He considered the two possibilities put forward here. Either  Mr Ks daughter acted 
without his authority  as Mr K says. But that didnt explain why he didnt follow  up on 
this until September  2018. Or the other  was that he authorised  the payment. An 
allegation of forgery  would require expert witness evidence, and we hadnt  been 
provided with this. We couldnt rely on the opinion of the 12 other  people  Mr K said 
had told him the signature on the letter was different to his genuine  one. And testing 
expert evidence would be something more  suitable  for a court process. 
-He was persuaded that Mr K authorised the payment.
Mr K didnt agree and wanted his complaint to be reviewed.  He maintained  that the nature of 
any checks made by the Embassy  was speculation.  He wasnt  contacted and he noted  that 
the cover  letter  to the fax said no responsibility  was taken  for the contents. He still said that 
Ref: DRN40772242the signature on the letter was a forgery and so bad that anyone could see this. NatWest 
was grossly negligent and didnt meet its duty of care to him as it should have checked  this 
payment with him given it knew he had alleged fraud on his account  before.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to take into account the Payment  Services  Regulations 2009 in considering  this 
complaint. These state that a payment can only be authorised if it was consented to. So its 
not enough for it to be authenticated. And if wasnt authorised Mr K wouldnt generally be 
responsible for it.
So I will be thinking about  the following areas  in looking at this complaint:
-What is the most likely explanation of how this payment was made?
-And did Mr K authorise the payment? 
I agree  with what our investigators said about  authentication. The letter to NatWest  gave 
comprehensive information about  the payment and to the extent of explaining that the IBAN 
identification system wasnt used locally but SWIFT  was. Ill come back  to what I think  about 
the signature below  but Im satisfied that this payment  request  was authenticated.
Mr K has provided evidence about his trip and then time in hospital abroad  and about  when 
he returned home. This supports  him being admitted  to hospital on 2 May 2016 with a 
serious health condition. Ive seen  invoices relating to his treatment and that one was 
marked with status  as payment on 23 May 2016  when he says he left. I can also see a 
receipt dated 25 May 2016 from a travel  company for what I understand to be his plane 
ticket home  and which was marked as paid for in cash in US dollars. He says he left the 
country on 27 May 2016 and I can see he had a planned admission to a hospital  here on 28 
May 2016. He was discharged on 10 June  2016 seemingly then with no serious  medical 
problems noted.  Hes shown though  that there  were  further health  investigations  later in that 
year. 
The letter he is said to have signed  was dated  14 May 2016  a Saturday  and was faxed 
on 17 May 2016. NatWest  had shown it made  the checks  the following day and the payment  
is shown as debiting  his account  on 19 May 2016. 
Im afraid I dont accept  Mr Ks assertion that the Embassy likely made no checks  or that 
what it did was speculation. The fact the letter was faxed by the Embassy gave it some 
standing  or otherwise a fraudster could  have faxed it from anywhere. The cover note 
stated Mr K was in hospital  and gave the name  of the hospital. Thats entirely consistent with 
some checks being made. And I think it implausible  that a fax would be sent to a bank  in this 
country with a letter requesting money  unless  the Embassy staff had been satisfied that it 
came from a genuine British citizen.
Ref: DRN40772243I dont have anything  significant to add to what our investigator has said about the signature.  
I can see why NatWest  believed this to be genuine and Ive not seen any expert  evidence  to 
counter this. A similar  version of the signature  to me seems repeated on Mr Ks more  recent  
complaint letters to NatWest. 
There was an entirely  plausible reason why Mr K needed money  to pay hospital and other 
expenses urgently. And as Ive set out above  there were significant  bills and I dont know  
how these were paid.  I also note that although  Mr K had reported fraud on his card he has 
said that this was carried out by someone entirely  different. His card was stopped but not 
access to his bank  account. He had made  sizeable electronic  payments  since  then. And he 
continued to use his account  normally when  he returned  home and left hospital  despite him 
saying all his personal information had been compromised and the money  taken.
Hes explained that he asked a member of staff at the hospital in 2016  to call NatWest and 
had then gone to a branch. Unfortunately there is no evidence of this. I agree with him that 
had he reported  this he shouldnt have to chase this up. And if hed shown he needed to do 
so then this would be a complaint point. But Im afraid his statement that he believed  it was 
being investigated became less credible as time passed. And thats especially because hes 
said in an email to this service that this loss caused  absolute upheaval to his plans  for the 
future.
I think Mr K may agree that the circumstances under which this payment was made were 
exceptional ones.  And I think thats  the way NatWest treated them too. Not responding to a 
genuine request  from a customer  for a payment in these  circumstances might be argued  as 
negligent. To do so when  the evidence indicated it was genuine  wasnt  negligent in my view. 
And the ability to make  checks and contact him directly was clearly more  limited here.
I dont know the nature of the relationship Mr K has with his daughter. He says he went 
abroad with a view to seeing her and it seems had been in the country  since January 2016. 
He collapsed in the hotel  and the manager  by chance had her details.  He appeared to 
receive appropriate medical treatment that was paid for. And there is no evidence  to show  
he was forced to leave  with his daughter or forced by her to return  home.  
I wont be able to say exactly what happened here but need  to think about what is most 
likely. I dont rule out that Mr Ks relationship  with his daughter may have deteriorated  since  
this incident and that there might now be a dispute with her over money. But I need to think  
about what happened in 2016.  Having balanced  all the factors Im persuaded that Mr K did 
consent to this payment and so it was authorised.  I dont think its most likely his daughter 
took advantage of him being  in hospital  to obtain his details, forge his signature, make false 
representations to the Embassy and accept a fraudulent payment.  And had she done so I 
would have expected evidence of a very different reaction from Mr K when he returned to 
this country and left hospital given how stressed  he says this has made him.
Having said all that, I dont doubt  that he will be very disappointed by my finding that 
NatWest need  take no action  on this complaint.
Ref: DRN40772244my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 June 2020.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4077224