K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs L complain that Fairmead Insurance Limited (Fairmead) registered a claim 
against him incorrectly on the Claims and Underwriting database (CUE).
background
Mr and Mrs L moved home in November  2017  and took home insurance with Fairmead. In 
July 2018 Mr L called  Fairmead  to discuss a flat roof that had been leaking for several  
weeks. He says he wanted to understand whether this was something which was covered 
under his policy. Mr L was told that he wasnt able to claim on his policy  as the leak was 
caused by poor maintenance  of the roof.
In October  2018 Mr and Mrs L approached another insurer and were told that the national  
insurance database (CUE) showed that they had made a claim in 2018.
Mr and Mrs L dont think its fair that Fairmead  has recorded a claim against them  when Mr L 
only called  to get more information. Mr L says he wasnt  told he was making a claim or that it 
would be recorded  on the national database, which could  affect  his future  premiums.
Our investigator didnt  think the complaint should be upheld. In short, she said that she had 
listened to the first call Mr L had with Fairmead  and it sounded like he intended  to make a 
claim. She had checked the information being  reported to CUE and thought it was correct.
Mr and Mrs L didnt agree so their complaint  has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
outcome as our investigator and for the same  reasons.
Mr L called  to find out if his flat roof was covered under his policy. And while  Fairmead can 
give general information over the phone without assessing it as a claim,  I dont  think it would 
have been reasonable  in this case.  Mr L specifically called to find out if his leaky  roof was 
covered under his policy  which in effect is asking Fairmead to assess  his claim.
During Mr Ls initial conversation with Fairmead he was specifically asked if he wanted to 
make a claim. His response was yeah, if thats viable. So I dont agree that Mr L wasnt 
made aware  he was making a claim. Mr L says that he had made it clear that he only wanted 
to make the claim if it was viable   but that isnt how claims  work.  Fairmead  wouldnt give 
Mr L an answer to his claim before ever considering it and recording that a claim had been 
made.
Mr L has said that this is the first insurance claim hes made and I realise this must come  as 
a disappointment to him. But based on the conversation I heard and the answers Mr L gave, 
I dont think Fairmead has made  a mistake in recording  the claim on CUE.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision  before  24 April 2020.
Ref: DRN49251982Sara Falzon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4925198