K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs T say Lloyds  Bank PLC (Lloyds)  mis-sold them  a payment protection  insurance  
(PPI) policy.  
background
Mr and Mrs T bought the policy in 1996  at the same time as taking out a mortgage.  They  say 
they applied for the PPI policy by filling out a leaflet. Due to the time that has passed Lloyds 
are unable to confirm this or how the policy was sold but think it wouldve been sold in a 
meeting. I think a branch sale is reasonable given that the mortgage and PPI were  sold at 
the same  time. 
Mr and Mrs T say the policy was to cover  them both. Lloyds again are unable to confirm  this 
so for the purposes of this complaint  I have  assessed the cover  as joint cover. 
The policy provided  cover  for accident, sickness, and unemployment  subject to its 
exclusions and limitations. From what we know it offered to repay no less than Mr and Mrs 
Ts monthly mortgage payment which was around £250 a month  - based on the information 
we have been given - in the event  of a successful claim. At the time, it cost (again  based on 
the information we have)  around  £13 a month.  
At the time,  Mr T was employed as a warehouse operative for two years . He has told us he 
wasnt entitled to any sick pay but had six months  worth of unemployment cover. Mr T has 
said he was in good health  at the time of the sale. 
Mrs T says she was employed as a healthcare  assistant for a month  at the time of sale and 
says she was entitled to six months  of full sick pay and also had six months of 
unemployment cover  which she could use to make her mortgage repayments if she wasnt 
able to work. 
Prior to this Mrs T says she was employed as a care assistant for four years.  Mrs T hasnt 
confirmed whether there were any gaps between these positions, so I have completed my 
assessment on the basis there wasnt.
Mrs T has told us that she suffered and was treated for depression  around 1986  but cant  
remember if she took any time off work because of it.  
Lloyds has sent us screenshots to show that the mortgage account closed in May 2003.  
Mr and Mrs Ts representative  has made  lengthy and substantial  representations on their 
behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr and Mrs Ts representative says:
Lloyds failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time.  In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr and Mrs T 
wouldnt have taken  out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr and Mrs 
Ts representatives believe there  to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
Ref: DRN49710302The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Lloyds should have 
told Mr and Mrs T about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Lloyds should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mr and Mrs T and the 
impact they would have had on their chances of making a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
The information Mr and Mrs T received was misleading. These policies were 
promoted as providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations 
on the scope of the cover meant  this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr and Mrs T disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion for several  reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Ts. I dont intend  to set that 
out in much detail  here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ts complaint.
This sale took place  in 1996 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2003. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
Ref: DRN49710303s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Lloyds  at the time. So Im satisfied I should take the ABI Code and these 
other publications into account  when  deciding, what is in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of Mr and Mrs Ts case.  
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Banking  
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Banking  Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman  was 
required to decide  complaints by reference  to what was, in his opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances.
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Lloyds was required to take into account the provisions in DISP  App 3 as if they were 
guidance when  considering Mr and Mrs Ts complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If Lloyds gave advice,  whether  it advised Mr and Mrs T with reasonable care and skill 
 in particular,  whether the policy was appropriate or suitable for them,  given their 
needs and circumstances. 
Ref: DRN49710304-Whether Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs T sufficient, appropriate and timely information to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take out the policy,  
including drawing  to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions of the policy  and significant  limitations  and 
exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr and 
Mrs T, I must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mr and Mrs T 
suffered loss or damage and what  I consider  would amount to fair compensation for 
that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr and Mrs T 
and Lloyds, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ts complaint. Ive set out my reasoning 
below. 
did Mr and Mrs T know they had a choice?
Lloyds had to make it clear that the PPI policy was optional. 
Due to the length of time that has passed since the policy was sold neither Mr and Mrs T or 
Lloyds have been able to provide much  information about how the policy  was sold.  Lloyds 
say its that it wouldve  been made clear to Mr and Mrs T that they had a choice in taking the 
policy. And although Mr and Mrs T havent been  able to tell us anything  from the sale I can 
see that Mr and Mrs T had a successful claim on the policy  in 1999   so they knew  they had 
it. 
So, taking everything  into account  and in the absence of persuasive evidence that 
something very different happened in Mr and Mrs Ts case - I think its more likely than not 
they knew the policy was optional and they agreed to take it out without undue pressure.
did Lloyds provide  advice?
Lloyds dont know whether advice was provided during the sale,  so to put Mr and Mrs T in 
the best position Im treating the sale as if advice was given.  
This means  Lloyds had to advise Mr and Mrs T with reasonable care and skill, in particular 
whether the policy  was appropriate or suitable  given their needs and circumstances.
the advice
I dont know what steps Lloyds took to establish whether the policy  was a suitable 
recommendation for Mr and Mrs T. It seems Mr and Mrs T cant  remember  clearly  what  
happened and there is no record of what the adviser discussed  in relation to the policy. This 
is unsurprising in respect of a sale during a meeting.  The adviser likely had some limited 
information about Mr and Mrs Ts financial circumstances, but there is no specific  evidence 
to show the adviser  took steps to establish  whether they would have been caught  by the 
significant exclusions and limitations which might have meant  the policy did not fully meet 
their needs.  For example,  there is nothing to suggest Lloyds considered whether Mr and Mrs 
T had any pre-existing medical conditions.
Ref: DRN49710305Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded Lloyds did all it should have done 
to determine whether  the policy was suitable  for Mr and Mrs T given their circumstances. So 
Im not persuaded Lloyds advised  with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded Lloyds did all it should  have done  to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mr and Mrs T, I do think its more likely than not that the policy was ultimately 
suitable for them. In reaching that conclusion  Ive taken into consideration:
-Mr and Mrs T met the eligibility criteria for the policy.
-Mr and Mrs T had a need for the policy  it seems likely that Mr and Mrs Ts ability to 
continue to meet their mortgage repayments would have been put under strain if they 
were not working  for an extended  period of time  even allowing for the 
unemployment policy they say they held and the sick pay Mrs T says she would have 
been entitled to. The policy would have paid out on top of any other  cover  they had in 
place and would have helped Mr and Mrs T manage the consequences should either 
of them  be unable  to work.
-Although Mr and Mrs T say they were financially stretched at the time, Ive seen 
nothing else to suggest the monthly cost of the PPI wasnt affordable.
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mr and Mrs T. 
There was nothing  about Mr and Mrs Ts employment or occupations which  would 
have made it difficult for them  to claim.  
-Regarding pre-existing medical  conditions, Mrs T has told us that she was treated for 
depression around 1986 but cant remember if she had any time off work.  This 
happened many  years before the policy was taken out and Mrs Ts not said its been 
an issue after that. So it doesnt seem likely that this would have  been  in her mind  at 
the time of sale. So I dont think the policy was unsuitable for them. 
-Mr and Mrs T have  said they were trying for a baby at the time. But pregnancy isnt 
an illness or sickness. From  what we know, the policy wouldnt have covered Mrs T 
for symptoms which normally accompany pregnancy,  which isn't unusual. But it 
would have covered Mrs T if those  symptoms developed into a condition, sickness or
disease. So I dont  think the policy was unsuitable  for them.
-While  the policy would  only pay benefits  for a maximum of 12 months for each claim 
for accident, sickness or unemployment  it still provided useful  cover  given Mr and 
Mrs Ts circumstances.
-While  there were  limits to the cover provided  by the policy  (including:  the requirement  
that Mr and Mrs T be unemployed for 60 days before  they could make a claim and 
the fact the policy  would only pay benefits  for a maximum of 12 months for each 
claim), the policy still provided valuable cover given:
Mr and Mrs Ts circumstances, including their unemployment policy (which 
they might expect to provide an income  during the policys 60-day 
qualification period)  and the limits  to those provisions,  which mean the policy 
could play an important role after those provisions were exhausted; and
Ref: DRN49710306The fact the policy protected  the mortgage  repayments relating to their home  
and the potential consequences  should  Mr and Mrs T be unable to make the 
repayments on loans  secured against their house.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Lloyds  gave Mr and Mrs T sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable them to understand what Lloyds 
was recommending to them and make  an informed decision about whether to follow that 
advice and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr and Mrs T were given a broad description of 
what the policy was intended to cover  (that is that the policy  would protect their payments if 
they were unable to work through accident, sickness  or unemployment).  I have reached this 
conclusion because I think  its unlikely  Mr and Mrs T would have taken out the policy without 
any sense of what the policy was for.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Lloyds  gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost or about  the exclusions or 
limitations before Mr and Mrs T agreed to take out the policy. 
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr and Mrs T Im not persuaded 
Lloyds did enough  to present information about the policy  it was recommending in a way that 
was fair and reasonable to them. Im not persuaded Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs T all of the 
information they needed about the policy to make an informed  decision about  whether to 
follow the recommendation  and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr and Mrs Ts representative has raised  a 
number of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr and Mrs 
Ts. Ive considered these  carefully and summarised them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr and Mrs Ts representative considers to be 
poor value   and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business rather than 
the insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr and Mrs T about the limitations and exclusions, it should  have  gone  further  
and explained  the significance of them  to them. 
Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Ts representatives views on this. The duty of utmost  good 
faith in insurance  law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose material 
facts and not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what a court  
would say  I think  its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer having to 
disclose the claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and 
Ref: DRN49710307exclusions in the way Mr and Mrs T have suggested. And taking into account the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude that Lloyds ought to have  done  either.  
what effect did Lloydss shortcomings have on Mr and Mrs T? To what extent did Mr 
and Mrs T suffer loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that Lloyds  didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy to Mr and Mrs 
T. So I have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude  Mr and 
Mrs T suffered loss and damage as a result.  To answer this, I must  decide whether or not Mr 
and Mrs T would have still taken out the policy, had Lloyds done things properly. 
While Im not persuaded Lloyds took the steps it should have done to establish whether the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Mr and Mrs T, I have found that the policy was 
ultimately suitable for them.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr and Mrs T have suffered loss 
or damage  in this case primarily  depends  on whether, if Lloyds had explained things  
properly, Mr and Mrs T would have acted differently, or whether they would  have taken out 
the policy in any event.
Mr and Mrs T say they wouldnt have taken it out and believe  I should presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. Ive considered the representations of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mr and Mrs T had some interest in taking out 
payment protection insurance. By this I mean when Lloyds advised them that there was a 
suitable product  they could buy that would protect their mortgage payments in the event  they 
were unable to work because of accident,  sickness and unemployment, they concluded they 
wanted that product. But they made that decision based on incomplete information, meaning 
what they thought they were getting is not exactly what they got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr and Mrs Ts circumstances  at 
the time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally  wrong  or unsuitable  for them.
I dont think the information  about  some aspects of the policy, such  as the cost, benefit,  
limitations and exclusions  was as clear  as it should  have been.   
Although I consider it more likely than not that Mr and Mrs T knew they would have to pay 
something for the policy, it doesnt appear Lloyds told them  the exact premium at the point 
Mr and Mrs T applied  for the policy. Having  said that, it seems likely Mr and Mrs T would 
have been told the cost before the policy started and they paid for the policy for a number of 
years, so if the costs were  significantly at odds  with their expectations at the point of sale, its 
possible they might have raised  that with Lloyds  at the time, or reconsidered their decision.
Ref: DRN49710308Overall, Im not persuaded Mr and Mrs T would  have  found the cost unacceptable if they had 
been given the exact figure during the meeting in which they agreed to the policy.
In addition, Im not persuaded  Lloyds  made  clear  exactly what Mr and Mrs T would get back  
in return in the event they made  a successful claim.  But I think  its unlikely Mr and Mrs Ts 
expectations about what the policy would  pay in the event of a claim (an amount sufficient to 
meet their mortgage  payment) was significantly different to what the policy actually did.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr and Mrs T thought they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions for any period of disability 
which happened during the 12 months before the effective  date shown in their 
completion letter and for which they had consulted or received treatment from a 
medical practitioner; 
Disability claims because of back pain  from what we know they would not have
been covered  for any disability wholly or partly resulting from backache and related
conditions, unless there was medical evidence of radiological disability  resulting  in
abnormality;
Disability and unemployment claims because of mental health, stress or anxiety 
from what we know the policy  would not pay a disability or unemployment claim
wholly or partly resulting  from psychiatric illness or mental or nervous  disorder,
including stress and stress related  conditions.
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr and 
Mrs T werent permanent employees;
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Mr and Mrs T pause for thought  and may well have caused  them  to conclude the policy  
wasnt as good  as they thought and they might have  decided not to proceed.  The limitations 
on the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might  have dissuaded  
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs T from taking out the 
policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mr and Mrs Ts circumstances at the time of sale shows  that the 
policy wasnt fundamentally wrong  or unsuitable  for them.  Mr and Mrs T were  eligible for its 
benefits and it provided cover that, despite  its limitations and exclusions,  couldve proved 
valuable to them should the insured risks have become a reality. And although  Mrs T did 
suffer from a condition  excluded from the policy around 10 years before the policy  was sold 
to them,  I havent  seen anything to suggest this condition was ongoing. So it doesnt seem 
likely that this would have been  in her mind at the time of sale and I dont think she wouldve 
been put off if shed  been told more clearly  what  wasnt covered. 
I accept back pain is a common problem and the steps required to make a disability  claim for 
this condition was more onerous than Mr and Mrs T might reasonably have  expected. But its 
unlikely they would have expected to be able to make  a disability claim without having to 
provide some evidence  to support  that claim. And while  this limitation might have dissuaded 
some consumers in slightly different circumstances to Mr and Mrs T from taking out the 
policy, Mr and Mrs T, in their circumstances, still had some good  reasons to take it out.
Ref: DRN49710309I also havent seen  any evidence to suggest Mr and Mrs T wouldve been caught  by any of 
the other significant  exclusions. So, I still think they had some good reasons to take the 
policy out.
Lloyds may not have  told Mr and Mrs T that any claim they made would be limited  to a 12 
month period.  This may have differed from what they expected and might have hoped for, 
but they had limited other means to fall back on. 
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mr and Mrs T would still have thought a policy that 
paid up to 12 monthly mortgage  payments  would  have been of benefit to them and would 
help them manage the consequences  should Mr and Mrs T be unable  to work in the 
circumstances covered by the policy. The policy allowed for multiple claims to be made, it 
could help reduce their outgoings at a difficult and uncertain time,  ensuring their home was 
not placed at risk.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs T would still have taken  out the policy. The policy  was suitable for them, 
was sufficiently close to what  its likely  they thought they were getting  and provided  benefits 
that would  help them manage  the consequences  if Mr and Mrs T were  made  redundant, or 
unable to work through accident  or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs T would have taken  out the policy in any event notwithstanding the 
limitations on cover.
Mr and Mrs Ts representatives  say the rules about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 
3) make it clear  that, where  a significant failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr and Mrs T would not have  bought  the PPI they bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr and Mrs Ts 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr and 
Mrs T found themselves in as a result  of the sale was the same position  they would have 
been in had the breach  or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr and Mrs T believe the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws  in the sales  
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
Ref: DRN497103010represent fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs T in the position they would  have been  in if 
they had not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that they would not have taken  out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that they would still have 
taken out the PPI had they been  given clear, fair and not misleading information about the 
policy they were buying. So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude Lloyds should pay Mr and Mrs T compensation, as that would 
put them in a better position than they would have been in if everything had happened as it 
should have done. 
Im also aware that Mr and Mrs T think Lloyds misrepresented the terms of the policy  in how 
it described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
Lloydss statements misrepresented the contract,  in my opinion  the reason why Lloyds failed 
to act fairly  and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs T, in the way it did, 
was insufficient  to meet the standards  I consider  it fair and reasonable to expect it to have 
met in 1996  when providing information about  an insurance policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs Ts representative says a court  might take 
if it were to find Lloyds negligently misrepresented the contract to Mr and Mrs T and about 
the remedy a court  might award if it were to find that Lloyds had been in breach of its duty of 
utmost good  faith. But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about  what is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mr and Mrs T in a better  position  than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done. 
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 August 2020.
Caroline Davies
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4971030