K820x#14complaint
Mrs S complains that Legal  and General Assurance Society Limited  didnt tell her in advance  
that she couldnt extend her policy passed her 78th birthday. 
background
In 2011 Mrs S, 71 at the time, took out a term assurance policy for 9 years  with L&G. The 
sum assured was £35,000 and she paid a monthly premium of around  £39 per month. 
In September  2018 Mrs S called L&G to discuss extending the term of her cover. She was 
initially told that cover could be extended  for 11 years. Shortly  after being given this 
information she was told this wasnt possible. L&G explained that as she was over 77 it was 
no longer possible  to offer her a new term assurance policy or extend her existing one. It 
offered her alternatives,  but Mrs S didnt consider they represented value for money. Mrs S 
complained  she said she had never been  told there was a cut-off age. If she had been told 
she needed to call by age 77 she wouldve done  so. 
L&G looked  into her complaint:
It acknowledged that Mrs S had been given some incorrect information and that it 
hadnt handled her complaint well. So it offered her £200  in compensation for this. 
It said that as the nature of her policy meant  that her cover  and premiums remained 
the same  throughout the life of the policy,  it wouldnt  ordinarily  write  to customers 
offering alternatives   unless they had opted  in to receive marketing information, 
which Mrs S hadnt.  
It said that in December 2018 new guidelines  issued by the regulator required it to 
keep customers informed  about  their policies. However, this would include a 
summary of the cover in place and when  it ended  not a reminder  of general policy  
terms, or other conditions such  as maximum age in order to apply for cover. 
It calculated what it wouldve offered Mrs S had she called prior to her 78th birthday. It 
said that for the same cover to run until she was 90, she wouldve had to increase  
her monthly premium to £128.61.  
It said that if she applied for a whole of life plan,  with the same  level of cover,  she 
would need to pay just over £222. A whole of life plan on the same monthly premium 
would only offer cover up to £5,500.  
It said that it had found  two other  providers who would offer the level of cover she 
wanted  the monthly premiums shed need  to pay were  between £124 and £138.  
One of our investigators  looked into the complaint.  He acknowledged that L&G hadnt 
provided Mrs S with adequate customer service. But he considered that the amount it had 
offered in compensation for that was fair and reasonable. 
He didnt agree that L&G had done anything  wrong in not contacting Mrs S before  her 78th 
birthday, as this wasnt something it was require to do. 
Mrs S didnt agree. She thought she shouldve been  told about the cut-off  age sooner  
because if she had been told about it, she wouldve called before her 78th birthday to arrange 
for an extension of her policy or buy a new one. 
Ref: DRN43534652my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
investigator and for broadly the same reasons. 
I understand Mrs S feels let down by L&G, and I can see why. She feels  that if she had been 
told she needed to arrange new cover before her 78th birthday, she wouldve made sure she 
did so. And I can see that L&G didnt help matters once she did get in contact, by giving her 
incorrect information a number of times, and taking too long to properly deal with her 
concerns. None of these  things wouldve provided  any sort of reassurance  to Mrs S. 
But L&G did offer Mrs S £200 compensation for the customer  service issues she 
experienced. And like the investigator, I considered that to be a fair and reasonable offer of 
compensation given the circumstances. 
And in relation to the crux of Mrs Ss complaint, Im sorry to say that I dont have much to 
add. L&G didnt have  a particular obligation  to contact  Mrs S before she turned 78 in order to 
check whether she wanted  additional cover. It was for Mrs S to decide  when she wanted to 
arrange this, and for L&G to decide based on its underwriting criteria whether it would be 
able to offer her the cover  she wanted. In Mrs Ss case, L&G couldnt  offer the cover she 
wanted. But it has looked in the market and found equivalent policies, for similar premiums. 
In that regard its worth highlighting  to Mrs S that even if she had called before her 78th 
birthday, she wouldnt  have been able to extend  or arrange new cover  for the same premium 
of £39. L&G have  said that for the same  level of cover (£35,000), her monthly premium 
wouldve increased to over £120. So whilst I understand shes disappointed  she can no 
longer arrange  this with L&G, Im pleased to see that, broadly  speaking, she may still be able 
to arrange the cover  she is seeking  elsewhere  for a similar monthly premium. 
Overall, while  I understand Mrs Ss strength of feeling about  her complaint, I dont consider 
L&G have treated her unfairly. And I consider  that it doesnt need  to do anymore in relation 
to the customer service issues it has identified. 
my final decision
Ive concluded  Legal and General Assurance  Society Limiteds offer to pay £200  is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances. So my decision is that it must pay Mrs S £200, if it 
hasnt already done so. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 July 2019
Alessandro Pulzone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4353465