complaint
Miss P says MBNA Limited  mis-sold  her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy Miss P took out in 1998.  It was added  to 
her account  because she ticked the credit  card application form to say she wanted  PPI.
Our adjudicator upheld  Miss Ps complaint.  MBNA queried Miss Ps employee benefits. 
MBNA said Miss P had provided inconsistent  information  about  her employer and her 
employee benefits.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website  and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Ps case.
Ive decided to uphold  Miss Ps complaint. I dont  think MBNA gave her clear enough 
information about the policy because  the cost and benefits of the policy  werent clearly  
explained when  she agreed to the PPI. I think this would have mattered to Miss P. I say 
this because I think she had sufficient sick pay benefits through her work  that I dont think 
she wouldve purchased  the PPI if she had been given clearer  information.  I think  she 
couldve kept up with her card repayments  for more  than three months  if she was off sick. 
So, I think Miss P has lost out because of what MBNA did wrong.
Ive thought about everything MBNA has said, including about Miss P providing  
inconsistent information  about her employer  and work benefits.  I think however, the 
information Miss P has provided this service  with is plausible  and credible.  When she was 
reminded of who she was working for at the time (the employer  shown on the credit card 
application) she provided  new information about  her employee benefits and this included  
saying that she wouldve  received less benefit from this employer than her previous one. 
So, overall, this doesnt  change my decision.  
putting things right
MBNA should put Miss P in the financial position  shed be in now if she hadnt taken out 
PPI. 
A.MBNA should find out how much Miss P would have owed when she closed her 
credit card account  if the policy  hadnt  been  added.
So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on 
those premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-
sale of the PPI  as well as any interest added to those charges.
MBNA should then refund  the difference between what Miss P owed when 
she closed her account and what she would have  owed  if she hadnt had 
PPI.
Ref: DRN45866882If Miss P made a successful claim under the PPI policy,  MBNA  can take off what 
she got for the claim from the amount it owes her.
B.   MBNA should add simple interest on the difference between  what  Miss P would 
have owed when she closed  her account from when  she closed it until she gets 
the refund.  The interest rate should be 8% a year.  
C. If  when MBNA works out what Miss P would have owed each month without 
PPI  Miss P paid more than enough  to clear her balance, MBNA should  also 
pay simple interest  on the extra Miss P paid. And it should  carry on paying 
interest until the point  when Miss P wouldve owed  MBNA  something on her 
credit card.  The interest rate should be 8% a year.  
D. MBNA  should tell Miss P what its done  to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires MBNA to take off tax from this interest. MBNA must 
give Miss P a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold this complaint. MBNA Limited should put things 
right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  24 February  2020.
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4586688