K820x#14complaint
Mr K says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold  him a mortgage payment protection insurance (MPPI) 
policy. (The change of the respondent to Lloyds Bank PLC is purely  an administrative 
change and doesnt affect anything.)
background
Mr K took out an MPPI policy with a mortgage  in 2004. The policy  was amended  in 2007 
when Mr K took a further advance. He paid a monthly amount for the policy.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr K disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ks case.  
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ks complaint because:
I think Lloyds made  Mr K aware  that he had a choice about buying  the MPPI, and that he 
chose to take it. I understand that Mr K says he wasnt aware he had MPPI. But Ive 
seen that when he took out the policy  in 2004  and amended it in 2007  he signed 
application forms to confirm he wanted  the policy. And the 2007 mortgage  offer states 
clearly that the policy is optional.  I can understand if Mr K cant recall all of this now.
Lloyds recommended the MPPI  to Mr K, and it seems to have been right for him based 
on what Ive seen  of his circumstances at the time. Ive taken  into account that Mr K was 
self-employed but I dont think that the policy Lloyds  sold him made it harder for 
self-employed policyholders to make  a claim.
I think Lloyds couldve explained the cost of the policy better than it did when it sold it in 
2004. But had it made the cost clearer (and taking into account that the policy  was 
suitable and appears  to be affordable to Mr K) I think  Mr K would still have bought it. I 
note that the extra  cost of the amended policy was set out clearly in the 2007  mortgage 
offer.
Its possible Lloyds didnt point  out the main things the policy didnt cover.  But Mr K 
doesnt appear to have  been affected by any of those things. 
Ive taken into account Mr Ks comments  including what  he said about the policy  
amendment in 2007 not covering the whole mortgage. But from what Ive seen, the 
amendment to the policy did increase the benefit  to cover the whole amount borrowed. So 
the points raised  dont  change my conclusion.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ks complaint.
Ref: DRN41251432Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 April 2019
Matthew Bradford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4125143