K822xcomplaint
Ms C is unhappy with the way her claim for a replacement boiler was dealt with by 
Society of Lloyds under her Homeplan  insurance. The policy is a Gas Council branded  one 
and the claim was dealt  with by them. But for convenience I shall refer to Lloyds throughout.
background
In February 2016  Ms C made a claim to Lloyds after her boiler broke down. An engineer 
visited and deemed  the boiler to be beyond economic  repair. It was agreed  that a new boiler 
would be ordered  and installed. When the engineer came out to install the new boiler, he 
discovered that it was too big for the cupboard space. The doors  wouldnt close properly. 
The boiler couldnt be connected at that stage. Ms C also thought that she had an 
agreement that Lloyds would pay for the cupboard to be altered and she got a quote  for this. 
Ms C then spent several months trying to contact Lloyds, by phone and email and even had 
a solicitors letter written to which there was no response.  The boiler was finally installed in 
August 2016 but the engineer couldnt  connect it to the timer or thermostat. The boiler  was 
also leaking  slightly. There were a few visits after that but the problem with the thermostat 
continued. This, she says,  wasnt finally resolved until November 2017.  She still hasnt 
received a guarantee.
Lloyds agreed  that Ms C had had a poor service and paid her £150 compensation. It felt that 
it had resolved the balance of the complaint  by arranging an engineer  to complete the 
installation. It said it didnt  have  any liability  for the alterations  this didnt come under the 
policy terms.
On referral to this service  our adjudicator found that the engineer had advised Ms C that the 
boiler was the same  size as the old boiler, which was incorrect.  And that no measurements 
were taken prior to the fitting of the new boiler.  He further found that Lloyds had taken no 
action after that, and failed to respond  to telephone calls and emails. So for nearly six 
months Ms C had no heating or hot water.  He thought that Lloyds  should  increase the 
compensation for inconvenience to £600 and either pay for the cost of alterations to the 
cupboard or pay for a new boiler which will fit in the cupboard. As Ms C hadnt received the 
guarantee, he said it should  supply  this.
Ms C thought she should have further compensation for her time off work to supervise  visits, 
the cost of having showers at the local pool, the cost of recorded  delivery  letters, and the 
cost of a solicitors letter. She also pointed out that she had to pay the policy premiums for 
six months without any benefit.
Lloyds advised  that the policy  wouldnt cover alterations to the property in the event that the 
new boiler was of a different size. It said the engineer didnt measure  the boiler but it 
wouldnt do that in any event. But it accepted that Ms C had been caused inconvenience by 
having no hot water or heating for nearly  six months. So it agreed to the increased 
compensation figure. It proposed to pay one half of the cost of altering the cupboard. It 
pointed out that the guarantee was for two years so would have expired anyway.
I issued a provisional decision. In it I proposed that Lloyds pay the additional  compensation 
and pay the full cost of altering the cupboard.
Lloyds accepted my provisional decision. Ms C accepted it though queried whether the £600 
was to be in addition to the £150  already paid.
Ref: DRN42646012my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My provisional findings were as follows:
delay
There clearly was some delay on the part of Lloyds. The policy is supposed  to provide 
emergency cover, so the policyholder isnt without heating or hot water for too long. Im 
aware that there is some dispute  over what was said/agreed with various engineers who 
visited the property.  Ms C did follow up those visits with phone calls,  which  unfortunately 
arent available.  My understanding is that the calls are usually recorded.
My view of the matter is that Ms C has accurately described what  happened   she was told a 
replacement boiler  was needed  and would fit in the space. There is a suggestion in the notes 
that Ms C had asked  for a specific type of boiler which wasnt  readily available. But she 
couldnt be expected to have any expertise  in that field. And I can understand that she would 
have been anxious to have the system up and running. But the installation  couldnt be 
completed in March 2016.
There were some problems with the engineer  coming back to complete the boiler 
installation. The engineer sent out was expecting an emergency  job. There were then some 
further delays  as it appears that Lloyds was waiting for Ms C to have the cupboard altered. 
And whilst the policy wouldnt cover alterations  to the property, I find in this case that Lloyds 
agreed to pay for those  alterations.  It specifically wrote to Ms C and asked for a quote from 
a local joiner for the work necessary for the boiler  housing. The cost proved to be more than 
just altering the cupboard  doors. It included replastering part of a sloping ceiling and the 
quoted cost was £683. And Ms C had some trouble in getting a quote,  so that it wasnt until 
August 2016 that the boiler was successfully installed.
The problem in this case is that Lloyds arranged to have the boiler  fully installed but didnt 
baulk at paying the joiners quote  until sometime later, after March  2017 when Ms C made  a 
formal complaint. I think, in view of the fact that Lloyds went ahead  with installing a larger  
boiler without advising  Ms C that she would have to pay to have the cupboard altered, it 
should now pay the cost of that alteration. I have considered  the adjudicators alternative 
proposal, that Lloyds  source a suitable replacement boiler  to fit in the space, but I dont think  
thats a practical  solution, as I think it unlikely that one would be available.
I note also that Ms C had trouble after that in getting the thermostat  fixed, which she says 
took a further  15 months, and I have no reason to disbelieve her. I also find that Ms C made 
a number of calls to Lloyds which it didnt follow up. She also wrote letters,  and emails and a 
solicitor wrote on her behalf, which she didnt  get a response to.
Ref: DRN42646013compensation
Overall Ms C was put to severe  inconvenience.  I think it fair that the compensation payment 
should be increased to £600.  I wont award a separate  amount for the number of visits Ms C 
had to supervise.  In a claim like this its difficult to separate out necessary visits (eg if parts 
arent available) from necessary ones. The policy doesnt cover  the usual cost of the 
policyholder being present to supervise. But because Ms C was caused extra  inconvenience  
I think it fair to account for this by increasing  the overall award for inconvenience to £600.  
I also include in that the extra postage costs she incurred,
As for the solicitors letter we dont usually  award legal costs and Ms C had the option  of 
using this service without payment,
I understand that Ms C was put to the expense of having to use the local swimming pool to 
have showers. Since she had the benefit  of using the pool and wouldnt  have  had to use her 
gas at home.  Im not inclined to award that. Similarly, while  she didnt have the use of the 
boiler, the policy covered other  things  in the home (eg drainage), so I wont award any 
refund in premiums.
guarantee
The boiler was installed and working  from August 2016. I understand that the guarantee only 
lasted two years, so I dont think theres  any point  now in requiring Lloyds to produce one. If 
there are problems relating to the installation, then Lloyds would still be responsible  for that. 
And Ms C will still have  the benefit of cover under the policy.
As both parties have  accepted my decision,  I shall make no further  comment, except just to 
clarify that the £600 includes the £150 already paid. My provisional findings are now final 
and form part of this decision.
my final decision
I uphold the complaint and require Society  of Lloyds to:
pay a further £450  compensation (making the total compensation in this case £600) in 
respect of the inconvenience caused  to Ms C, and
pay Ms C £683, for the cost of altering  her cupboard
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 February  2019.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4264601