K821x#15complaint
Mr L complains  about the quality  of a car he has been financing through  a hire agreement
with Lex Autolease Ltd (Lex).
background
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint in January  2021.  An extract  from that 
decision is set of below.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Whilst I agree that Lex should allow this car to be rejected I dont  currently agree with the
redress the investigator suggested.  Please  let me explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on
board and think about it but because I dont think  I need  to comment on it in order  to reach
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr L acquired his car under a hire agreement. This is a regulated  consumer credit
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about  it.
The relevant  law says,  amongst  other  things, that the car should  have been of satisfactory
quality when supplied.  If it wasnt then Lex, who are also the supplier of the car, are
responsible. The relevant  law also says the quality of goods  is satisfactory  if they meet the
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any
description of the goods, the price  and all the other relevant circumstances. It also says we 
should take into account whether a car has proven to be durable when considering if it was
of satisfactory quality.
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would likely include
things like the age, mileage and price at the time the car was supplied  to Mr L. The car here
was brand new so I dont  think  a reasonable person would expect it to have any faults.
And I dont  think a reasonable person would expect a new cars engine  to fail after less than
30,000 miles. I think that would suggest the car had not proven to be suitably durable.
The relevant  legislation  gives the business  an opportunity to repair a fault that was present
when the car was supplied but I think its fair to say Lex had that opportunity  when the
ignition coil failed in October 2016.
So, they should have allowed Mr L to reject  the car.
Lex have disputed some  aspects of the redress the investigator suggested  so Ill deal with
each of those  aspects separately.
Ref: DRN46723862the deposit
Lex have said there  wasnt a deposit paid and I agree.
In a hire agreement the consumer isnt putting  money down to then secure  ownership  of the
goods like we see in the other types of finance  agreements.
With hire agreements, what may look like a deposit actually tends to be an initial rental.  In
Mr Ls case its described as an advanced  payment on the finance agreement. It paid the
first rental with the rest being spread evenly across the agreement  to reduce the monthly
payments.
So, Ill take the advanced payment into account  when  considering  if any of the money  Mr L
paid overall should be refunded for lack of use, but I dont think  the advanced payment in its
entirety should be repaid as I dont agree that it was a deposit.
refund for lack of use
The investigator suggested Lex should  refund 20% of monthly payments made and I
understand Lex dont think the issues Mr L has experienced warrant  that refund.
Mr L has had to return his car for repairs on six occasions. This was a brand-new  car and I
dont think he would  have  expected to return it at all.
The car has had two new batteries, frequent problems with the ignition coil, a new air
conditioning condenser, a faulty  electronic handbrake,  a faulty brake fluid light and a new
engine. I think its fair to say that all of those issues would have impacted on Mr Ls use of
the car.
Lex say that the car was trouble free from October 2016 to July 2018 and that may have
been the case. But it had failed once before that and there  were  significant issues from July 
2018 until the engine was replaced in August 2019  and thereafter Mr L was asked to keep a 
car he no longer  had faith in and that he had made a reasonable request to reject.
Mr L first reported oil loss in July 2018  and I think that was likely to have been  the first sign
that compression in the engine was failing. I say that because the engineer  at the repairing
dealership explained the problem was with the piston rings  failing due to a lack of
compression and oil was getting  in the cylinder.  So, that would explain the loss of oil and
would suggest  some loss in compression.  I think its reasonable to suggest  engine
performance was compromised  in the car from at least July 2018 until the engine was
replaced.
For those reasons I dont  think  the investigator  was wrong to suggest 20% of payments
should be refunded. He suggested 20% of instalments should be refunded, but for clarity, I
think 20% of everything  Mr L paid towards  his agreement should be refunded. And when
calculating what has been paid towards  the agreement the advanced rental should be
included.
Lex should add 8% simple interest to that refund as Mr L has been deprived  of that money.
end of term charges
The investigator suggested the car should be collected with nothing more  to pay but for
Ref: DRN46723863clarity Mr L would still be liable, under the terms of his contract, for any excess mileage or
refurbishment of damage to the car if its condition on return  was not of satisfactory quality.
the credit  file
Whilst many  finance companies may remove the whole agreement  from a consumers credit
file I dont think thats necessary here.  Lex have  a responsibility to accurately report  a
consumers credit performance.  They should  however remove  any adverse reports they may
have made  to the credit reference  agencies  about Mr Ls payment towards his agreement.
trouble and upset
I think this has been quite significant. This was a new car and consumers should expect
trouble free driving.  Mr L has had to return the car for attention  on six occasions and the
engine replacement in particular would have resulted in particular inconvenience.
Hes also had to call out emergency breakdown services and has had to retain  an
unsatisfactory car for the entirety of the finance  agreement when I think its fair to say Lex
should have allowed him to reject  the car much earlier.
Mr L has had to escalate his claim to this service and provide evidence  to support his claim.
Hes had to make himself available for an independent inspection of the car that failed to
identify the issues  he had been experiencing.
I can see that Lex provided £50 compensation but that was solely in response to the issues
Mr L had experienced  with the replacement battery failing again. The dealerships  offer of
vouchers was also in relation to this issue alone.
In the circumstances I dont think £250  is sufficient compensation for the trouble and upset
he has experienced and Im expecting to tell Lex to pay £500  in compensation.
my provisional decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  Im expecting to uphold this complaint and tell Lex
Autolease Ltd to:
refund  20% of all money paid under this agreement and add 8% simple interest per
year to the refund from the date of payment to the date of settlement;
pay Mr L £500 to compensate  him for the trouble and upset hes experienced;
remove any adverse reports they may have made to Mr Ls credit  file in relation to
this issue.
Mr L accepted  my provisional  decision but explained  that he thought  the car had been to the 
garage at least once between October 2016  and July 2018. He said the car had now been 
handed back and any end of term charges had now been settled.
Lex didnt agree with my decision. They said it was unreasonable to decide  that there should 
be a 20% refund for the whole period as the car had been trouble free between October 
2016 and July 2018. And they disputed the £500  compensation  as they said that was 
Ref: DRN46723864excessive. They also explained that Mr L had received  a voucher for free servicing  from the 
manufacturer.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not persuaded it is excessive to ask Lex to refund 20% of payments. Ive considered  this 
in my provisional decision,  but I think its a fair refund given  the extensive problems Mr L has 
experienced, and Ive documented, with a brand-new car. Ive explained that the cars 
compression was impacted from at least July 2018, but I think a reasonable person would 
suggest that compression was something  that was lost over time.  Im persuaded it is likely  
that the compression, and therefore the performance of the engine on this new car, had 
been diminishing for some time. 
Im also not persuaded £500  compensation for distress and inconvenience is excessive. I 
think consumers should expect trouble free driving with a new car and this car has needed to 
be returned far too frequently. Each  return has inconvenienced Mr L and the engine  
replacement, in particular,  would have resulted in significant inconvenience.  
As I explained in my provisional decision Mr L has also had to call out emergency 
breakdown services and has had to retain  an unsatisfactory car for the entirety of the finance 
agreement when I think its fair to say Lex should  have allowed him to reject the car much  
earlier. The voucher from the manufacturer was provided in respect of the battery failure and 
not in regard to the overall poor quality of the car. Ive considered that when coming to my 
decision, but I dont think it reduces the amount  of compensation Lex should provide.
So, Ive not been persuaded to change my provisional decision and that now becomes my 
final decision  on this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint and tell Lex
Autolease Ltd to:
refund  20% of all money paid under this agreement and add 8% simple interest per
year to the refund from the date of payment to the date of settlement;
pay Mr L £500 to compensate  him for the trouble and upset hes experienced;
remove any adverse reports they may have made to Mr Ls credit  file in relation to
this issue.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 February  2021.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4672386