K820x#14complaint
Ms D has complained National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) approved a £25,000 loan 
which she couldnt afford. Her financial circumstances have since changed meaning she is 
having difficulty meeting  repayments and she wants NatWest to offer her a more affordable 
loan. 
background
In June 2018, Ms D took out a £25,000 loan over a period of 48 months with monthly  
repayments of £709.68.  The purpose of the loan was for home  improvements.  
In January 2019, Ms D informed NatWest she was experiencing financial hardship as her 
circumstances had changed due to a partial loss of earnings. She has since  also told our 
service that after being  approved for the loan she received an unexpected  bill. At the time, 
Ms D had managed  to keep up to date with her loan repayments but with difficulty as she 
said she was relying on friends and family  and this was not sustainable.
Ms D attempted to consolidate  her debts and applied for a £23,000 loan but NatWest 
declined this application. In February  2019, Ms D had a further conversation  with NatWest 
about her financial  difficulties.
NatWest carried out a review of Ms Ds financial circumstances and initially  offered to refer 
the account to collections  and set up a repayment plan. Ms D chose not to do so as this 
would have an adverse effect on her credit file. At a further review, it was determined Ms D 
had a small amount  of disposable income. NatWest offered a temporary overdraft facility of 
£720 over an 18 month period which would cover  one months loan repayment. Ms D is 
required to pay £40 a month in order  to reduce the overdraft balance. She was told she must  
continue to meet her loan repayments otherwise this temporary arrangement will be 
removed and the account will be referred to collections. 
Ms D does not believe NatWest checked she could afford the monthly loan payments before 
approving the loan,  which has meant she is now struggling. 
Ms D does not feel NatWest has gone far enough in supporting her and she would like a 
more affordable loan with a lower interest  rate, which would lower the monthly  loan 
repayments. NatWest disagrees and maintains  it carried out proportionate checks at the time 
of application  and since Ms Ds circumstances have  changed, it has treated  her fairly. 
The investigator didnt  uphold the complaint as he believed it was fair for NatWest to 
approve the loan and it had treated Ms D fairly during her time of financial difficulty.  Ms D 
has disagreed  with this opinion  and she has said the following:
-NatWest has incorrectly  considered her gross  income and she never  realised it 
considered both of her incomes
-She was a new homeowner when she applied  for the loan and underestimated the 
financial pressures this would bring.  She was an inexperienced borrower  and didnt 
understand loan interest rates and the associated risks. She says NatWest was 
aware of this and it shouldve  never  lent her the money.
-When she tried to consolidate the loan she was initially  told it was approved but later 
told the application had been declined after further checks.  
Ref: DRN44135542-NatWest didnt treat her sympathetically  and she only got the arranged overdraft after 
her repeated requests 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When looking at this complaint I must consider whether at the time of approving the loan 
NatWest made reasonable checks to make sure it was affordable for Ms D. Such  checks 
may include considering  her income and expenditure. The loan application shows Ms D had 
an income of £2,850.  This is supported by her bank statements,  which  Ive seen  and it 
shows two regular incomes. Her outgoings  are recorded as £1,299 which included mortgage 
payments, meaning  Ms D had a disposable income of £1,551. Based on these figures, I 
think it was reasonable  for NatWest to conclude  that Ms D had sufficient  means to afford  the 
monthly loan payments.  
Additionally as part of considering the application, I would expect NatWests records  to show 
it considered Ms Ds bank  statements and credit history and refer to credit reference 
agencies to review  how she managed  her finances.  Based  on the information provided, I 
believe at the time of application NatWest carried out reasonable checks and there was no 
evidence to suggest the loan was not affordable for Ms D. 
Ms D has also said she is unhappy with the interest  rate on the loan. The amount NatWest 
charges for lending  money is a commercial  decision and it is not something our service  
would generally  interfere with. I am satisfied Ms D was made  aware of the interest rate and 
the other details about the loan such as the monthly  repayments before she agreed  to take it 
out. 
I appreciate a persons financial circumstances can change quickly  and unexpectedly which 
may impact on meeting financial commitments. Im sorry to hear Ms D lost her second 
source of income  shortly after being approved for the loan meaning  she is now finding it 
difficult to repay. I understand it is a stressful and difficult time. But I think  Ms D has been  
struggling with the loan payments because  of her change in circumstances, rather than 
because NatWest was irresponsible  in lending to her. 
In circumstances  of financial difficulty,  I would expect a financial business to treat the 
consumer fairly and provide reasonable forms of assistance for the debt to be repaid without 
making the situation worse. Every circumstance is different  meaning  there  can be no 
prescribed solution. However I would expect the financial  business to ask relevant questions 
in order to assess the consumers current situation and take appropriate action.
When reviewing what it could do to help, NatWest considered Ms Ds income and 
expenditure. Based on the initial figures  provided, NatWest suggested setting up a 
repayment plan.  However due to the potential impact on her credit  file, I understand why Ms 
D may not consider this a favourable option.  
The figures included  everything including the loan repayments which reflected what Ms D 
told NatWest about  her financial circumstances. 
Ref: DRN44135543After meeting her financial commitments including the loan repayments, Ms D had a 
disposable income of £40. Although this amount  was limited,  I believe  it was fair for NatWest  
to propose an alternative arrangement of a temporary overdraft facility  with repayments 
being in line with Ms Ds disposable income. This was done  because Ms D was keen not to 
miss a loan payment. Given  what she told NatWest about her finances, it should  allow  her to 
continue to meet her monthly loan repayments,  meet her other financial commitments and 
reduce the overdraft balance.
I am satisfied the loan was affordable at the time of application but due to a change  in 
Ms Ds circumstances,  she is now finding it difficult to repay. I understand Ms D may not be 
happy with my decision but I do think NatWest acted fairly  and reasonably  in approving  the 
loan and addressing her financial difficulties.  I would remind NatWest that it should continue  
to treat Ms D positively and sympathetically  if she is in financial difficulty  and Ms D should let 
it know if she is struggling so it can look at what it may be able to do to help.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Ms Ds complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 October  2019.
Simona Charles
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN4413554