K820x#14complaint
Ms H complains that Allianz Insurance Plc (Allianz)  mis-sold her a payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy when she took out a personal loan in or around September  1995  
with a particular  retailer.
background
Allianz Insurance Plc (Allianz) has taken responsibility for the sale and by extension this 
complaint.
Ms H says she opened an account with the retailer but later took out a personal loan over 
the phone. She also says she was told she had to take out PPI if she was to be accepted  for 
the loan. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Ms Hs complaint. Ms H disagreed  with this view and 
asked for an ombudsman to make  a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website 
and Ive taken  this into account  in deciding Ms Hs case.
Having done that, Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint. I will explain why.
Ms H says when she applied for her loan she did so over the phone. She says she was 
put under  pressure to buy PPI and made to think that getting her loan was conditional on 
her buying  PPI.
I dont doubt that Ms H has given us her best recollection of what  happened at the time, 
but as things stand I simply dont  know what  was said at the time to help me decide  this 
point. Allianz hasnt been able to give me a call recording or a call script. This isnt 
surprising since the sale took place a long time ago.
From what  I know about these sales, its likely the monthly cost of the PPI would have been 
shown on the loan paperwork that Ms H would have been sent to sign after the telephone 
call. Beneath that thered  be a statement saying the PPI is optional and not a condition  of 
the loan. But I cant know this for sure and unfortunately Allianz havent been able to 
produce any sample paperwork from the time.  
Typically, though, pressure is something thats difficult to establish in PPI mis-sale cases 
Often a recommendation about  taking  out PPI simply  means it would be a good idea to have 
it alongside the loan product, rather than it being a condition. 
As things  stand, I therefore simply dont have enough evidence or information  to say that 
Allianz made  Ms H think she had no choice about taking out PPI if she wanted  the loan. I do 
appreciate this will disappoint Ms H but without better details about the sale, Im unable to 
make a finding that something went wrong.
Ref: DRN43692452Ms H says she was advised  to buy the PPI. Allianz hasnt been able to tell us much about  
how the PPI was sold. What Ive got isnt enough for me to decide whether or not Ms H 
was given a specific  recommendation, based  on her personal circumstances, to buy the 
PPI. But, whether or not she was, from what Ive seen  of his circumstances, it was 
suitable for her.
I say this because  Ms H was eligible for the PPI and wouldnt have  been  affected by any 
of the terms that might  have made it more difficult for her to make  a successful claim 
such as unusual employment circumstances or a pre-existing medical condition.
Ive also noticed  that Ms H told us about a medical condition shed had for some  years.  
Making a claim on PPI when theres  a history  of a previous medical condition can with 
certain policies sometimes lead to a claim  being rejected. But I dont  think  thats an issue 
here as Ms H hadnt needed to take time off work  because of it. So I dont think Ms H 
would have changed her mind  about  buying the PPI even if shed had better  or clearer  
information about the cover. 
Ms H told us that she would have  had sick pay of six months at full pay followed by six 
months at half pay. She also told us she had some  shares and could have relied  on her 
late husband and also family members  to help out if it became necessary. 
This policy would  have paid out in addition to and for longer than the sick pay would  
have lasted. So I think it could have been useful if she lost her job or couldnt work and 
it would  have meant she didnt have to dig into her existing financial resources. And 
whilst having the offer of help from someone else is a good thing to have,  individual 
circumstances can easily change so such offers  cant always  be depended  on. 
Ive thought about everything Ms H has told us  plus her responses to our adjudicators  
findings - but this hasnt changed my decision. I think  on balance she chose the 
insurance so it looks like she wanted this type of cover. And even if shed had better or 
clearer information, I still think  the PPI was useful  for her if something went wrong - so I 
dont think shed have  been put off buying it.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 October  2020.
Michael Goldberg
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4369245