K820x#14complaint
Mr F has complained to Mercedes-Benz Financial  Services  UK Limited about the quality of a 
car supplied  to him through  a Hire Purchase agreement.
background
In July 2017 Mr F financed an almost  new car with a cash  price of just under £33,000 
through MBFS. He paid a £1,000 deposit. He agreed to make monthly payments of £527.81 
over four years.
Mr F first contacted  his local dealer less than four months after buying the car. He was 
concerned about  early  tyre wear  and loud noises coming from the front of the car. He was 
told this was known  as tyre skipping  but wasnt considered to be a fault with the car.
After some to-ing  and fro-ing as the issues continued, Mr F complained  to MBFS. He was 
told:
the characteristic that you report to experience comes  from flexibility within the tyre sidewall, 
and the grip between the front tyres  and the type of road surface being driven over.  It is 
something which can be felt at low speeds, and when a certain percentage of wheel lock is 
engaged for turning. This is more evident in colder  temperatures due to the changes in the 
tyre rubber  elasticity. The effect is also more pronounced when larger  wheels and low profile 
tyres are fitted to the car. Please be assured that this does not affect the safety of your car.
Mr F brought  his complaint to the ombudsman service. The handling problems  had 
continued and he told us:
the car is juddering severely  when manoeuvring (such as parking in multi-storey 
car parks) at low speeds at (or near to) full lock and sometimes feels as though  it 
skids;
the issue seems worse in colder weather;
the issue causes  excessive noise coming  from the front of the vehicle with the 
result hes getting  funny looks when hes manoeuvring the car;
it feels unsafe to drive and hes not enjoying the use he makes of it; and
the tyres  on the car were already  starting  to wear within six months  whilst  
mileage on the car remained  low.
MBFS confirmed to us the manufacturer is aware  of the tyre skipping issue on certain 
models of this car but as theyd confirmed to Mr F not an issue we are aware  of on your 
model. 
During our involvement with Mr Fs complaint, MBFS offered Mr F a set of all season tyres at 
no additional  cost to improve his comfort. The tyres were replaced  in June 2018.
Although this improved  matters Mr F didnt believe this fully fixed things and he wants  more 
done to put things right. He wants to exercise his right to reject the car.
Our investigator took a look at things. However he didnt believe the car was not of a 
satisfactory quality when it had been  supplied to Mr F.
Ref: DRN49201882Mr F didnt  agree. He also pointed  out to other faults hed had with the car in the interim  
period. He has also now replaced the car tyres  at least twice  since MBFS provided tyres  in 
June 2018.
This complaint was passed to me. I completed  a provisional decision on 26 June 2020. I 
decided on the balance of probabilities that the car as originally provided wasnt  in a 
satisfactory condition. I also believed the attempts  to resolve the issues  identified hadnt  
worked either. I told both parties I was inclined to instruct MBFS to collect  the car with no 
further repayment due by Mr F. MBFS would also have to repay some of the monthly rental 
figure to account  for the impairment of his driving  experience.
Mr F accepted this outcome.  MBFS didnt.  In  their submission, they stated:
any remedy offered to Mr F hadnt been  because MBFS felt the tyre skipping merited 
it. In fact the remedy was purely offered to assist in customer comfort and manage 
Mr Fs concerns;
there may well have been tyre wear  caused by Mr Fs driving  style;
they didnt  believe the customers experience should be the primary reason for our 
decision to allow Mr F to reject  the car; and
the proposed  refund  of part of his monthly payments meant Mr F financially 
benefitted from this situation.
I now have all I need to complete  my decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive seen nothing which 
means I need to come  to a different conclusion than the one I reached  in my provisional 
decision. My reasoning  therefore follows a similar  argument.
Im aware that Ive summarised  this complaint  above in far less detail than either  of the two 
parties and Ive done so using my own words.  Im not going to respond  to every single point 
made by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed 
on what I think are the key issues here.
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal  nature  of our service  as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres  something Ive not mentioned,  it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every  individual  argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome.
Im also aware of the detail contained in our investigators view of 21 January 2020. This 
covers in depth the reports carried out and shared by MBFS into this identified issue  which 
I accept they call a characteristic. I also note those reports dont apply to the specific model 
of car Mr F has. Ill come back to this aspect  below but I wont  generally  repeat some of the 
background points  already made in our view.  Im aware both parties have read and 
understood those.
Where there is a dispute about what happened, I have based my decision on the balance  of 
probabilities. In other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light 
of the evidence.
Ref: DRN49201883In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators  rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice and (where  
appropriate) what  I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the relevant  time.
The finance  agreement in this case is a regulated consumer credit  agreement.  As such, this 
service is able to consider  complaints  relating to it. MBFS is also the supplier of the goods  
under this type of agreement, and responsible for a complaint about  their quality.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015  is of particular  relevance to this complaint. It says that under 
a contract to supply goods, there  is an implied  term that the quality of the goods is 
satisfactory.
The CRA says the quality  of goods  is satisfactory if they meet  the standard  that a reasonable 
person would consider satisfactory taking  into account any description of the goods,  the 
price and all the other relevant circumstances. So it seems likely that in a case  involving a 
car, the other relevant  circumstances  a court would take into account might include things 
like the age and mileage at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
The CRA says the quality  of the goods includes their general  state  and condition  and other  
things like their fitness for purpose,  appearance  and finish, freedom from minor defects, 
safety, and durability can be aspects of the quality of goods.
My starting point is MBFS supplied Mr F an almost brand new car with a purchase price of 
almost £33,000 and just over 3,000 miles on the clock.  I believe the car had only been used 
as a demonstration model by the dealer prior to Mr Fs purchase.
With this in mind I think it is fair to say that a reasonable  person would expect  the level of 
quality to be not only higher than a cheaper  more road-worn vehicle, but also to be of a high 
standard compared to similarly specified but more inexpensive new cars. This is a point Mr F 
has continued to make. Essentially he wouldnt have expected  the problems hes had with a 
premium car brand.
The issue  Mr F has described with the handling of the car is something  which  he reported in 
the first few months of using it. MBFS and the manufacturer acknowledge it is an inherent  
issue in certain models. But theyve  also given  conflicting information.  As noted above, 
MBFS has said they didnt  believe the skipping was an issue  with the model Mr F had. 
Except Ive also seen written confirmation that it is possible  to happen on any [Mr Fs family 
of car type] vehicles. So it is clear to me that it hasnt been caused  by Mr F nor is it usually 
expected wear and tear.
The key question here is whether the issue renders the car, as supplied, of unsatisfactory  
quality. MBFS have  pointed to it being an acceptable characteristic rather than something  
which would give rise to a case for rejection under the CRA.  I have taken  this into 
consideration.
I have thought about whether or not the way Mr Fs car is handling is considered to be a 
normal and acceptable  characteristic of that model or type of car. I have had regard to the 
fact that cars will handle in a particular way that will not necessarily be considered a defect. 
Depending on what type of car you choose (and to some extent how much you spend) there  
will be reasonably varying degrees of mechanical  noise, vibration and smoothness.
Ref: DRN49201884However, while I accept that a skipping  sensation  and additional  handling noise might be 
more common in certain types  of car (such  as the model which Mr F purchased).  I also 
recognise there will be situations where the particular nature of the issues  experienced by a 
consumer can go beyond  the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory. 
This is relevant to the legal  test in the CRA  and one that I have had regard to when 
considering what  is fair and reasonable here.
My findings  are based on the particular circumstances of this complaint  and specifically the 
situation concerning Mr Fs car.
safety and other relevant considerations
There has been some focus  on whether Mr Fs car is safe or not. Expert evidence I have 
seen (and I note that not all of it relates specifically to Mr Fs car) broadly acknowledges a 
skipping issue but does  not indicate that it affects  safety. And overall there  isnt anything 
persuasive to show this handling  issue means  Mr Fs car is unsafe.
I appreciate Mr F feels that hes lost all faith in the car and worries about its safety. But the 
independent report  carried  out on 26 November 2018 on his car didnt identify any safety 
issues.
However safety is not the only relevant consideration  when  Im deciding  whether a car is in a 
satisfactory condition. Despite reassurances over safety  if certain issues  with the car are 
making the driver  feel unsafe  or uncomfortable,  or having some other kind of negative 
impact on the vehicle that is also important when considering the overall question of 
satisfactory quality. I must also consider what Mr F has told us.
what MBFS and the manufacturer said
I have looked  at the various submissions. It is quite clear that MBFS and the manufacturer 
acknowledge there is a known issue with certain  cars of this kind exhibiting a skipping 
sensation and resulting in loud noises.
From what  MBFS  and the manufacturer have said it appears that some (rather than all) cars 
have exhibited the front tyre skipping. Information  submitted  by the manufacturer indicates it 
is a small percentage  of overall users  having problems of this nature.
It seems  that what Mr F has described  is not necessarily the same as others  with the same 
model may have experienced. This strikes me as being at cross  purposes  to the issue  being  
categorised as a usual  and acceptable characteristic of a particular  model of car. Because  
that would  indicate that all users  enjoy the same  experience.
MBFS offered Mr F free all season  tyres as a solution. I acknowledge that there might be an 
element of goodwill here. However, had this issue been one that is normally expected I find it 
less likely that Mr F would  have been offered  free tyres of a different kind in the hope this 
would minimise the issues he was experiencing. I appreciate MBFS has stated this was 
done to manage  Mr Fs concerns but I dont think that was the only thing they took into 
account when  offered  alternative tyres.
I was also recently made aware of a manufacturer fix for skipping concerns involving  
adjustments to the steering rack of cars for those identified in some  of the expert  reports 
which MBFS submitted. I am informed this isnt available to Mr F due to the specific model of 
Ref: DRN49201885car he has. However,  I question why a fix has been put in place for something that appears 
to have previously been  categorised as a normal characteristic.
what Mr F has said
I note that Mr F complained about this issue early  on and has been consistent  throughout 
about how it has affected his day to day driving. He clearly doesnt think what  he is 
experiencing is normal, and it is causing  him concern to a degree that he feels worried  about 
using the car in certain conditions. While his submissions are not scientific or expert tests   
they are something  I have  had regard to when  grappling with the question of whether the car 
as supplied was of satisfactory quality based  on the standard a reasonable person  would  
expect.
In Mr Fs early  submissions he states I have been having terrible  issues  from very loud 
noises coming from the front wheels, when  having full lock and sometimes a simple  slow 
tum around  a corner.
Mr F has also said fitting new all season  tyres  did not eliminate the problem completely. 
However, I think that alternative tyres  are more relevant to a proposed  resolution,  rather than 
the key question of whether the car was of satisfactory quality at the time of supply.
the expert report on Mr Fs car
Several of the reports submitted by MBFS are not about Mr Fs car or model of car. So I 
have gone on to consider a report on the individual car Mr F has. This was carried  out at 
MBFSs expense on 26 November 2018.
The expert report on his car acknowledges noises  are present when negotiating tight turns,  
but the condition changes  when  the weather is wet. The level of noises experienced during 
this inspection is seen  as satisfactory  and likely  to be of a characteristic of the model. 
The report  isnt very detailed but does  state  that during the test, the driver experience[d] 
noises from the front tyres  and an underlying  judder. These conditions  were not seen as 
excessive, but the severity was less obvious  when driving over wet roads.
Mr F was also advised at this inspection  of the low tread limits of the rear tyres.  I note this 
came only five months  and under  4,000  miles  since the tyres were  replaced.
I also see the independent report obviously believed the issues Mr F had experienced were 
a characteristic  of the car even though nine months  previously  MBFS were saying this issue 
didnt apply to Mr Fs model.
On the day of the test the weather was wet in places which  all parties  agree impacts  the 
noise level. I note the test was only conducted over 8 miles.
At the time Mr Fs car would have had the replacement  tyres in place which MBFS said 
would minimise the impact.
Overall, I find this report less persuasive  in showing Mr Fs car was likely of satisfactory 
quality when it was supplied, especially in light of Mr Fs credible testimony and the other  
evidence available. 
Ref: DRN49201886excessive tyre wear
In support of his case Mr F has said this issue has caused his tyres to wear excessively. 
There is no additional expert evidence but the dealer recommended new tyres were fitted in 
May 2019. This was 11 months after they were replaced. I believe Mr F had only completed 
a further 9,000  miles in the car.
I know from other similar cases that regular tyre replacement would generally suggest 
something wasnt right with the car.  
Mr F has also said his tyres have been  replaced several times. His current  mileage stands at 
just under 30,000. Mr F has only been driving  9,000 miles a year since  he got the car so I 
wouldnt generally expect  him to have needed  his tyres to be replaced that frequently. I dont 
know for sure but theres no evidence Mr F has been indulging  in any specific  type of driving 
that would  cause his tyres  to wear unduly.
Ive only got costs of one set of replacement tyres  or based on the cost of £140  I suspect  
this is actually the cost of a single tyre. But Mr F has previously confirmed  he needed to 
replace tyres in May 2019. The independent  report from November 2018 also stated  there 
was low tyre tread at that stage.
If as it appears,  Mr F has had three  sets of replacement tyres  in the first 30,000  or so miles 
(four sets on the car in total including  the original factory set), then I do believe any issue  
with his car is leading  to excessive tyre use.
In the circumstances the more likely  explanation for what appears to be unusual  and 
accelerated tyre wear, is a wider problem  with the steering system of the car.
noise
Mr F has said that the car is loud to handle and has an excessive judder which  hes 
described as awful  a number of times.
Our investigator in his view showed  the reports MBFS supplied us with described this noise  
as graunching  or grating.
It seems  this evidence supports what Mr F says about the handling issue  with his car being 
linked to undesirable noise. While  cars create noise of all kinds I think  it is fair to say that 
juddering, grating, graunching  and clunking are not what the average person would 
associate with an almost new car costing almost £35,000.
There is also the question  of what is causing  these  noises. It isnt clear  but I have 
reservations over parts  not performing as they should causing  possible detrimental long-term 
effects on the car.
satisfactory quality
This case is not clear  cut. While  there is a recognised issue  there is clearly  a dispute about 
how bad the problems are in Mr Fs particular case. Mr F has been credible and persuasive 
about how bad these are while the independent report  doesnt  really go into enough detail to 
satisfy me that Mr F is not accurately describing his experience during particular driving  
conditions.
Ref: DRN49201887I note that the evidence  provided does not persuasively indicate this is a safety issue, 
however some of the reports do indicate there are some particular noises associated with it. 
My overall impression is that these noises do not appear to be in line with what  a reasonable 
person might  expect  from a car of this price and description.
Mr Fs evidence supports there being an unexpected noise  issue  with his particular car. And 
he has also evidenced an impact on his tyres which  have not been  fully explained by MBFS. 
I also note that Mr F reported the issue early on. In this particular case, I dont think that 
MBFS has done enough to show that he hasnt got an inherent issue with his car that goes 
beyond what a reasonable  person would consider to be satisfactory taking account of all the 
relevant circumstances including price and description. I disagree with MBFS that I have 
prioritised Mr Fs experience with the car as opposed to the other evidence.  I have  carefully 
considered all the issues raised  as part of this complaint.
My decision  is on the balance of probabilities. On balance, for the reasons I have given 
above I think that Mr Fs car was not of satisfactory  quality when it was supplied  to him. And 
therefore, on a fair and reasonable basis I think he is entitled to have things put right.
proposed solution and a fair way forward
It is clear that all season tyres have been proposed as a solution to the issue.  I am not 
persuaded it does  completely eliminate the problem  but it seems to improve  it.
Mr F has indicated that even after he had these tyres fitted they still wore  out prematurely. In 
any event, I also question  whether it is practical for him to continue to buy all season  tyres 
on an ongoing basis, especially when the car was sold and marketed with different tyres. 
And from my research it appears  that all season tyres are generally  more  expensive. This 
suggests an additional cost long-term.
I believe the attempt  to remedy this by offering all season tyres essentially is an attempt  to 
repair. In the circumstances I dont think thats  an effective long-term remedy.  Therefore, I 
have had regard  to the other remedies in the CRA and what would be fair and reasonable in 
the particular circumstances  of Mr Fs complaint.
All things  considered, I dont think the solution proposed is one that Mr F should have to 
accept if he doesnt  want to. So I think Mr F should  now be allowed his final right to reject the 
car. This would mean the car is collected from him, the finance agreement  is cancelled and 
Mr F has his deposit refunded (plus interest).
Mr Fs deposit  contribution as reflected on the finance agreement  is £1,000.  I dont believe 
there are additional costs  related to this agreement that I need to take account  of, but Im 
prepared to consider  any additional evidence Mr F supplies.
I believe Mr F has been getting regular use from the car  so I think  it is fair for MBFS to 
retain the majority of his monthly rental payments.  However, Mr Fs driving experience  has 
been impaired  by the issues he has experienced. Mr F has not had a loss of major  features 
on the car but he is still paying a lot each month  for a driving experience  that I am not 
convinced is to the standard he expected when he bought a premium car brand. So I think  
he should get a relatively  small amount of each monthly rental  back to reflect this.
Ref: DRN49201888Mr F has also told us hes spent  a considerable amount on tyres since owning the car.  
Theres no exact science  here but all things  considered I think it would be fair for MBFS to 
refund 15% of his monthly payments  as compensation. 15% is around  £80 a month and 
aims to compensate  him for the impairment to his driving experience caused by the car not 
being of satisfactory  quality. And also compensate him for the additional expense he has 
had on tyres  since owning  the car.
MBFS has suggested Mr F is financially  benefitting  from this arrangement  but as there  has 
been quite a bit of expenditure on tyres,  as well as the impaired  driving experience, I dont 
believe theyve given  me any evidence to show thats the case.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is to instruct  Mercedes-Benz Financial Services 
UK Limited  to:
end the finance agreement and collect the car at no further cost to Mr F;
refund  his deposit of £1,000;
refund  him 15% of each monthly rental payment; and
remove the finance agreement from his credit  file.
MBFS should pay 8% yearly simple interest  on all refunds calculated  from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement.
If MBFS considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax from 
the interest part of my award, it should tell Mr F how much its taken off. It should also give 
Mr F a tax deduction certificate  if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 August 2020.
Sandra Quinn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4920188