K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain Santander  UK Plc removed  the overdraft on their account without 
notice.
background
On 11 December 2018 Santander received notice that Mr and Mrs W had entered into a 
debt management  plan (DMP). They sent Mr and Mrs W a letter informing them  of the 
overdraft removal on 12 December 2018  and the overdraft was cancelled  on 
15 December 2018. Mr and Mrs W contacted this service on 17 December 2018 to complain 
about the overdraft removal.
Our investigator initially thought Santander  had agreed the overdraft shouldnt have been  
removed and reinstated it on 18 December 2018  to allow  Mr and Mrs W to withdraw the 
necessary funds. She thought this was a fair resolution but that Mr and Mrs W should also 
be paid some compensation  for the distress and inconvenience caused. She thought it was 
inevitable the overdraft would be removed at some point as it formed part of the DMP. And 
that Santander were  entitled to remove it having  given notice. But she thought the period  of 
notice given  which she calculated to be two days - wasnt reasonable. So she 
recommended Santander  pay Mr and Mrs W a total of £100 compensation. Mr and Mrs W 
accepted the investigators view.
Santander didnt  agree with the investigator. They told us they had never accepted any error 
in removing the overdraft. And they thought allowing three days for their correspondence 
notifying Mr and Mrs W to arrive at destination  was reasonable. But Santander  agreed  theyd  
not done best by Mr and Mrs W when theyd  called on the 17 December and the call handler 
on that occasion couldve done more.  But they said as this was corrected by the second call 
handler from the collections and recoveries team on 18 December 2018  there  was only a 
24 hour inconvenience and £50 compensation was more in line.
Our investigator later accepted Santander hadnt  agreed they shouldnt  have removed the 
overdraft. She said this had been  an assumption  on her part after talking to a named contact 
at Santander and the collections team contacting Mr and Mrs W and reinstating the 
overdraft. But she remained of the view that £100 compensation should be paid. The case 
has come  to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions  on this current account  state "Santander may close  an account at 
any time by giving the other notice without  giving any reason". So they havent done 
anything wrong  in removing the overdraft. But I agree with the investigator that the notice 
they gave of the removal and closure wasnt reasonable. Whether it was two or three days  
notice doesnt  impact upon my decision. I appreciate Santander have no control  of post once 
its left them  but they did send this letter at a time of year when its generally accepted that 
the postal system is significantly busier  than usual. So Im not surprised when Mr and Mrs W 
say they didnt receive the letter until the 18 December 2018, after theyd contacted us. Im 
also mindful the cancellation of the overdraft took place over a weekend where 
Ref: DRN48052432Mr and Mrs Ws access to a full range of contacts  at the bank or advisory services are more  
limited than during  the working week.
I agree  that the action taken by the second  call handler corrected the mistakes made by the 
first. But Im not persuaded that second call was made at Santanders instigation.  Or that it 
resulted in only  a 24 hour inconvenience  as the bank  assert.  And I say that for a number of 
reasons. Firstly the evidence before me indicates  that second call was made following the 
intervention of this service  speaking to a named contact at Santander. That contact emailed 
our investigator on 18 December at 15.36 to say I have  asked  one of our Collections & 
Recoveries Team to contact the account  holders to assist them . And although 
Mr and Mrs W became  aware at some  point over the weekend  of 15 -16 December 2018 
that their overdraft was removed it wasnt until late afternoon  on 18 December 2018  that the 
matter was resolved  by the temporary  24 hour reinstatement  of the overdraft  allowing  them  
to withdraw the necessary funds from the account.
So, taking into account all the circumstances, I think the suggested award to Mr and Mrs W 
of £100 in total represents a reasonable response  to the distress and inconvenience 
suffered. 
my final decision
My final decision is that Santander UK Plc should  pay Mr and Mrs W £100 compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  24 July 2019.
Annabel OSullivan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4805243