K822xcomplaint
Mr Y1 complains that Northern Bank  Limited failed to act on his instructions to move some  
money. Mr Y2, his son, complains on behalf  of Mr Y1.
background 
Mr Y1 made  a written request to Northern to move  some money that he had in two accounts,  
in November 2014. Northern has a policy of seeking  to confirm instructions such at these 
over the phone. So it tried to contact Mr Y1. He is elderly, and has difficulty  speaking on the 
phone, so Northern didnt  manage to get in touch with him right away.  It wrote to him, and 
asked him to ring.
Mr Y1 contacted Northern  in late December 2014, but wasnt  able to clear  security then. 
Northern wrote to him again. Unfortunately one of his accounts  was a fixed term account, 
and that account had rolled over for a further fixed term,  at the start of December 2014. 
Mr Y1 complained about this, and Northern  said that it had made an exception in his case,  
and closed the fixed term account  early.  It said in March 2015 that his funds were now 
available to transfer. But, although Mr Y1 had told Northern where he wanted the money  to 
go, and the money from his other account  had already  been  sent there, Northern didnt 
transfer the money that had been in Mr Y1s fixed term account at this point. Instead, it 
asked him then to confirm  again in writing  that he wanted Northern to make  this transfer.
Mr Y2 complained about this, on his fathers behalf,  in 2018. He said that despite two sets of 
written instructions to close  the remaining account,  Mr Y1s money still hadnt been  
transferred out of Northern. He thought that Northern should move the money, and that it 
should pay Mr Y1 all the interest hed missed out on in the intervening time.
Northern said that it only still had the money because Mr Y1 hadnt confirmed in March 2015  
that he wanted Northern to move  it. Northern didnt think it should  have to pay Mr Y1 any 
interest for the time that it had retained  this money.  
Our adjudicator upheld  this complaint. He said that Mr Y1 had actually given Northern the 
same written  instructions,  to move the money in his fixed term account, twice  by the time it 
wrote to him to say that the money had now been  released from the fixed  term account, and 
asking him to confirm  his instructions again.  Our adjudicator said that given  Mr Y1s age and 
the previous written requests  hed made,  it wouldve been reasonable to simply make  the 
requested transfer  at that point. 
Our adjudicator said that Mr Y1 had intended to move  the money into an account paying  
1.25% at that time.  So he thought that Northern  should pay Mr Y1 £1,840  to compensate  
him for the interest  that Mr Y1 wouldve  earned from March 2015,  if Northern had just moved  
his money then.  And he thought that Northern should pay Mr Y1 £160  in compensation for 
not doing that. This made  a total payment  of £2,000.  
Northern agreed  with that. But Mr Y2, on behalf  of Mr Y1, didnt agree. He said that when 
banks mishandle  money,  they are fined heavily,  but when they take advantage of vulnerable, 
elderly, loyal customers they were able to get away with it. 
Our adjudicator explained that its not our services  role to fine or punish a bank, thats  the 
role of the regulator.  We would just look to put a complainant back  in the position that they 
wouldve been in if the mistake hadnt been  made. 
Ref: DRN43067762Mr Y2 didnt  change his mind. He said that he wanted this case  to be considered by an 
ombudsman, so it was passed to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive reached the same overall conclusion  
on this complaint as our adjudicator, and for broadly the same reasons.
Mr Y1 had made repeated  requests to Northern  for money in his fixed term account to be 
transferred. Hed complained when that didnt  happen.  I appreciate that its usually part of 
Northerns process to confirm an instruction with the account holder, but I agree with our 
adjudicator that, by March 2015,  it was reasonably  clear what Mr Y1 had wanted to do with 
his money. So I also agree  with our adjudicator that Northern shouldve  moved  Mr Y1s 
money then, rather than ask him again to confirm his instructions. 
Northern has now agreed to pay Mr Y1 a total of £2,000 for not doing that, which is to 
include a sum for missed interest, and a sum of compensation.  I think  that provides a fair 
and reasonable outcome to this complaint.  I dont think that Northern has to do more  than 
that. 
Mr Y2 has turned down  that offer on Mr Y1s behalf,  and asked  me to review this. He doesnt 
think that this amount  is comparable to the amounts  that banks are fined when they breach 
financial regulations.  So he thinks Northern should  pay more. 
As our adjudicator has discussed with Mr Y2, its not our role here to punish banks. We have 
no powers to fine banks, or to ask banks to pay an amount which would be punitive. Our role 
is limited to considering  the effect of any mistake made by the bank on the complainant. And 
I think that the total amount that Northern has agreed to pay is enough to make up for whats  
gone wrong in this case. Even if I thought  it would be appropriate to do so, I wouldnt be able 
to include any additional amount to penalise Northern for what  its done. 
For those reasons, I think that the award  our adjudicator proposed  should now be made. I 
know Mr Y2, on behalf of his father, will be disappointed, but I dont think  that Northern  has 
to do more than that.
my final decision
My final decision is that Northern Bank Limited  should pay Mr Y1 £2,000, made up of £1,840  
for missed interest and £160  in compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr Y2, on behalf of 
Mr Y1, to accept or reject  my decision  before 19 March 2019.
Esther Absalom-Gough
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4306776