K820x#14complaint
Mrs H is unhappy that her ex-partner, Mr H was able to transfer a significant amount of 
money from their joint account with National Westminster  Bank  Plc (NatWest) to his sole 
account without  her consent  or authorisation. 
background
Mr and Mrs H opened a joint bank  account in 2008.  In September 2018  following the sale of 
a property, £143,955.62 was paid into their joint account. The following day, Mr H transferred 
£145,000 from this account to his sole NatWest account by telephone banking.  Mrs H was 
unaware of this transaction and Mr H refused to return any of the money. In March 2019, 
Mrs H made  NatWest aware about  the dispute  with Mr H and in response it placed a marker 
on the joint account which prevented any further  activity.
Since the complaint was made, our service has been informed that Mrs H has received a 
portion of the £145,000  back from Mr H. 
However Mrs H is unhappy as she believes NatWest did not followed its policy  regarding  the 
monetary limits which apply for transfers between accounts. Mrs H says she has been told 
by NatWest staff members that it considers online  banking more secure than telephone 
banking. She has referred to NatWests website which  says the monetary  limit for transfers 
made via online banking is £100,000. Based  on this, Mrs H believes the transfer limits for 
telephone banking should not be any higher than online banking therefore Mr H should not 
have been able to transfer this amount of money.
In response to the complaint, NatWest  has said the following:
-The terms and conditions of the joint account  only requires one party to make a 
transaction
-The transfer limit for inter-account transactions by telephone banking is £999,999
-As soon  as it was made aware of the dispute,  it placed a maker  on the account 
preventing any further activity  
Having reviewed NatWests policies, the investigator considered the transaction  in question  
to be an inter account transfer rather than a payment because  the transfer was made  
between two NatWest  accounts held by Mr H. The investigator also said based on the terms 
of the joint account,  Mr H was able to transfer money without  Mrs Hs consent and the 
amount was within NatWests transfer limits. 
Mrs H has confirmed she is no longer complaining  about Mr H being able to transfer money 
from the joint account and she is no longer seeking the recovery  of the £145,000. However 
she is unhappy that NatWest has not followed its policy about transfer limits and its 
communication about this is unclear and misleading  which has led to her financial loss and 
distress. Mrs H has requested over £20,000 in compensation . 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly for the reasons outlined by the investigator, I agree Mr Hs ability to transfer the 
money to his sole account held with NatWest is allowed under the terms and conditions of 
Ref: DRN42953642the account. I also agree the transaction is to be considered an inter account transfer as 
defined by the terms. As both points are no longer in dispute, my decision will consider 
whether or not NatWest  followed  its policy concerning inter account transfer limits and if it 
hasnt, did it cause Mrs Hs financial loss.
NatWests account  terms and conditions do not mention the maximum amount of money 
which can be transferred  between accounts.  This is often an internal policy  determined  by 
financial businesses meaning  it will be different from one to another  and vary depending on 
how the transaction is carried out - by phone,  in branch or online.
Mrs H has provided a range of evidence gathered from NatWest  staff, its website and the 
customer service  department. She has referred  to the website which states the limit for 
account transfers made via online banking is £100,000 and the limit applied  for telephone 
banking is £10,000.
As Mr H made the transfer by telephone, I cant apply the online banking transfer limit. For 
the limit that applies for telephone banking, I can see the website says this applies  for 
payments made to third parties, businesses or accounts held with other banks. This means 
NatWest was not required to apply either of these  limits  because Mr H made  the transfer 
between NatWest accounts held in his name  by telephone banking. 
NatWest has provided evidence regarding the monetary  limits  for inter account transfers 
which applied at the time of when Mr H made  the transaction. This document states  the limit 
for telephone banking  is £999,999.99.  To compare  and contrast, the document  also 
indicates there is a £10,000 limit for payments made  to third parties  by telephone banking 
which is consistent with the evidence provided  by Mrs H and her representative. I know  
Mrs H has requested a copy of this evidence however I consider it to be commercially 
sensitive so it cant be shared however I do want to assure her that I have  seen it and I am 
satisfied with its content. 
It is not my role or that of this service to determine  what NatWests monetary limits should be 
when transferring money between accounts.  This is a commercial decision and its not 
something we would interfere with. However  I must consider whether it has followed its own 
internal policy  and in this case I am satisfied it has done so. Mr Hs transaction was within 
the £999,999.99 limit so it was fair to allow him to make the transfer.
Based on the evidence  provided by Mrs H and her representative, I acknowledge there are 
inconsistencies about what is being communicated by NatWest staff about  the transfer limits. 
However I am not persuaded Mrs H relied on this information given by NatWest  staff at the 
time of setting up the joint account  in 2008 or immediately prior to the transaction in question  
in 2018. This is because  the evidence has been obtained after the transfer.
I know my decision will be disappointing for Mrs H especially given the distressing  
circumstances for her and her family  however I cant say NatWest did anything wrong.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, my final decision is I do not uphold Mrs Hs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 October  2019.
Ref: DRN42953643Simona Charles
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN4295364