K820x#14complaint
Its been agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL),  as the 
insurer should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple Ill refer to FICL 
as the seller in my decision.
Mr L says FICL mis-sold  him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out alongside a store  card in 2000.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr L disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  so 
the complaint  has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint
.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ls case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
FICL had to make Mr L aware the PPI was optional and gain his consent  before adding the 
policy to his card. I cant know for certain  what was said at the time Mr L applied  for his card 
and PPI but FICL has sent us a copy of the available paperwork. Mr Ls application form had 
a separate section for PPI where the option to take the policy  has been signed for. The form 
has also been signed separately in agreement with the selections that were made on it. With 
this in mind I think FICL made it clear that the PPI was optional and Mr L chose to have  it.
FICL didnt  recommend the PPI to Mr L so it didnt have to check  if it was right for him. But
it did have to make sure Mr L got the information he needed to decide if it was right for him.
Its possible the information FICL gave Mr L about  the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve 
been. But he chose  to take out the PPI knowing the other means  he had of making his 
repayments which included sick pay, savings and help from parents. But the PPI would have 
paid out in addition to Mr Ls sick pay, and for longer. The PPI would  also have allowed Mr L 
to keep his savings in place to be used towards  any other  essential  expenses he may have 
had. And while  Mr Ls parents would have wanted to help their ability  to would have been 
dependent on their circumstances  at the time, which could have changed. So I dont think 
this offer of help could be guaranteed.
Based on what Ive seen  of Mr Ls circumstances at the time it doesnt look like he was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover   so it would have been useful 
for him if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont  think  
better information about the PPI would  have put him off taking out the cover.
Which means FICL doesnt have to pay back the cost of the PPI to Mr L.
my final decision
Ref: DRN47997622I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 October  2019.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4799762