K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
April 1999. Mr and Mrs P say National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) mis-sold  them  the 
PPI.
The PPI cover was taken only in Mr Ps name.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ps case.
Ive decided the PPI wasnt  mis-sold because:
 I think NatWest  made it clear that Mr and Mrs P didnt have to take out the PPI and 
they chose to take it out  although  I can understand why they cant remember this. 
From what  I know about the NatWest  process for selling PPI at this time, Mr and Mrs P 
would have been able to choose  whether or not they wanted  to take out PPI cover on 
their mortgage application  form. So it was their decision to make. Ive also seen they 
were asked  to complete  and sign a separate direct debit instruction to NatWest for the 
PPI payments. 
 
 NatWest  didnt  recommend the PPI to Mr and Mrs P so it didnt have to check if it was 
right for them. But it did have to make  sure Mr and Mrs P got the information they 
needed to decide  if it was right for them. 
 Its possible the information NatWest gave Mr and Mrs P about the PPI wasnt  as clear 
as it shouldve been. But they chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like they wanted this 
type of cover. Based on what  Ive seen of their circumstances  at the time it doesnt look 
like they were affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover  - so it would 
have been useful for them if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was 
affordable. So I dont think better information  about the PPI would have put them off 
taking out the cover.  
Ive also thought about what  Mr and Mrs P have said about having  adequate employer 
benefits and savings so that they didnt need the PPI. The key thing about mortgage PPI 
is that it would have given Mr and Mrs P the reassurance of knowing that their monthly 
mortgage premium payments were covered for up to 12 months  if Mr P was unable to 
work or if he lost his job. And it also meant they wouldnt have to dig into  and 
potentially use up - their limited savings or have to find other  sources of finance at what 
could be a difficult time for them financially.  And it would pay out in addition  to Mr Ps 
existing employer benefits. So these points dont change my decision.  
Ive also thought about the commission Mr and Mrs P paid on their PPI  and whether 
NatWest treated them unfairly.  
NatWest has told us that the commission  for Mr and Mrs Ps PPI was less than half of what  
they paid for each  premium. Weve looked  at how NatWest has been  working  this out and 
Ref: DRN41883622based on what weve seen it looks like its right  Mr and Mrs Ps commission  was less than 
half the cost of the PPI. As thats the case,  I dont think it needed to tell them about the 
commission  so I dont  think  NatWest treated them unfairly. This means  it doesnt need  to 
pay them  back any of the commission  they paid for the PPI. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  25 February  2019.
Michael Goldberg
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4188362