K820x#14Complaint
Mr Cs complaint is about the charges  applied  at the end of his hire agreement  with 
Mercedes-Benz Financial  Services UK Limited  (MBFS).
The details of this complaint are well known  to both parties so I wont  repeat  them  again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
conclusions reached  by the investigator for these reasons:
Mr C entered into a three year hire agreement  and in doing so agreed to its terms. 
The annual mileage  allowance  was included as 10,000 miles and the agreement set 
out that the vehicle needed to be maintained in a condition  consistent with the vehicle 
return standards.
When the car was returned the mileage  was recorded as 33,264,  that is more than 
the total allowance. I note Mr Cs comment about a delay in the car being collected 
however I can see that contact  was attempted in December 2018 and an offer to 
collect made on 19 December but this wasnt convenient for Mr C. The collection was 
then booked for 3 January 2019. Based on the evidence I dont find that there was an 
unreasonable delay in collecting the car. 
Mr C said that the excess mileage arose in the period while  his car was waiting 
collection due to his need to make  extended  journeys  following  a family 
bereavement. I understand  this must  have  been  a very difficult time for Mr C. But he 
had the benefit of being able to use the car for that period and drove the mileage  
recorded. As this was above the total mileage allowance, I do not find I can say it is 
unfair that the excess mileage charge was applied.  
Mr C has said that some  of the damage could be considered reasonable wear and 
tear. When assessing what is wear  and tear we consider the industry guidelines  as 
set out by the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association. Having considered the 
inspection report alongside  the industry guidelines, and the vehicle return conditions, 
I think the damage falls outside of the wear and tear guidelines and so I do not find 
that MBFS acted unreasonably  by applying the charges. I note in its final response 
letter, MBFS offered to remove the external  valet charge which  I find reasonable. It 
also offered, as a gesture of goodwill,  to reduce the damage charges by 25%.  If Mr C 
wishes to discuss this with MBFS he should do so directly.
Mr C said that the cost of repairs was excessive. I note his comments  about being 
able to have repairs  carried out a cheaper  rate. Mr C did have the opportunity  to 
undertake repairs  before returning  the car as he was provided with the vehicle return  
conditions. He didnt  do this and so it is reasonable he is now charged for the 
damage. The charges applied are in line with MBFS charging policy and so, while I 
appreciate the comments he has made, as I do not find I can say that the charges 
have been unfairly applied,  I think it reasonable that he is liable for the charges. 
For these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Ref: DRN46360092My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Mercedes-Benz Financial 
Services UK Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 August 2020.
Jane Archer
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN4636009