K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains that Santander UK Plc, then trading  as Abbey National, mis-sold him a 
payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
This complaint is about a regular premium  PPI policy. It was sold to Mr R when he was 
taking out additional borrowing secured on his home in 1991.
Mr R says he was told by Santander that he had to take the PPI to get approval for his loan. 
He also says that his circumstances  were  such at the time that he had no need for the cover  
the policy gave  him.
Our adjudicator didnt  think that Mr Rs complaint should be upheld.  Mr R disagreed with the 
adjudicators view, so the case has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.  I know this will be a disappointment to Mr R 
but, having done so, Im not upholding his complaint. Ill now explain why.
This PPI sale took place  a very long time ago, so its perhaps not that surprising that 
Santander doesnt have that much information  or paperwork about  it still available. 
Businesses arent required to keep  records  over such  a long period. And Mr R hasnt 
provided a particularly vivid or detailed account  of this sale either.  Again,  thats  not at all 
surprising given that memories of this sort of financial transaction do tend to fade somewhat 
with time. 
In these circumstances, I need  to decide what I think is most likely to have happened,  based 
on all the information  I have available to me. This includes  what  Mr R has said he 
remembers about the sale and, more generally,  my knowledge of Santanders normal  PPI 
sales practices at around this time.
In this case, Santander has been able to provide a copy of the loan application which Mr R 
completed and signed  in 1991. This form has a section on it headed Paymentcare.  And I 
can see that Mr R has ticked the Yes box provided to select  this cover. Theres an equally 
prominent No box that could have been  ticked to decline the cover.
Ive thought carefully about what Mr R has said about only ticking for PPI cover because  
hed been told he had to have it to get his loan.  Santander has confirmed that taking  out a 
PPI policy  was not a condition  which should  have been imposed on any customer  to get their 
loan approved. And from what  I know of its normal sales practices  at the time,  I think  this is 
the case. Nevertheless, I accept that its possible that the Santander representative  who 
spoke to Mr R about  his loan did wrongly  mislead  him into thinking he had to take out the 
PPI policy. 
Ref: DRN48721942But I dont think it would  be fair for me to conclude that a Santander representative  wrongly 
misleading him in this way is what is most  likely  to have happened. For me to do so, would 
mean relying  solely on what Mr R thinks he remembers being said to him during  this sale,  
well over twenty five years after it took place. 
I also think its probable  that, if hed only taken  the PPI to get his loan, he would have 
realised that he could have asked the insurer of his policy  to cancel it shortly after his loan 
had been agreed. But it seems that Mr R kept his policy  running  for a considerable period of 
time, including  after it appears he made a claim on it. 
So, on balance, I think its most likely  that Mr R actively decided  to take out the policy, 
knowing that he could  choose not to do so. But I can understand why he might  not be able to 
recall this now.
Santander isnt able to say for sure how the PPI was sold to Mr R. But it thinks  that this 
would most  likely to have been a branch sale in which the policy was recommended  to him. 
And its my experience that this is how most  such sales by Santander took place at around 
that time.  However, Mr R appears to feel quite  certain that this wasnt a branch sale and that 
this wasnt an advised sale. He says that he was simply given  a PPI leaflet to fill in. So in 
considering this complaint, Ive kept an open mind about how the sale took place.
If Santander did recommend the policy to Mr R it would  have  needed to ensure that it was 
suitable for him, given his personal circumstances at the time. Ive no information about  how 
it might  have done this. But from what I know of his circumstances then, I cant  see any 
reason why the policy wouldnt have  been suitable. I say this because:
Mr R appears  to have been  eligible for the policy and not affected  by any of its main 
exclusions or other limitations.
Mr R says that he didnt need  the policy because he was eligible for sick pay from his 
employer. He also says he had some savings which  he could have used if he wasnt  able 
to work because of an accident, sickness or unemployment. But this policy would have 
paid out in addition to these other  means and, potentially, for longer than they would 
have lasted if things  had gone wrong.  And a secured loan is a big financial commitment  - 
where ones home is possibly at risk if the monthly payments cant be met. So I still think  
that Mr R would  have  valued the extra security which this PPI policy gave him.
Ive no reason to think that the policy was unaffordable  for Mr R. And as the premiums 
were paid monthly, he could have  cancelled it if it no longer met his needs.
Whether or not the PPI policy  was recommended to Mr R, Santander still needed to ensure 
that it gave him enough information - that was clear,  fair and not misleading - to make  an 
informed choice about whether he wanted to take it. With so little information about this sale 
still available, I cant be sure that Mr R did receive  information about the policy  which was as 
good as it should have  been. But for much  the same  reasons that I dont think the policy was 
unsuitable for him, I dont think better information  would have changed his mind  about taking 
it. I think hed still have  thought the policy gave him useful benefits at an affordable price.
So in summary,  I dont think that Mr R has lost out by anything that Santander may have 
done wrong when it sold him this PPI policy.
Ref: DRN48721943my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont uphold this complaint against Santander UK Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 August 2019.
Simon Furse
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4872194