K820x#14complaint
Miss R complains that Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold her a single premium payment  protection  
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
In 2003 Miss R took out a loan during  a meeting and the bank recommended that she also 
take out PPI to protect her repayments.  
Miss R says she didnt know anything about PPI and it wasnt mentioned  at the time. She 
says she didnt know she could have refused the PPI and it didnt offer good value for 
money. She thinks it was wrong of the bank to have  sold her the policy.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.  Miss R disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Rs case
I have decided not to uphold Miss Rs complaint and Ive set out below my reasons for this.
Miss R says she was very young  (18) when she got the loan and didnt  know anything about  
PPI. Shes sure it wasnt  mentioned at the time.  I dont  think  Miss Rs age can be a reason 
for me to conclude  the PPI was mis-sold,  as she was legally old enough to both borrow 
money and buy insurance.  
Lloyds has sent us a copy of the paperwork Miss R signed. The loan agreement gave the 
key financial information  about the loan and included the cost of the PPI separately. Miss R  
needed to tick a box to say she wanted  the PPI which is described as optional. That box has 
a printed cross in it  but thats not unusual when forms are filled in during a meeting. 
Theres also a separate  document  all about  the PPI that makes it clear its up to Miss R 
whether she buys it  and she signed that to say both that she wanted the PPI and it had 
been explained to her. Overall, despite  what Miss R recalls, I think  the bank made Miss R 
aware that PPI was optional and she chose to take it out. 
The bank has accepted that it advised  Miss R to take out the policy  and it doesnt  look as if it 
was unsuitable  for her based on what Ive seen  of her circumstances at the time. I say this 
because:
-Miss R was eligible  for the policy given her circumstances and the PPI terms and 
conditions.
-Miss R might, on reflection, think the policy cost a lot. But, as Ive already said, the loan 
agreement she signed sets out what she would  need to borrow  to pay for the PPI, the 
monthly cost to repay the PPI loan and the potential total cost. So it seems likely Miss R 
Ref: DRN42732882was made  aware  of the overall  cost and found it acceptable. And, given  her 
circumstances, I dont  think  the policy was unaffordable. 
-It doesnt appear that Miss R would have been affected by any of the significant  
limitations or exclusions of the cover; such as those relating  to pre-existing medical 
conditions. 
-Miss R says she wouldnt have received any work-related benefits if she couldnt work 
due to a sickness  or accident and she had no savings. So Miss R would likely have had 
some difficulty paying for the loan if she didnt have PPI in place and, given this, I think  
she would have  had some use for the policy.
-If the loan had been repaid early  Miss R would not have been given a pro-rata refund 
and that made the policy relatively  inflexible. I cant be sure that the bank considered this 
or explained the situation clearly to Miss R. But Ive seen  nothing  to suggest that she 
thought it might  be possible she would repay the loan early,  so that feature of the policy  
didnt make it unsuitable for Miss R.
Its possible the information the bank  gave Miss R about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should  
have been. But she chose to take out the policy and so appears  to have wanted this type of 
cover. As Ive already  said,  Miss R was not affected by any of the exclusions or limitations 
and the policy seems to have been affordable. So I think it unlikely she would have made a 
different decision if better information had been provided. On balance I think  Miss R would  
still have taken out the policy. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 June 2019.
Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4273288