K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that he was misled  by information  on Nissans website when he entered  into 
an agreement with RCI Financial Services Limited.
background
In January 2018 Mr S signed a contract for the supply  of a car and entered  into a finance 
agreement with RCIFS. Prior to signing the contract Mr S looked at some  information about 
the car on the Nissan website. He says that the options on the website allowed him to select  
a panoramic glass roof as part of the comfort pack at no additional cost.
When Mr S visited the dealership, the Nissan database showed the cost of the glass roof 
pack as £450.  Mr S asked  the dealership to check the Nissan website. Mr S says that the 
dealership agreed  that the website  was misleading but told him that only the glass roof pack 
was available  on the car he had selected and the cost of the glass  roof pack  was an 
additional £450.
Mr S says that because  he didnt  want to lose out on any of the special offers  that were 
being offered  and because he didnt want the trade in value of his car to change he entered  
into the agreement  on the basis that the glass roof pack cost £450.
Mr S complained to Nissan  about  the website.  It said the cost of the rook was £450 and he 
had entered into the contract  agreeing to pay for this. Mr S wasnt happy with Nissans 
response so he complained to RCIFS. 
Mr S feels  that the Nissan website  was misleading. He wants RCIFS to refund the cost of the 
glass roof pack.
Our investigator considered the complaint.  She agreed that the website was confusing  and 
that this might have  led Mr S to think that he could order the car with a glass roof at no 
additional cost.   The investigator felt, however, that because the dealership had explained to 
Mr S that the glass roof pack was an additional  £450 before he entered into the agreement, 
Mr S had been provided with the correct  information and no misrepresentation had taken 
place.
Mr S didnt agree. He said he had entered into the contract  and paid a deposit before 
negotiations regarding extras were complete and that the original finance agreement had 
been mislaid by the dealership with a replacement agreement not signed until the day he 
collected the car. Mr S said he complained to Nissan  before he paid the balance of the price  
of the car and the response he received from Nissan  was that it could not deal with his 
complaint until he could quote  a finance agreement number.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
A misrepresentation is an intentionally (or sometimes negligently) false representation made 
verbally, by conduct,  in writing or sometimes  by non-disclosure which  causes someone  to 
rely on it to their disadvantage.
Ref: DRN42182272Where a consumer enters into a contract or an agreement as a result of a misrepresentation, 
the way in which this service  approaches this type of complaint (depending on the 
circumstances of the case) is to treat the contract  as if it no longer existed,  or to put the 
consumer in the position that they would have been in if accurate information  had been  
given to them.
Ive looked at the screenshots of the Nissan website  which  Mr S has provided. The 
information suggests that the comfort pack (which  is stated to include a panoramic glass 
roof) can be added at no additional cost. There is also information about a glass  roof pack  
(which is stated to include  a panoramic glass roof) which  can be added  at an additional cost 
of £450. I agree that the information on those screenshots  is contradictory  and confusing.
Ive taken into account the fact that when  Mr S visited the dealer and queried the cost of the 
panoramic glass roof, he was advised  that the cost was an additional £450.  So although  the 
Nissan website showed conflicting information which  could be said to amount to a 
misrepresentation, the correct information  was provided to Mr S by the dealership.
Ive considered whether Mr S entered into the contract before he was given the correct 
information.  Mr S entered into the contract  on 26 January 2018. This was the date when he 
paid the deposit. 
Ive looked at the purchase agreement and this shows the glass  roof pack. I appreciate  that 
Mr S feels  that because the glass roof pack isnt shown as an additional optional extra it 
should be treated  as being included in the base price of the car. However,  Im not persuaded 
that the glass roof pack needs  to appear on a particular part of the purchase  agreement in 
order to be treated as an additional item.  The glass roof pack  is shown in the description  
heading. On his own evidence Mr S was told by the dealership on his first visit to the 
dealership that the glass roof pack was an additional  £450.   Im satisfied that Mr S was given 
the correct information by the dealership and that he knew  about the additional cost of the 
glass roof pack before  he entered  into the contract.
I appreciate that Mr S is disappointed that hes had to pay an additional cost for the glass  
roof pack  when he initially thought he could order it at no additional cost.  But on the available  
evidence Im satisfied that Mr S knew that the glass roof pack  would cost an additional £450 
before he entered into the contract.  
For the reasons  Ive given Im unable to conclude that there has been a misrepresentation. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 February  2019.
Ref: DRN42182273Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4218227