K820x#14complaint
Mr L complains  that Santander  UK Plc (Santander trading at the time of sale as National & 
Provincial) mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr L took out a mortgage in 1992  with Santander and at the same time also bought an MPPI 
policy. The mortgage  and policy ended  before April 2008.
Mr L says the MPPI policy was sold without his knowledge. He thinks  the policy was mis-
sold to him.
Our adjudicator did not uphold Mr Ls complaint. Mr L disagreed  with the adjudicators 
opinion so the complaint has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ls case.
I have decided not to uphold Mr Ls complaint. Here  are my reasons:
Mr L says that Santander added the MPPI policy without his knowledge. So I looked  into 
this and considered  his recollections  along with the sales  documentation  provided by 
Santander.
On doing this, I am persuaded that Mr L was given a choice to have the MPPI  policy  and 
he chose it by signing the mortgage application  form. In particular, I can see that MPPI is 
presented as an optional requirement. I cant be sure what was said by Santander in the 
meeting but after considering what has been  said and also the documentation from the 
time, I am persuaded  Mr L was given a choice.
I am satisfied that Santander gave Mr L advice to have the MPPI policy, so it had to 
ensure that the policy was suitable  for Mr L and based on what  I have seen I think  it was. 
I say this because,  although Mr L had good  sick pay (up to 12 months), I think  he would 
have found some  value in having the cover  in a time of need  over an extended period of 
time. I also couldnt  find any limiting or significant terms that would  have made the policy  
unsuitable for Mr L either.
I am not sure if Santander did disclose the costs for the MPPI  policy  in 1992 clearly. But 
I dont think Mr L would  have done  anything differently for much the same reasons  that 
I have already given.
In conclusion, it has been a difficult decision to make but based on what I have seen, I do 
not think the MPPI policy was mis-sold to Mr L.
Ref: DRN45022492my decision
I do not uphold  Mr Ls complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 August 2019.
Mark Richardson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4502249