K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain  that Yorkshire  Building Society (Yorkshire) mis-sold them  a 
mortgage payment  protection insurance (MPPI) policy.
background
Mr and Mrs P bought a MPPI policy which started in January 2000 to protect their mortgage  
repayments. The policy covered Mr P only against any accidents, unemployment or 
sickness. The first 6 months worth of cover was free. The policy and mortgage ended  in 
September 2002.
Mr and Mrs P believe Yorkshire mis-sold the policy. They say the MPPI policy was not 
suitable for them as Mr P had very good  sick pay. They also say they were  never  told the 
policy was optional and thought if they didnt take it they wouldnt be accepted for a 
mortgage.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. As Mr and Mrs P doesnt  agree with the 
adjudicators opinion, the complaint has been  passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ps case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Ps complaint because:
I cant be sure how the policy was presented to Mr and Mrs P during the meeting. But I 
think, after considering the documentation provided, it is more  likely that they were  
advised it was a good idea to have the insurance  to protect  their mortgage repayments. 
Mr P signed separately for the MPPI  policy and there  is nothing  to suggest  in the sales  
documentation that he was not given a choice to have it. 
I think Yorkshire recommended the MPPI to Mr P as the sole policy  holder, but it doesnt 
look as if it was unsuitable for him based  on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the 
time. Mr P had 6 months full and 6 months  half sick pay but the policy  would have paid 
out in addition to any provisions he had at the time. The policy would have paid the 
mortgage repayments in what would have  been  a difficult  time.  So I can see Mr P would 
have found some  benefit in having  it. I could  also not see any other  reason such  as a 
significant exclusion or term that would have affected him or made  the policy unsuitable  
either.
Yorkshire has provided some information about  the costs relating  to the MPPI that             
Mr and Mrs P took out. It has also provided us with documentation to show  how it would 
have set out the cost and benefit of the policy, giving Mr and Mrs P enough information 
to decide if they wanted  to take it.
Ref: DRN42223972Its possible Yorkshire didnt point out other key information that the policy didnt  cover. 
But its unlikely Mr and Mr P wouldve been affected  by any of these  for the reasons I 
have already given.
Ive taken into account Mr and Mrs Ps comments, but these points dont  change  my 
conclusion, that I dont think they were  mis-sold  the MPPI policy.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ps complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  21 June  2019.
Mark Richardson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4222397