K820x#14Complaint
Mr R complains that an educational programme sold by a credit broker  (X) and financed  by 
a loan from 3J Finance  Limited was mis-sold and not fit for purpose.
Background
The background to this complaint, and my provisional findings  on it, can be found in my 
provisional decision, which is attached to and forms a part of this final decision.
In very brief summary however, I came to the following provisional conclusions:
Mr R had most likely  been aware that he was signing up for a loan to pay for the 
programme, and had agreed to this at the time.  I didnt think  the loan had been mis-
sold.
There wasnt enough evidence that the programme  had been  misrepresented to 
Mr R, or that it was not as described, not fit for purpose,  or had failed to meet  a 
standard a reasonable  person would consider satisfactory.
Due to this, I was unable to find that 3J Finance had any liability to Mr R under section 56 or 
section 75 of the Consumer Credit  Act 1974, and I stated that I did not intend to uphold  
Mr Rs complaint. 
I invited 3J Finance  and Mr R to comment on my provisional decision.  3J Finance did not 
reply. Mr R responded to say that he didnt agree, and he made a number of points  which 
could be summarised  as follows:
The sales process hadnt been  thoroughly investigated. If X had used unethical 
means to sell then surely this was misrepresentation. X had used questionable and 
unscrupulous sales methods. 
He maintained that X had claimed  his children  had educational deficiencies which the 
programme could  fix, but the programme  had no involvement  in subsequent excellent  
GCSE grades. It wasnt possible for me to know if his childrens  academic  abilities  
had changed over time or what  these abilities  were at particular points in time.
It wasnt possible this far on to demonstrate the technical issues with the programme, 
which had likely  been updated since then. It also wouldnt be possible to identify the 
teachers hed spoken to or to approach them.  
While  he agreed the paperwork had said he had 14 days  to cancel, X had 
emphasised verbally that it would be easy to stop whenever he needed to. 
Mr R also provided a statement from his son, and clarified certain  points he had made  earlier 
on in his complaint,  relating to the scope of his contract with X. He stated that it was relevant 
whether X had sold a product or a service  as if it was a product  he would have greater 
rights and if it was a service then it was especially relevant that the lack of a clear  contract  
indicated there was an intent to misrepresent  and mis-sell.
Ref: DRN45862412My findings
Ive considered again all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr R has referred  repeatedly to X in his submissions, and I appreciate  his strength of feeling 
about Xs sales practices, but I am considering a complaint about 3J Finance and that 
means I am limited to looking at its responsibilities  to Mr R. I explained  in my provisional 
decision what 3J Finance could be held responsible for due to the protections  Mr R has 
under the Consumer Credit Act 1974,  and I further explained that it wasnt  my role to 
comment on things outside of this, such as the ethics of Xs practices.  I said I was essentially 
limited to considering  breaches of contract  or misrepresentations by X, as these were the 
things 3J Finance  could  be held responsible  for.
In my provisional decision I explained  that a misrepresentation was:
a material, false statement of fact which someone relies on when  making a decision, and 
this causes them to incur a loss. So, if X had told Mr R things which  were  not true during the 
sales process, and he decided to purchase  the course as a result,  that would be a 
misrepresentation.
It is quite a specific concept, and not everything which  is unethical  will amount to a 
misrepresentation. 
I agree  that its not possible for me to know what Mr Rs childrens academic abilities were at 
the point they took Xs tests, or subsequently. But that is part of the reason why Im unable  to 
say X made a misrepresentation to him about  the academic abilities of his children. Mr R has 
noted that his son did well in his GCSEs  without using Xs programme, and that teachers 
have told him his children  were above  average. This, he says, shows  he was given false  
information about his childrens abilities  by X.
However, thats not the only possibility. As I outlined in my provisional decision,  its also 
possible that Mr Rs childrens abilities  improved between  them  taking Xs test and the 
positive comments he says he received from teachers, and his sons  GCSEs. Its additionally 
possible that his children just had an off day and the results of the test didnt represent the 
extent of their ability at the time  but that doesnt  mean the results were  false  or wrong. In 
my view there just isnt enough evidence to show that false information being given by X is 
the most  likely of the different  possibilities.
I understand Mr Rs comments about  it being  too late now to demonstrate  technical  issues 
with the programme, or to identify and obtain  statements from teachers hed spoken to some  
time ago. He wasnt specifically asked for this information. However,  our investigator did say 
in her assessment to Mr R in 2018,  that she couldnt be sure whether any technical  problems 
he was having  were down to issues with the programme itself or with Mr Rs browser.  And 
she also noted that although Mr R had referred to having had a conversation with a teacher 
about the course not being  aligned to the curriculum,  there  was no evidence  of this (such  as 
a statement  from the teacher). So I think Mr R would have been  aware  at that time, that it 
might have been desirable  to provide further evidence on these points.
Regarding Mr Rs comments on the 14 day cancellation period, this seems  to be the first 
time he has focused on being  assured  by the salesperson that it would be easy to stop the 
programme at any time. I think if this had been an important factor in his decision to 
Ref: DRN45862413purchase, then its something he would have emphasised  before.  Its also not clear if the 
salesperson was referring to cancelling the course (and ending all financial arrangements)  or 
simply not using it anymore. Ultimately, Im not persuaded  the cancellation provisions were 
misrepresented by X.
Finally, Mr R is correct  to say that his rights would be different if he had contracted for goods 
or for services, but that doesnt change things  here.  I concluded in my provisional  decision 
that Mr R had contracted for digital  content. I went on to outline what contractual rights  he 
had for such a purchase, as defined  under  the Consumer Rights Act 2015, and concluded 
that those contractual rights had not been  breached by X, meaning  3J Finance was not liable 
to him under  the relevant provisions of the Consumer Credit  Act 1974.
My final decision
For the reasons  given  above, and in my attached provisional decision, I do not uphold  Mr Rs 
complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 January 2021.
Will Culley
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN45862414COPY OF PROVISIONAL  DECISION
Complaint
Mr R complains that an educational programme financed  by a loan from 3J Finance Limited was mis-sold and not 
fit for purpose.
Background
Mr R entered  into an agreement with a company I will call X late in 2016 for an education programme to support  
his children with their learning  in English and Maths.  
The programme  was made up of a number  of different  modules and cost £4,575.  X arranged a loan with 3J 
Finance to pay for it, which was to be repaid over 47 monthly repayments of £94.68  followed  by a final payment  
of £95.04. 
Mr R says he had initially received  a leaflet via his childrens school, advertising Xs services. He filled out his 
personal details and returned  a reply slip. He says X then visited his home twice  once to assess his childrens 
ability in English and Maths,  and once  to complete  all the paperwork needed to conclude the sale. 
Mr R was dissatisfied  with the programme and the way it had been sold.  Hes told us hed felt under  pressure  
from Xs representative to buy it. He said hed been told his children were  educationally deficient and shown  
negative examples of what  had happened to other  children  whose parents hadnt bought the programme.  He also 
thought he hadnt been  given much information  about  what exactly  he was buying. A few months after he 
purchased the programme, Mr R said his children  stopped  using it. They reported it had various technical issues,  
was too easy, uninspiring, outdated and not relevant to the work they were doing at school. Mr R says that when 
he asked their teachers, they told him the programme wasnt  aligned with the schools curriculum. Mr R added 
the 14-day cooling  off period he was given  on the purchase was not long enough to determine whether the 
programme was suitable or not.
He complained to X and 3J Finance around November 2017 about the programme.  Neither of them upheld his 
complaint, so he brought  his case against 3J Finance to this service for an independent assessment.
One of our investigators  looked  into Mr Rs case. She didnt think his complaint  should  be upheld. She concluded 
that there was insufficient evidence that Mr R had been pressured into making  the purchase and that he had 
been given  information about what he was buying.  She noted that 3J Finance could be held responsible, under  
the relevant law, for breaches of contract or misrepresentations by X, but she didnt think there was evidence that 
X had done either of these things.
Mr R didnt  agree, adding that he had been  unaware he was taking out a loan to pay for the programme, and the 
loan itself had been mis-sold. He said Xs representative had just said hed be paying in monthly instalments  and 
he only discovered he had a loan when he tried to cancel and received  a copy  of the agreement. Our investigator 
considered this new point and concluded that, on balance,  Mr R had agreed to take out a loan at the time. Mr R 
still didnt agree, and so the case has been passed  to me to decide.
While Mr Rs case has been  waiting to be decided, X has gone into administration and the provision of the 
educational programme has been taken over by another company.
My provisional  findings
Ive considered  all the available  evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Rs complaint is that he has received a product  which was of a poor standard. Hes also not happy about the 
way the product  was sold or the way the financial  arrangements were explained to him. In short, he says he was 
subjected to high-pressure  sales tactics and wasnt told he was going to be tied into a four year loan.
3J Finance  didnt sell Mr R the programme or the loan, but it has some responsibilities to Mr R due to certain 
protections afforded  to consumers by the Consumer Credit  Act 1974. The loan Mr R entered with 3J Finance  is 
regulated by this act, and there are two sections of the act which provide him with some  protection  section 56 
and section 75.
Ref: DRN45862415I will not set out in great detail how these sections operate, but in summary  section 56 has the effect of making X 
the agent  of 3J Finance during the antecedent  negotiations  leading up to Mr R entering into the loan agreement, 
beginning with the first communication he received from X. In very broad  terms it means 3J Finance can be held 
responsible for the things X did or said during the sales process.
Section 75 has the effect of allowing Mr R to hold 3J Finance  liable  for breaches of contract  by X, or 
misrepresentations made by X in relation to the purchase of the educational programme. It doesnt cover every 
scenario where  a person is dissatisfied with a purchase theyve made.
Mr R has also referred to the Consumer Protection from Unfair Trading Regulations  2008 , which  provides 
protection against certain unfair commercial practices. These  regulations, however, do not give rise to any 
responsibility between  3J Finance and Mr R. If X has breached  these regulations then that would  be a breach of 
a statutory duty, which 3J Finance wouldnt  be liable for, as opposed to a breach of contract (which 3J Finance 
would be liable for under  Section 75 as Ive explained above).
The sale of the loan agreement
In relation to the sale of the loan, Ive reached the same  conclusion  as our investigator  and for broadly the same 
reasons. Mr R appears to have hand-signed a number  of different documents  during  the sales process.  He hasnt 
said that these documents are forgeries or that he otherwise didnt sign them, so Ive proceeded on the basis 
they are genuine documents that he did see and sign.
Perhaps the clearest of these documents is the loan agreement itself between Mr R and 3J Finance. Immediately 
above where Mr R has signed appear the following words: This is a Loan Agreement  regulated by the Consumer  
Credit Act 1974. Sign it only if you want to be legally bound  by its terms.  Given the proximity of these words  to 
where Mr R signed, I think its likely he would have seen  them and understood he was agreeing to a loan, even if 
Xs representative  didnt  specifically say that this is what it was.
Even if Mr R had not appreciated the significance of what  he was signing at the time, I can see he received a 
letter dated three days after the loan agreement  was signed, enclosing  a copy  of his loan agreement  and 
explaining the copy which was meant to have been left with him had been taken away in error. I would have 
thought that Mr R would  have raised concerns at this point  if he had not wanted  to enter a loan agreement or was 
unaware that he had done  so. I find it more  likely than not that Mr R had agreed  to pay for the programme using a 
loan and was aware that this was what  he was doing, at the time he signed the documents.
The sale of the educational programme
Mr R has described the sales process  followed by X as being  highly-pressured and unethical. He has referred,  for 
example, to X using his children and their school  to sell the product. It isnt my role to decide whether Xs sales 
process was ethical.  My role is to decide whether or not 3J Finance is responsible to Mr R for any failings  by X 
during the sales process. 
As I mentioned  earlier, 3J Finance would be responsible for misrepresentations  made about  the programme, so 
Ive considered  the matter  primarily from this angle. 
A misrepresentation  is a material, false statement  of fact which someone relies on when making a decision, and 
this causes them to incur  a loss. So, if X had told Mr R things  which were  not true during the sales process, and 
he decided to purchase the course as a result, that would be a misrepresentation. Mr R says Xs representative 
told him, after testing his children, that they were  deficient  in their education  and this would  have a negative 
impact on their lives in the future. He explained  that this made him feel pressured, but he also doesnt think  it was 
true because his childrens teachers later told him they were above  average  in terms of their learning and his son 
has now received GCSE results  which  show Xs representative was wrong. Mr R has suggested there was 
something wrong or flawed with Xs assessment process.
I dont doubt  that Xs representative would have highlighted  to Mr R the benefit to his children  of taking on 
additional English  and Maths tuition. After all, this was a product he was employed to sell. Although I have only 
Mr Rs testimony on the matter, I find it plausible  that the representative would also have pointed out any areas of 
the assessment or test which  his children had not done as well in. I cant  be sure what  words the representative 
used when he spoke about  this, but I think  it would be difficult to show  that any views he offered on the 
educational progress  of Mr Rs children were  false at that particular point in time. Although Mr R hasnt 
specifically said when it was that the teachers told him his children were  above average, or when his son took his 
GCSEs, its apparent  this was after hed purchased the course. Its possible his childrens abilities  had improved 
in the meantime. 
Ref: DRN45862416Ultimately, Im not able to conclude Xs representative made false statements about the level of Mr Rs childrens 
educational development. Ive thought  about Mr Rs point that the assessment process itself was flawed  (and 
would have led to X giving him an inaccurate picture of his childrens development),  but I find myself arriving at 
the same  conclusion for the same reasons. Its possible Mr Rs childrens abilities  improved  between them having 
the assessment and Mr R receiving feedback  from their teachers. Its also possible  that Mr Rs children just didnt 
do as well at the test on the day as they could have, meaning the results didnt  reflect their level of ability. Its not 
necessarily the case that the assessment process was wrong or flawed,  and I havent seen evidence to suggest 
that it was. 
Mr R has indicated  education experts should  be brought in to analyse the suitability  or accuracy of Xs 
assessment process.  I agree  that expert evidence can be helpful in determining a complaint,  especially where the 
subject matter  is highly specialised  as it is here. But it isnt the role of this service  to arrange for experts  to report 
on these things  that is something  I would expect either party to the complaint to seek  out in order to support 
their case.  I do not think the onus  is on 3J Finance or X to demonstrate the accuracy of the assessment process, 
as Mr R has said.  
The quality  of the educational programme
Mr R has referred  to a variety of problems his children  experienced with the programme. Some of these were 
technical issues potentially related to the compatibility  of Xs website with certain browsers.  Others were related 
to the quality and fitness  for purpose of the programme content.
The educational programme itself appears to have  been  a form of digital  content. The Consumer  Rights  Act 2015 
causes certain terms to be treated as included in contracts for digital content, including that the content needs to 
be as described, of satisfactory quality, and fit for purpose. Satisfactory quality  means the standard  that a 
reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking  into account the price, description and other relevant  
circumstances. If the content fails to meet these standards then this would  be a breach of contract, something for 
which 3J Finance would  be liable to Mr R under Section  75. 
Ive considered  the evidence which has been  supplied to support a case that the programme  was not as 
described, or was not of satisfactory quality or fit for purpose. Mr R has described conversations hes had with 
teachers, and reported how his children felt about the programme, but other than this he hasnt really  provided  
any evidence  which could  help show the programme didnt  meet  the criteria Ive outlined. It might have been 
helpful, for example, if Mr R had supplied some  video  evidence of the technical problems,  or a statement from a 
teacher hed spoken to, explaining  why the programme was not aligned to the school curriculum. Based on what  
Mr Rs supplied to date, Im not persuaded the programme was not fit for purpose, or failed to meet a satisfactory  
standard or the description it was given  by X.
The cancellation period
Mr R has said a 14 day cancellation period was not enough  time to be able to assess  whether  the programme  
was right for his children. I have some  sympathy for this argument. The learning needs of children can be highly  
variable and change  over time, so I can quite understand Mr Rs point  that in 14 days  it might not be possible to 
establish whether this was the right thing for his children.  But I cant  escape the fact that Mr R signed  paperwork 
agreeing that he would only have a 14 day cancellation period. Theres been no suggestion  that this cancellation 
period was misrepresented and (for example) Mr R was told he would  have  longer to cancel. And if Mr R had 
agreed to a 14 day cancellation period, which  I think he did, then I dont  see how X could have  been in breach  of 
its contract with him if it refused to cancel  the programme after that period had expired.  
I think Mr Rs underlying point here is that it was inappropriate of X to sell its programme with a cancellation 
period which was this short,  but this isnt something I can comment on. As Ive already said, it is not my role in 
this complaint  to assess the ethics of Xs sales process or, in general, the products it offered. This isnt something 
3J Finance  would be liable for to Mr R under  the legislation  Ive referred to.
Other points
Mr R raised a number of points  early on in his complaint  which  it is not clear if he still seeking to pursue.  For the 
sake of completeness, I will cover them  here.
Mr R has said that X did not provide enough information about what he was buying. In particular, he says X didnt 
provide a written contract, a business section detailing  the rights and responsibilities, details  of the term  and 
termination, a definition of the scope of services and deliverables, or any written learning objectives.
Ref: DRN45862417Its not clear  to me what source Mr R has drawn this set of information  requirements from and this isnt something 
he has elaborated on. Information requirements  do exist for consumer contracts  like the one Mr R entered into, 
but I do not recognise the requirements Mr R has listed. The information requirements  I am aware of which would  
apply to Mr Rs contract with X would not give rise to a breach of contract if X had failed to meet  them  but would 
potentially be a breach of statutory duty by X. As I explained  earlier  in this decision, this is not something which 
3J would be responsible to Mr R for under Section  75. So I do not think  this is something which helps his case.
My provisional  decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I do not intend to uphold this complaint. 
I now invite Mr R and 3J Finance Limited to provide me with any further evidence or arguments they would like 
me to consider, by 7 November 2020. After this date I will review the case once again.
Will Culley
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN4586241