K822xcomplaint
Mrs B complains that Family Assurance  Friendly Society Limited (trading as OneFamily) has 
breached her data protection  rights  when it included personal information - her name,  
address, date of birth and National Insurance number - in a maturity  renewal letter sent to 
another policyholder.
The thought  that this breach has left Mrs B vulnerable to fraudulent activity has caused  her 
considerable distress.
background 
Mrs B held an investment  with Family Assurance that was renewable in April 2019 having  
reached another 10-year anniversary. Although she contacted Family Assurance in late 
February 2019 that she wished to extend  the policy for a further  10 years,  she received an 
acknowledgement three weeks  later in an unexpected format.
In the meantime, another policyholder contacted Family Assurance in mid-March 2019  
notifying it that he/she had received an acknowledgement letter which  included  Mrs Bs 
personal details.  Family  Assurance requested this policyholder to return this correspondence  
but, to-date,  he or she hasnt done so. Family Assurance notified Mrs B of this error in mid-
April 2019 and says it hasnt found any suspicious activity on her accounts since.
When Mrs B complained, Family Assurance responded with an apology that it had disclosed 
her personal  details to a third party in error and assured her that it:
recorded the matter as a breach of the Data Protection Act;
has put in place measures to avoid  a recurrence of the error, including  changing the 
content of its maturity letters to contain less personal data;
was an isolated  incident caused  by human error  and wasnt  a systemic problem;
would  monitor Mrs Bs account  for suspicious activity and place additional security 
measures on her accounts;
offered her £100 for the degree of trouble and upset this will have caused her;
would  pay annual  membership of a fraud prevention service for one year of £84.
As Mrs B wasnt satisfied with Familys Assurances response, she referred her complaint to 
our service.  She hasnt  referred the matter to the Information Commissioners Office (ICO). 
One of our investigators  felt Family Assurance  had appropriately resolved her complaint. He 
thought Mrs B should accept its offer to resolve her complaint and said:
the Financial Ombudsman Service is not a regulator in that we dont set rules  for 
financial businesses, or fine or censure them. But, if Mrs B has been financially 
disadvantaged, our role is to return her to the position she would be in now if 
Family Assurance hadnt made the error;
he recognised  that Mrs B may also have  been  affected emotionally and may award 
her compensation if this matter  has caused her a degree  of trouble and upset;
theres no indication  that Mrs B has suffered  financially due to Family Assurances 
error and the risk of her being  exposed to fraud as a direct result of the error was low. 
The letter intended  for her had been  sent to another policyholder who reported  the 
mistake to Family Assurance promptly. Accordingly, he thought it was unlikely that 
Ref: DRN40460722the disclosed information has, or would be, misused.  And the risk of any identity 
fraud arising  from her National Insurance  number being disclosed was remote;
the breach  of her personal  data has been  upsetting for her at the thought  of any 
suspicious activity occurring;
on balance, £100 is fair compensation for the overall effect the error  has had on 
Mrs B and is in line with awards  on similar cases, where a data breach has caused  
worry and upset  to a consumer;
its offer to pay the first annual membership  fee of £84 seems  appropriate  to reassure 
Mrs B if she remained worried  that she could be subject to fraudulent  activity.
In response, Mrs B disagreed with the investigators  assessment of her complaint and said 
that:
while she accepts she hasnt been  financially disadvantaged by Family Assurances 
error, the degree of trouble and upset this matter has caused her merits greater 
compensation. The risk of fraudulent  activity  is greater  than the investigator has 
suggested;
she values her personal data, which is why she doesnt participate in any form of 
social media, routinely  shreds all forms of written correspondence she receives  and 
regularly changes passwords for any forms of online business.  She also refuses to 
hold any contactless  debit or credit  cards;
a large amount of her personal data is known to a third party  who hasnt returned the 
correspondence in question to Family Assurance. Its therefore unlikely they will have 
destroyed this material responsibly;
she doesnt share the investigators confidence that her National Insurance number 
would not be misused;
As no agreement has been reached in this complaint, it has bene  referred  to me for review.
   
findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Family Assurance rightly advised Mrs B that, if she was dissatisfied  with its response to her 
complaint, she could refer the matter to the Information Commissioners Office (ICO), whose 
details were provided in its final response. 
The ICO wont award Mrs B compensation for the impact the data security  breach has had 
on her. But it would address Mrs Bs other request - to look at whether Family Assurance  
had broken data protection  law and the steps it may need to take to prevent this error in the 
future. Even  though she didnt refer her complaint to the ICO, it seems  to me that 
Family Assurance has pre-empted any changes to its processes it may have  been  required 
to make by the ICO to eliminate the error  highlighted by Mrs Bs case.
It is not the role of our service to prescribe steps Family Assurance needs to take to prevent 
breaches happening in the future. But we can consider compensating Mrs B for the impact of 
the breach on her.
When considering  making  award  of compensation in the circumstances of Mrs Bs case, I 
need to distinguish between any financial loss he may have suffered as a result of 
Family Assurances error and the degree  of stress  it may have caused her. 
Ref: DRN40460723Mrs B accepts that no suspicious activity has so far occurred on any accounts  she holds with 
Family Assurance or with any other financial business. But, although she hasnt yet suffered  
any financial  loss in this matter, that is not to say she may not do so in the future. And the 
information that was disclosed to the third party could not be found from another  source. So, 
even though Family Assurance has confirmed  that this was human error and an isolated  
incident, this doesnt lessen the impact on Mrs B which is real.
On the other hand, the third party did contact Family Assurance to confirm that he or she 
had received Mrs Bs details, so any future suspect activity on Mrs Bs accounts can be 
traced back to him or her in the first instance.  But I do understand why it remains a worry for 
Mrs B that the correspondence in question hasnt been  returned to Family Assurance and 
may not have disposed  of responsibly that her personal details could still fall into the hands 
of other  parties. So, I agree that the impact  on Mrs B of the error made  by Family Assurance 
has been greater  than just minor inconvenience  or upset.
Even so, awards for trouble and upset are generally modest unless Im persuaded that 
Mrs B has suffered a degree of stress that could have made her ill. I dont think she has 
been caused mental suffering to merit an award that is any more  than modest.         
 
Also, while I also understand why Mrs B might change her passwords or passcodes on her 
bank and online accounts regularly, her personal  data that was revealed didnt include 
passwords and wouldnt have given access to her accounts that are password or passcode-
protected.
All things  considered, my view is that the apology Family Assurance has offered Mrs B, plus 
£100 for the trouble and upset she has suffered and one years membership to an identity 
fraud monitoring service adequately resolves her complaint.
decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Bs claim for compensation of more than 
Family Assurance Friendly Society  Limited has already offered in response to her complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 April 2020.
Kim Davenport
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4046072