K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
2002. Miss F says Santander UK Plc (trading at the time as Abbey National) mis-sold her the 
PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties  agree that this policy was taken out during a meeting. The policy covered 
Miss F for unemployment only. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Fs case.
Ive decided the PPI wasnt  mis-sold because:
Due to the length  of time since the sale took place, not all of the paperwork 
completed is now available. So I havent clearly seen how the PPI was presented to 
Miss F or her consent to taking  the policy out. Miss F has said that I was told for 
security for my mortgage, I needed  to take this out. 
But Ive also considered that the level of cover  taken was unemployment only, when 
there were other options available. 
Ive considered this alongside what we know more widely  about  how Santander sold 
PPI in meetings  around the time this policy was taken out. I think its more  likely than 
not that they followed their normal sales process,  its also reasonable to assume that 
some discussion  took place about  the PPI - based  on the specific  level of cover that 
was selected,  before Miss F chose  to take the PPI. 
 
Ive not seen evidence to support what Miss F has said about being  pressured into 
taking out PPI.
Santander recommended  the PPI to Miss F so it had to check  that the PPI was right 
for her  and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think that it 
was. For example she wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI 
cover and she seems to have had a need for the cover.  
Its possible the information Santander gave  Miss F about  the PPI wasnt as clear as 
it shouldve been. But she chose to take it out - so it looks  like she wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would  have been useful for her if something went  wrong. It 
also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI 
would have put her off taking out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Miss F has said - including what  shes said about not needing 
PPI because of her circumstances and existing means of making her mortgage  repayments  
if she was made unemployed. 
Ref: DRN44367532But I still think that the recommendation take PPI was suitable and the policy  was right for 
Miss F because:
although Miss F had a redundancy entitlement - shes told us that she would  have 
had the equivalent of 7 months worth  of her salary. This PPI policy  could have paid 
out for up to 12 months per successful  claim;
the savings  that Miss F says she had also wouldnt have lasted for as long as the PPI 
would have paid out. Having this PPI policy would mean  that Miss F would  have the 
option of not needing to use her savings - keeping them  intact for future use; and
although Miss F has told us that she would have simply moved out of the mortgage  
property, rented it out and moved  in with her parents  I dont think  this means she 
didnt have a need for PPI. 
I say this because,  although Miss F may have had this back up plan, it may not have 
been straightforward in reality. For example,  there can be restrictions  on renting 
property if its not a buy to let mortgage.  Also, her parents  may well have wanted to 
help her out, but circumstances  can change and they may not have been in a positon 
to help when needed. 
Although Miss F has said she had no dependants, she was still solely  responsible for the 
repayments of her mortgage and given the potential consequences of her not being able to 
make her mortgage repayments, I still think that the recommendation to take PPI in this case 
was suitable and the policy was right for Miss F.
 
Which means Santander doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to 
Miss F.
But Santander will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Miss F because : 
Santander got a high level of commission and profit share  (more  than 50% of the 
PPI premium) - so it should have told Miss F about that. Because Santander 
didnt tell Miss F, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Santander has basically offered to pay back  the amount of 
commission and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I 
think that offer is fair in this case.
what the business needs  to do
Santander has to pay back  to Miss F any commission  and profit  share it got that was more 
than 50% of the PPI premium. Santander should  also pay back to Miss F any extra interest 
she paid because of that.
Santander should pay back to Miss F the extra she paid each month  because  the 
commission and profit share it got was more  than 50% of the cost of PPI. Santander should 
also pay Miss F 8%* simple interest on each payment.
Ref: DRN44367533*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Miss F can claim  back  the tax if she doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Santander  UK Plc (trading at the time as Abbey 
National) does not have to pay back  all of the cost of the PPI to Miss F.
But Santander UK Plc (trading at the time as Abbey  National) does have to pay back to 
Miss F any commission  and profit share  it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss F to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 May 2019.
Daniel OShea
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4436753