K820x#14complaint
Mr B has complained about his home  insurer Tesco Underwriting  Limited because  it has 
avoided his policy (treated  it as though it hadnt  existed) from the point of the last renewal 
and, by association,  declined the claim made to it following a fire at his home. 
background
Towards the end of November 2017  there  was a fire at Mr Bs home. He called  Tesco and a 
loss adjuster visited the same day. Mr B felt he was intent on reducing Tescos  outlay and/or 
finding a way to decline the claim.  He felt the adjuster was unsympathetic  to the situation.
It was felt the fire may have started  within the high-tech heating system installed  in the 
basement. The adjuster arranged for forensic  specialists to visit the day after the fire to carry 
out an assessment.  The forensic specialists reported that the fire had likely started within the 
system, due to either a manufacturing  or installation defect. They  said theyd need to 
carefully dismantle  the system so it could be taken away and recreated in their lab. The 
following day, the third day after the fire, the adjuster visited  the house to find Mr B was 
already removing the system.
Later that day, after the adjuster had left Mr Bs home, Tesco updated the adjuster. It said 
that it had found  sale details for Mr Bs property.  These said the property had seven 
bedrooms  albeit one was shown  as only being accessed through  another  bedroom (which  
means it cant be classed as a bedroom). It noted  its criteria for cover allows a maximum of 
five bedrooms,  and that Mr B, when he arranged the policy  and at renewal, had told it the 
house had five bedrooms. Tesco said it was considering the matter, along with some other 
concerns and the claim was put on hold.  The adjuster confirmed to Tesco that he was 
making other  enquiries.
Also on that day Mr B exchanged contracts  for the sale of the property. 
On 4 December  Mr B emailed the adjuster and said if the system wasnt collected by 
6 December it would be disposed of because hed had to start cleaning  up. The sale of the 
property wasnt mentioned. The adjuster replied on 6 December and explained liability for 
the claim was still not accepted.
On 15 December 2017 Mr B told the adjuster that the house had been sold. He said hed 
done all the necessary work following the fire to allow  that to happen. The adjuster told 
Tesco that Mr B hadnt told it about the sale during its visit.
Following this and into January  2018, Tesco still had concerns  it wanted  to speak to Mr B 
about. Mr B told Tesco he wouldnt meet with it, or sign any statement, unless it first 
confirmed it would settle the claim. Mr B complained to Tesco that it had left his claim in 
abeyance for far too long.  He said it had set out with the intention of not assisting him and 
hadnt taken into account his wifes health.  He said it had caused  more harm than good.
The loss adjuster then wrote  to Mr B. He explained  that insurance  policies  are based on 
details provided  by the policyholder when theyre  arranged. He asked Mr B several 
questions about  the house  sale and the property  layout.  Following  receipt of a response from 
Mr B the adjuster said he believed the house had likely had six bedrooms (he didnt consider 
the seventh marketed bedroom could be seen as such because  this room could only be 
accessed through a bedroom). But Mr B had told Tesco  it had five. Mr B made a further  
Ref: DRN45549782response  he said, amongst other  things  that the sixth bedroom  referred  to by Tesco was 
designed and used as a dressing room (as the seventh had been). Therefore, his home had 
been a five-bedroom  property.
In February 2018  Tesco  issued its final response  on Mr Bs claim and complaint. Tesco  said 
it had tried to assist Mr B and that as it had been making necessary claim enquiries it hadnt 
caused the claim to be unreasonably delayed. It said it felt the sales  data did show  the 
house reasonably had six bedrooms and that Mr B had only told it there were five. It said it 
may have  been  that this change occurred  after the policy was originally arranged, but as the 
house went up for sale prior to the most  recent renewal, and the sale documents showed the 
six bedrooms (seven in total), Mr B should have told it then. As he hadnt it was avoiding his 
policy back to that point. 
Mr B said that this wasnt fair. When the policy had been arranged, and at renewal, Tesco  
had set out what it meant by bedrooms . The definition given was a room used or originally 
built to be a bedroom. Mr B said as he had designed and built the house he knew  the room 
in question had only ever been intended  for and used  as a dressing room.  He produced a 
letter from the sales agent who said the house had been described as having seven 
bedrooms merely to increase its saleability, it really only had five in line with the existing 
planning permission.  
When Tesco  wouldnt change its position Mr B complained to us. He pointed  out that the 
website the Tesco policy was sold through refers to offering cover for a maximum of six 
bedrooms, not five.
Our investigator noted that a plan Mr B had provided  did show that the room in question 
could fairly  be considered  to be a bedroom.  She felt that when answering  Tescos questions 
about the bedrooms Mr B should  reasonably have realised that describing  the room  as a 
bedroom might mean he should disclose it as such. She felt that this should  have  prompted  
Mr B to make enquiries with Tesco, and because he hadnt,  he hadnt taken reasonable 
care. She was satisfied that Tesco  wouldnt have  offered covered for a six-bedroom 
property. She felt that Tesco  had acted fairly and reasonably based on the information 
available. She felt Tescos  enquiries and actions whilst handling the claim  had been  
reasonable too.
Mr B maintained that the room  had always been a dressing  room  which  had always been 
accessed through an area which was part of the fifth bedroom. He said our findings  seemed 
to go against the definition  Tesco itself gives for bedrooms (quoted above). Mr B said he 
wholeheartedly believed the house  had five bedrooms so it wasnt  fair to say he hadnt  taken 
reasonable care when  answering Tescos question. The complaint was passed  to me for a 
decision to be made.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B has shown  us a plan of the property which he says reflects how the rooms of his 
property were designed and used. That shows two bedrooms in the loft. The left-hand  
bedroom has a door off of it leading to a dressing  room. On the right-hand  side of the loft a 
door leads  into a room  which Mr B says was a make-up area. A door off to the right of the 
make-up area leads into a bedroom  (not in dispute). There is a door on the left of the 
Ref: DRN45549783make-up area which  leads into the room subject of this complaint. If this is a dressing room 
the property has five bedrooms, if it is a bedroom  then the property has six in total.
Insurance policies  are based on risks. The insurers, having decided what risks they want to 
take communicate that to prospective  policyholders by asking them questions.  The 
Consumer Insurance  (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (the Act) requires a 
prospective policyholder  to take reasonable care, when answering  those questions, to not 
make any misrepresentation to the insurer. If a misrepresentation is made  which is a 
qualifying misrepresentation then the insurer will be allowed to take certain action. 
 
Tesco, through the sales website initially and then at renewal, asked Mr B a clear question  
about the number of bedrooms at the property. Tesco isnt the only underwriter that provides 
policies through  the website Mr B used.  Not all underwriters operate  under the same  criteria, 
so the website takes all the different criteria  into account. But Tesco has satisfied me that if 
Mr B had told it the house had six bedrooms,  it wouldnt  have offered cover. Mr B may still 
have been offered cover through that website, but not with Tesco as the underwriter/insurer.  
Because Tesco wouldnt have offered cover, if Mr B did fail to take reasonable care and 
thereby mispresented the situation, the misrepresentation would be seen to be a qualifying 
one.
Despite the website referring to cover being available  for a maximum of six bedrooms, the 
question Mr B was asked was clear.  And Mr B doesnt suggest that the reference mislead 
him into answering as he did. Rather Mr B says he designed  his house with five bedrooms 
and two dressing  rooms.  One of the dressing rooms isnt in question as it can only be 
accessed from another bedroom. Mr B says the other dressing room has always been used 
in that way, which was why he told Tesco there were five bedrooms.
If that were the end of the matter then I might well say Tesco  couldnt  fairly avoid Mr Bs 
cover. But it isnt the end because at the point the policy renewed and Mr B told Tesco there  
were only five rooms used as bedrooms, he was selling the home  on the basis  that it had 
seven bedrooms.  So he was, in my view,  using the dressing  room  (both in fact but only the 
one is relevant here) as a bedroom, even if only for the purpose of selling the property. 
I think then that when Mr B was asked how many rooms at the property were  used as 
bedrooms he should reasonably have noted that the sale of the property brought  the number 
of rooms in use as bedrooms  into some  doubt.  I think for Mr B to have taken reasonable 
care at this time to not misrepresent the situation  he should have thought to made enquiries 
with Tesco. If hed told it of the sale, how the property was marketed and the layout (as hes 
set out in the plan Ive described  above)  I think Tesco would have been of the view (as it is 
now) that this was a six-bedroom property. The situation would have been clear and no 
misrepresentation would have occurred.  As it was Mr B didnt take that reasonable step and 
the situation was misrepresented to Tesco. 
As I said above that misrepresentation  is seen to be a qualifying one. The Act then allows  
Tesco to do what it would  have done if it hadnt been  misled.  As I also mentioned  above, 
Tesco has satisfied me that it will decline all applications for properties with more  than five 
bedrooms. Therefore,  Tesco is allowed to reset the situation to what would have happened if 
it had been told Mr Bs home had six bedrooms,  and its done that by avoiding the cover to 
the point of the renewal.  That, in my view, is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Ref: DRN45549784I know Mr B would like to see the evidence from Tesco about what  it will cover  but our 
investigator has explained that we cant share  that. Thats because  its deemed to be 
confidential.
I know Mr B had concerns  from the point the loss adjuster first visited. But part of the 
adjusters job is to establish the policy liability as well as the validity  of the claim.  Making 
enquiries to satisfy those  concerns can make an adjuster  appear  unsympathetic.  I can 
understand why Mr B had some concerns but from what  hes said I dont think the adjuster 
acted unprofessionally or unreasonably.
I appreciate it felt to Mr B as though this matter took a long time to progress. However, Im 
satisfied that Tescos actions and enquiries were reasonable.  I think there  were  a number of 
things for it to take into account, although  many issues fell away as the claim progressed 
and focus fell on the issue of the number of bedrooms. Im satisfied Tesco didnt cause  any 
unreasonable delays. 
I dont doubt the episode  was upsetting  for Mr B and his wife. However, as Im satisfied that 
Tesco has acted fairly and reasonably without causing any unreasonable  delays, I find the 
upset suffered isnt due to any fault of it. I dont uphold this complaint. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  I dont make any award against Tesco Underwriting Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 October  2019..
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4554978