K821x#15complaint
Mrs W says Tesco Personal Finance PLC mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy. She bought  the PPI in 2000  whilst applying for a new credit  card through  the post. 
background
Mrs W has already  received some money back for the commission  Tesco  received  from 
selling her the PPI. Our adjudicator who looked at this case said the complaint about  the PPI 
being mis-sold should also be upheld. 
However Tesco disagrees that Mrs W was mis-sold the PPI in the first place and so the 
complaint has been passed to me for an ombudsmans final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Ws complaint.
Having carefully considered all the information,  Ive decided to uphold Mrs Ws complaint.
This case revolves around  whether Mrs W was ever eligible for the PPI. We were told Mrs W 
worked for a well-known  retailer  in 2000  and she only worked for 15 hours  per week  in that 
job. Under the rules  of the PPIs eligibility,  she therefore wouldnt have been able to benefit 
from having this type of cover and thats  why our adjudicator thought we should uphold  Mrs 
Ws complaint.
But Tesco says it spoke  to the company representing Mrs W, a while  ago. And it says Mrs W 
was working over 16 hours a week  which would make her eligible. Mrs W hasnt been able 
to find any proof of her working hours from that time period.
Tesco sent me a copy of the postal application Mrs W filled in to get her new credit  card 
back in February 2000. The form is short. And in my view, its certainly possible that it could 
have been set out more  clearly and also more comprehensively. For example, although  Mrs 
W ticked a box about having PPI, the information on the form about the policy was very brief. 
I also note that in terms of her employment  Tesco didnt ask her on the form if she was 
working more than the required 16 hours.
However I can see Mrs W wrote down  on the application form that she was employed by the 
retailer Ive mentioned above. So I think this is consistent with her recollections now. I also 
see she put down  on the application  form that her joint income was £18,360. To me, this is 
commensurate with her working  part-time and having a partner  working full time.
On this basis I find Mrs Ws testimony  plausible.
Tesco hasnt  been able to show me anything that indicates it checked Mrs Ws eligibility  for 
this PPI. Its also asked for Mrs W to produce evidence  of a part-time  role she had some  19 
years ago when it itself didnt ask for that information at the time it sold her the cover.  On the 
other hand, the testimony and evidence  Ive seen shows  its much  more likely Mrs W worked  
less than 16 hours per week.
Ref: DRN41339982Those selling  these types of policy had a duty to ensure the information  provided was clear, 
fair and not misleading. Tesco didnt do this and my finding is that Mrs W wasnt eligible for 
the PPI she was sold. So Im upholding her complaint.
what Tesco should do to put things right
Tesco should put Mrs W in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI. 
The policy should  be cancelled  if it hasnt  been  cancelled already and:
A.Tesco should find out how much Mrs W would owe on her credit card if the policy hadnt 
been added to it. It should  remove the PPI premiums  added, as well as any interest 
charged on those premiums. It should  also remove  any charges that were caused by the 
mis-sale of the PPI  as well as any interest  added to those charges.
Tesco should then refund the difference between what Mrs W owes and what she would  
have owed. If Mrs W made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Tesco  can take off 
what she got for the claim from the amount it owes her. It can also take of the 
commission element it has already paid Mrs W.
B.If  when Tesco works out what Mrs W would have owed each  month without PPI  she 
paid more than enough to clear  her balance, Tesco  should also pay simple  interest  on 
the extra  she paid.  And it should carry on paying interest  until the point when she would 
have owed  Tesco something on her credit  card.  The interest rate should be 8% a year.
C.Tesco should tell Mrs W what its done  to work out A and B.
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires  Tesco to take off tax from this interest. Tesco must give Mrs W a certificate showing  how 
much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
I uphold in full this complaint against Tesco Personal Finance PLC and require it to put 
things right for Mrs W as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 May 2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4133998