K820x#14complaint
Ms C says Barclays  Bank UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard) mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in 2001.  The policy was added  to 
Ms Cs credit  card account  when she applied for the card in person at a branch of the bank.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Ms C disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaints been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Ms Cs case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Ms Cs complaint. Ill explain why.
Ms C says she was told she had to take the PPI to get the credit  card.  I cant know  what 
was said at the meeting. But I cant fairly  rely purely  on Ms Cs recollection of a 
conversation that took place so long ago. 
Ive seen a copy of Ms Cs signed application for the credit card. It includes a section on 
Barclays Payment  Protection (a form of PPI). Theres a tick next to the statement Yes,  
I do require Barclaycard Payment Protection. The form was concise, and reasonably 
clearly set out. And I think it would have been clear from the way the form was set out 
that PPI was optional.
Its possible the form was completed by the adviser. But if it was, I think its more likely  
than not that there was discussion about PPI, and that the box was ticked because 
Ms C said she wished  to take the cover. Overall, Im satisfied, on balance, that Barclays 
made Ms C aware that the PPI was optional and that she chose to take it  although I 
can understand why she may no longer remember this, so many  years later.
Ms C told us she took out the PPI over the phone. But Im satisfied from the records that 
Barclays has provided that she applied for the credit  card and PPI at one of the banks 
branches. And I think its likely  that Barclays recommended the PPI to Ms C. This 
means it had a responsibility  to check that it was suitable  for her. But it doesnt look as if 
it was unsuitable,  based on what Ive seen  of her circumstances  at the time.
Ive borne  in mind that Ms Cs told us shed have been entitled to some sick pay from 
her employer  at the time. But if shed made a successful claim on the policy for accident, 
sickness or unemployment, it would have helped  with her monthly credit card 
repayments for up to 12 months. Thats significantly  longer than Ms Cs told us shed 
have been entitled  to full sick pay for. Whats  more, it would  have paid out in addition  to 
any payments Ms C received from her employer.  So she could have used  those to meet  
other day-to-day expenses. And she wouldnt have had to use her savings to make her 
credit card repayments.  So I think the PPI could have been useful for her.
Ref: DRN44877482Its possible the information Barclays gave Ms C about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
should have been.  But Ive explained  that Im satisfied, on balance, that Ms C chose to 
take out the policy. So she appears  to have wanted this type of cover, even  if shes 
understandably forgotten that now. Based on what shes told us, she wasnt affected by 
any of the main things  the policy didnt cover (for example,  unusual  working 
arrangements, or existing medical conditions). The policy was competitively priced and 
apparently affordable.  And since Ms C was paying for it monthly, she could have 
cancelled it at any time without further  cost if she decided  she no longer needed it.
So taking  everything into account, I think it unlikely Ms C would have made a different 
decision even  if better  information  had been  provided.  On balance I think  shed  still have 
taken out the policy.
my decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Ms Cs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 November  2019.
Juliet Collins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4487748