K820x#14Complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain  that National House-Building Council (NHBC) has unfairly declined a 
claim theyve  made on their Buildmark policy.
Background
Mr B brings this complaint on behalf of himself and his wife so Ill refer to him throughout. 
References to his actions  also include those of his wife.
Mr B purchased a property in July 2015.  The property was built in 2008  and had the benefit 
of a ten-year Buildmark building warranty.
In April 2017, Mr B noticed water  stains on the ceiling in the upstairs of the property so he 
reported this to NHBC. It arranged an inspection which recommended increasing the 
ventilation in the roof space so Mr B contacted  a roofing contractor to undertake the work. 
The contractor didnt  agree with the course of action recommended  by NHBC so Mr B 
arranged for a second inspection by a chartered  surveyor. This report said there was a 
construction fault that caused condensation  to run down the underside  of the roof underlay 
and on to the top of the ceiling plasterboard resulting in staining.
NHBC declined to cover the claim so Mr B complained. NHBC responded to say Mr Bs 
policy only covered  defects in the load bearing parts  of the roof or the roof covering. And 
because the problem had been caused  by the underlay, which  it said didnt perform either of 
these functions,  the defect wasnt  covered by the policy.
Mr B remained unhappy  and brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator 
considered the evidence  and concluded  the policy didnt  cover the damage as the cause 
didnt relate  to load bearing parts of the roof. 
She also said the consumer had raised some new points relating to the claim being covered 
under a different part of the policy and NHBC needed to be given the opportunity  to respond 
to these new comments. She therefore  didnt think it was appropriate to consider these 
under this complaint.
Mr B asked an ombudsman to make a decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And having  done so, Im not going to be 
upholding this complaint. Ill explain my reasoning.
Building warranties  arent  designed to cover every  type of damage or eventuality  that may 
occur to a house. The terms and conditions set out what is  and isnt  covered so its clear  
to consumers what to expect from the warranty.   
Its the policyholders  responsibility to demonstrate that a claim is covered by the warranty.  
Its not enough for the consumer just to show theres  a defect with the property. It must  be 
shown that the defect  is covered by the warranty. Ill look at the terms and conditions  of the 
warranty to decide  if it is, while  keeping in mind what I consider to be fair and reasonable. 
Ref: DRN42651472In short,  I would only expect an insurer to cover a claim  if its been  demonstrated  that the 
specific defect is covered by the warranty.
This warranty has different sections  of cover depending on how long ago the property was 
built. In this case, it was built in 2008  and so the relevant cover,  when the claim was made in 
2017, is Section  three of the policy.
In this case, its not in dispute theres  a defect with the property  the NHBC and chartered 
surveyors reports broadly  agree on this. The question though, is whether this defect is one 
covered under Section  three of the policy.
The terms and conditions  of Section  three explain what  NHBC will pay for:
The full cost, if it is more than £1,000 indexed, of putting right any actual physical 
damage caused by a defect in any of the following parts of the house, bungalow, 
maisonette or flat and its garage or other permanent outbuilding or its common parts:
Foundations
Load-bearing walls
Non-load bearing partition walls
Wet-applied wall plaster
Load-bearing parts  of the roof
Roof coverings
The inspection by NHBC concluded there  was a lack of ventilation  in the roof space and 
Mr Bs surveyor concluded the underlay had been installed incorrectly.  So, Ive considered  
whether these issues are covered under the two terms above I think  might be relevant in this 
case.
The load-bearing parts of the roof are the parts which, if removed, would cause part of the 
roof to collapse.  I dont think either  of the causes identified in the reports would lead to this 
happening. So, Im satisfied theyre  not covered by this part of the policy.
Mr B says the problem  relating to the underlay should  be covered under the roof coverings 
part of the policy.  In his submissions, Mr B has provided copies  of relevant sections of British  
Standards codes of practice  relating to condensation in roof spaces. Within  these  there are a 
number of diagrams  identifying key areas of various  types of roof construction.  In these, its 
clear that roof coverings  and underlay are generally  considered to be two different and 
distinct parts  of the roof structure. And because of this Im satisfied the problem with the 
underlay isnt covered  by this part of the policy either.
Following the investigators initial view on the matter, Mr B responded and said he thought  
the claim should be covered under Section four of the warranty, the part relating to NHBCs 
role as an inspector  of homes in the course of construction. The points  hes made in relation 
to this were new ones not previously made  to, or considered by, NHBC. So, I wont  comment  
on these any further.
In summary,  Im not persuaded NHBC has acted unreasonably in declining this claim and so 
I wont be asking it to do any more.
Ref: DRN42651473My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  8 July 2020.
Paul Phillips
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4265147