K820x#14complaint
Mrs S has complained that The Co-operative Bank  Plc (trading  as Britannia) mis-sold her a 
mortgage payment  protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mrs S took the policy out in 1996 around  the same time as she was arranging the mortgage.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Originally Mrs S had also complained  about  
another PPI policy that she bought in 2002. However, she says she accepts the findings of 
the adjudicator  in relation  to that sale and has withdrawn her complaint. But she still wishes  
to pursue her complaint  in relation  to the 1996  sale.
As Mrs S didnt agree  with our adjudicators  view in its entirety,  the complaint has been 
passed to me for a decision. It follows that this complaint will only deal with the PPI that was 
sold in 1996.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Ss complaint and Ill explain why.
Ive seen the mortgage application form from 1996.  There was a section  for PPI with Yes  
and No boxes that could be ticked to either request or decline the policy.  Mrs S has ticked  
No. So at this point  it is clear that she didnt want it. But it is also clear  that she was given a 
choice about buying it and decided  not to do so. If, as Mrs S has said, she was told that she 
had to have the policy,  then I would  probably  have expected her to tick the Yes  box to 
comply with what she was being  told.
Mrs S says she wasnt aware that PPI had been applied  to the mortgage account. But Ive 
seen a letter  that Mrs S then wrote to The Co-op, saying that she was enclosing a completed  
PPI form. So I consider that she must  have known  that the policy  was going to be set up. It 
seems to me that Mrs S changed her mind about buying it. Some  of The Co-ops mortgage 
products offered a reduced  interest  rate as long as two other insurance products were 
bought at the same time. I can see from Mrs Ss mortgage offer that her mortgage was 
indeed of this type. So its possible that Mrs S changed her mind about  the PPI so that she 
could benefit from a lower  interest  rate. The policy was also free for the first 12 months.
I have no doubt  that Mrs S has provided her genuine recollection of events. But the sale 
happened a long time ago and so it wouldnt be surprising if her memory has faded  slightly.  
What Mrs S recalls as being required to take PPI might be her being told she had to have 
the PPI to benefit from the preferential interest  rate. But she would still have had a choice, 
because she could  have  opted not to have the policy and then pay higher  interest  on the 
mortgage.
Ref: DRN48222612Ive thought very carefully about what Mrs S has said,  but overall I am not persuaded that 
she wasnt given a choice  about  the PPI. On balance I find that Mrs S probably  decided to 
buy the policy, knowing that she didnt have to, even if she no longer remembers  doing so.
Mrs S says that The Co-op didnt discuss the policy with her. I think Mrs S must have known 
something about the policy (that it covered her mortgage repayments if she was unable  to 
work) because I dont  think shed  have agreed to take it out without knowing anything at all 
about it. And Mrs S opted for unemployment cover only, which  suggests  that she gave some 
consideration to her own needs.
Im unsure  whether The Co-op advised  Mrs S to buy the policy  or not, but it doesnt make  a 
difference to my decision,  so I dont need  to make  a finding on that. If it was an advised sale 
then, in recommending the policy to Mrs S, The Co-op needed  to ensure that the policy was 
suitable for her. And from what I know of her circumstances  at the time,  the policy was 
suitable.
Mrs S has told us that she would have  received  two years full sick pay from her job. But as 
Ive mentioned above, Mrs S didnt take out cover  for accident or sickness,  but for 
unemployment only. Mrs S would have received redundancy pay, but the policy would have  
paid out in addition to this.
Mrs S has said she had some savings. But having  the policy would  have meant that she 
could retain  these, or use them  to cover other outgoings at what  would have been a difficult  
time. A mortgage is a significant  financial commitment and defaulting  on a mortgage can 
have serious consequences, so it wouldnt be surprising if Mrs S had an interest in protecting 
her repayments.
Its possible that The Co-op didnt provide as much  information about the policy as it could 
have, particularly about the things  that it didnt cover. But Mrs S wasnt affected by any of 
those things. As I think she had an interest in the policy and decided to buy it, I dont 
consider that further information would  have changed her mind. So she isnt any worse off as 
a result of anything The Co-op  may have done wrong, so theres nothing it needs  to do to 
put things right.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  Mrs Ss complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 October  2019.
Carole Clark
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4822261