K820x#14complaint
Mrs L complains  that Bank  of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
In 2002 Mrs L took out a mortgage  and the bank  recommended  she also take out PPI to 
protect her repayments. The PPI cost about £17 a month and would have  paid out about 
£281 a month for up to two years if Mrs L had made a successful claim.
Mrs L says she had good sick pay in 2002, so she wouldnt have bought the PPI if shed 
been told about it at the time.  Mrs L thinks the bank was wrong to sell her the policy.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.  Mrs L disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ls case
I have decided not to uphold Mrs Ls complaint and Ive set out below my reasons for this.
This is a difficult case to decide because of the lack of available evidence from the time of 
the sale. So Ive based my decision  on the evidence I do have and what I think is most likely  
to have happened.
Mrs Ls main concern is that she doesnt remember being sold the PPI and doesnt think it 
would have been suitable for her. She thinks it might  have  been  tacked  on to her mortgage  
without her knowing.
Halifax doesnt have  all the paperwork for either the mortgage  or the PPI. But this isnt 
surprising given the sale took place  about 17 years ago and the mortgage  ended in 2007.  I 
wouldnt expect either Mrs L or Halifax to keep paperwork  indefinitely.
From what  this service knows about how Halifax sold PPI at the time, its likely Mrs L was 
given a choice  about buying  the PPI. I can see from Halifaxs  internal records that its 
recorded answers to the sort of questions Id expect it to ask when selling PPI. That does 
suggest that a conversation took place about the PPI at the time. Halifax  has also sent us 
some internal records of the statement entries for the mortgage. They suggest the mortgage 
payment and PPI premium were collected  separately. So I think  theyd have shown  on Mrs 
Ls current account  as separate payments too. I think that if Mrs L didnt recognise the 
payments she could have queried this, but she hasnt said she did that.
Overall, I think Halifax most likely gave Mrs L enough information  for her to know she had 
the PPI, and that it was optional, even though I do understand why shes  forgotten this over 
the years.
Ref: DRN41245672Halifax says it advised Mrs L to buy the PPI. This means that it needed to ensure that it met 
her needs.  From what I know of Mrs Ls circumstances at the time, I think  the policy was 
suitable for them.
-Mrs L was eligible for the policy, and it doesnt look like she would have been affected by 
any of the significant  limitations  or exclusions of the cover,  such as those relating to pre-
existing medical conditions. 
-Mrs L would have  received some  sick pay if she couldnt work.  But this policy  would pay 
on top of these benefits and for considerably longer than Mrs L would likely get her full 
salary. A mortgage is a big commitment, and I think Mrs L would  have had some  use for 
the policy.
-Halifax needed to give Mrs L enough information for her to make an informed choice 
about buying the policy. I dont  know exactly when she was told what the PI would cost.  
But I do think shed have  known it cost something. The policy  was competitively  priced  
and apparently affordable, and I dont think when  Mrs L first knew  the cost affected her 
decision to buy the PPI. 
-Its possible that Halifax  could  have provided  more information about the policy,  
particularly in regard  to the things  that it didnt cover. But Mrs L wasnt affected  by any of 
these things at the time, so I dont think that more information would have caused her to 
change her mind about buying  the policy. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 July 2019.
Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4124567