K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
2004. Mr and Mrs T say National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) mis-sold them the PPI. 
The policy covered both Mr and Mrs T.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Prior to referring their complaint to our Service, a partial refund of 50% of the PPI premiums 
that had been paid was made - as NatWest upheld the sale of the PPI to Mrs T due to her 
circumstances at the time of sale. 
My decision  will only deal with the sale of PPI to Mr T, but given that Mr and Mrs T took the 
same policy out at the same time, for ease, Ill refer to both Mr and Mrs T together  in parts  of 
my decision.  But Im not making any finding,  for example, on the suitability of the PPI for Mrs 
T as NatWest have already out her back in the position shed be in if shed never taken out 
PPI. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ts case.
Ive decided the PPI wasnt  mis-sold because:
Although Mr and Mrs T have said that they were  led to believe that the PPI was 
compulsory and that their application  would be rejected if it wasnt  taken, I havent 
seen evidence to support what theyve said. 
I say this because  Ive seen copies of some the paperwork completed at the time of 
sale. In particular, a copy of a separate PPI direct debit form thats been signed  by 
Mr and Mrs T. 
Ive also seen a mortgage quotation document dated 28 November 2003  that shows 
the cost per month  of the PPI. 
Ive also seen a copy of Mr and Mrs Ts signed mortgage  application. In section 8 a 
question asks; Do you want Mortgage Repayments  Protector? on the form its been 
typed Yes - presumably following a discussion and Mr and Mrs T have signed  the 
overall application. 
On balance, I think NatWest made  it clear  that Mr and Mrs T didnt have to take out 
the PPI and they chose to take it out  although  I can understand why they may not 
remember this.
NatWest didnt recommend the PPI to Mr and Mrs T so it didnt have to check  if it 
was right for them. But it did have to make sure Mr and Mrs T got the information 
they needed to decide if it was right for them. 
Ref: DRN40960442Its possible the information NatWest gave Mr and Mrs T about the PPI wasnt as 
clear as it shouldve  been.  But they chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like they 
wanted this type of cover.  
Specifically for Mr T (as Ive explained above), based on what  Ive seen  of his 
circumstances at the time, it doesnt  look like he was affected by any of the 
exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover - so it would have been  useful  for him if 
something went wrong. 
Ive carefully considered  what Mr T has said about not needing  PPI because of his 
existing means. But this PPI policy could have  paid out for up to 12 months per claim,  
whereas Mr Ts sick pay would have decreased to half pay after 6 months.  It also 
looks like the PPI was affordable.  
So I dont  think better information about the PPI would have put Mr T off taking  out 
the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs T have said, including  what theyve said about 
Mr T being in a secure job. But nobody can accurately predict the future  and having this PPI 
policy would help protect Mr Ts financial position if he was to experience an unexpected 
change in circumstances such as being made redundant  and these points dont change my 
decision.
Ive also thought about the commission Mr and Mrs T paid on their PPI  and whether 
NatWest treated them unfairly.  
NatWest has told us that the commission  for Mr and Mrs Ts PPI was less than half of what  
they paid for each  premium. Weve looked  at how NatWest has been  working  this out and 
based on what weve seen it looks like its right  Mr and Mrs Ts commission was less than 
half the cost of the PPI. As thats the case,  I dont think it needed to tell them about the 
commission  so I dont  think  NatWest treated them unfairly. This means  it doesnt need  to 
pay Mr and Mrs T back any of the commission they paid for the PPI. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  13 June  2019.
Daniel OShea
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4096044