K820x#14complaint
Miss S says Bank of Scotland Plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold her a payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
In 1993 Miss S bought  PPI at the same time as she applied  for a mortgage. The policy  gave 
her protection against accident,  sickness and unemployment. She paid a monthly amount for 
it. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Miss S disagreed so the complaint was passed 
to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Our general  approach to complaints about  PPI is on our website and Ive followed it here. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Miss Ss complaint. Ill explain  why.
I cant know what was said in the meeting but Miss S signed  a separate  PPI application form 
to confirm she wanted to take out PPI, answering a number of questions to confirm  her 
eligibility for the cover.  This form also set out the cost of the PPI separately. And I cant find 
anything on it that I think  could reasonably have led Miss S to think she had to have PPI. 
Overall, I think its most likely Halifax made  it clear  to Miss S that the PPI was optional,  and 
she agreed to take it out. 
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Miss S. I know she feels  strongly that she didnt need it and 
that the bank didnt  adequately consider her circumstances, but I think it seems to have been 
right for her based on what Ive seen. Miss S was entitled to six months full pay and six 
months half pay if she was sick, with the potential for this to be extended  at a reduced level 
in certain circumstances. But the PPI would have paid out in addition  to her work benefits for 
up to 24 months for all accident  and sickness claims. And Miss S couldve made repeated  
claims on the policy giving her long term cover  for her mortgage. It also gave her up to 12 
months redundancy cover which would have allowed  her to protect any lump  sum 
redundancy payment giving her increased  financial stability at a difficult  time.
 
Miss S had around £9,700 in savings at the time of the sale but the PPI would have meant  
she could use these  to cover other living expenses whilst not working, or keep them  intact 
for her future needs. In addition, Miss S may not have always had that level of savings 
available to her. 
Ref: DRN43598332Miss S also had a number  of other insurances (a Hospital Income Benefit Builder, a 
Personal Accident  Plan and some personal  accident cover on her car insurance), a death-in-
service benefit and life cover. I have reviewed  the policies she sent in carefully and whilst 
there might have been some overlap if certain  events occurred, none offer the same breadth 
or length of protection as PPI - and some protect  against entirely different events. Miss S 
also says she would  have  received  state help through  the support for mortgage  interest  
scheme, but that was only available to people in receipt of certain  benefits  so she may not 
have qualified (depending on why she wasnt working). It isnt a suitable alternative to PPI.
Miss S was borrowing quite a large  sum over a long period, secured on her home. I know  
she believes  she had sufficient other means not to need PPI and I have considered  all of her 
points carefully. But given how serious  the effects  of not keeping up with mortgage 
repayments could  have been  I think the PPI would have been useful for her if she were sick, 
had an accident  or lost her job. It wouldve meant  at an already difficult  time she could be 
sure shed always be able to keep up the monthly  repayments in order  to protect her home.
Its possible Halifax didnt give Miss S all the information she needed  before  she decided to 
buy PPI. The cost was clear on the PPI application form however, and the PPI was 
competitively priced and apparently affordable. And Miss S doesnt appear to have been  
affected by any of the main exclusions or limitations  (such as those affecting people  with 
pre-existing medical conditions or on certain  types  of employment contract). Overall, I dont 
think better information wouldve changed  her decision.
It follows I dont think Miss S has lost out because of any problems with this sale.  
my final decision
My decision  is I dont  uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 April 2019.
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4359833