K821x#15complaint
Mr H complains about how British  Gas Insurance Limited (BG) dealt with his HomeCare 
insurance policy claim. My references to BG include its agents.
background
On 16 August 2018 Mr H found a stain on his landing ceiling and called BG to make a claim 
for an emergency plumber to repair  a leak. BGs  contracted engineer found a leak from the 
cold water  storage tank. Mr H says the engineer told him a new tank was needed  but 
wouldnt be ready until the next week so to wrap towels around  the pipe.
On 23 August Mr H chased BG. He said the leak was causing more damage; the back  
bedroom (recently decorated) and the landing ceilings had become quite stained. BG found  
that no replacement  water tank had been arranged so it then scheduled  the installation for 
31 August 2018.  In the interim, on 26 August, drips  of water came  through Mr Hs loft hatch 
so BGs engineer  emptied  and isolated  the tank. 
Mr H complained about the delay. BG accepted it should have done more  and ultimately  
offered to repair or pay £170 for the repair cost and £80 for Mr Hs distress  and 
inconvenience.
Mr H complained to us, represented by his partner. He says BGs offer isnt enough.
Our investigator thought BG should  repair the additional  damage to the ceiling and walls or if 
the damage had been repaired it should  refund the cost plus interest, once Mr H provided  
receipts. It should also pay £200 compensation in total.
BG didnt  substantively reply to the investigators recommendation. Mr H said BGs lack of 
response summed up how BG had given  them  no customer  care. He said its delay in taking 
responsibility for the redecoration of the two rooms ruined his and his partners Christmas 
plans as instead of having guests to stay as planned they had to stay in a hotel which  he 
found embarrassing. He added  that he had no trust in BG doing the repair  and wanted it to 
pay for local trade people  of his choice to do the decoration. He also suggested the 
compensation be increased  to reflect the time taken to resolve the matter.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to decide whether BGs offer was fair and reasonable and I dont think  it was. I uphold 
this complaint. Ill explain why.
If BG had ordered the replacement tank as originally planned BG would have been in a 
position to do the repair about  a week sooner. So BGs delay meant water leaked  for about a 
week longer than it should have.  
Theres also the issue of whether  the tank should  have been  drained and isolated when 
Mr H first reported  the leak. In hindsight  as water came through the loft the drainage/isolation 
should have happened.  But Ive no evidence to show whether the extent of the leak was 
Ref: DRN49278302obvious at the time the engineer first attended. Also it would have meant that Mr H had no 
water upstairs, which is a concern hes raised for the period from 23 to 31 August.
But what  is clear is that BGs  delay  caused  more water damage to the property than there 
would have been if the replacement water tank had been ordered  as planned. BG is 
responsible for repairing  the additional  damage  that occurred.
Mr H hasnt had the redecoration done and now wants to use a local decorator as he doesnt 
trust BG to do the repair. BG offered £170 towards  repair costs  and Ive no evidence  to show  
that wouldnt cover the cost of the repair of the additional damage. Even if a private 
decorator cost more its not reasonable for me to say BG should pay more than what it would  
cost it to do the repair. So Im going to give Mr H the option  of whether to have BG do the 
repair or for it to pay him £170 for the repair costs, whichever he prefers.
Mr H had the inconvenience and upset of the additional damage.  He was without hot water 
for ten days and he altered his social arrangements due to the poor state of decoration. BG 
hasnt made  any comments on our investigator's recommendation of £200  compensation in 
total for distress and inconvenience. Although Mr H has suggested the amount increase 
there's no basis for me to do so. I think £200,  inclusive of BGs original offer of £80, is fair 
compensation for all the issues Mr H has mentioned.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I require British Gas Insurance Limited to:
either repair the additional damage caused  by the leak or pay Mr H £170 for repair  
costs, whichever Mr H prefers,  and 
pay Mr H £200 compensation in total for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my 6 April 2019.
Nicola Sisk
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4927830