K820x#14complaint
Mr M feels that Creation  Financial Services Limited has treated him unfairly  in the way it 
dealt with him when  he was late in making a payment to his credit account.
background
Mr Ms statement was dated in early November 2018 and was due three weeks later. Mr M 
missed the payment date so was charged a late fee. Mr M tried to pay online but couldnt. 
He then started receiving  calls from Creation chasing him for the arrears  due on his account. 
So Mr M complained.
Creation explained he owed the money  and it was entitled to contact  him about it. It 
explained when  accounts fell into arrears  it would try to talk to those account holders and 
thats why Mr M couldnt pay online.  Mr M didnt think that was fair so he complained  to this 
service.
The investigator did not agree with Mr M and said Creations response was reasonable. As 
Mr M remains unhappy his complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of their complaint.
Having considered the entirety of the matter I do not think  this complaint should be upheld.  I 
say this for the following  reasons which I see as key to this complaint.
Mr M has an agreement  with Creation  which has certain criteria to it. This includes late fees 
and that it can contact him if it considers  that appropriate. I can see Mr M did pay some  
money towards the outstanding amount but not enough to clear the arrears. And that his 
account stayed  in arrears  for some time.
Mr M says Creation kept calling him and that is unfair. But he did owe them money  under the 
agreement they had. And Creation has explained that the calls purpose is to arrange  getting 
things back on track  and that if Mr M engages with those calls and a plan is agreed  Creation 
would stop contacting him. Creation has pointed to the rules regarding contacting account 
holders and Mr M hasnt  shown that it has broken those rules.
Mr M says its unfair that for those who are in arrears Creation stops them  being  able to pay 
online. But Creation explains that it does this in order to be able to talk to its customers 
about their situation  so that something mutually agreeable can be decided to help the 
situation.
If Mr M is suffering financial difficulties he should tell Creation and ask for its help. Its 
obliged to treat his situation positively and sympathetically if he shows  it that hes in such  
difficulty.
Creation is entitled  to run its business  in the manner it sees fit and as such  it is entitled to 
contact Mr M in order to arrange for him to pay it what it owes it.
Ref: DRN40414432I can appreciate Mr Ms frustration at receiving  calls about the money  he owed Creation, but 
it is entitled to do this and will do so in future if Mr M doesnt engage with it about his account 
when hes in arrears.
I appreciate this isnt the decision that Mr M wants to hear. But I think that Creation hasnt 
done anything  wrong. Consequently  I do not uphold  this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I do not uphold the complaint against Creation Financial 
Services Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 November 2019.
Rod Glyn-Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4041443