K821x#15complaint
Mr W complains The Co-operative Bank  Plc wont refund him money  that was transferred 
out of his account. He says he didnt agree to anybody making  these transfers on his behalf.
Mr W is helped  in his complaint by his solicitor and a representative. But for ease, Ill refer to 
everything thats been said by Mr W and on his behalf as if the information  had come direct 
from him. 
background
The details of whats happened here are well-known to Mr W and the Co-op.  And theyve 
been set out in some detail by our investigator. So I hope both parties  will accept the 
following as a brief summary:
Mr W was in prison  without direct access to his Co-op accounts;
Mrs W and Mr X accessed Mr Ws accounts and transferred money to themselves 
through online banking and by mobile  phone and spent money using a new debit  card;
When Mr W discovered what had happened, he complained  to the Co-op;
The bank refunded the money spent using  Mr Ws debit card  but it wouldnt give him 
the money transferred through online banking or by mobile phone;  and
The Co-op said Mr W had been  grossly negligent  because hed told the bank Mrs W had 
all his security information (and his card and PIN).
The bank refunded the amounts spent  using Mr Ws card because  itd wrongly sent a new 
debit card (to Mrs W). The amounts  the Co-op wouldnt  refund were:
£5,975.50 transferred through online banking; and
£320.00 transferred by (an app on) a mobile  phone.
Mr W wasnt happy with the banks response. So he contacted us and one of our 
investigators looked into things for him.
The Co-op said that it wouldnt be fair to make it refund the money  because  Mr W had 
compromised the security of his accounts by passing information to Mrs W (and then onto 
Mr X). Mr Ws story about what had happened wasnt consistent, particularly in relation to 
how Mrs W might have earlier known the security information about his account.
There was some concern  that Mr W had telephoned  the bank on 15 September  2018 to get 
new online  banking details  only for Mr X (and Mrs W) to also ring the bank later the same  
day, clearly knowing  about the call Mr W had made earlier.
Ref: DRN43013862The investigator considered what both parties  had said and thought  the Co-op was aware 
Mr W was in prison at the time  so it should have realised any contact from Mrs W (or Mr X 
impersonating Mr W) was wrong. She didnt think the bank had done enough to protect 
Mr Ws online banking.  So the investigator said the Co-op should:
refund the total £6,295.50;
re-work Mr Ws accounts so any fees and charges  that had been applied  as a result  of 
the disputed transactions were refunded;
pay Mr W simple interest at 8% on the amounts refunded;
reduce the refunds  by £35 if it wanted to (as this was an amount the Co-op could still 
hold Mr W responsible  for); and
remove any entries it had reported  to any fraud  prevention  agency  (FPA) or credit 
reference agency (CRA)
In coming to this recommendation, the investigator  had considered  the requirements of the 
Payment Services Regulations 2017  (PSRs), which set out when a bank can hold a 
customer responsible  for transactions on their account. The PSRs  allow  a bank to hold a 
customer responsible  for the first £35 of any loss. Because  of the actions  of Mrs W and 
Mr X, the investigator wasnt  persuaded Mr W had authorised or consented to the transfers  
so the Co-op should refund them.
Mr W accepted the investigators recommendation. But the Co-op didnt and asked  for an 
ombudsman to review  the complaint and issue a final decision on it.
In summary,  the bank  didnt think the investigator  had properly weighed  the evidence  that it 
was only because of Mr Ws actions in passing  information to Mrs W (and Mr X) that allowed 
the transfers to take place. The Co-op  understood that Mr W wasnt  in prison  all the time and 
was concerned that he hadnt reported the matter (Mrs W) to the police.
The bank also said it was clear Mr W knew it wouldnt accept any specific instructions from 
Mrs W as the accounts were in his name   so he had, effectively,  consented to Mr X acting 
on his behalf.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on Mr Ws complaint in March 2020.
What seemed to have  happened here is the trust Mr W had placed in somebody  else (Mrs W) 
had been abused. Clearly  its wrong for anybody to abuse the trust theyve been given. But 
I didnt necessarily think the Co-op  should suffer the loss arising  from that abuse of trust. 
I didnt think the Co-op  needed to refund the money  transferred through  online banking.
Ref: DRN43013863my provisional findings and provisional decision
I could see Mr W felt very strongly about whats happened here. That was clear from what  
hed said to both the Co-op and to us. And that wasnt surprising. There was over £6,000  
thats been transferred out of his accounts. So he was bound  to be concerned.
But I had to tell Mr W that I didnt agree with the investigator. I didnt think  the Co-op  had to 
refund him all the money  that was transferred out of his accounts. I think the bank only had 
to refund the money transferred using (the app on) a mobile phone.  It didnt have to refund  
the online transfers.
Were an informal dispute resolution  service  as an alternative to the courts.  But in coming 
to any provisional  or final decision on a complaint, I have to take into account  all the 
circumstances  in this case surrounding  the transfers that were being disputed. And I had to 
take account of, amongst other things, relevant law, rules and regulations.
had the relevant law, rules, regulations etc. been  considered?
Here the investigator  was right that the PSRs are relevant. They are regulations made  under  
statute  so they are legal  requirements. And the Co-op isnt disputing  this  rather how they 
had been interpreted in light of the circumstances.
So, I was satisfied the relevant law, rules and regulations have been considered by the 
investigator. And they were  what I was mindful of in my consideration.
the wider circumstances of the complaint
I explained the key thing  is whether those  requirements could be applied  to the 
circumstances of Mr Ws complaint purely  in terms of what was right or wrong. The various  
requirements must be put in context. Thats what is meant by us having  to consider all the 
circumstances of what happened and, in light of those, deciding  what  is a fair and 
reasonable outcome  for both parties.
So, I went on to explain the issues I considered  in coming to my conclusion that it wouldnt 
be fair to make  the Co-op refund Mr W all the money that was transferred. The key one was 
the call Mr W makes to the bank on 15 September 2018.
I noted the Co-op said Mr W wasnt in (a secure) prison all the time. But having  listened to 
the recording of that call Mr W makes  to the bank, I was satisfied he was in prison at that 
time. And both Mr and Mrs W confirmed hes in prison during telephone calls to the bank  
before then. So I was satisfied  the bank was aware  of Mr Ws situation. But that didnt  mean 
the Co-op alone was responsible for what happened  after that  and the security of Mr Ws 
accounts.
getting new online banking details
The purpose of that call on 15 September was clearly to get new online banking details. 
Mr W told the bank staff member hes having difficulty in accessing online banking and 
needs this to be reset. This is set in motion  (to be done electronically). He didnt give the 
bank the impression this is something hes not doing   or isnt able to do  himself.
Ref: DRN43013864Later that day Mr X rings the bank  impersonating  Mr W as the new online banking  details havent 
arrived. It was clear  that Mr X is only able to make this call because  Mr W has been in touch with 
Mrs W, who had passed the information about Mr Ws earlier call with the bank onto her.
This placed Mr W in a difficult position. It was only through  his actions that Mrs W and Mr X 
had access to carry out online banking on his accounts. Mr W said he was trying to make  a 
payment at the time.  So it seemed to me that he was working with Mrs W to achieve this. The 
fact that the payment that Mr W wanted to make doesnt actually take place, didnt  remove his 
active involvement (and encouragement)  in allowing somebody else access to his account(s).
So I didnt think itd be fair to make  the Co-op suffer the loss of nearly £6,000 when  this had 
been facilitated by Mr Ws actions.
But I didnt agree with the bank when it argued  that Mr W effectively  gave formal  consent to 
Mr X to operate his accounts. This focussed  too much on the specific  issue of consent,  
rather than the wider circumstances of the complaint.
did Mr W authorise the transfers made using (the app on) a mobile phone?
It wasnt clear  to me how Mr W was directly involved in the transfers made  using a mobile  
phone. It seemed clear the phone  was with Mrs W. There  was perhaps some  debate  over 
how Mrs W knew the security information  to be able to use the phone for banking purposes. 
I was aware of the inconsistencies in Mr Ws story  here.
But, on balance, I wasnt persuaded there was enough evidence to say he was actively 
involved in these transfers. There was nothing comparable with the involvement in (granting  
Mrs W and Mr X) the online banking details.
So I thought  the Co-op  should refund the £320 transferred using a mobile phone. While the 
bank could  under the PSRs  deduct £35 from this refund, doing  so would be unusual.  So 
I said it would be disappointing if the Co-op  did so.
why were the transfers treated differently  to the spending on the debit card?
The Co-op accepted it acted wrongly  in sending a replacement debit card to Mr Ws home 
address  because  this was done at the request of Mrs W. The bank should perhaps  have  
got specific instructions  for this new card from Mr W. Id seen no evidence it did.
So, I was satisfied Mr W wasnt involved in the replacement of the debit card at all  and the 
Co-op was right to refund the spending  carried out using  it.
should the Co-op have blocked or restricted Mr Ws accounts?
It was clear the bank  was on notice that Mr W was in prison. But that didnt mean  the bank 
should prevent  Mr W from using his accounts. It was also clear to me that Mr W was using 
his accounts  albeit remotely and through Mrs W  extensively  while  he was in prison.
I said it was perhaps debateable  whether the banks systems should  flag in some  way that 
an account holder  is in prison. Thats a matter  for the bank. Its not our role to say how any 
financial business should operate. So, on balance, I didnt think  the Co-op  could be held 
accountable on this particular point.
Ref: DRN43013865summary (and my provisional decision)
I was satisfied that Mr Ws actions were such that they enabled the online transfers to take 
place. So the Co-op didnt  have  to refund them. But it should refund  the transfers made 
using (the app on) a mobile phone.
It wasnt clear  to me what information the Co-op  may have passed to either a FPA or a CRA. 
But I said that if any adverse information  had been recorded about the mobile phone 
transfers, this should  be removed.
I said if the bank  wished to provide evidence of the impact of re-working  Mr Ws accounts 
following the proposed refund of £320 it could do so. This will mean my final decision on this 
complaint would be clearer in terms of the redress awarded.
responses to my provisional  decision  and my further findings
The Co-op didnt  respond to my provisional decision.
Not surprisingly, Mr W didnt agree with my provisional decision. He still thought  the bank 
should refund the amounts transferred using online banking  and provided  detailed 
comments on some elements of my provisional decision. Im grateful for the time taken in 
responding. In summary he said:
The Co-op must  have  realised Mrs W couldnt be with Mr W (on the basis the bank  was 
on notice Mr W was in prison) when the call was made in the afternoon  of 15 
September, so why had it allowed her to take part in the conversation Mr X 
(impersonating Mr W) was having with the bank;
The Co-op shouldnt have sent the new online banking details to another  email address  
given by Mr X;
If he was to be held responsible for any of the loss, it should be no more than 25%  as 
the bank had made the greater number of errors. All hed done  was allegedly passed  
on information  to his wife;
If, as Id suggested, the Co-op  was on notice that Mr W was in prison then this should 
be recorded  in the banks  systems  as a failure to do so would not prevent fraud  and an 
experienced call handler at the bank should have realised  something  wasnt right; and
There had been an automated system  used  to verify some transactions on Mr Ws 
account He wasnt  sure if that applied at the time of the transfers but if it wasnt used 
then it did provide further  evidence the bank hadnt updated  Mr Ws status  and address 
(to being in prison).
I accept the Co-ops  actions arent  perfect  here.  But to satisfy  myself as to where the 
responsibility for the loss should rest, Ive gone  back and listened to the recordings of both 
calls on 15 September  2018.
Having done so, I remain of the view that this very sad situation arises  from Mr W passing 
information about new online banking details being  sent on to Mr W. Had he not done  so, 
neither Mrs W or Mr X would have been  able to access his online banking.
Ref: DRN43013866In listening to the call in the afternoon (from  first Mr X and then Mrs W) its clear Mr X knows  
where the Co-op is meant  to be sending the new online  banking  details. Hed probably  know  
that from Mrs W. But before the Co-op takes any action to re-send  the details, it asks Mr X 
(believing it to be Mr W at that point in the call) for a piece of security  information. Mr X 
provides that without  any hesitation. So the Co-op call handler would reasonably believe 
they were talking to Mr W. So it isnt any great surprise they agreed to re-send  the online 
banking details to another email address.
I do accept that when Mrs W joins the call the Co-op call handler might  have thought  
something was strange.  But the earlier part of the conversation (with Mr X) would  probably  
have provided  enough  reassurance the call was legitimate.
And  as I indicated in my earlier findings  I think there is something  in the fact that Mr W 
was clearly seeking the help of his wife (although  perhaps not Mr X) in using his account 
remotely. I cant ignore he did this.
Im not aware of any automated  verification  system being used for the online banking  
transfers. Usually these  involve time limited passcodes being sent to mobile phones. And in 
these cases, any such codes would, most likely,  be sent to the mobile phone used by Mrs W 
and Mr W would be aware of that.
As I said in my provisional decision,  what seems  to have happened  here is the trust Mr W 
had placed in somebody else had been  abused. But that doesnt  necessarily  mean itd be 
fair for the Co-op  should suffer the loss arising  from that abuse of trust.
Im not persuaded the further comments from Mr W are enough to make  me change the 
provisional decision. So Im upholding Mr Ws complaint  but only in part.
I realise Mr W will be disappointed with this. He may wish to pursue the matter  through other 
means. But my decision brings to an end what we, in trying to resolve  his dispute with the 
Co-op informally, can do for him. Im sorry were not able to help Mr W any further on this.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  my final decision is that The Co-operative Bank Plc should:
refund the £320.00 transferred out of Mr Ws accounts using (the app on) a mobile  
phone;
re-work Mr Ws accounts if necessary so any fees and charges  that had been applied  as 
a result  of the disputed  mobile  phone transactions  are also refunded;
pay Mr W simple interest at 8% on the amounts refunded;
reduce the refunds  by £35 if it wants to (as this was an amount the Co-op  can still hold 
Mr W responsible for); and
Ref: DRN43013867remove any adverse information it had reported to any fraud prevention agency or credit 
reference agency regarding the transfers that it is now required to refund.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W (or his 
solicitor or representative)  to accept or reject my decision before 27 May 2020.
Andrew Davies
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4301386