K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc has unfairly been charging him unarranged 
overdraft fees which  he wanted refunded, but instead  HSBC closed his account.
background
Mr D told HSBC he had no access to his account and so wasnt able to prevent it going into 
an unauthorised  overdraft. He felt the charges were unfair and should be refunded.
HSBC conducted  a review of Mr Ds account, and as a consequence it decided that it no 
longer wished to bank  with him. HSBC  wrote to Mr D to tell him it would be closing his 
account immediately.  HSBC said it reserves the right to review customers  accounts and 
decide whether  it wishes  to continue a banking relationship. Mr D didnt think  this was fair.
The investigator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld.  He said HSBCs  charges were 
set out within the terms and conditions of the account and were correctly  applied in Mr Ds 
circumstances. He said HSBCs terms and conditions allow it to review and close  accounts 
without customers permission, and HSBC had acted reasonably in closing Mr Ds account.
Mr D disagreed with the investigator, saying  he didnt have access to his bank statements. 
Mr D requested that an ombudsman review  his complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked closely  at the decisions  and handling of Mr Ds account by HSBC to see if it has 
acted in accordance  with the terms and conditions of the account  and to see if it has treated 
him fairly.
When Mr Ds account went into an unauthorised overdraft HSBC applied  charges totalling 
£110. These are in line with HSBCs tariff of charges  which forms part of the terms and 
conditions of the account. Mr D said he hadnt  got access to the account, but debits had 
been made and I can see no reason why HSBC  shouldnt  apply its charges to his account.
Banks are required to follow legal and regulatory obligations and these include that they 
review customers  accounts, and where  they feel it appropriate, close  accounts.  From  what  I 
have seen HSBC  has correctly followed its legal obligations and acted within  the terms and 
conditions of Mr Ds account  in deciding to close his account. 
Although it is frustrating to Mr D, banks are allowed to close accounts without giving their 
customers a reason for their decision,  and our service cannot  require  them to do so. 
In conclusion I am satisfied that HSBC has treated Mr D fairly in applying charges and 
subsequently closing his account  and I cannot uphold his complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given it is my final decision that the complaint  is not upheld.
Ref: DRN45263392Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 August 2019.
Andrew Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4526339