K820x#14complaint
Mr S has complained HSBC UK Bank plc wont refund him for cash  machine withdrawals 
which he didnt make.
background
In December 2018 Mr S contacted HSBC to complain  about a large number of cash 
withdrawals which had been made  from 28 October  until 24 December 2018.  These  
withdrawals had been made with a new card which Mr S ordered in branch on 17 October. A 
PIN reminder was also sent to him.
Mr S told HSBC  he suspected his cleaner  had made  these withdrawals without his authority. 
HSBC didnt agree this was the case.  They wouldnt refund him. Although they in fact 
refunded him £250 in January 2019 bringing his disputed claim down to £1,751.62 in total.
In January 2018 HSBC had warned Mr S theyd be unlikely to make further refunds as a 
gesture of goodwill as they had been doing. Mr S had made  four previous fraud claims; also 
in the main committed by his cleaner.  HSBC  had given him advice. Mr S had agreed not to 
use a further debit card (until he ordered one from the bank  in October 2018). In total HSBC 
had already refunded nearly  £6,350 before this fraud claim.
Although HSBC never gave Mr S a final response, Mr S contacted us quickly  after he spoke 
to HSBC when  they confirmed  they wouldnt refund him. Mr S told us of his vulnerability: he 
is registered blind and has had difficulties with members of his family. One member, 
specifically, has physically  attacked  him and made  him give her money.
After looking at the detailed evidence including speaking to Mr S, our investigator told him 
she wouldnt  be asking HSBC to refund  him. She thought the evidence pointed  to Mr S 
having authorised the withdrawals himself. She specifically highlighted the different stories 
hed told us and HSBC. She appreciated that the time that had passed since may have 
meant Mr S was confused about what had happened and when.
Mr S was unhappy with this outcome.  He was overdrawn  on his HSBC  account and had 
been relying on having this money refunded. Hes asked an ombudsman to make a decision  
on his complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same  conclusion as our investigator  and for roughly similar  
reasons.
Where there is a dispute about what happened, I have based my decision on the balance  of 
probabilities. In other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light 
of the evidence.
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance  and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
Ref: DRN45504282The Payment Services Regulations (PSRs) are the relevant law here. These  primarily 
require banks to refund customers  if they didnt make or authorise payments themselves. 
Certain other  circumstances do apply  but nothing thats had an impact on the decision Im 
making here.  So when  we look at whether a bank has acted fairly in rejecting  someones  
fraud complaint, one of the things  we consider is whether the customer made the 
transactions themselves or allowed  them to be made. If they did, then we generally  wouldnt 
ask the bank to refund  them.
Im not going  to cover all the points raised in detail. The view of 17 November 2020 covered 
the detailed timeline of the transactions and the details of Mr Ss testimony. 
No discourtesy is intended by me not covering all issues. Instead,  Ive focussed on what I 
think are the key matters  here and which impact the decision  Im making. Our rules  allow  me 
to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature  of our service as a free alternative to the 
courts.
The following  points cover the issues Ive considered:
Mr S has told us this is his only bank account.  I dont believe  that can always have 
been true. He certainly had an account  with another bank  at some stage. For about 
six months before the disputed transactions, Mr S made little or no use of his HSBC  
account. His benefit payments werent  being  made  into this account until 
28 November 2018 (and subsequently  any benefit payments  are being made 
elsewhere too).
Ive also reviewed the previous fraudulent claims Mr S submitted to HSBC.  I note 
after more than £2,900 was refunded in January 2018, Mr S withdrew large  amounts 
of money in branch practically on a daily basis. His use then changed  drastically 
before he was able to pay more money into this account in October 2018 enabling 
him to use it again.
Mr S admits  to making payments  into his account from 17 to 26 October  2018.  In one 
of the branches  after paying in nearly £110,  a new debit card was ordered. I think its 
most unlikely this could  have been  done by anyone  else other than Mr S. Mr S has 
been unclear about whether he did this or not.
Mr S has told us hed saved up the money he paid into his HSBC  account at home. If 
in fact the withdrawals  were being made by his cleaner  as he told us, I believe it 
would have been much easier for that person to have just stolen cash  from him at 
home rather than steal both his new debit card, as well as his PIN notification  which  
Mr S had asked to be re-sent.
There is no evidence from Mr Ss bank statements how else hed be managing  for 
money if hed not been making  the cash machine withdrawals   or authorised 
someone else to make them on his behalf.
I also find it difficult to understand why Mr S would pay money into his HSBC account  
if hed not been  intending to make use of it. I suspect thats why he deliberately  
requested a new debit card to be sent to him.
There are also a few instances  where the genuine debit  card and PIN are being used 
during the period of the disputed withdrawals. This suggests  at a minimum that if 
someone else had been using his card, they were returning it to where Mr S kept it 
regularly. This would certainly  be possible  if the person whod used his card was in 
and out his home regularly, like his cleaner who I believe came in three days a week.
Except Mr S has subsequently told us he doesnt think his cleaner did this. A family 
member was physically  assaulting him and making him give her money. Mr Ss story  
Ref: DRN45504283about exactly when  this happened  (he said in late December 2018) has contradicted  
the facts. The disputed use of his card came to an end on 24 December 2018. 
Obviously its possible Mr S is mistaken  about  the exact dates.
However Mr S was insistent that he reported  this family member to the police and 
took out an injunction against  them. He said theres no paperwork available  as he 
wasnt given any because  hes registered as blind. Im afraid I find it hard to believe  
Mr S would have no physical evidence of something this important.
So in reviewing the evidence I think its more than likely Mr S either  made the withdrawals 
himself or  because hes insistent his condition means he cant  use cash machines  asked 
someone else to make  the withdrawals on his behalf,
Ive considered Mr Ss vulnerability and whether it is possible he was being taken advantage 
of either  by a family member or his cleaner. Its certainly possible this may have occurred. 
But I dont think this is the most likely  story. Firstly as Mr S had been a victim of fraud 
previously (potentially by his cleaner) and been told by HSBC they wouldnt refund him, I 
think its likely hed have taken as much care as possible  with his card (and PIN). And the 
most likely time period for any abuse  by the family  member doesnt match the time period for 
the disputed withdrawals.
Whilst Im very sympathetic to Mr Ss position,  overall and on balance Im not going to ask 
HSBC to do anything  further as I dont believe Mr S has been a victim  of fraud.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is not to uphold Mr Ss complaint against HSBC 
UK Bank plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 March  2021.
Sandra Quinn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4550428