K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains that Gefion Insurance A/S (Gefion) cancelled his policy  unfairly as it said 
there was a problem  with the documents he provided. 
He is also unhappy  that Gefion retained  all of the premiums for the policy despite it being 
cancelled mid-term.
background
Mr W bought a private hire insurance  policy in July 2018. As part of the verification process 
he was asked to provide  some documents to Gefion, this included among other things 
copies of the V5 document and the vehicle licence.
Mr W provided the documents  and Gefion found  the following  discrepancies:
The V5 document was registered in a different address from Mr Ws
The vehicle licence  had been  amended by hand  it showed the name and address 
of the previous licence holder crossed out by hand and Mr W s details written  
alongside it
Gefion issued a seven day notice of cancellation  letter to Mr W, as it said the documents 
werent acceptable. Mr Ws broker  then got in touch with Gefion  and told it that the issuing 
licencing authority  had made the amendments. It said this was common practice when  a 
vehicle changed  ownership but the licence wasnt due for renewal.
Gefion then contacted the issuing licensing authority to authenticate the document. The 
licencing authority  told Gefion that the document was not a genuine one. It also said 
I can confirm that we never alter any licences,  if the licence was to be in another  
name a vehicle transfer would have taken place to re-issue the licence in the new 
name, we have not been advised of a transfer  in this instance.
Based on this Gefion  cancelled  the policy with immediate effect and sent a cancellation  letter 
to Mr W. It retained  all premiums for the policy. 
The policy contains  the following term:
Cancellation by us - non-compliance with policy  terms and conditions, failure  
to make a fair presentation of risk or fraud to gain advantage from this policy
We or your insurance intermediary can cancel this policy if we or your insurance 
intermediary become aware  that you have misrepresented or provided fraudulent  
information or have  been using the motor vehicle(s) other than in accordance with 
the policy terms and conditions. Your policy will be cancelled by giving you 7 days  
notice either  in writing  or by registered e-mail  to the last address notified to us.
Providing there have  been no claims or incidents likely to give rise to a claim in the 
current period of insurance, we will allow a refund of premium equivalent to the 
unexpired period of cover  on a pro-rata basis after the deduction of our £25 
administration fee or 10% of return premium (up to a maximum £50) whichever is 
greater. However, where the non-compliance or failure to make  a fair presentation of 
the risk is found to be reckless and or malicious, we reserve the right to immediately 
Ref: DRN42933262cancel or void the policy (treat the policy as though it never existed) and retain  any 
unused portion of the premium.
Gefion said that this term gave it the right to cancel  the policy immediately and retain  the 
premiums, as it deemed Mr W submitting a non genuine document to be reckless and or 
malicious.
As Gefion  refused  to give Mr W a refund, he brought his complaint to our service. The 
adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint, he said in summary:
Gefion acted within the policy terms when cancelling the policy  without notice and it was ok 
for it to retain the annual premium.
Mr W disagreed  and so the matter  has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where theres a dispute about  what 
happened, Ive based my decision on what I thinks most likely to have happened in light of 
the evidence.
Although a number  of issues  have been raised,  this decision only addresses those issues 
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. However, Ive given careful 
consideration to all of the submissions made before arriving at my decision. 
Having done so I have to tell Mr W that I that I think the adjudicator has reached the right 
outcome here. So I dont  uphold his complaint in this matter. I think  hes explained matters 
clearly and so I dont feel theres  much I can usefully add.
The matter  I am considering here is did Gefion fairly cancel Mr Ws policy and retain  the 
premiums. To do this I must be satisfied that Gefion showed:
i. the vehicle  licence wasnt a genuine document; and 
ii. Mr W acted  recklessly and or maliciously  in providing it 
the vehicle  licence wasnt a genuine document
Gefion had concerns  about the vehicle licence and issued a cancellation notice  because  of 
this. When the broker  informed it that the document was genuine and had been amended by 
the licencing  authority,  Gefion did what it could  to try and verify the document by contacting 
the relevant licencing authority. The licencing authority confirmed that the document wasnt 
genuine and that the licence was still registered  to the previous person named on it. And so 
its not unreasonable for Gefion to rely on this information and state that the document isnt 
genuine.
Mr W acted recklessly and or maliciously  in providing it 
As mentioned above the licencing authority told Gefion:
Ref: DRN42933263I can confirm that we never alter any licences,  if the licence was to be in another  
name a vehicle transfer would have taken place to re-issue the licence in the new 
name we have not been advised of a transfer  in this instance.
Based on this I think its more likely than not that somebody other  than the licencing authority 
altered the document.  And so I dont  think Gefion was unreasonable  to say that Mr W acted 
recklessly by providing a document that was not genuine and had been altered.
It follows that Im satisfied that Gefion acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the policy 
terms when it decided  to cancel Mr Ws policy and retain the premiums. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, my final decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 July 2019.
Amber Mortimer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4293326