K821x#15complaint
Mrs D has complained that AXA Insurance UK Plc didnt deal with her claim under her motor 
policy reasonably.  
background
Mrs D was involved in an accident on 24 November 2018. Her car was recovered to a 
repairer. Mrs D said she heard nothing until she contacted AXA on 11 December. The repair  
company told Mrs D it had received authorisation from AXA repair  her car whereas AXA said 
it hadnt yet authorised the repairs. 
So Mrs D complained. AXA acknowledged  her complaint but didnt respond to it until it gave 
her referral  rights to this service in February 2019.  Her car was also repaired in February. 
And Mrs D was given a hire car to use whilst her own was being repaired.
Mrs D remained  dissatisfied and brought her complaint to us. The investigator thought AXAs  
offer of £50 was sufficient and that it needed  so anything more.  Mrs D didnt think  it was 
enough, so her complaint has been  passed  to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision on 6 July and I said the following:
Sadly, many of AXAs file notes  detailing its contact with Mrs D are undated. But 
nonetheless it seems clear to me it delayed authorising  the repairs to Mrs Ds car and 
keeping her updated in relation to this. AXA admitted there was a mix up in 
communication between  its engineers and the repairing garage. 
However, it also clear that Mrs D didnt want to pay her excess,  as she was of the 
view the other driver was responsible for causing the accident. That in itself delays 
things, as the matter  cant proceed until the other drivers insurers admits its 
policyholder was at fault. 
Whilst Mrs D was given a hire car until her own car was repaired, I consider the delay 
from 24 November to February 2019  to be quite a long time to repair car, which was 
deemed repairable after the accident. I can see that Mrs D had to chase AXA and 
that she received  conflicting reports from the repairing garage and AXA over the 
status of the repairs.
Whilst the complaint  handing isnt regulated, there  were delays in dealing with that 
too.
Taking everything into consideration, I dont consider  AXA dealt with Mrs Ds claim 
that well, I think the delays and miscommunication caused her trouble and upset in 
addition to the normal inconvenience  and distress at being involved in an accident 
and having to make a claim and have her car repaired. I dont consider the £50 
compensation, which AXA offered to Mrs D, (which I also note she hasnt cashed), to 
be enough.
I consider AXA should  pay Mrs D the total sum of £150 compensation. I consider that 
adequately compensates  her for AXAs delays,  the miscommunications and the 
added stress  and trouble this caused her. Its also in line with other  awards I have 
made in similar circumstances.
Ref: DRN49326522Mrs D accepted my provisional  decision and AXA didnt respond.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
On the basis Mrs D accepted my provisional decision and AXA didnt respond  or put forward  
any additional information, I see no reason to change my provisional decision.
my final decision
So for these reasons its my final decision that I uphold this complaint.
I now require AXA Insurance UK Plc to ensure Mrs D is paid a total of £150 compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 September  2020.
Rona Doyle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4932652