K820x#14complaint
Mr F complains that Santander UK Plc closed his account with inadequate notice.
background
Mr F had an account with Santander. In December 2018 Santander told him that his account  
would be closed, and gave him 30 days notice.  Mr F accepted  that Santander was entitled 
to close the account,  but he complained that he was entitled  to 60 days  notice. He also 
complained that the bank had made it difficult for him to withdraw his balance, since had to 
visit a branch three times  to provide  documents  Santander had requested.  Finally,  he 
complained that a member of Santander staff interrogated him on the phone and accused 
him of giving contradictory answers  to questions. He brought this complaint to our Service,  
and asked for compensation and for his account  to be reinstated.
Santander did not accept that it had done anything  wrong, but as a gesture of good will it 
sent Mr F a cheque for £25, which he did not accept.
Our investigator did not uphold this complaint. He pointed out that Santanders terms and 
conditions stated that Santander could  close an account with shorter notice than 60 days, or 
with no notice at all. He listened to eight call recordings, and concluded that there was 
nothing wrong  with how the calls had been conducted.
By then, Mr F had changed his mind about accepting  that Santander had been allowed to 
close the account. He said the account  should  never  have been  closed,  because  Santander 
had based that decision on the premise that he had committed fraud, which he denied. He 
asked for an ombudsman to review  this case.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Banks are subject to onerous obligations  to ensure that their customers accounts  are being 
used lawfully, so I would only interfere with a banks  decision to close  an account on the 
grounds that it is being used suspiciously if that decision was so unreasonable  that no 
reasonable decision-maker could come to that conclusion. In other words, there is a strong 
presumption against  interfering with a banks judgement in such  matters. In coming to my 
decision in this case, I have listened  to call recordings between  Mr F and Santander, but Ive 
also considered  evidence which Santander has submitted  in confidence, and which I cannot 
disclose or describe in detail.
The terms and conditions  on which the account was provided  specifically state that 
Santander can close an account with shorter notice than that, including  no notice, in certain 
circumstances. One of those circumstances is where  a customer  acts in any way to give 
rise to reasonable suspicion of fraud or other criminal activities. That means  that Santander 
can still close an account earlier than normal  even  if in fact no crime has been  committed,  
because all that is required  is that a reasonable suspicion  was raised.
I have listened  to a phone call which was made on the day before the date of Santanders 
letter telling Mr F it was closing his account. In that call, Mr F actually told Santander to close  
his account. However  I will disregard that, because he probably didnt mean that he wanted 
Ref: DRN44849532the account to be closed  within a shorter period  than 60 days.  But also on that call, Mr F 
gave some answers which were vague, and at times he became defensive. There may be 
innocent reasons for that, but it explains why the call handlers  suspicious were increased, in 
addition to the reasons he was asking his questions  in the first place. I do not agree that the 
call handler was discourteous,  or that his questions were unreasonable  or unfair.
The banks record of its decision  and the reasons it came to that decision  do not strike me as 
being clearly unreasonable. So for all of these  reasons, I dont think Santander  fell into error  
by closing the account after 30 days notice.
I have sympathy for Mr Fs complaint  that he was made to attend a branch of Santander 
three times to provide  documents, only for his account to still be closed anyway. But it 
seems that each time he provided documents, these  raised new questions  instead of only 
answering questions. For example, he was asked  to provide evidence  that he had a 
mortgage on an overseas property,  but the document he provided did not prove that, so he 
was asked for better evidence.
For all of the above reasons, I do not think it would  be fair and reasonable of me to interfere 
with Santanders  decision, or to say that the procedure it followed was unduly onerous.
my final decision
So my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
I leave it to Mr F to decide whether he wishes to accept Santanders  offer of £25.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 November  2020.
Richard Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4484953