K821x#15complaint
Mr M complains about problems he had accessing his account held with Bank of Scotland  
plc (trading as Halifax) when he was abroad.
background
Mr M told us that he was abroad, and his card was retained by an ATM. He said he had a 
great deal of difficulty getting  the card cancelled.  He said Halifax had hung up on him and it 
wouldnt discuss cancelling his card on a webchat. He said he was just told to call back, 
even thought he was overseas and Halifax had hung up on him. He said he had problems  
getting online access to his account. His online banking was blocked too. He tried calling, 
but that just cost too much. 
Mr M tried to transfer money to a firm which provides an international person-to-person 
money transfer service,  so he could get access to his cash.  But he said Halifaxs fraud 
department blocked that. He wasnt able to transfer  money to a family member either, even 
though hed passed security.
Mr M said he was told by Halifax  that the problem couldnt be sorted out while  he was still 
overseas. He eventually  had to fly home  to deal with this. He borrowed money to do that. He 
said he wanted Halifax to pay compensation for ruining his holiday. 
Halifax said it didnt think it had done  anything wrong. It had gone through the right 
processes to try to get Mr Ms access to his account  reinstated. It couldnt reinstate his 
internet banking without speaking to him on the phone. But it said it understood that he had 
received poor customer service, so it paid him £40 to say sorry for that. 
Our investigator didnt  uphold this complaint. She said that Halifax  is entitled to ask Mr M to 
ring its fraud team, as part of its security  procedures.  She said he hadnt  done that. She 
appreciated that hed found this all very frustrating, as hed lost the connection with Halifax 
when he did ring. She didnt know if hed been  hung up on or not. But our investigator didnt 
think Mr M necessarily  had to fly home  to sort this matter out, because he hadnt actually 
managed to speak  to Halifaxs fraud  team on the phone  by then.
Mr M said that Halifax had advised  him to fly home on a webchat.  Our investigator said that 
Halifax doesnt keep  records of those, as they arent a secure  form of communication.  Our 
investigator said that if Mr M had evidence  of that, she would consider it. 
Mr M sent us a screenshot that said Halifax does keep a copy of its online webchats. So he 
wanted to know  why that couldnt be found.  And he wanted to know  why, after hed cleared  
the security required to make a payment to a family member, that still wasnt  done. He said 
that hed repeatedly tried to call the number  he had been given, but couldnt get through.  
And he said that number  wasnt for the fraud team anyway. 
Mr M was very angry, he said that Halifax was lying to our service. He was very frustrated at 
the length of time it was taking to receive information from Halifax.
Halifax said that it still couldnt find the webchat  that Mr M had with it. And it said that 
although Mr M had set up a payee  successfully, his account was still blocked, and it would 
remain blocked until hed spoken to it and cleared  security. 
Ref: DRN48143382Our investigator wrote to Mr M again, to say shed now listened to the calls Halifax had with 
Mr M, and she hadnt changed her mind. She said that shed seen evidence  that Halifax had 
tried to search for webchat conversations, but couldnt find any under  Mr Ms email address. 
And she said that screenshots shed seen  that Mr M had supplied showed that Halifax had 
repeatedly said to Mr M that he would have to get in touch over the phone. 
Our investigator also said that Mr M had told us that his complaint  hadnt been fully 
investigated. She thought hed raised  new points when he was speaking to Halifax,  about 
what was said to him on a webchat, and about being  advised to use a secure network.  She 
said that those  points have been included in our investigation.
Our investigator said she hadnt  seen any evidence from either  Mr M or Halifax  that it had 
asked him to contact  it over a secure  network.  And she said that Halifax  had told Mr M that if 
his account was still blocked  then he wouldnt be able to transfer money to his new payee. 
Our investigator thought that £40 was a reasonable amount  of compensation for losing a 
connection with the fraud  team. But she felt that Mr M shouldve rung again before flying 
home. She noted  that he was told how to reverse the charges if he called from a landline. 
Mr M didnt  agree. He said that when Halifax phoned him for fraud  checks, it had charged 
him for that, although it didnt  tell him that. He wanted to know  how he could be blocked from 
his account after hed passed  a fraud  check twice.
Our investigator requested some further calls, which Mr M had made after hed referred his 
complaint to our service, but she didnt change her mind as a result of those. 
Mr M said that he wanted an ombudsman to consider his complaint. He also wanted a copy 
of the call recordings wed received, so that he could review  them,  to see if sections of the 
calls were missing.  Unfortunately,  Halifax initially refused to release the recordings. We 
explained to Halifax  that we thought they should  be sent to Mr M, and we then sent these 
recordings to Mr M. He got in touch  to say he was having trouble accessing them, and our 
investigator replied,  trying  to help with that. Mr M hadnt sent any further correspondence to 
us since then. 
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I proposed  to uphold it in 
part. This is what I said then: 
-There were  a couple of points  that I wanted  to make before I looked  at what  had 
happened in this case. The first was that if Halifax  rings Mr M on a UK number,  while 
hes outside of the European  Union (where different rules  currently  apply) then hed be 
charged. Thats standard for all UK mobiles  used overseas. I thought  that was likely  to 
be why Mr M had to pay for calls from Halifax, not because  it managed to reverse  the 
charges for those  calls without telling him. 
-The second point  was that the UK Government, and a number of other sources, do 
advise travellers to take two forms of payment  whenever theyre  going  away from home. 
It didnt look to me as if Mr M did that. And I thought  that was the main reason  that Mr M 
felt that he had to cut his trip short when  he couldnt sort out the problems with his 
Halifax account. So I knew Mr M said that he was told by Halifax  hed have to return  to 
the UK to sort this issue out, and he wanted  it to pay for his flight  because of that. But I 
Ref: DRN48143383said I was sorry to have  to say to Mr M that even if Halifax had said that to him, I still 
wouldnt ask it to pay for his return flight. 
-I wanted to set out those issues first, just to make Mr M aware from the start that I 
thought that the outcome of this complaint was unlikely to give him everything  he wants. 
But I did think that Halifax had made  mistakes  in this case, that we hadnt  previously  
identified. And for those reasons, I said I was partly upholding  his complaint. 
-I thought that Mr Ms account was blocked  when he tried to transfer money  to a person-
to-person payment  service. Mr M said he then passed security  to set up a new payee on 
his account. He was going  to pay a family member  the money instead. But I said I 
wouldnt expect any security check to set up a new payee  on his account to override the 
pre-existing block. Halifax told us that its fraud  team needed to speak to Mr M to remove 
the block. 
-So I did think Halifaxs fraud  team needed to speak to Mr M, before the blocks on his 
account could  be removed. I could see it said that to him on the web chats  he sent us.
-But Mr M said he wasnt able to get in touch with Halifax. He told us that the international 
number he was given  to ring didnt work. And he said he just couldnt afford to make  calls 
on his own phone. He ran out of credit  trying to do that. He told Halifax  that with a block 
on his account,  and being unable  to access his money, he couldnt put more  credit on his 
phone to keep  trying to call the bank. 
-Id said why I wouldnt expect  Halifax to refund to Mr M what he paid to get back to the 
UK, so he could sort this problem out. But that didnt mean that I wouldnt expect Halifax 
to do all it could to help Mr M to get access to his account, while he was overseas.
-It did look as if Halifax tried to do that. The online web chats Mr M sent us show that 
Halifax suggested that he contact the international operator and get it to reverse the 
charges for the call that he needed to make to Halifax. I hadnt seen a screenshot of 
Halifax giving the number for the international operator to Mr M. Halifax  told Mr M it 
keeps those records, but hadnt  been  able to provide them  to us. 
-I didnt think I could  assume that Halifax gave Mr M the right number to contact it from 
overseas, or to contact the international operator,  through those webchats, if it hadnt 
been able to show us that.
-We did have a call recording, where Halifax gave a number for international calls to 
Mr Ms family member. And Id listened  to that.
-I thought that call was really unfortunate. It sounded to me as if the call handler was 
trying hard to help Mr M, by giving additional information to his family member. He 
offered some good advice, like asking in any hostel  where Mr M might be staying for help 
to contact the international operator. But then,  at the end of the call, he gave  Mr Ms 
family member a number that Mr M should call to contact  Halifax.  And I thought  that 
number was wrong.
-I appreciated that this wasnt the call handlers  area of expertise, but I thought  that the 
number that Halifax  gave to Mr Ms family member  was the number to dial internationally 
from the UK to the country that Mr M was in. That wouldnt allow Mr M to ring from the 
Ref: DRN48143384country he was in, back to Halifax, in the UK. And it wouldnt  allow Mr M to dial the 
international operator from the country  he was in either. 
-That seemed  to me to fit with something that Mr M had said throughout, which  was that 
the international number he was given didnt work. 
-So, to summarise, Mr M had repeatedly said that the international number he was told to 
ring didnt  work. We knew from a call recording that Halifax  did, unfortunately, give his 
family member the wrong number. And Halifax hadnt been  able to show us notes of any 
online chats where it gave Mr M the right number. 
-Considering  all this evidence, I thought it was most likely that Halifax had given Mr M the 
wrong contact information for it. Although I thought this was just a mistake made by 
someone who was trying to help,  I also thought  that this must have been intensely  
frustrating for Mr M. And it no doubt contributed to the decision he said he made to come  
back to the UK. 
-I also noted that the response that Halifax gave Mr M to his complaint didnt offer any 
explanation of why his account  had been  blocked. I wouldnt expect Halifax to set this out 
in detail, but I wouldve expected Halifax to offer some sort of explanation to Mr M. And it 
doesnt seem as if Halifax has ever set out clearly for Mr M what it thought had 
happened. I thought  that this, and other  issues around Halifaxs response to our service, 
had also increased  Mr Ms feelings  of frustration.
-For those reasons, I didnt think that a payment of £40 was quite the right amount to 
make up for whats gone wrong  in this case. I thought that Halifax  should pay Mr M a 
further £210, to make  a total of £250  in compensation in this case.  
I invited the parties  to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Both sides sent detailed  replies.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I havent changed my mind.
Mr M said he was very disappointed he wasnt getting all his money back, because the 
blocks on his account were put in place wrongly.  He said that they happened before the 
money transfer, but then blocks were removed before being put back after the transfer.  He 
wanted to know  why, after he successfully passed  multiple fraud checks, Halifax was still 
legally entitled  to steal his money and force him to borrow  money?
Mr M also said that Halifax  had told him that blocks like the ones on his account were  put on 
accounts for annoying  customers. He didnt  know  if wed been  given  that call. 
Mr M said he only flew home as every number  Halifax gave him did not work, he had already 
paid well over £40 to make calls, and Halifax  wouldnt phone him.
Mr M told us about problems hed had since closing  his account, which dont form part of this 
complaint. 
Ref: DRN48143385Mr M then said that the problem with Halifax telling him it did keep copies of web chats, then 
telling us it didnt,  needed to be investigated,  because he didnt  know  if his data was secure.  
And he asked a representative  to talk to us. 
Mr Ms representative then contacted us, and he also raised concerns about whether the 
web chats with Halifax were being saved  or not. He said that he thought  that this webchat  
wouldve shown that Mr M was told to fly home. 
I dont think that Mr M has reached  the same conclusions about what  actually  happened  on 
his account as I have.  That may be one of the reasons why weve  reached different views.  
I set out in my provisional decision that I thought that Mr Ms account was blocked after he 
tried to make a transfer to a new payee.  Mr M said that he had been able to clear  security 
sufficiently to set up this, and a different  new payee  on his account.  But I said in my 
provisional decision that I didnt expect the security he cleared to allow  him to set up a new 
payee would  also remove any fraud  blocks on his account. I said he did need to speak to the 
fraud team to do that. I also said that I thought Halifax  had told him this, because I could see 
that in one of the web chats  he sent us.
I dont think that theres any evidence that Mr Ms account was unblocked,  and then blocked 
again, in the way that hes suggested. And I think that the account  was blocked, as Halifax 
said, because of the attempted transfer to a firm which provides an international person-to-
person money  transfer service. I dont  think that theres any evidence  that this block  was put 
in place because  Mr M had annoyed Halifax. I also dont think  that theres any evidence  that 
Halifax stole Mr Ms money or acted illegally.
Mr M told us that he thought that we ought  to be investigating whether Halifax  kept a copy of 
web chats, as it told Mr M, or if it didnt, as it told us. I can of course  appreciate why Mr M is 
concerned about  this as a general point. But I dont think it is necessary for me to look at 
that, to resolve  the complaint in this case. Ill explain why I think that. 
There two things that Ive been told wouldve been shown by the web chats. One is whether 
Halifax may have given Mr M the right contact number on those chats. Ive said that I wont  
accept that, without evidence of it, which  Halifax says it doesnt have. 
And Mr M said that if we had the web chats,  I wouldve seen that Halifax advised him to fly 
home to sort this problem out. But Ive also said that even if I could see in a web chat that 
Halifax had said this to Mr M, I wouldnt uphold his complaint on that point. Thats because 
Mr M appears not to have  followed widely shared  travel advice to take two methods of 
payment with him. And I think, whether he was advised by Halifax to return to the UK or not, 
that the real reason he did so is because  he didnt have another  card with him.
Because the data protection issues that Mr M is concerned about dont make a difference  to 
the issues he initially complained to Halifax about, I wont  comment  on those  here. If Mr M 
wants to follow up on his concern about this, I would suggest  he discusses the issue  with the 
Information Commissioners Office,  which is best placed to deal with concerns of this nature. 
Halifax also wrote  to say that it understood I was asking it to pay more compensation 
because of mistakes I felt it had made, particularly a wrong telephone number being 
provided and not offering an explanation of why Mr Ms account was blocked.  It said it did 
want to comment on those points.  
Ref: DRN48143386Halifax said it had listened to the call, and it thought that it had given Mr Ms relative a wrong 
number. But it said Mr M had already rung it, so shouldve known what  the international code 
was. And it said that other advice given on that call was helpful, but hadnt been acted on.
Halifax also said it had told Mr M that his account was blocked for fraud  checks. Halifax  said 
it wouldnt go to detail  of why this happened or what triggered the checks. It said its decision 
not to do that was a legitimate business  decisions to protect its customers and itself. It said 
that confirming  a fraud check on a transaction is all it wouldve expected  Mr M to be told.
Halifax also said it wanted us to know that Mr Ms internet banking  problem was later solved 
with a simple phone call. Although this was after hed come back to the UK, Halifax  said that 
this showed that he couldve resolved this issue from overseas, if hed researched the 
number for the international operator or used the other options Halifax  had suggested. 
Halifax also said that it felt it would be reasonable to expect an individual to carry alternative 
payment methods when they were  overseas, and that wouldve prevented  the problems 
Mr M had in this case.
Halifax said that bearing in mind  all of the above, it thought that its payment of £40 was 
enough to make up for what  had gone wrong  in this case.
I think that Mr M has shown that he had considerable difficulty  contacting  Halifax  from 
overseas. Although he had rung Halifax before it gave him the incorrect  number, he appears 
to have lost the connection on more than one of these calls. So I think it was reasonable for 
him to be seeking  another way to contact Halifax. And unfortunately, the number Halifax 
then gave him was wrong. 
I think Halifax has to accept that different customers will have different levels  of familiarity 
with overseas numbers,  and with ways of contacting it from overseas. If it does give wrong 
advice, as it unfortunately, and I think entirely  accidentally, did in this case, then I also think 
that it needs to accept  that some of its customers will follow  that advice. 
I also think that, because  Halifax  didnt tell Mr M why it had placed a block  on his account, or 
when it had done that, that Mr M has become very concerned about  what  Halifax has done. 
Hes referred variously to blocks being  placed on his account by staff at Halifax  because 
hed annoyed  them, or blocks being placed  on his account, then removed, and wrongly 
replaced. I dont think that either of those things  actually happened. But I also still think  that a 
little more clarity about what  had happened in this case couldve been offered  by Halifax, 
without compromising  either its security or that of its customers. 
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  I still think that the amount  of compensation I proposed  in 
this case provides a fair and reasonable outcome to the complaint. So thats what Ill now 
award. 
my final decision
My final decision is that Bank  of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax)  must pay Mr M a further 
£210 in compensation, in addition to the £40 it has already paid.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 May 2019.
Ref: DRN48143387Esther Absalom-Gough
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4814338