K820x#14complaint
Mr C and Miss M say Lloyds Bank Plc mis-sold them a mortgage  payment protection  insurance 
(PPI) policy.
background
Mr C and Miss M took out the policy to cover their monthly mortgage repayments in 2004.  They  
paid a monthly premium  for the policy,  which  covered  them if either couldnt work due to 
disablement or unemployment.  
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld.  Mr C and Miss M disagreed  with the 
adjudicator, so the complaint was passed  to me to review afresh.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints  about the 
sale of PPI on our website. And Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr C and Miss Ms case. 
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr C and Miss M say Lloyds pressured  them into taking  out the PPI. Thats a serious allegation 
and one which I dont  think  is supported  by the available evidence. 
I dont know for certain what was said during  the sale but Lloyds has provided documentation  from 
the time which shows me that it made it clear to Mr C and Miss M that the PPI was optional and 
was separate  to the mortgage. I believe Mr C and Miss M chose to go ahead  with it knowing that 
was the case.  For example, I can see they signed a separate PPI application form which  included  
details of the amount to be protected and how the benefits were to be split between  them.  They 
also signed a separate  direct debit instruction for the monthly premium.  
The parties agree Lloyds  recommended the policy to Mr C and Miss M. So, as well as having to 
give them  enough  information for Mr C and Miss M to make an informed choice  about  taking it, 
Lloyds should  have looked  into whether it was right for them.  I dont know  what  steps Lloyds took 
but I think its recommendation was suitable for them in any case.
I say that because, from what Mr C and Miss M have told us about their circumstances in 2004, it 
appears they were  eligible  for the policy and Ive seen nothing to show that it was unaffordable  for 
them. And I cant see that theyd have been affected  by the main  exclusions to, or limits on, the 
cover. 
Mr C and Miss M say they were entitled to enhanced sick pay and/or redundancy pay through their 
respective employers and so had no need for PPI. But the policy  would have paid out for a 
considerable time, at up to 12 months  per disability or unemployment claim. Although Mr C and 
Miss M had savings, the PPI would have allowed them to retain what  they had or use them  to 
cover their other living  costs at what could have been a difficult  time if either of them wasnt 
working.
Overall, and taking into account that Mr C and Miss Ms borrowing was secured against  their 
home, I think  its likely  theyd have valued  the extra protection the PPI provided them with.
Ref: DRN43690582Its possible Lloyds didnt  point out everything  it should have about the PPI as it should have, but I 
dont find that Mr C and Miss M lost out because of that. I say that because, for the same  reasons I 
think the PPI was suitable for them, I dont think better information would have stopped Mr C and 
Miss M from buying it. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C and Miss M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  24 February  2019.
Nimish Patel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4369058