K820x#14Complaint
Ms C complains that Bank  of Ireland (UK) Plc (the bank) failed  to record  her current  
account as closed, which along  with other  data disclosed by the bank caused  her credit 
report to contain  adverse  information. 
This in turn caused her to suffer distress and various  other  difficulties and losses. 
Background
The bank has accepted it should have  recorded the account as closed sooner. Its offered 
Ms C £200  compensation. 
Ms C hasnt accepted  the banks offer. Shes seeking a larger  sum of compensation.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. She thought the banks offer of £200 was 
sufficient. She didnt think it could be concluded the information about the account caused  
Ms Cs applications to another bank for first an overdraft and later a mortgage  to be rejected. 
Following her conclusions, the adjudicator wrote further to Ms C confirming her 
understanding that the bank hadnt reported  information about the account for the period 
after the account was closed in 2015.  The entries  matched the charges incurred  on the 
account in 2014.
Ms C hasnt accepted  the adjudicators conclusions. In addition  to re-stating her position,  she 
has taken issue with some of the banks comments to the ombudsman  service. She accepts 
shes not able to quantify the damage  caused by the banks actions. She has asked me to 
consider a particular  email from Experian. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im sorry to disappoint Ms C but Ive come 
to similar  conclusions to the adjudicator.  
Regarding the banks  comments, these post-date the events in question. The comments, 
which werent addressed  to Ms C, are certainly forthright in places. But I consider that the 
parties should have  latitude when stating their case  or defending their position  to the 
ombudsman service. Its then for us at the ombudsman  service to evaluate  the parties  
comments and decide what weight we give to them. Ive duly noted Ms Cs remarks on the 
banks comments.
I too am of the view that it cant be assumed Ms Cs credit applications were rejected 
because the bank failed to record the account as closed. I say this because (a) an open 
account shouldnt,  without more, cause concern to a potential lender and (b) the mortgage 
application was rejected  (in 2018) after the bank  had reported the account as closed (in 
October 2017). 
What presumably might cause more concern to a potential lender (we still dont  know for 
sure) are the late payments when Ms Cs account was conducted above the authorised 
overdraft in 2014. These were correctly recorded by the bank and will remain recorded  for 
six years, regardless of account closure. 
Ref: DRN49215042Ive considered the email from Experian.  It hasnt  caused me to change my mind  about the 
conclusions Ive reached.
In summary,  while I accept  as the bank accepts   that the bank was at fault for not 
reporting Ms Cs account closed sooner,  and while I also accept this caused  Ms C some 
concern, I havent concluded the concern should in the circumstances have been very great  
or that the late reporting of the account closure  caused any material loss. 
Ive concluded  the £200 offered  by the bank  as compensation is enough.  If Ms C now wishes 
to accept this, she should  please  contact the adjudicator who will forward the acceptance to 
the bank. 
My final decision
I consider Bank of Ireland  (UK) Plcs offer of compensation is fair. So I dont uphold Ms Cs 
claim for more compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 November  2019.
Roger Yeomans
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN4921504