K821x#15complaint
Mr T has complained that TSB Bank plc (TSB) didnt  switch  him from a Gold packaged  bank 
account to a Silver account when he asked  it to do so. 
The Gold  account  cost Mr T more each month than he would have had to pay for the Silver 
account, and he wants TSB to refund  him the difference in cost, plus interest. 
background
One of our adjudicators has already looked into this complaint and thought  that TSB didnt 
change Mr Ts account when it should  have  done.  The adjudicator recommended that TSB 
should pay Mr T appropriate compensation. 
TSB didnt  agree with the adjudicators findings. It asked for an ombudsman to review  Mr Ts 
case. So it has come  to me to make a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Ive looked into everything that Mr T and TSB have told us or sent us about the complaint 
and Ive decided  to uphold it. Ill explain why. 
Mr T originally opened his packaged  bank account  with another bank, but his account was 
subsequently transferred  to TSB.  I understand that in a different complaint, which didnt 
come to us, the other bank accepted that it had mis-sold the Gold  account to Mr T and paid 
him compensation up to November 2018. 
At various stages of our investigation, both TSB and Mr T have  mentioned the other bank  
and the other complaint and have  sent us copies  of some of the correspondence which 
relates to the other complaint. Clearly, the two cases and their backgrounds are linked, but I 
would like to clarify that for this case I have only considered  information  from the other 
complaint and the other bank which is directly  relevant to my assessment of this case. 
The heart of the dispute in this case is that Mr T has told us that during the period from May 
2018 until September 2019 he made repeated  requests  to TSB to change  from the Gold to 
Silver account, but TSB denies receiving these requests.  
TSB has told us that it changed Mr T from the Gold account to a fee-free account in 
September 2019, and I accept it did this, but it has said that it doesnt have any records of 
Mr Ts earlier requests. However, Mr T has been very consistent that he asked TSB to 
change his account, and I have seen  several  items of correspondence which I think  support 
his case. I will mention three examples  here, all of which  I find convincing. 
Firstly, TSB has sent us a document  which  it says it received from Mr T in May 2018, 
in which  he said ..I have  only ever used mobile  phone insurance as part of the Gold  
account package  and I want to change to Silver.
Secondly, when  Mr T first brought this case to our attention in February  2019,  he sent 
us a copy of part of an email which I understand he had previously sent to TSB. The 
Ref: DRN48051662email was mainly about the other  complaint, but it also said I am still waiting after said 
8 months to change it from Gold to Silver. .
Thirdly, during April 2018,  TSB introduced a new IT system which adversely affected 
some of its customers. It has sent us a copy of a letter it wrote to Mr T in late 
November 2018  when it mentioned this new system. The letter offered Mr T 
compensation, which I understand TSB has paid, for long wait times in calling its 
telephone banking service and customer relations service, and said it understood that 
Mr T was unhappy with the service one of its branches had given him.
The letter didnt mention any request Mr T had made to switch from the Gold to the 
Silver account. But I have  seen a copy of a note Mr T sent in reply, which again was 
mainly about the other complaint, that said ..and I am still on the Gold  account not the 
Silver as Ive tried to tell your team..  
I do not know why TSB says it has no records of these and other requests from Mr T. It 
seems to me to be extremely  likely that Mr T made  them in the way he has described,  with 
his first request being during May 2018.
TSB has also said that it didnt receive an instruction from the other bank to switch  Mr Ts 
account. I accept this. However, I see no reason  why it couldnt have acted on Mr Ts 
request alone.  I think his intention was clear and TSB should  have responded accordingly. It 
follows therefore that TSB should put things right for Mr T by paying him compensation for 
the loss he suffered by its failure to respond.
As well as the direct financial loss that Mr T suffered,  which I understand was relatively 
small, I think  TSB also put Mr T to unnecessary distress and inconvenience in the way it 
handled his complaint. For example,  it seems  to have failed to keep records  about issues 
that were important to Mr T, and it didnt consider his concerns about switching accounts in 
its letter of late November  2018,  when it could have resolved things quickly and simply. At 
one stage, it also said it wanted to wait until the other bank resolved the other complaint 
before considering this one, which may have saved TSB a very small amount of money,  but 
didnt seem to serve  any other purpose. I therefore consider that to fully put things right, TSB 
should pay Mr T an additional £50 for this distress and inconvenience.
putting things right 
To put things right for Mr T, TSB should return him to the financial position he would
have been in if it had acted on his request to change his account  from Gold  to Silver in a 
timely manner. 
As the other  bank has already refunded Mr T all the fees he paid for the Gold  account up to 
November 2018,  it would  not be appropriate for TSB to pay further compensation for this 
period. 
TSB should therefore:
refund  Mr T all the differences in fees he paid for the Gold  account compared to 
those he would have  paid for the Silver account  from December 2018  until it changed 
the account for him in September 2019.
 
Ref: DRN48051663add interest to each  of these refunds at the rate of 8% per year (simple) from the 
date Mr T paid the fee until the date TSB makes the refund (+).
(+) HM Revenue  & Customs  requires TSB to take off tax from this interest. TSB must
give Mr T a certificate showing how much tax it has taken if he asks for one.
If TSB can show  that between December  2018  and September 2019 Mr T gained financially 
from any banking benefits that came  with the Gold account, but not with the Silver account, 
then it may deduct the relevant amount from the compensation. However, if it chooses to do 
this, it must set out its calculation clearly and simply  for Mr T, so that he can follow  what it 
has done.
And as I explained previously, TSB should  add £50 to the above  amount for the distress  and 
inconvenience it has caused to Mr T. 
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  set out above, I am upholding Mr Ts complaint about TSB Bank plc. 
It should now put things right for him by paying  him the compensation I have described 
above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 May 2020. 
Steve Townsley 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4805166