K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain  that Barclays Bank UK PLC hasnt  agreed to extend the term of their 
interest only mortgage.
background
Mr and Mrs B took out a repayment mortgage  in 2003. They switched to interest only 
payments in 2008. They say they were  told by Barclays theyd be able to extend the term of 
the mortgage when it expired. But when the term expired in October  2018  Barclays didnt 
offer an extension.  
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint be upheld.  He said mortgage 
regulations have changed since Mr and Mrs B took out their mortgage. So while  the 
information it gave  them in 2008  might  have been correct at that time, it has to follow current 
regulations when considering their request to extend the mortgage term.
The investigator said Mr and Mrs B have investment properties and are able to repay the 
mortgage. He said there  was no certainty  that Mr and Mrs B would be in a better  position  to 
repay the mortgage in 10 years than now. And their situation could get worse   for instance 
if the value of their properties fell. The investigator  said Barclays hadnt treated Mr and Mrs B 
unfairly or failed to take their best interests  into account. 
Mr and Mrs B didnt  agree. Mr B said the switch  to interest only was on an advised basis. He 
says Barclays encouraged him to switch and said he didnt need a repayment  vehicle. He 
said as an existing customer Barclays should  honour what  it had told him, even if regulations  
had changed.  
Mr B said his circumstances  could change for the better. He said he has business income 
and several investment properties. He says its in his best interests to keep his properties  
and benefit from any increase  in value. He said the interest only monthly payments were 
affordable.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely  to have happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances. 
what happened?
Mr and Mrs B switched  to interest  only payments in 2008. They say Barclays didnt check  
they had a suitable repayment strategy. While Mr B says the switch  was on an advised  basis  
there are no documents from that time which support  this. 
Mr and Mrs B say when they switched  they didnt expect to have to sell the property to repay 
the mortgage because Barclays had told them theyd be able to extend the term of the 
mortgage. Barclays accepts this, but says mortgage  regulations have changed significantly 
since 2008.
Ref: DRN47888452When the term expired  in late 2018  Mr and Mrs B asked Barclays for a 10 year extension 
with the intention of repaying the loan at the end by selling the property. Mr B met with 
Barclays mortgage adviser in October  2018 and March 2019 to discuss  a term extension.  
He was told he didnt  meet  Barclays  lending criteria  for an interest only mortgage. 
Barclays considered  whether  to allow Mr and Mrs B to make additional payments to repay 
the capital. But based on what payments were affordable,  this would have taken  more  than 
seven years, which wasnt acceptable  to Barclays.
In his discussion with Barclays,  Mr B said hed cashed in an endowment policy,  but this left a 
shortfall. And hes selling  two investment  properties.  Barclays  says it needs  evidence of this, 
such as sales particulars,  before it will hold action for possession.  
Mr B says a repayment mortgage isnt affordable for them due to the short  term: its not clear 
if hes discussed taking  out a repayment mortgage  with Barclays,  or another  provider. 
has Barclays acted fairly?
When Mr and Mrs B borrowed the money  from Barclays they agreed to repay it at the end of 
the mortgage term, in October 2018.  So when they asked for an extension, they were  asking 
Barclays to change the terms of their agreement.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct  Authority (FCA), sets out in its rules that it expects 
stringent assessments  of both affordability  and, for interest only mortgages, repayment 
strategy, before lenders agree to enter into or vary mortgages.
However, there are two exceptions to this requirement. Where  an existing mortgage is to be 
varied and theres  no change to its terms likely to be material  to affordability,  an affordability  
assessment isnt required. And, if that rule doesnt  apply  (for example, because there is a 
material change), theres still no need  to carry out an affordability assessment provided  the 
loan balance  hasnt  increased since 2014 and the proposed  change  is otherwise in the 
borrowers best interests. Similar provisions apply to the assessment of a repayment 
strategy for an interest  only mortgage.
But these  rules dont  oblige  lenders  to make changes to mortgages.  They merely say that 
changes dont have  to be refused  if the criteria  are met  on grounds of affordability  or 
interest only repayment strategy. Changes can still fairly be refused on other  grounds   
though lenders are always subject to the requirement to act fairly, taking into account their 
customers best interests. Separately, the regulators guidance on interest  only mortgages 
requires lenders to keep  in touch with borrowers  and discuss  how the mortgage  is to be 
repaid, exploring  options to do so.
Mr B has explained why he wants to extend the mortgage term. He finds  the monthly  
payments affordable and expects to benefit from his properties increasing in value. But while  
this arrangement might work for Mr and Mrs B, Barclays isnt obliged to agree to it. 
In effect, Mr and Mrs B are asking Barclays to wait for the money  it lent to be repaid because 
they prefer to use the money for something else  their investment properties.  I appreciate 
that Mr and Mrs B need time to sell the investment  properties. But theyve known  since  
October 2018 (if not before) that Barclays wouldnt extend the mortgage. 
Ref: DRN47888453I dont agree that Barclays should  have agreed  to extend the mortgage term on the basis it 
was in Mr and Mrs Bs best interests.  Theres no guarantee that their investments, in 
properties or otherwise, will increase in value.  As Mr and Mrs B were  able to repay  the loan 
I think it was reasonable  for Barclays to ask them to do so. I dont think Barclays treated 
Mr and Mrs B unfairly and I dont think its reasonable to require it to extend the mortgage 
term.
Due to the Covid-19 pandemic  and related Government restrictions,  the regulator issued 
guidelines. Current guidelines say lenders cant take or resume  possession action until 
November 2020.  This gives Mr and Mrs B a few months breathing  space, to sell properties, 
re-finance or otherwise arrange for the repayment of the mortgage. 
Mr and Mrs B should keep Barclays informed about what steps  theyre taking to repay the 
mortgage. Id expect Barclays to treat Mr and Mrs B fairly while they do this, and to take 
account of any further  guidance issued by the regulator. But, ultimately, if Mr and Mrs B 
arent able to sell properties  or otherwise repay  the mortgage, Barclays  is entitled to take 
possession as a last resort. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  4 September 2020.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4788845