K820x#14complaint
Mr M says Nationwide Building Society mis-sold  him a payment protection insurance  (PPI) 
policy.
background
This complaint is about a monthly  premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 1992. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr M disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaints been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Ms case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ms complaint.  Ill explain why.
Nationwide no longer  has a copy of the application  for the PPI, or other documents that 
Mr M completed at the time. I dont think thats surprising or unreasonable,  given that the 
Mr M took out the mortgage and PPI so many years ago. But from the internal records  
that Nationwide has provided it appears that the PPI was sold to Mr M as part of a 
mortgage package.
I cant fairly conclude  that its more likely than not that Mr M wasnt given a fair choice 
about whether to take the PPI. He says he took it out in a meeting, and that Nationwide 
strongly advised  him to take out the PPI. So I think it's likely that some discussion about 
the PPI took place. The PPI was free for the first 12 months,  and I think its likely that 
Mr M would have been  aware of that when  he decided to take the mortgage package. 
Offering free PPI as part of a mortgage  deal doesnt mean  that the PPI was mis-sold. 
Overall, I think its most likely that Mr M chose  to take the mortgage package, including 
the PPI, knowing  that other mortgages were  available.  And he could have applied for a 
mortgage without PPI if he wanted.
I cant be sure whether Nationwide recommended the PPI to Mr M. Nationwide says the 
PPI was sold on a non-advised  basis. But Mr M says Nationwide strongly advised him 
to take out the PPI. If it did so, it had a responsibility  to check that the policy  was suitable  
for Mr M. But even  if advice was given,  it doesnt  look as if the PPI was unsuitable, 
based on what Ive seen  of Mr Ms circumstances at the time.
Ive borne in mind  that Mr Ms told us he was entitled to sick pay from his employer. But if 
hed made a successful claim on the policy for accident, sickness or unemployment, it 
would have paid his monthly mortgage payments for up to two years.  Thats potentially 
significantly longer than Mr Ms told us hed have been entitled  to full sick pay for. Whats 
more, the PPI would  have paid out in addition  to any payments Mr M received from his 
employer. So he could have used those to cover  other expenses. And he wouldnt have 
had to use his savings  to make  his monthly mortgage payments.
Ref: DRN43810452Mr Ms also mentioned that hed put down a significant deposit for his purchase,  so he 
had a substantial amount of equity in his house. But Im not convinced, on balance, that 
hed have wanted to go to the trouble of releasing equity in his property to make his 
monthly mortgage payments.
Taking  everything  into account, I think the PPI could have been  useful  for Mr M. Ive 
borne in mind that the mortgage  was a significant long-term  financial commitment,  
secured on his home, and the consequences  of falling behind with his mortgage 
payments could  have been serious.
It may be that Nationwide could have explained  the cost of the policy  better than it did. 
But Ive seen nothing to make me think that Mr M couldnt afford it. And as he was 
paying for it monthly, he could  have cancelled it at any time if he decided  he no longer 
needed it  or if he didnt want  to start paying monthly premiums once the free period 
ended. So I dont  think better  information  about the cost of the policy would  have put 
Mr M off taking it out.
Its possible  Nationwide  didnt point out the main things the policy  didnt cover   for 
example, unusual  working arrangements,  or existing medical conditions. But based on 
what hes told us about his circumstances at the time, its unlikely Mr M would have been 
affected by any of these.
Ive taken into account all Mr Ms comments,  including what  hes said about  having felt 
pressured into taking  the policy. But while its possible that Nationwide recommended  the 
policy to Mr M, pressure  is a different matter, and I cant fairly  conclude that Mr M was 
pressured into taking  the PPI, based purely  on his recollection of a conversation  that took 
place so many years  ago. So this doesnt change my conclusion.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 November  2019.
Juliet Collins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4381045