K820x#14complaint
Mr T complains about the length of time TSB Bank plc took to send refunds to his new bank 
account.
background
Mr T says he made an account switch  from TSB to a different bank. He says refunds that he 
received should  have  been redirected to his new account but were not within a reasonable 
length of time. Mr T would like an appropriate  level of compensation for this delay.
TSB says that when  Mr T made  the account  switch  application he ticked  a box that said he 
didnt have a debit card. It says that may have  delayed the payment of the refund. TSB has 
apologised for the delay  and has offered to pay Mr T £100 compensation and £50 for his 
expenses in making it aware of the complaint.
Mr T had brought his complaint  to us and our investigator thought the compensation offer 
was fair and reasonable. The investigator thought  Mr Ts language was inappropriate when 
he called  TSB and TSB would have been  entitled to close his account in those 
circumstances.
Mr T doesnt accept that view and says he hasnt cashed the cheque  for £150 which  he says 
isnt enough. He says it was him that wanted  to close the account and not TSB and says 
there was no mention  of him being  rude to TSB.
The investigator played a call recording to Mr T but he says he would  like an ombudsmans  
decision. He also says he wanted  to speak to a manager when  he called TSB and that is 
why he was upset.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to a similar 
overall view as the investigator and for similar  reasons.
It is not clear  why Mr T didnt  receive  the refunds  that he was entitled to. I have no doubt Mr 
T was caused frustration  by that and spent  some time trying to find out what  was happening. 
But Im satisfied that TSB explained what it thought the problem was caused by and fairly 
apologised for the delay.  Im also satisfied that Mr T did receive  his money  and so hasnt lost 
out financially  apart from his call costs. I can see that TSB has paid Mr T £50 for those costs 
and paid what I think is a fair and reasonable level of £100 compensation. I appreciate Mr T 
says that award  isnt enough but I think its appropriate in the circumstances.
I appreciate that Mr T says he wanted to close  the account and there  had been no mention 
of TSB closing his account. I agree with Mr T that was the case. I can also see from TSBs 
records that it would have considered closing Mr Ts account but took the view he had 
already decided to switch  his account. I dont  think  that is the main part of Mr Ts complaint 
in any event and I hope that explains why the investigator made that point.
I have listened  to the calls between Mr T and TSB.  And whilst I appreciate that Mr T says he 
was upset that TSB refused  to transfer  the call to a manager Im satisfied that he used 
inappropriate and abusive language  towards the TSB staff member.  I dont  think  TSB acted 
unfairly in those circumstances by refusing  to transfer the call or to end it.
Ref: DRN49524922Overall Im satisfied that TSB has made a fair and reasonable  offer of compensation. If Mr T 
wishes to accept that offer then a new cheque  may need to be issued.
my final decision
My final decision is that TSB Bank plc has made a fair and reasonable offer of 
compensation. Mr Ts acceptance of that offer would  be in full and final settlement of this 
complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 February  2020.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4952492