K820x#14complaint
Mr N complains that Clerical Medical  Financial  Services  Limited  unfairly reduced the 
surrender value of two of his with-profits bonds by a total of £3,000 and has failed to provide 
a satisfactory explanation  for this. 
background
Clerical rejected his complaint, saying the performance of the underlying  assets had reduced 
the projected final bonuses in the four weeks between the valuations  and final surrender.
An investigator at this service did not feel the complaint  should  be upheld.
While noting that the changing/withdrawing of final bonuses was a controversial issue, he 
said the regulator, the Final Conduct Authority  (FCA), had given business considerable 
latitude when  deciding on bonuses relating to with-profits bonds  providing the acted fairly 
and fully explained their decisions.  
He said it was a commercial decision by the product provider to decide  how much  the bonus  
will be at any given time, and this service is unable to tell Clerical how much the bonus 
should be, or what the final value should be. He acknowledged  that it can be very difficult  for 
policyholders to be satisfied that they are receiving the correct returns and according to the 
terms and conditions of their plan. But that doesn't mean that the provider of the with-profits  
fund has done  something wrong  or is not following the rules  set out by the regulator.
 
In this case he felt Clerical had met these requirements.
It had explained  that a downturn in equities,  specifically  continental  European equities, had 
resulted in a reduction in Mr Ns final bonus and that such  bonuses are typically arrived  at 
using a variety of factors calculated by an actuary.  This included how much of the fund's 
profits are paid as a bonus and how much will be kept in reserve  to help with 'smoothing' for 
ongoing bond holders.  So the fact that the average  downturn in the market had been only 
5% did not mean Clerical  had been wrong  to apply a reduction in the maturity  bonus of 18%.
He said he would not have expected Clerical to disclose further information about how it 
calculated Mr Ns final bonuses as this was commercially sensitive. He could therefore not 
provide Mr N with any form of calculation. He reiterated that Clerical didn't have to
provide a calculation and the regulator recognises its discretion in this regard.
He also noted  that Clerical  had explained that they recalculated final bonuses every month, 
making market adjustments as necessary to deliver the smoothing intrinsic to with-profits  
bonds.
Mr N did not agree, and said:
The bonuses were  reduced by more than 18% in a month
Clericals own performance figures do not justify such a massive  reduction;  nor does 
the FTSE Europes statistics
Clerical should  get its actuary to check/confirm that such a reduction over this time 
period was correct
Ref: DRN48469822my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this case I agree with the investigator  and for the same reasons. As such, there  is little 
more I can add to what  he has said.
Clerical is entitled  to decide  on final bonus  figures  and in doing so it will take account of the 
state of the specific  with-profits bond and consider its future liabilities to all its other bond 
holders. Smoothing is a key feature  of with-profits bonds and is designed to ensure  a 
business treats its overall client base fairly. So the decision to reduce projected final 
bonuses (along with other market adjustments) involves a range  of factors and is not solely 
or even  mainly based on any markets performance  at the point an individual  bond  matures.
So while Mr N understandably points to the overall state of the markets in the month before 
his bond matured, I dont believe that this indicates Clerical made an error  when  calculating  
his final bonuses as this is far from the only consideration  its actuary would make when 
determining the bonuses.
In my judgment Clerical  provided sufficient explanation for its decision and should not be 
required to ask its actuary, or an independent actuary as Mr N implies, to provide a detailed 
justification for these  figures.
My final decision
I do not uphold  the complaint or make any financial award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 June  2020.
Tony Moss
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN4846982