K820x#14complaint
Mrs H says Canada Square  Operations Limited mis-sold her a payment protection  insurance 
(PPI) policy. 
background
Mrs H bought the policy in 2004 at the same  as taking out a credit card. Our adjudicator 
didnt uphold  the complaint. Mrs H disagreed with the adjudicators opinion,  so the 
complaints been  passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Hs case.
Ive decided not to uphold  the complaint. I know Mrs H will find this disappointing so Ill 
explain why.
Mrs H applied for the credit card and was sold the PPI over the internet.
Canada Square  had to make it clear to Mrs H that PPI was optional and that she had a fair 
choice about whether  to take it out. The policy was taken out as part of Mrs Hs credit card 
application. Ive seen examples of the screens she likely wouldve completed at the time, 
one of which included  a PPI section. The PPI section  includes equally prominent yes and 
no options for PPI. I think its unlikely  PPI wouldve been added  to Mrs Hs account unless 
she ticked the yes box. 
Ive seen some of the monthly statements Mrs H wouldve received. And I can see that PPI 
premiums are referred to as credit card repayment protector. So I think its likely she 
wouldve noticed the additional product she was paying for. And if it wasnt something  Mrs H 
wanted, or chose  to apply for, Id expect her to have questioned it at an early stage. But Ive 
not seen any evidence that she did.
Taking everything into account,  I think Canada Square made it clear that Mrs H didnt have 
to take out the PPI and she chose  to take it out  although I can understand why she cant  
remember this after so many years.
Mrs H wasnt given advice, so Canada  Square didnt have to check  that the policy was 
suitable for her. However, it still had to give Mrs H clear information  about the policy  so she 
could make a decision  about whether it was right for her.
Its possible the information Canada Square  gave Mrs H couldve been  clearer but I dont 
think clearer information wouldve led to Mrs H making a different decision. I say this 
because:
Mrs H was eligible for the policy and she doesnt appear to have been affected by 
any of the main exclusions or limitations, for example, any that related to pre-existing 
medical conditions.
Ref: DRN46215272The policy wouldve  covered  10% of Mrs Hs monthly balance for up to 12 months  if 
she became too ill to work. Mrs H said she was entitled to six months  full sick pay. 
However, I think Mrs H wouldve still found the policy  useful as it wouldve paid out a 
benefit on top of any employer sick pay. And it couldve helped her in particular if any 
period of sickness was prolonged.
The policy would also have paid a monthly  benefit if Mrs H had lost her job. So I think 
its likely  she wouldve  found the policy  to be useful if things went  wrong.
Its possible the information Canada Square  gave  Mrs H about the PPI wasnt  as 
clear as it shouldve  been.  But she chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted  
this type of cover. And it seems  like it would have been useful for her if she couldnt 
work or lost her job. It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better  
information about the PPI would have put Mrs H off taking out the cover. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Hs complaint, and make no award against 
Canada Square  Operations Limited. Under  the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  
Im required  to ask Mrs H to accept or reject my decision before 1 March  2019.
Steve Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4621527