K820x#14complaint
Miss B says Bank of Scotland plc (BOS)  mis-sold her an Ultimate Reward Current  Account  
(URCA) packaged bank  account in 2009. Shes used  a Claims Management Company 
(CMC) to make her complaint.
background
Our adjudicators looked at Miss Bs complaint and didnt think BOS had mis-sold the 
packaged account. The CMC disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans  review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. And Ive used this approach to 
help me decide  Miss Bs complaint. 
Having looked  through everything provided and having thought about what  both parties  have 
said I am persuaded that Miss B took out the account knowing that she did not have to if she 
did not wish to. I say this because Miss B says she was told that she had to upgrade her 
account from a free account to an URCA account  in order  to get a debit card that she could 
use in shops and online. Miss B had already held a free account for a number  of years so I 
am satisfied  that she would reasonably  have  been aware that free accounts were  an option 
for her. In relation to needing  to take out the account in order  to get a debit  card that could 
be used in shops  or online, I can see that Miss B already had a debit card that would allow 
her to do this, and in fact had used this card to make purchases  in supermarkets. So I dont  
think that it is likely that she took out the account for this reason. I think  it is more  likely that 
she took it out because she was attracted to the benefits that it came  with.
When Miss B took out the account the main benefits  that the URCA came with where, travel 
insurance, breakdown  cover, mobile phone insurance and overdraft benefits. Miss B says 
that she did not drive, have a mobile phone  or travel  at the time of the sale. There is 
evidence that she did own a mobile phone  around  the time of the sale but even if this were 
not the case I can see that Miss B did use her overdraft frequently  that time. One of the 
benefits of this account was that the first £300 of the overdraft was interest free so I think this 
may have  been  what attracted her to it.
And while Im open to the possibility Miss B wasnt told everything  she needed to know about 
all of the benefits the account came with, I havent  seen anything  in her circumstances to 
suggest that she wouldve been affected by any of the main limitations or exclusions.  So I 
dont think clearer information about  the URCAs benefits wouldve changed Miss Bs 
decision and she received enough  to know and understand what  it was she was agreeing  to.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding Miss Bs complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 February  2019.
Ref: DRN42148442Charlie Newton
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN4214844