K821x#15complaint
Miss S complains  that Next Retail Limited acted irresponsibly in increasing her credit limit on 
her NextPay account in July 2017.
background
The background to this complaint was set out in the provisional decision I issued in 
January 2021.  An extract from this is attached and forms part of this final decision, so I will 
not repeat  that information here.
In my provisional decision I set out why I was minded  to uphold the complaint. I invited both 
parties to let me have any further comments and evidence.  Both parties have responded to 
my provisional decision. Although I am only summarising here what  Miss S and Next have 
said, I have considered their entire responses  carefully before writing this decision.
Miss S reiterates that Next didnt ask her for any information on her finances  before it 
increased the credit limit. She says her primary wish in resolution of this complaint is the 
removal of adverse information from her credit file. But she also asks whether I think  the 
compensation due from Next should  include a refund of the interest she has paid on her 
account.
Next doesnt agree with my provisional findings.  Next says that the checks it did with the 
credit reference agency showed a very low probability that Miss S would face problems 
repaying her debt. It says that its checking processes were recently reviewed by the 
regulator and that it corrected any credit  limit increases that were  identified by that review as 
being problematic. The increase to Miss Ss credit limit was included  in that review and not 
considered to be a cause  for concern.
Next asks me to note that our adjudicator  did in fact find that its checks before increasing the 
credit limit were proportionate.  And it goes  on to question  why, since  its checks  were 
proportionate, the adjudicator went on to request further information from Miss S, including  
her bank statements. It thinks that it would have been grossly disproportionate to ask Miss S 
for copies  of her bank  statements  at the time of the credit limit increase.
Next has said that, until it received  my provisional decision, it was unaware  that Miss S had 
faced problems with a gambling addiction.  It says that she didnt share  that information with 
the firm. And it has asked for more details about the information on her bank statements that 
shows the problems  with gambling.
Next doesnt agree that, if I still decide  the complaint should be upheld,  I should diverge from 
the redress I would normally  direct when I find lending to be irresponsible.  It thinks  it acted  
promptly in reducing  Miss Ss credit limit when  it identified  her financial problems. Next is 
concerned that my decision might damage  its reputation, particularly when there is no 
evidence that it was acting outside  the law or with anything  other  than the best intentions 
towards Miss S. It says that it takes  its responsibilities as a lender very seriously and is fully 
conversant with the relevant regulations. It aims  to deliver  fair customer outcomes and be 
sensitive to customer vulnerabilities.
Ref: DRN41269162my findings
Ive once more  considered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so I am not minded that 
I should alter the conclusions  that I reached  in my provisional decision. But I think it is right 
that I should comment further on the matters that both parties have raised in response to 
that decision.
As Next should be aware, two adjudicators looked  at Miss Ss complaint. Next is correct that 
the first adjudicator  thought that the checks  Next had performed had been proportionate. But 
Next also received a later assessment from the second adjudicator.  That assessment 
concluded, in line with my analysis, that the checks  Next did were insufficient. And that is 
why the adjudicator asked Miss S for additional  information about her financial situation  at 
the time of the credit limit increase.
In its response Next provided me with a little more information, in the form of an 
Indebtedness score, that it received from the credit reference agency when it was 
considering the credit  limit increase. Although that provides me with more of an 
understanding of the checks Next did, I still think the checks fell someway short  of what 
I would consider to be proportionate in this instance. 
I have considered the retrospective review that Next says it undertook of its credit  limit 
increase process.  And that the review was supervised by the regulator. Next has explained 
that its criteria for the review was based on a consumers  past use of its credit facilities.  But 
that does not override  the responsibility that Next had to ensure that it conducted 
proportionate checks to ensure that future repayments would be sustainably  affordable  for 
Miss S. The fact that Miss S had (mostly) managed minimum payments of at most £30 does 
not give me any confidence  that she would be able to sustainably afford minimum 
repayments of £250.
Next has said that its checks might be less since its credit was restricted and could only be 
used to purchase goods from the company, it doesnt permit cash  advances,  and the loan is 
not secured against property. It is true that all those are relevant factors that could influence 
the checks that Next needed to do. But here, given the significant increase in the credit limit 
that Next was offering, and the potential for that to provide difficulties or adverse 
consequences for Miss S in repaying what she owed, I still think it would have been  
proportionate for Next to have gained a far deeper understanding  of Miss Ss day to day 
finances.
I used Miss Ss bank  statements as a proxy for those checks  as they gave  me an accurate 
and contemporaneous picture  of her finances. I did not suggest  that this was the exact check 
that Next should have  carried out. But it might have been a very useful way to gain a 
detailed understanding of whether it was likely  Miss S could repay  what  she would owe in a 
sustainable manner.
I explained in my provisional decision  the extent of Miss Ss gambling spending. I said that, 
as an example, in June  2017, over just two days,  Miss S spent more  than £8,000  that was 
more than four times the income she received from her employment  that month. Miss Ss 
bank statements contain a great  deal of personal information. I dont think it appropriate, or 
necessary, to share those statements with Next. My analysis  is that those statements could 
not be viewed  as showing anything other than a significant problem with gambling  
expenditure.
Ref: DRN41269163It is of course possible that, had Next asked Miss S for further details of her finances  before 
it agreed the credit limit increase, she would have declined to provide that information. But 
I think that would then have led Next to the very reasonable conclusion that things were not 
well with Miss Ss finances. And as a result it would have taken the appropriate decision to 
not allow her to take further credit.
I think that the significant increase in the credit limit that Next provided, against the backdrop 
of what I consider to be wholly insufficient  checks,  leaves Next with a greater responsibility  
for the debt that Miss S incurred that might normally be the case. When  I described  the 
actions as creating  a ticking timebomb I did not do so to suggest that Next knowingly 
created problems for Miss S or failed  to take actions, albeit after the event, to restrict the 
credit available to Miss S. But by the time Next reduced Miss Ss credit limit the damage  had 
already been done. In the space of two months she had incurred a debt of over £5,000.
I do not know why Miss S purchased so many duplicate high value items. It is Next that has 
suggested that Miss S might have  been selling these items to fund her gambling addiction. 
But I dont think Next can argue that Miss Ss purchasing behaviour is normal,  or not 
indicative that she might be facing problems managing her money. I think  that sort of 
behaviour could, and should,  have been identified  earlier.  It seems to me that Next only 
restricted Miss Ss credit limit when she failed to make the minimum payment that was due  
not because it had any concerns over her pattern of spending.
I am aware  that my decision will require  Next to write off a considerable sum. And it is for 
that reason that I have not, as Miss S requests, made any direction in relation to the interest 
that has been added to her account. The amount that Next will need  to write off is 
significantly greater than the interest  that might be refunded.  But in the circumstances Ive 
described above I think it is a fair and reasonable resolution to Miss Ss complaint.
putting things right
Miss S was left with a large debt as a result  of Next significantly increasing her credit  limit 
without undertaking  what  I would consider to be proportionate checks. To put things right,  
Next should;
Write  off the outstanding balance on Miss Ss account as at 5 November 2018.
Refund to Miss S any payments  that she has made to the account since 
5 November 2018.
Remove any adverse  information relating to the credit account from Miss Ss credit  
file. The account  should be shown as settled in full as at 5 November 2018.
Ref: DRN41269164my final decision
My final decision, for the reasons given above and in my provisional decision, is that I uphold 
Miss Ss complaint and direct Next Retail Limited to put things right as detailed above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 April 2021.
Paul Reilly
ombudsman
Ref: DRN41269165EXTRACT FROM PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Miss S complains  that Next Retail Limited  acted  irresponsibly  in increasing her credit limit on her 
NextPay account in July 2017.
background
Miss S opened a NextPay account in April 2013. Her credit limit was set at £600.  Miss S operated the 
account relatively  well over the following years. In July 2017 Next wrote to Miss S to advise her that it 
intended to increase her credit limit to £5,000. It gave Miss S the opportunity to decline that credit limit 
increase, but if it heard  nothing back  from her it said that the increase would be implemented.  Next 
says that Miss S accepted  the credit limit increase via its website in early August 2017.
Miss S made little use of the additional credit limit until April 2018. At that time she started  spending 
heavily on her account and within little more than a month her outstanding  balance was approaching 
her new credit limit of £5,000. Miss S was unable to make the payments she was required to in order 
to service that debt and her account  fell into arrears in June 2018.  Next responded  by reducing  her 
credit limit to £1,500 at that time, with a further reduction to £300 two months later. Miss S still has an 
outstanding balance on her account that she is attempting to repay  in monthly  instalments.
Miss Ss complaint  has been assessed  by one of our adjudicators. She didnt think  the checks that 
Next had done before agreeing the credit  limit increase had been sufficient. But, from the information 
that Miss S had disclosed,  the adjudicator wasnt able to determine that better checks  would have led 
to the limit increase  not being offered. So she didnt think that the complaint  should be upheld.
Miss S didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint  hasnt been resolved informally, it has 
been passed  to me, an ombudsman, to decide.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending 
complaints on our website and Ive kept this in mind while  deciding Miss Ss complaint.
The rules and regulations at the time Next increased  Miss Ss credit limit required it to carry out a 
reasonable and proportionate  assessment  of whether  she could  afford  to repay  what she owed  in a 
sustainable manner. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability  assessment or 
affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so Next had to think about whether repaying the credit 
sustainably would cause  difficulties or adverse consequences for Miss S. In practice  this meant that 
Next had to ensure that making the repayments wouldnt  cause  Miss S undue difficulty or adverse 
consequences. In other words, it wasnt enough for Next to simply think about the likelihood of it 
getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of any repayments on Miss S. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the credit account. In general, 
what constitutes a proportionate  affordability check will be dependent upon a number of factors 
including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the consumer (e.g. their financial 
history, current  situation  and outlook, and any indications of vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the 
amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking. 
Ref: DRN41269166In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have been more  
thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more  difficult  to make any 
repayments to credit from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount  due to be repaid  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet 
higher repayments from a particular  level of income); 
the longer the period  of time a borrower  will be indebted for (reflecting the fact that the 
total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required to make 
repayments for an extended  period).  
There may also be other factors which  could  influence  how detailed  a proportionate check shouldve 
been for a given assessment   including  (but not limited to) any indications of borrower vulnerability 
and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of this in mind when thinking about 
whether Next did what it needed to before offering  to increase Miss Ss credit limit.
In this decision I havent  considered in any detail what happened when Miss S was first given a 
NextPay account in 2013. Her credit limit was relatively  modest and appeared  to be affordable for her. 
And Miss S hasnt made  any complaint about the original lending decision.  So that isnt something 
I need to consider in this decision.
Next says that it used data from a credit  reference agency  when it originally  set the credit limit, and 
then used updates  to this data on a monthly basis to ensure that the credit limit remained appropriate  
and affordable. It says that it was this data, and the way in which  Miss S had operated her account 
over the previous years, that led it to offer the increase to the credit limit in 2017.
Ive looked at how Miss S was managing her NextPay  account in the months leading up to the credit 
limit being increased. Her repayments  were  generally  made  on time,  or shortly  afterwards, so Next 
didnt consider any of them to have been made late. And she generally paid at least  the minimum 
amount that was required. But those two factors alone dont  give me any confidence that she would 
be able to sustainably  afford a significant increase  in her credit limit.
As I said earlier Next offered to increase Miss Ss credit limit from £600 to £5,000.  That would  mean  
that her minimum monthly payment (if she took advantage of the entire  credit limit) would increase 
from £30 to £250. That was a significant  change,  and I think would have warranted  Next to undertake 
some detailed  checks on Miss Ss financial  circumstances.
Next hasnt been able to provide us with any detailed  information  about  the data it received from the 
credit reference agency,  that it says supported its decision  to increase  the credit limit. Without that 
data I cannot conclude that the checks Next did were proportionate. But even if I had sight  of that data 
I think  it likely  that I would  have concluded that Next needed to do more. I think  that it would have 
been proportionate for Next to get a full and detailed overview of Miss Ss income  and expenditure to 
determine whether the new credit limit was likely to be affordable for her.
I have noted that Next has said that it only offered the credit  limit increase to Miss S. It says that she 
would have been free to decline some or all of the increase it offered, and that Miss S in fact accepted 
the whole increase  via its website. But I think  that misses the fundamental point that it was Next,  not 
Miss S, that was required  to ensure  the offered  credit was sustainably affordable. The regulations 
were in place to protect consumers  not to assist  lenders  in managing the risk of repayments not 
being made.
Ref: DRN41269167But although  I dont  think the checks Next did before increasing the credit limit were sufficient, that in 
itself doesnt mean that Miss Ss complaint  should succeed. Id also need to be persuaded  that what 
I consider to be proportionate checks would have shown  Next that Miss S couldnt sustainably  afford  
the repayments. So Ive looked at Miss Ss bank statements, and what shes told us about  her 
financial situation, to see what better checks would have shown Next. To be clear that wasnt 
information that Miss S had made  available to our adjudicator. The provision of that information is 
what has led me to a different conclusion from that our adjudicator reached.
At this stage I want to be clear that I am not suggesting that this is the exact check that Next should 
have carried out. I do think Next needed more detailed  information  about Miss Ss finances. And 
looking at her bank statements is one way of achieving that although  there are of course  many other 
ways that level of detail could be established. But I think that by looking at Miss Ss bank statements  
I can get a good idea of what better checks might have shown.
Miss S has told us that at that time she was suffering from a significant problem with an addiction to 
gambling. And that is supported by the transactions I can see on her bank statements. Around the 
time that Next increased her credit limit she was spending several thousand  pounds  each month on 
transactions of this nature. In June 2017, over just two days  Miss S spent  more than £8,000  that is 
more than four times  the income she received from her employment that month. I think that had this 
expenditure been identified, any responsible  lender would have decided  it was unlikely  that Miss S 
could safely meet any credit repayments in a sustainable manner at a time where it could be argued  
she had little control over her spending. 
I have considered that Miss S didnt abuse her credit  account  for several months after the credit limit 
was implemented. But I dont think that should provide any reassurance  to Next that the increase in 
the credit limit was appropriate or affordable. By increasing the credit limit against the backdrop of 
Miss Ss gambling addiction Next provided  her with a ticking timebomb  that was available when she 
needed additional funds to support her addiction. The fact that those funds werent used for some 
months doesnt suggest the decision to increase the credit limit was ever appropriate.
In April 2018  Miss S spent heavily on her credit account.  She purchased a number of duplicate high 
value items. I think that unusual  pattern of spending might have been  identified earlier by Next - the 
regulator requires  lenders to have processes  to assist with identifying and dealing with customers  
showing signs  of actual or possible financial difficulties,  even though they may have not missed a 
payment. And so Miss Ss excessive spending might have  been curbed  earlier.
So in summary I dont  think  that the checks Next did before agreeing to increase Miss Ss credit  limit 
were proportionate. And I think that better checks would have shown  it was unlikely that Miss S would 
have been able to repay her outstanding balance  in a sustainable manner. And Next might have 
taken steps to limit Miss Ss access  to that credit when it became apparent that she was possibly 
facing financial difficulties. 
Ref: DRN4126916