K820x#14complaint
Miss W complains about the used  car she acquired with finance  from Black Horse Limited 
(BH).
background 
Miss W says she acquired a used car with a hire purchase agreement  through  BH in 
February 2017. She says she experienced a large  number  of faults with the car. She says 
most of these were  repaired by the supplying dealership. But she says the gearbox failed 
and the dealership declined to repair it.
Miss W also says she told the dealership she wanted to return the car as she no longer had 
faith in it. She says the dealership drew up a new finance  agreement for a different  car. But 
she says she had to pay another  £500 deposit, the monthly payments increased from 
around £115 to around £130  and the term of the agreement increased  from four years  to 
five. So, she says she wants BH to refund the additional cost shes  incurred.
BH says the issue with the gearbox was reported to the supplying dealer over seven months  
and 3,000 miles after Miss W acquired  the car. It says its responsible  if faults present 
themselves at the point of supply or in a reasonable timeframe  afterwards.  And it says since  
the car cant  be inspected, due to it having been  sold, theres no evidence  that it would be 
responsible for the faults Miss Ws experienced.
Our investigator thought Miss Ws complaint shouldnt be upheld.  
Miss W disagreed with the investigators  conclusions. She said shed been backed into a 
corner and either had to pay for a new gearbox or finance the cost of a new car. She said 
shed lost money as a result of taking a new finance  agreement. And she said shed suffered 
loss of earnings, incurred  the cost of petrol and experienced emotional stress by having to 
drive to the dealership on numerous occasions to get the various problems with her car 
fixed.
So, the matters  been referred  to me to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold  Miss Ws complaint  and Ill explain why.
BH supplied  Miss Ws car under a hire purchase agreement, so it was responsible  for 
ensuring the car was of satisfactory  quality at the point of supply.
I understand the supplying dealership repaired  a number of faults at no cost to Miss W, but it 
declined to repair the gearbox  and it told Miss W this would be a very expensive  matter.        
I also see BH didnt uphold her complaint because it said there was no evidence  it would be 
responsible for the faults shed experienced.
When theres a complaint  about faults  that develop after a cars been acquired, its frequently 
the case that an independent inspection is carried out to determine whether  the faults  likely 
Ref: DRN46682702to have been present or developing  at the point  of supply. That isnt possible in this case as 
Miss W no longer has the car. 
I see the problem  with the gearbox  was reported seven months after Miss W acquired the 
car and I also see shed covered around  3,000  miles in it during that time. So, in these 
circumstances and in the absence of an independent inspection report, I dont have enough 
information to conclude its most likely  this issue was present or developing at the point of 
supply.
Miss Ws also complained about the cost and stress involved in taking the car to the 
dealership for repairs, but I dont have enough  information to uphold  this aspect of her 
complaint.
I note Miss W is also unhappy that as a result of this situation she now has a finance  
agreement for five years rather than four, shes had to pay a further £500 deposit, and her 
monthly payments  are higher than they were  previously. 
I acknowledge Mrs W feels  she didnt have a choice  about  changing her car in the 
circumstances. But I see the vehicle she acquired  to replace the car with a faulty gearbox 
was a newer model of a different specification and it had a higher purchase price. 
I havent seen  anything suggesting  Miss W was misled in any way about the terms of her 
new finance agreement. And she presumably couldve chosen a replacement  car with a 
lower price if she felt the agreement wasnt suitable  or she wanted to maintain the same 
monthly payments  and length of agreement  shed had previously.   
I see Miss Ws recently told us about an issue with her replacement car. But that issue 
wasnt part of her original  complaint  and BH hasnt  had an opportunity to respond to it. So, I 
cant deal with it in my decision.  
And, for these reasons,  I cant  fairly and reasonably uphold Miss Ws complaint.
my final decision
I dont uphold Miss Ws complaint against Black Horse Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 March 2019.
Robert Collinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4668270