K820x#14complaint
Mrs D complains that when she bought  a new central heating boiler financed by a loan from 
Clydesdale Financial Services Limited  (trading as Barclays Partner Finance) (BPF):
she wasnt given a printed copy of the loan agreement she signed; and
she wasnt told, and didnt understand, that she was being charged  interest  on the 
loan.
background
Mrs Ds central  heating  boiler broke down towards the end of 2017. She approached a 
supplier whom Ill call H who also acted as an intermediary arranging loans from BPF.  Hs 
representative came to Mrs Ds house.  He said H could supply a boiler with a cash price  of 
£2.084.00. Mrs D could  pay for this by a loan from BPF, repayable by 60 monthly payments 
of £46.56.
Mrs D agreed  to this. She says she signed  a credit  agreement  for this in December 2017  on 
the representatives i-pad, and wasnt given a printed copy of the agreement.
Mrs D says she didnt realise that included in the agreement was an interest  charge of 
£709.60. It wasnt until she received a statement from BPF in 2019  that she realised that 
interest was being  charged on the loan.
Mrs D complained to BPF that she had been misled when she agreed to sign the agreement.  
If she had known she was being  charged  interest  she wouldnt have taken out the loan.
BPF didnt  accept Mrs Ds complaint. It said when signing the agreement electronically she 
confirmed she had read and understood the terms and conditions  of the agreement and 
wished to proceed with the loan on that basis.
It said it had sent a welcome email to Mrs D on 6 January  2018  to confirm that she was 
liable for 60 payments of £46.56, and that the loan amount was £2,084.00  plus interest 
totalling £709.00. However, it didnt receive  any contact from Mrs D to advise that she wasnt  
informed of the interest amount.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that this complaint should be upheld.  He said the terms 
and conditions of the loan made the interest  rate clear, and he thought  it likely Mrs D would 
have been given an opportunity to read her credit agreement, and so be aware of the 
interest charged, before signing  it.
He said a welcome email,  which contained  details of the credit agreement, was also sent by 
BPF to Mrs D shortly after the agreement  began.
Mrs D had complained  about the number of calls she had been receiving from BPF. The 
investigator suggested she contact BPF to find out why it was trying to contact  it.
Mrs D responded to say, in summary, that:
she hadnt had the chance  to read the terms of the agreement before she signed it;
she thought  the monthly payments were £46.56, which was what she was told when 
she was signing the agreement, and wasnt aware of the additional  interest charge;
Ref: DRN49455632BPF kept phoning her but she hung  up immediately and wouldnt speak to it; and
she had now cancelled her direct debit and refused to make  any further payments.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
BPF has sent us a copy of the instructions it sent H before the loan was made.  It makes  it 
clear that H must fully explain the details of the loan to Mrs D, and must print and hand to 
her a copy of the loan agreement and other documents.
Immediately above  Mrs Ds signature on the loan agreement  is the following statement:
Signing this agreement means you:
 have received a copy of your pre-contract credit information (if you have not, you should   
ask for it);
BPF has sent us a copy of the check list signed  by Hs representative which  says,  amongst 
other things,  that he gave  Mrs D copy of the pre-contract credit information,  and loan 
agreement and other documents, and explained them to her, and she seemed to understand 
them.
BPF has also supplied  a copy of the welcome  email  it sent Mrs D soon after she signed the 
agreement which summarised  the details of the loan, including the amount  of interest she 
was paying.
I understand that Mrs D now says she didnt see a written copy  of the credit  agreement 
before she signed  it, and wasnt  aware that she was paying interest, or the amount  of that 
interest, until she saw a statement of her loan at the beginning of 2019.
I wasnt present when the agreement was signed  in December  2017, and so cant  say for 
certain what happened then. However on the basis of all the evidence  now available, I think  
its more likely than not that Mrs D was given the opportunity to read the details of the loan 
agreement, and that these were explained  to her by Hs representative, before she signed 
the loan agreement.
I think Mrs D may now be under a misapprehension about the interest she is paying.  I say 
this because she responded  to the investigators  recommendation by saying she thought the 
monthly payments  were £46.56, which  was what she was told when  she was signing the 
agreement, and she wasnt aware  of the additional interest charge.
In fact, if she looks at the agreement, she will see that the monthly  payments  are £46.56.  
Although the interest charged  is shown separately  in her statement, its included  within  the 
monthly payment.
So once Mrs D has paid 60 payments of £46.56 each she will have paid £2,793.60, which 
was the total amount, including interest, originally payable under the agreement. However 
because Mrs D has stopped making payments, there may now be additional interest  and 
costs to pay.
Ref: DRN49455633Following from what  Ive said,  I cant  say that BPF, or H acting as its agent,  did anything  
wrong when Mrs D entered  into the agreement. So I cant say theres any reason why BPF 
isnt entitled to be repaid the amounts due under the agreement.
I would urge Mrs D now to resume the monthly payments due under the agreement.  She 
should also make  contact with BPF and seek to agree  a sustainable arrangement  to pay off 
the arrears which  have arisen since the last payment she made on 4 January 2019. BPF 
says that as at 14 June  2019, these amounted to £232.80.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint,  and make  no order  against Clydesdale 
Financial Services Limited  (trading as Barclays Partner Finance).
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask 
Mrs D to accept  or reject  my decision before  21 July 2019.
Lennox Towers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4945563