K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in
2005. Mr P says Leeds Building  Society  (Leeds) mis-sold him the PPI.
background
The background to this complaint,  and my provisional findings, can be found in my 
provisional decision which Ive attached  below  and which forms part of this final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party has provided any further  comments or information in response to my 
provisional decision. As I havent received any new information which requires comment, I 
see no reason to change my provisional decision.
what the business should  do to put things  right
Leeds should put Mr P in the position hed be in now if he hadnt taken out the 
unemployment cover  under the PPI policy. The policy  should  be cancelled,  if it hasnt been 
cancelled already, and Leeds  should:
-Pay Mr P the amount he paid each month for the unemployment  premiums  on the PPI
-Add simple interest to each payment from when he paid it until he gets it back. The 
rate of interest is 8% a year .
-If Mr P made a successful claim under the unemployment section of the PPI policy, 
Leeds can take off what he got for the claim from the amount it owes him.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Leeds  to take off tax from this interest.  Leeds  must give
Mr P a certificate  showing how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Ref: DRN45380402my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mr Ps complaint in part.
Leeds Building Society should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 June 2019.
Jenny Giles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN45380403copy of provisional decision
complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in
2005. Mr P says Leeds Building  Society  (Leeds) mis-sold him the PPI.
background
Mr P applied  for a mortgage in February  2005 and made an application for additional 
borrowing in November of the same year. At this time a PPI policy  was taken out. In 2007, 
Mr P applied  for another further advance,  which completed in 2008, and the PPI policy  was 
increased in order  to cover this additional borrowing. He paid a monthly amount for the 
policy after an initial six month free period.
The policy provided  cover  if Mr P was unable to work due to accident, sickness or 
unemployment. In the event of a successful claim the policy  would pay out the monthly 
benefit for up to 12 months.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. He said that Mr P was self-employed  at the time of 
taking out the cover  and under the terms of the policy there were limitations for people who 
were self-employed. He said that Leeds should have made Mr P aware of this limitation 
when recommending the policy to him but there wasnt evidence  that this had been made 
clear.
Leeds accepted the argument put forward by the adjudicator about the self-employment 
terms and it offered to refund the premiums Mr P paid for the unemployment section of the 
cover. Mr P refused  the offer and so the complaint  has been  passed to me to review.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ps case.
I intend to uphold  this complaint in part. Ill explain  why.
Both parties  agree that the sales took place during meetings  in a branch. And I think thats 
likely to be the case. Leeds  had to make it clear that the PPI was optional  and Mr P had to 
agree to take it. Mr P has said he was strongly  advised to take it out and it wasnt made clear 
that the policy  was optional.
From the information Ive been given Mr P had a discussion with a mortgage advisor in 
February 2005 when  taking  out the initial  mortgage and at that point it was recommended 
that he take out PPI cover for accident  and sickness. However, Mr Ps mortgage completed 
and funds were released two months  later, without a PPI policy in place. It wasnt until 
November 2005  that a PPI application  form was completed and signed by Mr P. This form 
asks for the monthly benefit amount required to be entered, along with the details of the 
type of cover required, i.e. accident  and sickness only, accident,  sickness  and 
unemployment cover  or unemployment only. I can see that a monthly  benefit  amount of 
Ref: DRN45380404£450 has been chosen, along with cover for accident, sickness and unemployment. While 
these details have  been pre-printed on the form, I think  its likely this information would 
have reflected the conversation he had with Leeds  when he was applying  for the further  
advance.
Ive also been  provided with a form which was to increase the monthly benefit amount that 
was completed in 2007. On this form it asks for details of the additional  benefit  required and I 
can see that this has been entered. Mr P has signed this form to confirm  that he agreed with 
this increase. If Mr P didnt want to increase the cover, he didnt have to sign the form.
From the evidence made available it would appear that Mr P was offered a PPI policy  
when he initially took out his mortgage but he chose  not to take it at that point. It wasnt 
until the mortgage had been  in place for several months that he agreed to the cover.  So I 
think it would  have  been clear to Mr P that this insurance was not a condition of the 
lending.
Ive also seen the mortgage offers that were provided to Mr P when  the application for the 
initial mortgage and further advances had been accepted. On these offers it states  that 
Mr P was not obliged  to take out any insurance  with this offer and also says that the PPI 
policy taken out is an optional insurance.  If Mr P had been led to believe that he needed  to 
take it out to get the loans, I think he would have  questioned this with Leeds when he read 
through his mortgage offers.
So based  on everything Ive seen and been told, I think Leeds made it clear to Mr P that 
the policy was optional and that he chose  to take it out, knowing he could refuse it if he 
didnt want it.
Leeds has said that it recommended the PPI to Mr P. So it had to check that the PPI was 
right for him. Mr P has told us that he was self-employed and, from the policy  terms and 
conditions applicable,  it does appear  that Mr P may have found it more  difficult to claim for 
unemployment than someone under a normal permanent contract of employment. So I 
dont think Leeds  should have recommended that Mr P take out this type of cover.  But as 
Ive mentioned previously, it was possible to take out accident and sickness  cover only.  
Leeds has offered  to refund the premiums  paid by Mr P for the unemployment aspect  of the 
cover and I think that offer is fair.
Mr P has told us that, as a result of being  self-employed, he wouldnt have received any sick 
pay if he was too ill to work and he didnt have  any savings with which to meet his 
repayments if he wasnt working. So I do think that the accident and sickness  cover under 
the policy could  have been  a useful benefit to him.
Its possible that the other information  Leeds  gave Mr P about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
should have been. For example I dont know how well Leeds explained at the time of the 
sale what the policy would actually cost or how long it would pay out for if Mr P did make a 
claim. But for the same  reasons I think the accident  and sickness  cover was a suitable 
benefit for him, I dont think that better information would have stopped  him from buying  this 
element of the cover.
So when taking  everything into consideration I dont think that the accident and sickness 
cover was mis-sold.  But I do think that Leeds  shouldnt have recommended that he take out 
the unemployment cover and so Mr P has lost out because of what Leeds did wrong.
Ref: DRN45380405Ive also thought about whether Leeds needs  to give Mr P some  of the commission  he paid 
back. The Supreme Court  ruling  and rules  and guidance dont apply to certain types of 
mortgage agreement   including a regulated mortgage. As Mr Ps mortgage was a 
regulated mortgage  they dont apply. So Leeds doesnt need  to refund any of the 
commission Mr P paid for the accident and sickness premiums on the PPI he had with that 
mortgage.
what the business should  do to put things  right
Leeds should put Mr P in the position hed be in now if he hadnt taken out the 
unemployment cover  under the PPI policy. The policy  should  be cancelled,  if it hasnt been 
cancelled already, and Leeds  should:
-Pay Mr P the amount he paid each month for the unemployment  premiums  on the PPI
-Add simple interest to each payment from when he paid it until he gets it back. The 
rate of interest is 8% a year .
-If Mr P made a successful claim under the unemployment section of the PPI policy, 
Leeds can take off what he got for the claim from the amount it owes him.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Leeds  to take off tax from this interest.  Leeds  must give
Mr P a certificate  showing how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my provisional decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I intend  to uphold  Mr Ps complaint in part.
Leeds Building Society should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Ref: DRN4538040