K820x#14complaint
Mr F and Ms N have complained about the way Admiral Insurance Company Limited is 
dealing with a third party claim under Ms Ns car insurance policy. 
background
Ms N bought a car insurance policy  with Admiral. Mr F is a named driver.
In November 2018 Admiral received a claim from a third party. So it contacted 
Mr F and Ms N. 
Mr F said neither he nor his wife was involved in an incident. In December  2018  Mr F 
complained to Admiral.  He was unhappy with the information it asked him to provide to 
assist with its investigation. He said Admiral made him feel like a criminal. 
Mr F was also unhappy because he said Admiral had failed to call him back  when he called 
for an update. And he said he received a number of cold calls from companies asking about 
the accident. Mr F believed Admiral  must  have shared his details without  his consent. 
In February 2019  Admiral  replied to Mr F and Ms Ns complaints. It apologised for failing to 
call Mr F back on a couple of occasions. For this it paid him £40 compensation.
Admiral said it needed  Mr Fs co-operation in order  to be able to defend the claim. So the 
more evidence it had to show to the third party that neither  Mr F nor Ms N was liable, the 
stronger its case would  be.
Admiral said it didnt  pass Mr Fs details on. It checked the telephone numbers Mr F provided 
it with and found they either no longer existed  or appeared to be speculative calls from 
claims management companies. Admiral found  online reviews showing customers who had 
never been involved in an accident were receiving calls from some of the numbers Mr F 
gave it. 
Mr F remained unhappy, so he asked us to look at their complaint. 
Our investigator didnt  think Admiral  had acted reasonably. 
Mr F didnt  agree. He says hes 100% sure Admiral shared  his details. He says hes sent 
Admiral CCTV  footage a number of times  but Admiral says it hasnt received it. 
Mr F says Admiral  is continuing to ignore him and the cold calls continue.
So the case has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont intend to uphold 
it. Ill explain why.
Ref: DRN40333672Because Admiral  received a claim from a third party  as Ms Ns insurer   it needs to 
investigate the claim.  I understand  Mr F is upset that he and his wife have been  asked for 
information to prove  they werent involved in an accident. But I think  its reasonable for 
Admiral to properly investigate the claim. And this means it needs Mr F and Ms Ns co-
operation and assistance  to help Admiral  defend  the claim. As Admiral  explained, the 
stronger the evidence it has to put to the third party, the more  likely it is that it can 
successfully defend the claim. 
So I dont  think it was unreasonable for Admiral to ask Mr F to send it CCTV footage  which 
he said was available  showing where  their car was when the incident happened.  And I also 
dont think it was unreasonable  for Admiral to request that an engineer inspect Mr Fs car. 
Evidence  or lack of evidence of recent damage in the area the third party claimed  
impacted with their vehicle  will assist  Admirals investigation into the claim.
Admiral said it didnt  share Mr Fs details. It investigated the telephone numbers Mr F gave it 
 which  he said hed received calls from since the incident was reported to Admiral. Admiral 
checked these  numbers and confirmed it had no dealings  with any of them.  Some numbers 
no longer existed: others appeared to be speculative cold callers. 
There isnt anything to show me that Admiral shared Mr Fs details to third party  companies. 
Admiral accepted that it failed to call Mr F back on a couple of occasions: on 26 November 
2018 and 16 December 2018. I think its apology  and compensation of £40 for this poor 
service is fair and reasonable. 
My decision  is based  on the complaints Mr F raised  in December 2018, which Admiral 
replied to in February  2019. Mr N says hes continuing to be ignored by Admiral   and he 
says hes sent it CCTV footage which  it doesnt appear to have received.  
Mr N will need  to raise these issues with Admiral first to allow  it to reply to his complaints. If 
he remains unhappy with their response, he can ask us to look at these new issues for him. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F and Ms N to 
accept or reject my decision  before  5 May 2019.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4033367