K820x#14complaint
Mr A makes  a claim under section 75 Consumer Credit Act (1974) that PayBreak Limited 
(PayBreak) misled  him into signing up for a course that wasnt as described. 
background
Mr A signed  up for a digital marketing course  which was financed through a point of sale 
loan with PayBreak.  It started at the end of July 2017 and was due to finish  with an 
examination at the end of January 2018.  Mr A left the course in late October. He had 
completed the course but hadnt  sat the examination.
He says that the course quality was poor and the content wasnt what  was promised. In 
particular he complains that there wasnt enough content on advanced web development 
and a significant part of the course was a repetition of material provided by the accrediting 
body for digital marketing.
Mr A said the course programme promised training on Dreaweaver, HTML, CSS and 
Javascript and the creation and hosting  of web pages using Dreamweaver.  He says all of 
these aspects were to be taught at both a basic and advanced level but they werent.
He said the course  structure simply wasnt delivered as the consultants had advised  him it 
would be. It wasnt  practical and didnt include advanced elements  as he was led to believe it 
would.
PayBreak disagreed and said they hadnt misrepresented  the course. They understood that 
Mr As complaint centred on the fact that; HTML, Javascript and Dreamweaver course  were  
not offered.  They explained that the industry  skills aspect of the training evolved  in 
accordance with the demands of employers  and that this had been explained to Mr A at his 
first session. They said hed not raised any concerns at that time and regardless, the College 
had arranged training in these areas  for him later and in plenty of time for him to attend.
They denied that Mr A had told them the reason  he wanted to join the course  was to study 
these programming languages and they said if he had, they would have suggested a 
different course  at the college: especially in light of him now telling them he had some 
knowledge in these areas. They said it was clear Mr A hadnt  engaged with the course; 
hadnt attended labs; hadnt booked  the examination and had failed to attend some classes.
So Mr A referred his complaint to this service. Our investigator didnt think  there was 
evidence that the service  had been  misrepresented to Mr A or that thered been any breach 
of contract. She didnt  think  the marketing literature suggested the course would have 
advanced web development  content  and she thought the marketing information provided  an 
overview of what would be offered but suggested  students should speak to our consultants 
about course schedules. She thought this suggested that the course schedules might  
change and all areas may not be covered. She was unable to see how the course was 
initially marketed as the website was unavailable. So she explained that she hadnt been 
able to substantiate Mr As claims that the course offered advanced training. For similar 
reasons she didnt think thered been  a breach  of contract either as she wasnt persuaded 
that the course offered  had not been delivered.  
She went on to consider  the guaranteed job aspect  of the course.  She noted the terms of the 
contract had conditions about  attendance  and as Mr A hadnt  had full attendance he 
Ref: DRN42918652wouldnt have met those conditions and qualified  for the guaranteed job. She understood 
that he had been offered a mock interview  with only two days  notice  and hed been advised  
that notice would have been  longer.  She said as Mr A had explained the guaranteed job was 
not his main purpose for joining the course  she couldnt see that this would have affected his 
choice to sign up for the course. So she didnt think hed been  disadvantaged  by the change. 
So overall, the investigator didnt think she been  provided with sufficient evidence to suggest 
the course was misrepresented  or thered been a breach  of contract. She didnt think  
PayBreak needed  to take any further action.
But Mr A disagreed and he asked  for an ombudsman to review his complaint  and make  a 
final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr A and I can see this has been a frustrating incident for him but Im 
afraid I dont think there are reasons for PayBreak to uphold his claim. Please let me explain.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
s75 Consumer Credit  Act (1974)
When something goes  wrong  and the payment was made through a point of sale loan, as is 
the case here, it might be possible to recover the money paid through a section 75 (s75)  
claim. This section of the Consumer  Credit  Act (1974) says that in certain circumstances, a 
finance provider  can be responsible for a breach of contract  or a misrepresentation made by 
the supplier. 
was there  a misrepresentation?
If a consumer is told something that is wrong  and they rely on this when buying something  
and wouldnt  have  proceeded with the purchase if that false  information  hadnt been 
supplied, then they may have a claim for misrepresentation. If that were  the case I would ask 
PayBreak to take some further action.
Mr As broad  complaint is that he wouldnt  have  signed up for the course if hed been  
provided with accurate  information about what was going to be covered.
He said he expected there to be advanced  content  but from the information Ive had to 
review I dont think that was how the course was sold.  Ive looked at the brochure  and that 
says:
this programme is valuable to aspiring  digital marketing  professionals  with no prior 
experience and also to marketing professionals who want to sharpen  their skills
Ref: DRN42918653I dont think that sounds  like therell  be advanced  content. And I think that view is supported  
by some of the testimonials that appear in the brochure. They say it was:
an opportunity to get a broad overview and covered all the digital marketing  basics 
So, again,  I dont  think this sounds like there was intended to be an advanced element to the 
training.
The schematic showing course progression also doesnt refer to advanced skills. It says 
Digital Marketing Part 2 (Industry  Tools) and I think if part 2 had been meant to focus on 
advanced elements  it would  have  said so.
I understand that Mr A disputes whether  aspects  included in the Programme Contents were  
delivered. But the programme also explains that students should speak to the consultants 
about schedules  and I think,  as the investigator  did, that this is likely to mean  that those 
schedules would vary from the content.  I can see that there was an offer to join a specific  
course on the programming languages, that Mr A referred to, so I dont think  it would be fair 
to suggest the content wasnt made  available and I dont think theres  evidence  here that the 
service was misrepresented.
Mr A has explained that the job guarantee wasnt the reason he chose the course.  So 
irrespective of whether  this was misrepresented to him it wouldnt have changed his decision 
to enter  into the finance agreement with PayBreak.
was there  a breach of contract?
Ive thought about whether I think the job guarantee promise was breached but I dont think it 
was. The contract set out some conditions that needed to be met if the job guarantee was to 
apply. It said that students:
must  attend 100% of scheduled classes
needed to complete  the exam
needed to email in advance  of any absences with reasons
Ive not seen that these conditions were met so I dont think Ive been provided with evidence 
that the job guarantee aspect of the course  was breached.
And I dont  think PayBreak breached  its contract  in relation to the course it committed to 
supply. Its clear that Mr A attended  and has the requisite attendance certificates.
So overall, Ive not been  persuaded  that the course was misrepresented  or the contract  
breached and I therefore dont think PayBreak need  to take any further action.
Ref: DRN42918654my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 May 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4291865