K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B say Bradford & Bingley Plc (B&B) mis-sold them a payment protection 
insurance (PPI)  policy.  
background and summary to complaint
Mr and Mrs B bought the policy  at a meeting in 1998  at the same time as taking a mortgage. 
The policy provided  cover  on Mr B for accident,  sickness and unemployment  subject to its 
exclusions and limitations. For a successful claim it offered to pay £242.57 a month towards  
Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage balance. B&B says the premium was £15.77 a month at the time. 
Mr B was employed as a joiner. A letter from the time from his employer says he was entitled 
to statutory sick pay and 50 days industrial sick pay. Hed been with his employer 25 years  
and hes told us he was entitled to 12 months or more  redundancy pay. From what  hes told 
us, Mr B was in good health at the time and hadnt had any health  issues.
Mrs Bs employers  letter from the time shows she was employed by a local authority, had 
been there five years,  earned much less than Mr B and was entitled to sick pay of full pay for 
six months then half pay for six months.  She was also entitled to redundancy pay.
Mr and Mrs B have  told us they had savings of £4000 available to pay the mortgage.  Their 
mortgage application indicated they didnt have savings available to reduce the mortgage 
and shows Mr and Mrs B were moving an existing  mortgage, increasing  the borrowing and 
had existing unsecured borrowings that were to remain after the re-mortgage.
B&B has sent us evidence to show the mortgage  account closed in 2003. Mr and Mrs Bs 
representative has made lengthy  and substantial representations on their behalf. I will not 
restate them all here,  but I have  read and considered them  all carefully.  In summary, 
Mr and Mrs Bs representative says:
B&B failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on handling 
PPI complaints under DISP App 3, it should be presumed Mr and Mrs B wouldnt have 
taken the policy  and the complaint should be upheld. Mr and Mrs Bs representatives 
believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a successful 
claim meant  the policy was of inherently poor value  as shown by the low claims ratio. 
The common law duty of utmost  good faith means  B&B should have told Mr and Mrs B 
about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means B&B should have explained the 
significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mr and Mrs B and the impact 
they would  have had on their chances  of making  a claim;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of cover;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is generally 
someones biggest ever long-term  transaction  cover would stop at the time it would be 
most needed; and
Ref: DRN49050602The information Mr and Mrs B received was misleading. These policies  were  promoted 
as providing peace  of mind, but the number of exclusions  and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and had a chance to 
give their responses to the adjudicators  opinion.  Mr and Mrs B disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion for several reasons. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally,  it 
has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Bs. I dont intend to set that 
out in much detail  here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Bs complaint.
This sale took place  in 1998 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2003. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at the time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. 
In particular, The Association of British Insurers General  Insurance Business Code of 
Practice for all intermediaries (Including  Employees  of Insurance  Companies) other than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct Marketing/ 
Direct Mail and the Internet
Ref: DRN49050603The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like B&B at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take the ABI Code  and these 
other publications into account  when  deciding what is, in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of Mr and Mrs Bs case.
There was also the Mortgage Code which was a voluntary code followed by subscribing 
lenders and mortgage intermediaries. While predominantly about  mortgage related matters, 
it also included some insurance related commitments. 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   the Office of the Banking Ombudsman  in this 
case  might have been expected to reach in relation to an equivalent complaint. I note that 
under the Banking Ombudsmans  terms of reference the Ombudsman was required to 
decide complaints  by reference to what was, in his opinion, fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances  and that the Ombudsman was required  to observe any applicable rule of 
law or relevant judicial  authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so B&B 
was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were guidance 
when considering Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If B&B gave advice,  whether it advised  Mr and Mrs B with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for them,  given their needs 
and circumstances.  
-Whether B&B gave  Mr and Mrs B sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable 
them to make an informed  choice about whether to take the policy, including  drawing to 
their attention and highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading way  the main 
provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and exclusions.  
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in Mr and Mrs Bs 
favour, I must then go on to consider whether  and to what extent they suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by Mr and Mrs B and 
B&B, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. Ive set out my reasoning  below. 
Ref: DRN49050604did Mr and Mrs B know they had a choice?
B&B had to make  it clear the PPI was optional. Mr and Mrs B have said it was just included 
as part of the package with their mortgage.  But their mortgage application  had a separate 
Payment Protection Insurance section. This had boxes to mark to say they required either 
cover for accident and sickness only or cover  that also covered  unemployment   and it had a 
third box to mark if they didnt require  cover at all. Mr and Mrs Bs form, which they signed,  
was marked to indicate they required accident,  sickness and unemployment cover.  It was 
also filled in to say the monthly  benefit of £242.57 was all to be on Mr B and not on Mrs B. I 
think its likely Mr and Mrs B wouldve known that, if they didnt want  PPI, the box saying PPI 
protection wasnt required shouldve been  ticked instead.
Mr and Mrs B havent said anything to make  me think they were pressured into taking the 
policy cover  on Mr B. Taking everything into account, I think its more  likely Mr and Mrs B 
knew the policy was optional and agreed  to take it without undue pressure.
did B&B  provide advice?
B&B says it didnt provide advice during this sale.  Bearing in mind  also what Mr and Mrs B 
have said, Im persuaded B&B didnt provide advice. This means  B&B didnt have to check if 
the PPI was suitable for Mr and Mrs B. Instead,  it had to give them sufficient, appropriate  
and timely  information  to enable them to make an informed choice about whether to take the 
policy, including drawing  to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and exclusions.  
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not Mr and Mrs B were  given a broad description of what 
the policy was intended to cover  (that is, it would protect their payments if Mr B were  unable 
to work due to accident, sickness or unemployment) and of the approximate  costs. I have 
reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely Mr and Mrs B would have taken the 
policy without any sense  of what it was for and of how much the premium might  be. 
Also, Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage application, where  the cover  was selected, said the PPI was 
insurance to help maintain mortgage payments if they couldnt work due to illness, injury or 
unemployment. The form was filled in to show the cover  was to be on Mr B and that it would 
include unemployment cover. The amount of the monthly benefit was also set out there. It 
also said B&B would pay the first six months premiums   which  I think also indicated  there 
was a monthly premium  to be paid for the cover.
But the evidence  from the time doesnt tell us whether B&B gave sufficient information about  
the actual cost or the exclusions or limitations before Mr and Mrs B agreed to the policy.  
So I dont  think B&B gave Mr and Mrs B sufficient, appropriate and timely information  to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take the policy,  including  drawing 
to their attention  and highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading  way  the main 
provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and exclusions.  
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
Ref: DRN49050605In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr and Mrs Bs representative  has raised a 
number of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr and Mrs Bs. 
Ive considered these  carefully and summarised them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have explained 
the low claims  ratio  what Mr and Mrs Bs representative considers to be poor value  
and the fact much of the premium went  to the business rather than the insurer.  
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just told 
Mr and Mrs B about the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone  further  and 
explained the significance of them to them.  
Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Bs representatives views on this. The duty of utmost good 
faith in insurance  law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose material 
facts and not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what a court  
would say  I think  its unlikely a court would find this extended to the insurer having to 
disclose the claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and 
exclusions in the way Mr and Mrs B have  suggested.  And, taking into account the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude B&B ought to have  done  either.  
what effect did B&Bs  shortcomings have  on Mr and Mrs B? To what extent did they 
suffer loss or damage  as a result?
Ive found B&B didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy  to Mr and Mrs B. So I 
have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mr and Mrs B 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not they 
would have still taken  the policy, had B&B done  things  properly.  Mr and Mrs B say they 
wouldnt have taken  it and believe  I should presume this to be the case  given the significant 
failings identified above. 
Ive considered the representations of both sides and the evidence  relating to this carefully. 
As this was a non-advised sale, Mr and Mrs B had to weigh up in their own minds the cost of 
the policy against the benefits offered and the potential  consequences if they didnt insure  
against the risk of Mr B being  unable to work. As Ive found above, they chose to take it, so I 
consider it reasonable to conclude they had some interest  in the benefits offered by this type 
of insurance. But they made this decision based  on incomplete information, so what they 
thought they were getting isnt exactly what they got. The extent to which  this differed  is a 
relevant consideration when determining if they have suffered any loss or detriment.
The information Mr and Mrs B were given about  the benefit was clear. But the information 
about other aspects  of the policy, such as the cost, limitations and exclusions, wasnt as 
clear as it shouldve  been.
I consider it more likely  than not Mr and Mrs B knew they would have to pay something  for 
the PPI, but it doesnt appear  B&B told them the exact premium  when they applied.  That 
said, I think it unlikely they wouldve taken the PPI without  an idea of the approximate cost.  
Also, the cost was set out on Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage offer, so it seems they were  told the 
exact cost before the policy started  and they continued with the policy for some time after 
that. When they were  informed of the cost,  Mr and Mrs B mightve instead raised this with 
Ref: DRN49050606B&B or reconsidered their decision at that time if this had been  significantly at odds with their 
expectations at the meeting. Overall, what I have  doesnt persuaded me Mr and Mrs B 
wouldve found the cost unacceptable  if theyd been given the exact figure in the meeting in 
which they agreed to the policy.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr and Mrs B thought  theyd bought 
and what they actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to illness for which Mr B had symptoms  before the 
start. Also, unless the policy had been  in force for at least  two years  and there  had also 
been two consecutive years without treatment  or advice  for the issue,  the policy would 
exclude claims  relating  to illness and injury, or any underlying or attributable conditions, 
for which  Mr B had been advised  or treated or of which  he was or ought  to have been 
aware in the two years before the policy start;
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back conditions,  placing more 
onerous evidential  requirements to support  a claim on those grounds;
The policy would limit, and in some situations exclude, unemployment cover if Mr B 
wasnt a permanent  employee;
The requirement that, to be eligible for a disability claim, Mr B be totally unable  to do his 
usual job and be unable to do any other  job for which he was fitted by knowledge  and 
training; and
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, rather than the remaining term of 
the mortgage, and there were provisions for the policy  to end after 12 benefit payments. 
I do accept theres a possibility the limitations or exclusions above might  well have caused 
Mr and Mrs B pause for thought  and may well have caused them to conclude the policy 
wasnt as good  as they thought and they might have  decided not to proceed.  The limitations 
on the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might  have dissuaded  
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs B from taking the it. 
But, the evidence  about Mr and Mrs Bs circumstances  at the time of sale shows  the policy  
wasnt fundamentally wrong for them. Mr B was eligible for its benefits  and it provided  cover 
that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proven valuable to Mr and Mrs B should 
the insured risks have become a reality. 
I also havent seen  any evidence to suggest Mr B wouldve been caught  by any of the 
significant exclusions  he didnt have any pre-existing medical  conditions  and was in 
permanent employment,  for example. So, with this and what  Ive said above in mind, I think  
Mr and Mrs B still had some good reasons to take the policy.
B&B may not have  told Mr and Mrs B any claim they made would be limited to 12 months.  
This may have differed  from what they expected and mightve hoped for. But Mr B wouldnt 
have received sick pay at full pay for anything like 12 months. In those circumstances, and 
bearing in mind the policy unemployment benefit  wouldve  been  paid out on top of his work 
redundancy entitlement, I consider it likely Mr and Mrs B would have still thought  a policy  
that paid up to 12 monthly benefit payments towards their mortgage would be of benefit to 
them and help them  manage the consequences if Mr B couldnt work in the circumstances  
covered by the policy.
If Mr and Mrs B had known they could  only claim for disability if Mr B were not only totally  
unable to do his own job but also unable to do any job for which he was fitted by knowledge 
and training, it might have  played  into their thinking  about what to do. And I accept it may 
Ref: DRN49050607have given them pause for thought  although  given their circumstances, on balance,  I think  
Mr and Mrs B wouldve still been  interested in taking the cover.
I accept back pain is a common problem. The full policy document Ive seen has no extra 
provisions for this but a policy leaflet says back pain without  any other medical diagnosis 
wasnt covered  which mightve made  the steps  required  to make a claim for this more 
onerous than Mr and Mrs B mightve expected.  But its unlikely they wouldve expected to be 
able to make  a disability  claim on Mr B without having to provide some evidence  to support 
that claim.  And, while  this limitation mightve dissuaded some consumers in slightly different 
circumstances to Mr and Mrs B from taking the policy, Mr and Mrs B in their circumstances 
still had some good reasons to take it.
Having considered all the evidence and arguments in this case,  I consider  it more likely than 
not Mr and Mrs B would still have taken  the PPI. It was sufficiently close  to what its likely  
they thought they were getting  and provided benefits that would help them  manage the 
consequences if Mr B were made redundant, or unable to work through  accident or 
sickness. In the circumstances, I consider it more likely than not Mr and Mrs B would have 
taken the policy in any event notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Mr and Mrs Bs representatives say the rules about  how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP App 
3) make it clear  that, where  a significant failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken PPI, unless there is evidence to outweigh  the presumption. 
They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr and Mrs B would not have bought  the PPI they bought  unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr and Mrs Bs 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  they 
found themselves  in as a result of the sale was the same position they would have been in 
had the breach or significant  failings not occurred. 
Mr and Mrs B believe the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken the policy. I am not persuaded by these  arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs B in the position they would have been in if 
they had not bought the policy.  
Ref: DRN49050608That is because,  while I accept it is possible Mr and Mrs B wouldnt have taken the policy,  
Im satisfied, of the two possibilities,  its more likely  than not they would still have taken the 
policy had they been given clear,  fair and not misleading information about the policy  they 
were buying.  So Im not persuaded  it would be fair and reasonable, in those  circumstances, 
to conclude B&B should pay Mr and Mrs B compensation,  as that would put them in a better 
position than they would  have been in if everything  had happened  as it should have done.  
Im also aware Mr and Mrs B think B&B misrepresented the terms of the policy  in how it 
described the PPI. While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of B&Bs  
statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why B&B failed to act 
fairly and reasonably was not because  of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  B&B gave Mr and Mrs B, in the way it did, 
was insufficient  to meet the standards  I consider  it fair and reasonable to expect it to have 
met in 1998  when providing information about  an insurance policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs Bs representative says a court might  take 
if it were to find B&B negligently misrepresented the contract to Mr and Mrs B and about the 
remedy a court might award if it were to find B&B had been in breach of its duty of utmost 
good faith. But this doesnt persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint   including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out, I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mr and Mrs B in a better position than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done.
Im grateful  to Mr and Mrs B for the courteous and prompt assistance  theyve  given us 
throughout our consideration  of this matter.
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  26 August 2021.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4905060