K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S are unhappy with the renewal premium quoted  to them  by Royal  & Sun 
Alliance Insurance  Plc (RSA).
background
Mr and Mrs S had bought  their home  insurance from RSA as a branded policy  through a 
department store for a few years. In April 2018  they were  sent details of the renewal price for 
the policy. The price  had gone  up by 22% from the previous year.  Mr and Mrs S had had no 
claims and their situation hadnt  changed.  RSA explained that the reason for the large 
increase was because of the substantial rise generally in the number and cost of escape  of 
water claims. Mr S contacted RSA who advised him of various  ways  to bring down the 
premium, either by increasing  the excess or reducing the limit for the buildings cover. 
Mr S was still dissatisfied with the explanation pointing out that his property had a very low 
level of risk of flooding and that RSA was inflexible in his being able to change  the policy 
limits, when it was able through another of its brands to offer different limits which could 
have suited him. He didnt  feel that he and his wife were treated fairly.
On referral to this service  our adjudicator reviewed the increase in price with RSA and 
advised Mr and Mrs S that overall they had been treated fairly. This service  doesnt regulate 
what insurers charge  for their policies but we will decide if any price  increase has been fairly  
explained and the consumer given  the opportunity to decide if they want  to accept the new 
premium, or go elsewhere.
Mr and Mrs S were  still dissatisfied, pointing out that if insurers  are given a free rein to 
increase their prices  this would put up prices  across the industry.  The matter has been 
passed to me for consideration.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
level of premium
Mr and Mrs S were  advised of the increase in premium by letter in April 2018  giving  them 
around six weeks to decide  if they wanted  to renew.  The explanation for the increase in the 
premium was the large increase in the number and cost of escape of water  claims. RSA sent 
Mr and Mrs S details  that showed that the cost of such claims had risen by over 50% in the 
three years leading up to the policy renewal.
We asked RSA to confirm that the price increase was correct.  It confirmed  that it was and 
that the increase was mainly due to escape of water along  with a small increase  in insurance 
premium tax. It also confirmed that it had applied the price increase to all customers  in 
similar circumstances.
As we have  advised Mr and Mrs S, we dont tell insurers what  to charge for their policies, 
that is not our function. The price insurers charge all depends  on the sort of risk the insurer  
is willing to cover. We are concerned if the increase appears excessive without a reasonable 
explanation or if it isnt applied fairly  to customers in similar situations.  Here RSA has in my 
view given a reasonable explanation for the increase in its premiums and in light of that I 
dont Mr and Mrs S have been  treated unfairly or singled out in any way. It has also 
Ref: DRN44749042confirmed that the increase has been applied fairly.  I dont think Mr and Mrs S have  been  
treated unfairly  here. They were advised  of the new premium  a reasonable length of time 
before the renewal, giving  them the opportunity to shop around. And I dont think the renewal 
letter misled  them into believing they had to accept the renewal or that they might not get a 
better price elsewhere.
individual circumstances
Mr S has pointed  out that he feels his property is at a lower  risk of flooding than other 
properties and that, in view of the flood precautions in a nearby river, the risk of it flooding 
and damaging his property  is extremely low. But insurers  generally offer insurance based on 
the area and type and value of property. I think thats a reasonable approach.  By pooling  the 
risk it has the effect of bringing down the overall  premium. A policy that is tailored  to a 
consumers specific needs  usually costs the consumer  much more. Typically  there  is a more 
in-depth application process  and sometimes a home visit from the insurer. All of which could  
significantly add to the cost. So I dont think Mr and Mrs S have been treated unfairly 
inflexibility
Mr S discussed with RSA the possibility of decreasing  the limit on the buildings (he had 
unlimited cover) but he wanted to keep the contents limit as it was. He was told that he could 
only decrease the buildings limit if he also decreased  the contents limit. He pointed out that 
RSA couldve offered what he wanted through  another  of its brands. RSA has explained that 
the brand  he bought offered only the range of products it advised him about.  It wouldnt  be 
open to the department store to advise him about  other RSA products. I think  thats 
reasonable and, as Ive said the renewal  letter  advises that Mr and Mrs S are free to shop 
around to compare policies.
Overall I think  RSA has acted fairly.  It advised Mr and Mrs S of the reasons  for the price  
increase and gave  them  the opportunity  to look elsewhere for a policy.
my final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  15 May 2019.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4474904