K821x#15complaint
Mr H has complained that his breakdown insurer Acromas Insurance Company Limited
failed to cover the cost of damage  he says was caused by a recovery agent. Mr H sought
assistance while in Europe under his European  Breakdown Cover policy.
background
Mr H sought assistance  in Europe from Acromas  after breaking down whilst abroad.
Acromas arranged for Mr Hs car to be towed to a garage nearby  and later to be repatriated
back to the UK.
Mr H said he noticed damage to his car when it was returned to the UK. Hes provided us
with an estimate to remove and replace the rear bumper. Mr H complained to Acromas as he
believed they were responsible for the damage.
Acromas said it wouldnt  cover  the repair costs. Acromas said its policy  explains that it isnt
responsible for the acts or omissions of recovery operators or garages in Europe as they
dont act as their agents.
Mr H asked us to look at his complaint. He said he had evidence to show that the damage
happened before  his car was repatriated  to the UK.
Acromas provided a copy of the repatriation agent collection sheet. Mr Hs car was collected
from the garage in Europe where  it was towed to. The repatriation  agent identified  existing
damage to Mr Hs car.
Our investigator thought that although  Acromas policy  said it wouldnt cover damage  caused
by an agent in Europe, as it accepted  the damage  was caused, it was fair and reasonable for
Acromas to cover the costs of the repairs Mr H was claiming for. Acromas didnt agree. 
I issued a provisional decision on 27 April 2020. I thought Aromas policy  clearly  set out 
under Mr Hs policy that it wasnt responsible for the actions of third party  agents operating 
outside of the UK. So I didnt intend to uphold his complaint.  But I said I would consider any 
new representations Mr H may want to make. 
Mr H didnt agree. He said the garage  had photos  of when they recovered his car showing 
his car wasnt damaged.  So this means  his car was damaged by the recovery agent  who 
repatriated his car from Europe to the UK. 
We asked Mr H if he could send us the photos. He said the garage didnt provide them to 
him. 
Acromas hasnt replied.  So the case has been passed back to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As there isnt any new evidence  for me to 
consider, my final decision remains along  the lines of my provisional decision. 
Mr Hs policy  with Acromas says in bold on page  3 the following:
Ref: DRN41956692Please note: Any services that may be arranged for you under this policy  are
delivered by third party service providers  including, but not limited to, garages,
repairers, recovery operators, mechanics of motoring organisations and car hire
companies. These third party service  providers are not the agents of, nor are
approved by. Automobile Association  Insurance Services  Limited  or Acromas
Insurance Company Limited. Neither Automobile Association Insurance Services
Limited nor Acromas Insurance Company Limited  is liable  for the acts or omissions of
such service suppliers.
I think the policy wording  is clear that any third party provider isnt an agent of Acromas  or
approved by them. And so Acromas isnt responsible for any potential damage caused by
them. This isnt an unusual term for breakdown  and recovery services  outside of the UK.
The recovery agents report identified damage  to several areas  of Mr Hs car. The estimate 
Mr H has provided is to replace the rear bumper. However, the recovery report identified  
only a scratch to the rear of Mr Hs car  there is no reference to rear bumper damage on
collection.
Acromas told us that its concluded  that the damage  Mr H has claimed  for must  have been
caused by the third party supplier. But I dont think thats clear. I think  the only thing that can 
be concluded is that there was existing damage to Mr Hs car when it was collected from the
garage in Europe.  This is evidenced by the recovery agents  report  and Mr Hs account. 
But I havent seen  any evidence to show Mr Hs car wasnt damaged  before  recovery. And 
even if it was, I dont think  Acromas is responsible for the repair costs Mr H is claiming. I 
think the policy clearly  excludes  liability for damage  caused by a recovery  agent or garage  in 
Europe.
So I havent seen  anything to show that the damage  Mr H is claiming for is covered under 
his policy.
I understand Mr H will be disappointed. But I think Acromas  decision to reject his claim was 
reasonable and in line with the policy. So Im not upholding  his complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont intend to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 July 2020.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4195669