K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (MPPI) policy  taken out in 
1990. Mr and Mrs G say Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold them  the MPPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of MPPI on our website 
and Ive taken  this into account  in deciding Mr and Mrs Gs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
I think Bank of Scotland gave Mr and Mrs G a choice and they chose to take out the MPPI.  I 
say this because  Ive seen the application from the time and the MPPI  was presented as an 
optional product, separate from the mortgage. A separate  form was completed and signed 
by Mr G. And Mr G was required  to select a level of benefit that he wished. So I think Mr and 
Mrs G were given  a choice and chose to take out the MPPI.
Mr G has told us that he was misled by Bank of Scotland to believe that by taking out the 
MPPI he would get a better mortgage  rate. Ive looked at the paperwork from the time and I 
cant see anything to support this. And the MPPI  was separate  to the mortgage application. 
Obviously I cant be sure what Mr and Mrs G were  told at the time and it could be that the 
adviser misled them over this. But I have  to base my decision on the balance of the evidence 
and Ive not seen enough to say Mr and Mrs G were misled and not given a choice.
Bank of Scotland recommended the MPPI to Mr G only, so it had to check  that the MPPI 
was right for him  and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think  that 
it was. For example he wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the MPPI  
cover and he seems to have had a need for the cover.  
The MPPI was a comparatively low cost policy when compared  to what it could  pay out. And 
the consequences of missing repayments on a mortgage could be serious.  So I think the 
MPPI wouldve given  Mr and Mrs G some peace of mind  that if he lost his job or was off sick 
long term, the mortgage  repayments would be met.
I can also see that Mr G made a successful claim on the policy for unemployment. Mr G has 
told us he is unhappy  with another claim being declined  and the fact that he had to wait 30 
days before  the benefit was paid. He says he wasnt told at outset that hed have to wait 30 
days. Its possible the information Bank of Scotland gave Mr and Mrs G about  the MPPI 
wasnt as clear as it shouldve been.  But it seems  like it would have been useful for them if 
something went wrong. So on balance I dont think better information about  the MPPI would 
have put them off taking out the cover.
This decision is only about the mis-sale  of the MPPI, if Mr and Mrs G are unhappy  with how 
the claims were dealt with, they would need to direct this to Bank  of Scotland.
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs G have said - but I dont  think the MPPI was mis-
sold, so these points  dont change my decision.
Ref: DRN40493222Which means Bank of Scotland  doesnt have  to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and 
Mrs G.
But Bank of Scotland has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs G because:  
Bank of Scotland got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium) - so it should have told them about that. Because Bank of Scotland didnt 
tell Mr and Mrs G that was unfair.  
To put that right, Bank of Scotland has paid back the amount of commission  and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think  that is fair in this case.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, the PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland  plc 
does not have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs G.
But Bank of Scotland plc does have  to pay back to Mr and Mrs G any commission  and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  14 April 2019.
Simon Hollingshead
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4049322