K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold payment protection  insurance (PPI) 
to Mr B. 
background
This complaint is about PPI policies covering two credit  cards.  These were taken out in one 
application in May 1995. 
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  be upheld. Mr B disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.  
Ive considered what Mr B and his representatives  have said, but Ive decided the policy 
wasnt mis-sold.  I will explain why:
I think Barclays made Mr B aware that the PPI was optional  and that he chose to 
take it  although I can understand if he can no longer remember this. I can see, on 
the form which Mr B signed,  that there  is a tick in the box applying for PPI.
Barclays recommended the PPI to Mr B, but it doesnt look as if it was unsuitable  
based on what Ive seen of his circumstances  at the time. The PPI could have helped  
pay the credit card bills if Mr B was off work  sick or was made redundant. He has 
said he wasnt entitled to employer sick pay and didnt have savings  so the PPI 
could have proved  useful.  It also looks  like the PPI was affordable. And I cant see 
any other reason  why the recommendation was unsuitable.
Its difficult now to know how well Barclays explained the PPI  the information on the 
application form itself wasnt  full enough. But I dont think, in his circumstances, full 
information about costs and benefits would have affected whether he took the PPI. 
And it doesnt look like hed have been  affected by any of the significant exclusions in 
the policy. 
This means  Barclays doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr B. But 
Barclays will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr B because:  
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr B about that. Because  Barclays  didnt tell Mr B, 
that was unfair. 
Ref: DRN44629342To put that right, Barclays  has basically offered to pay back  the amount of 
commission and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think 
that offer is fair in this case.
what the business needs  to do
If it has not already  made the payment:
Barclays has to pay back to Mr B any commission and profit  share it got that was 
more than 50% of the PPI premium. Barclays  should  also pay back  to Mr B any extra  
interest he paid because of that.
Barclays should re-work the credit card account  and pay back  to Mr B the difference  
between what Mr B owes and what he would have owed if the commission and profit 
share it got hadnt been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. Barclays should  also pay 
Mr B 8%* simple  interest  if he paid off his credit card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr B can claim back  the tax if he 
doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does  not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr B.
But Barclays  Bank UK PLC does  have to pay back to Mr B any commission and profit  share 
it got that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 October  2019
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4462934