K821x#15earlier responses to this service Asset Independent had said: 
As said previously we think it fair to say that we would not have transferred the personal 
pension schemes  in isolation. Whilst the charges for the SIPP are very competitive in 
relation to a pension we do not feel that £13k in a SIPP, even a low cost SIPP, is cost 
effective. We would be reviewing the plan ... but we would  offer to move the SIPP to a 
basic pension with potentially lower ongoing  costs without further charge.
In view of this he asked  the business  to explain why it had offered to move Mr E from the 
SIPP to a basic pension  if it is not currently permitted to do so by the FCA.
Asset Independent provided a further  response to the provisional decision on 21 January 
2019. It said it felt the provisional decision was fundamentally flawed. It accepted that it 
would not have transferred Mr Es personal  pension pots in isolation. But it said it did not 
feel I had been  fair assessing the way forward . It raised the following points:
-it said that this service usually requires a business to put a customer  back in the 
position they would have been in, but for the unsuitable advice. But in Mr Es case  it 
said the redress doesnt appear  to have followed that requirement.  If we 
understand you correctly, you are saying that we should  have discussed his situation  
with regard to attitude to risk and capacity for loss and advised  him to amend the 
funds to lower risk funds.  That is all well and good but we would charge for that 
advice so it seems fair that we apply our normal advice  charge. We dont want to 
believe that you effectively want us to provide free advice. The alternative  would be 
to place him back into the same fund with [name of product provider], even though  
we all agree that this is too high a risk for him. He would have paid ongoing charges 
on this fund at 1% so this will be brought in to the equation.
- In the current market your assessment certainly favours the client  quite dramatically. 
If he had remained with [name of product provider] he would have incurred some 
volatility in the investment.  By potentially moving him into low risk indices you have 
removed some of the volatility. This is not fair.
It also said that it would need to seek permission  from the FCA to move Mr Es funds out of 
the SIPP to a lower  cost pension plan. It said it had requested permission from its FCA 
supervisor to do so.
Asset Independent also said that the FCA had recently removed the permissions of [name 
of fund manager Mr Es SIPP is invested in]The Trustees are in the process of novating 
the funds to [name of business].  Because  of the amount of redemptions  we understand that 
a couple of the funds have been suspended from trading. Albeit we believe that this will be 
resolved in the near future. Whilst we are still awaiting approval from the FCA, it is not 
possible to transfer  the pension at the present time. All this activity  with the funds is outside 
of our control.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have reviewed everything Asset Independent and Mr Es representative have said and 
provided. Having  done so, I remain  of the view that this complaint should be upheld.  Ill 
explain why.
Ref: DRN45278302information Asset Independent had submitted on 3 May 2018
Asset Independent says the information  it provided to this service on 3 May 2018 included  
details of the assets within the previous [name of provider] plan and evidence of the current  
ATR of the portfolio where Mr E is invested.
But, as our adjudicator  explained in his email  to Asset Independent  on14  December  2018,  
the information does not appear to include  anything  that shows  that the [name of Mr Es 
previous product providers] fund had a risk rating of 6 our of 10 compared to a risk rating of 
3 to 4 out of 10 for the fund recommended to Mr E. 
I have re-reviewed the information provided by Asset Independent. I remain of the view that 
the information it has provided to this service does  not show  that the funds Mr E was 
invested in, before he was advised to move to the SIPP, had a risk rating of 6 out of 10 
compared to risk rating of 3 to 4 out of 10 for the fund recommended  to Mr E. I have not 
seen a direct  comparison  of the funds in the information provided to this service.
I am also mindful that, as I set out in my provisional decision, the key investor information for 
the fund Mr Es SIPP is invested in sets out that risks such as credit risk, counterparty risk 
and liquidity risk may not be adequately reflected  in the [risk rating] indicator. I also note 
that the fund had only just been  launched when Mr E was advised  to invest in it, so there 
was no past performance  information available.
should Asset  Independent receive payment  for advice it didnt give
In its response to my provisional decision Asset Independent said that this service usually 
requires a business to put a customer back in the position they would have been in, but for 
the unsuitable advice. But in Mr Es case it said the redress doesnt  appear to have 
followed that requirement.
It said:
If we understand  you correctly, you are saying that we should have discussed his situation 
with regard to attitude to risk and capacity for loss and advised  him to amend the funds to 
lower risk funds. That is all well and good but we would charge for that advice so it seems  
fair that we apply our normal advice  charge.  We dont want to believe that you effectively 
want us to provide  free advice. The alternative  would be to place him back  into the same  
fund with [name of product provider]; even  though  we all agree that this is too high a risk for 
him. He would have  paid ongoing charges on this fund at 1% so this will be brought in to the 
equation.
I dont agree with Asset  Independents position. It isnt required to provide free advice. But it 
is required to provide suitable advice. It accepts that the advice it gave Mr E was unsuitable. 
Based on the information Mr E provided  when Asset Independent advised him to transfer  his 
pension pots to a SIPP, I said I felt it should  have explained that the fund(s) were  likely to be 
too high risk as Mr E could only deal with very minimal losses  and might need  to access his 
pension pot at short notice.
I said I felt it should have told Mr E that if he wanted to ensure any losses were  minimal he 
would need to move his pension pots to lower risk funds. I said I didnt know  which  fund, or 
funds Mr E might then have chosen to move  his personal pension  pots into. So in order to 
Ref: DRN45278303put Mr E as close as possible to the position he would  have been, but for the unsuitable 
advice, I felt that that the redress calculation should  be carried  out using the FTSE UK
Private Investors Income Total Return Index for half of the pot and the average rate from the 
fixed rate bonds  benchmark for the other half.
If Asset Independent  had given Mr E suitable advice I agree that it would, of course, have 
been entitled to charge for this. But it didnt give Mr E suitable  advice.  It advised  him transfer 
his pension pots to a SIPP and to invest in a fund that wasnt suitable  for someone who 
could only deal with very minimal losses.
I therefore dont  agree that it would be fair or reasonable  for Asset  Independent to apply its 
normal advice charge. It didnt give Mr E suitable advice and I dont agree that it should  now 
charge Mr E for advice that it didnt give.
I note Asset  Independents comment that this service usually looks  to put a customer in the 
position they would have  been in, but for the unsuitable advice. In Mr Es case I think  he 
should have been advised to switch the funds his personal pension pots were invested as 
the funds were not suitable for an investor  who could only deal with very minimal losses . 
This is the position  Mr E would have been in, but for the unsuitable advice. I dont agree that 
suitable advice  would  have been to leave Mr Es personal pension pots invested in funds 
that were too high risk given his limited  capacity to take investment risk.
The redress  calculation favours Mr E.
Asset Independent says:
In the current market your assessment certainly favours the client quite dramatically. If he 
had remained with [name of product provider] he would have incurred some volatility  in the 
investment. By potentially  moving him into low risk indices you have removed some  of the 
volatility. This is not fair.
I think Asset Independent  has lost sight of the fact that it has treated Mr E unfairly.  It gave 
him unsuitable advice and he has been significantly disadvantaged as a result.  I remain  of 
the view that, as professional financial adviser,  it should have  done  more to explore  the clear  
discrepancy between  Mr Es stated attitude  to investment risk and his minimal capacity for 
loss. I dont think, given Mr Es lack of financial expertise, that it was sufficient for the adviser 
to take at face value that Mr E was satisfied that the attitude  to risk agreed upon is within 
your stated capacity for loss.
Asset Independent didnt give Mr E suitable  advice. Had it done so, as I set out in my 
provisional decision, I think it would have explained  to Mr E that if he wanted to ensure any 
losses were minimal he would need  to move his personal pension pots to lower risk funds. It 
didnt do so and the redress I set out is intended to address this failing on Asset 
Independents part. 
suspended funds
Asset Independent says it will need  permission from the FCA to move Mr Es funds out of 
the SIPP to a lower  cost pension plan. It says it had requested permission from its FCA 
supervisor to do so. If permission has not been  granted by the date of this decision, for 
whatever reason, I have set out below that Asset Independent should pay for Mr E to get 
advice from an authorised adviser  on moving his pension pot. I dont think  Mr E should be 
Ref: DRN45278304inconvenienced any further by having  to wait for Asset Independent to seek approval from 
the FCA before he can move his pension pot.
Asset Independent also said that the FCA had recently removed the permissions of [name 
of fund manager of fund Mr Es SIPP is invested  in]. The Trustees are in the process of 
novating the funds to [name of business].  Because of the amount of redemptions we 
understand that a couple of the funds have  been  suspended from trading. Albeit  we believe 
that this will be resolved in the near future.  Whilst we are still awaiting approval from the 
FCA, it is not possible to transfer the pension at the present time. All this activity with the 
funds is outside  of our control.
In its response to my provisional decision Mr Es representative said Mr E would prefer  any 
redress to be paid as a lump sum, with the relevant tax deducted. 
I have included this option in the redress section below. If Mr E wants  to have the redress 
paid as a lump sum he will need  to confirm this instruction in writing  to Asset Independent.  
I note Asset  Independent has said that a couple  of the funds  have been  suspended from 
trading. Should  the fund Mr E is invested in be affected by this, I have set out below how 
Asset Independent should deal with this. 
fair compensation
My aim is that Mr E should be put as closely as possible into the position he would probably  
now be in if he had been given suitable advice.
I take the view that Mr E would have invested differently. Its not possible to say precisely  
what he would have  done differently. But Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair and 
reasonable given Mr Es circumstances  and objectives when he invested. 
what should  Asset Independent do?
To compensate Mr E fairly,  Asset Independent must:
Compare the performance of Mr Es investment with that of the benchmark  shown  
below. If the fair value  is greater  than the actual value there is a loss and 
compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value , no 
compensation is payable.
Asset Independent should add interest as set out below. 
If there is a loss, Asset Independent should pay into Mr Es pension plan to increase 
its value by the total amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid 
should allow for the effect of charges and any available  tax relief. Or, if Mr E requests 
it, Asset  Independent  should pay Mr E the compensation  due and any interest,  with 
the relevant tax deducted.
Compensation should not be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any 
existing protection or allowance. 
If Asset Independent  is unable to pay the total amount into Mr Es pension  plan, or 
Mr E confirms  in writing that the wants the redress paid to him, it should pay that 
Ref: DRN45278305amount direct to him. But had it been  paid into the plan, it would have  provided  a 
taxable income. Therefore the total amount should be reduced  to notionally allow for 
any income tax that would otherwise  have  been  paid.
The notional allowance should  be calculated using Mr Es actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected  retirement  age. 
For example, if Mr E is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer  at the selected retirement  
age, the reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr E would  
have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation.
Pay to Mr E £200 for upset and worry this matter has caused him.
Mr E has a SIPP which incurs ongoing charges on top of fund management costs.  These  
charges wouldnt  have been  incurred  if his personal pension pots hadnt been transferred  to 
the SIPP. Therefore,  Asset Independent, at no cost to Mr E should facilitate switching his 
pension to a simpler stakeholder or personal  pension plan. 
Asset Independent says it will need  permission from the FCA to move Mr Es funds out of 
the SIPP to a lower  cost pension plan. It says it had requested permission from its FCA 
supervisor to do so. If permission is refused, or has not been granted by the date of this 
decision, for whatever reason, Asset Independent  should pay Mr E, or his new financial  
adviser directly, up to £500 - on production of an invoice or receipt - for an authorised 
financial adviser to advise Mr E on switching  his SIPP fund to a simpler stakeholder or 
personal pension  plan.
The switch  to a simpler  stakeholder or personal pension plan should be carried out at the 
same time as any compensation is paid to Mr E, if Mr E choses to have the compensation 
(net of any taxes  due) paid directly  to him. This will avoid  any confusion over additional 
charges Mr E will incur is his funds are left in the SIPP after the redress  calculation  has been  
carried out. 
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Asset  Independent deducts income tax 
from the interest it should tell Mr E how much  has been taken off. Asset  Independent should 
give Mr E a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
investment  
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional 
interest
SIPPstill exists
(may be 
illiquid)for half the 
investment:  
FTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return  Index;  
for the other 
half: average  
rate from 
fixed rate 
bondsdate of 
investmentdate of my 
decision8% simple  per 
year from date 
of decision to 
date of 
settlement (if 
compensation 
is not paid 
within  28 days  
of the business 
being notified 
of acceptance)
Ref: DRN45278306actual value
This means  the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date. 
Asset Independent has said that a couple  of the funds  that were  managed  by the same  
fund manager  as Mr Es SIPP fund  have been suspended from trading. It is not clear 
whether the fund Mr Es SIPP is invested  in has been suspended.  If the fund has been 
suspended I have set out how Asset Independent  should deal with this.
It may be difficult  to find the actual  value of the investment if the fund Mr Es SIPP is 
invested in has been suspended. So, the actual  value  should be assumed  to be nil to arrive 
at fair compensation. Asset Independent should take ownership of the illiquid investment by 
paying a commercial value acceptable  to the pension provider. This amount should  be 
deducted from the compensation and the balance paid as I set out above.
If Asset Independent  is unable to purchase the investment, the actual value should be 
assumed to be nil for the purpose of calculation. Asset Independent  may require that Mr E 
provides an undertaking to pay Asset Independent any amount he may receive from the 
investment in the future.  That undertaking must  allow  for any tax and charges that would be 
incurred on drawing the receipt  from the pension plan. Asset  Independent will need to meet 
any costs in drawing up the undertaking.
fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a return  
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark,  Asset  
Independent should use the monthly average rate for the fixed rate bonds with 12 to 17 
months maturity as published by the Bank of England. The rate for each month is that shown  
as at the end of the previous month. Those  rates should be applied  to the investment on an 
annually compounded basis. 
Any withdrawal, income or other distribution out of the investment should be deducted from 
the fair value  at the point  it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue  any return in the 
calculation from that point on. If there  is a large  number of regular payments, to keep 
calculations simpler, Ill accept if Asset Independent totals all those  payments  and deducts  
that figure at the end instead  of deducting periodically.
why is this remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method  of compensation because:
Mr E wanted capital growth  with a small risk to his capital.
The average rate for the fixed  rate bonds  would be a fair measure  for someone who 
wanted to achieve  a reasonable  return  without  risk to his capital. 
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income  total return index (prior to 1 March  2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock  Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices  
with different asset classes,  mainly UK equities  and government bonds. Its a fair 
Ref: DRN45278307measure for someone  who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return. 
I consider that Mr Es risk profile was in between, in the sense that he was prepared  to 
take a small level of risk to attain his investment objectives. So, the 50/50 combination 
would reasonably put Mr E into that position.  It does  not mean that Mr E would have 
invested 50% of his money in a fixed rate bond  and 50% in some  kind of index tracker 
investment. Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise that broadly reflects the 
sort of return Mr E could  have  obtained  from investments  suited to his objective and 
risk attitude.
my final decision 
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Asset Independent Financial Advisors Ltd should 
pay the amount  calculated as set out above.
Asset Independent Financial Advisors Ltd should  provide details of its calculation to Mr E in 
a clear, simple format.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr E either to 
accept or reject my decision  before  22 March  2019.
Suzannah Stuart
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4527830