K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain  that the car they acquired  via a hire purchase  agreement with 
Clydesdale Bank  Pie wasn't of satisfactory quality.
The complaint has been brought by Mr T on behalf  of both himself and his wife but, for 
ease of reference, I will mainly refer only to Mr T in my decision.
background
In July 2017 Mr and Mrs T acquired a used car via a four-year hire purchase  agreement 
with Clydesdale  Bank. The car was a premium brand  and, although seven years old, had a 
mileage of only 8,300. It came with a manufacturer's  approved  warranty.
Unfortunately, in August 2017,  the car was involved in a minor  traffic collision  and 
sustained some damage to its front body and paint work. The car was away  being  
repaired between August and November 2017  so wasn't driven  by Mr and Mrs T.
Due to the winter weather conditions Mr T then decided not to use the car until it was 
warmer. However, in both December 2017  and January 2018,  Mr T says he noticed the 
car had an "oil slick pattern"  around its front wheel which he now thinks  may have been 
due to leaking fuel.
In April 2018 Mr T started to use the car again and took it to a garage  to fill it with fuel but 
having filled the car the fuel then began to spurt out of the car. Mr T called for roadside 
assistance and the car was taken to a local manufacturer's approved garage to be 
inspected under the conditions of the warranty.  The garage was unable  to replicate the 
fault, but Mr T says he was informed that parts had been replaced.  The car was returned to 
Mr T.
In May 2018  Mr T needed to fill the car again  but did so in the presence  of a technician  
from the manufacturer's approved garage that had investigated the fault. Once the car had 
been filled it again began to spurt out fuel. The technician took the car back  to the garage. 
Mr T says he was told that further  parts had been  replaced and he took the car back.  
In June 2018 the same issue arose  after Mr T had filled the car. The car was returned for 
investigation at the same local manufacturer's  approved garage, again  under the warranty. 
Mr T says he was told further repairs had been  carried out when he collected  the car.
In July 2018 the fault reoccurred, and the car went back  to the same  garage where 
another part was replaced.  Mr T collected  the car. When the same  problem arose  in 
October 2018 Mr T decided he wasn't prepared to use the car anymore, nor take it in for 
further investigation. He complained to Clydesdale Bank and said he wanted to reject the 
car as it was unsafe and not of satisfactory quality.
Clydesdale Bank  contacted the dealership that had supplied the car to Mr T, and it said it 
was unaware of any faults with the car. The dealership said the car had been subject to a 
full check before being sold, and it disagreed there  had been a fault present at the point of 
sale. It also disagreed Mr T was entitled  to reject the car.
Ref: DRN46876502Mr T told Clydesdale Bank that the check the car had subject to prior to sale wouldn't  
have picked up the fault with the fuel as the car hadn't been filled by the dealership. He 
said the car had been investigated  and repaired by the manufacturer's approved garage 
in accordance with the terms of the warranty.
Clydesdale continued  to investigate and didn't issue its final response to Mr T and so he 
complained to this service. Our adjudicator recommended that Mr T's complaint  should be 
upheld. He said under  the Consumer Rights Act 2015 the car supplied must  be of 
"satisfactory quality" and "fit for purpose"  and, for a used car, age and mileage would be 
taken into account  when deciding what "satisfactory quality" was. Here,  although  the car 
was seven years old, it had a very low mileage and it would be reasonable to expect the 
car to be defect free for a reasonable period of time. He also said he noted that Mr T hadn't 
used the car very much in the time it had been in his possession having driven only an 
additional 3,000 miles.
Our adjudicator said that neither Mr T nor Clydesdale Bank had been able to show  what  
repairs had been  carried out on the car. Mr T had asked  for this information from the 
manufacturer, but it hadn't been provided. Mr T had however provided photos and a video 
of the fault.
Clydesdale Bank  said it would be fair for the dealership to now have an opportunity of 
inspecting and repairing  the car, but our adjudicator disagreed. He said that Mr T had 
made the manufacturer aware  of the problems he had with the car and five unsuccessful 
attempts had been made to repair the car. He said the car was in a dangerous  condition  
due to the fuel leaking out and Mr T was entitled to now reject it.
Our adjudicator recommended  Clydesdale took the following  action:
Allowed  Mr T to reject the car and end the agreement
Collect the car
Reimburse Mr T the deposit plus interest
Reimburse Mr T all of his monthly  instalments paid to date save  three which  
would cover his use of the car
Pay Mr T £250 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused  by 
having to deal with a faulty car
Reimburse Mr T the sum of £3,200  paid by him to extend the warranty.
Clydesdale Bank  disagreed  with our adjudicator's view.  It said that the faults  should  have  
been reported to the dealership that had provided the car to Mr T to allow it an opportunity 
to investigate the fault as per the Consumer Rights Act 2015.  Clydesdale  Bank also said 
that the issue with the fuel appeared to have developed more than six months after the 
point of sale and it was for Mr T to supply proof of the fault,  but he hadn't provided 
sufficient evidence as there was no independent report on the condition of the car. It said it 
was possible the collision  the car had been involved in may have  had led to the fuelling 
problem.
As the parties were unable to agree  the complaint was passed to me. I issued a provisional 
decision along the following lines.
Ref: DRN46876503While I had been considering Mr and Mrs Ts complaint, Clydesdale Bank had made an
offer, as a gesture  of goodwill, that the agreement was cancelled with nothing further to pay
and that the deposit, together with all the monthly instalments paid from November 2018 to
date would be reimbursed. Mr T declined  this offer as he said he would be out of pocket  in
respect of other costs he had incurred through having possession  of the car, in particular the
costs of extending the warranty, services,  MOT, insurance and tax.
Looking at this complaint  I needed to have regard to the relevant law and regulations, but I 
am not bound by them when I consider whats fair and reasonable.
As the hire purchase agreement entered into by Mr and Mrs T was a regulated
consumer credit agreement this service was able to consider complaints relating to it.
Clydesdale Bank  was also the supplier  of the goods under this type of agreement,  and 
responsible for a complaint about  their quality.
Under the Consumer  Rights Act 2015  theres an implied term that when goods are
supplied "the quality  of the goods is satisfactory".  The relevant law says that the quality of
the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard that a reasonable person would
consider satisfactory  taking into account  any description of the goods,  price and all other
relevant circumstances.
The relevant  law also says that the quality of the goods includes their general state and
condition, and other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish,  freedom
from minor  defects, safety,  and durability can be aspects of the quality of the goods.
Here, although the car wasnt new, being  seven  years  old, it had a very low mileage. It
was also a premium brand with a high cost,  and I didnt think a reasonable person would
have expected there to be issues for a reasonable period of time after the point of sale.
However, where a car is found to be faulty, this doesnt necessarily mean the consumer
is entitled to reject it straight  away. Under the Consumer  Rights Act for example, if the
fault arises after the first 30 days has passed from acquiring the goods, then the retailer
is provided with an opportunity of repairing the fault.  Clydesdale Bank said this
opportunity hadnt  been  provided  to the dealership because Mr T chose to use another
garage and the other garage werent  a party to the sales transaction. But Mr T disagreed
and said that there  had been ample  opportunities for the car to be fixed as, under the
warranty, a manufacturer  approved garage had had the car in on five separate  occasions.
The dealership provided details of the repairs it said had been  noted as carried out on 
the car, though it didnt supply any job cards  or invoices. I'm unclear why this information 
wasn't available to Clydesdale Bank. According to the dealership the following work  had 
been undertaken to the car:
In April 2018  issues with the filler neck couldn't be replicated, but there 
was an adjustment  of the actuator and sleeve front-end wiring harness.
In May 2018 there were  filling  neck leaks and an adjustment to the headlamp.
In June 2018 the carbon  canister  was replaced.
In August  2018 the fuel level sender was replaced.
I thought this information corroborated the evidence of Mr T that the car had a fault with 
its fuelling system  and that there were repeated attempts to fix the issue that were 
Ref: DRN46876504unsuccessful. It also showed that the work was undertaken  by a manufacturer  approved  
garage under the warranty. I also thought a reasonable person wouldnt have expected 
these issues to have  arisen so soon after the car was acquired,  taking into account that 
Mr T had only driven a further  3,000 miles, and that the car was a premium  brand and of 
a significant value.
Clydesdale said that Mr T should  have reported  the problem to the supplying  dealership,  
but I disagreed  as the dealership was a significant distance from Mr T's home, and the 
car had come with a warranty,  so that faults  with the car could be investigated at an 
approved garage  closer  to his home. I thought in these particular circumstances that it 
was reasonable  for Mr T to deal with a local manufacturer approved garage when he had 
issues with the car rather than liaising with the dealership. This was a premium grade car 
and I thought Mr T would  have expected  to have the same  service from which ever 
approved garage  he used. I also noted he had made the manufacturer aware of the 
problems he was having.
While I accept that it was usual in these circumstances  to have  an independent report  as 
to the condition of the car, I thought the documented problems, and number of attempted  
repairs, were sufficient  to establish  that it was more likely than not there  was a fault with 
the car that hadn't been  fixed.
I also thought  that, in light of the number  of attempts to repair the car already 
undertaken, and that these were all at an approved garage in line with the terms of the 
warranty, it would be unreasonable to say that the supplying dealership should now 
have an opportunity. I thought it was unlikely that it would  succeed  where  another  
approved garage  had failed and would unfairly delay Mr T in being able to resolve his 
complaint about  the car.
The dealership via Clydesdale Bank queried whether the problem with the fuelling of the 
car had arisen  from the earlier collision. However,  I'd seen that following the collision  the 
car was repaired by manufacturer approved garages, and that the garage looking into the 
fuelling fault under the warranty was aware of the work that had been carried  out. The 
numerous attempted repairs didn't  appear  to have linked any accident damage  to the 
refuelling issue. I thought  it was likely  after the extensive attempts to repair  that if this had 
been the cause this would have been  identified.  So, I was satisfied that it was unlikely that 
the collision  was a contributing factor to the car's fault.
So, for the reasons given above,  I was satisfied that Mr T has provided sufficient evidence 
that the car had an inherent  fault, and that due to that fault it was in a dangerous 
condition. I thought Mr and Mrs T were entitled  to reject the car notwithstanding that the 
supplying dealership had not yet had an opportunity to inspect the car.
The issue  that now arose was what would be a fair and reasonable resolution for Mr and 
Mrs T's complaint. And, while I thought that Clydesdale Bank's offer was a fair starting 
point, I didn't think it went far enough in reimbursing  Mr and Mrs T the additional costs 
they had incurred. However, I also didn't  think it was reasonable for Clydesdale Bank to 
reimburse all the costs Mr and Mrs T were  seeking.
Ref: DRN46876505I agreed that the agreement should  be ended with nothing further to pay and that the 
deposit paid by Mr and Mrs T was to be reimbursed with interest. I'd seen that from April 
2018 until October 2018 Mr T's use of the car was intermittent and affected  by the 
number of repairs. I'd also seen that around  3,000 miles had added to the mileage, 
which was lower than the average use, but I was also aware this car wasn't  intended for 
daily use but more  for weekends  and holidays. I thought it was fair to say Mr T hadn't  
intend to greatly  increase the mileage. I was also aware he was provided with courtesy 
cars. So, I thought  it would be fair for 50% of the monthly payments from April 2018 until 
October 2018 to be reimbursed with interest and then the full payments from November 
2018 to date with interest  to be reimbursed, as from this point Mr and Mrs T hadn't  
driven the car.
I thought this was fair because, although I accepted Mr and Mrs T had little use of the 
car, I thought up until December 2017 this was due to the car being repaired, and then 
by Mr T choosing  not to use the car in the winter  months. So, Mr and Mrs T's use of the 
car hadn't resumed until April 2018  which I thought was fair to say was their choice.  
And, although  Mr T said he thought the fault with the car might  have been present from 
December 2017  as he had noticed an oil slick pattern around the front wheel, I didn't 
think I had enough  evidence to say that he would have been  prevented  from using the 
car from that point  if he had wanted  to do so.
I also thought  it would be fair for Mr and Mrs T to be reimbursed  the costs  of the 
insurance and road tax from November 2018  to date.  As set out above. I appreciated Mr 
and Mrs T had restricted use of the car from April to November 2018, but the car was 
driven in that period by Mr T, so tax and insurance  was required.  A courtesy car was also 
provided while the car was repaired and so Mr and Mrs T were  kept mobile.  Tax and 
insurance are a part of usual travel costs and are an expected expense of car ownership, 
so I thought to ask Clydesdale to reimburse these items from April 2018  would mean  Mr 
and Mrs T would have had free travel for that period, and this would place them  in a 
better position than if the car hadn't  been  faulty. However, as Mr and Mrs T were  unable 
to use the car from November 2018, I thought the insurance and road tax costs  should be 
reimbursed from this point to date. Mr T needed  to provide invoices to Clydesdale  Bank  
to evidence these  costs.
Mr T had also requested that he was reimbursed the cost of a tracker subscription which 
he took out to lower  the insurance  costs. I thought this was Mr T's choice to have this 
extra and, although  I could appreciate why he did so, I didn't  think  I could reasonably say 
this is a cost Clydesdale Bank should  reimburse. The requirement under the agreement 
was that the car was comprehensively insured  but there was no requirement to have a 
tracker as well. 
Mr T has had the car serviced and MOT'd, which was in line with the terms and conditions  
of the agreement, even though  he was unable to make much  use of the car. As Mr and 
Mrs T were unable  to use the car, they have had no benefit from these costs and so 
should be reimbursed  by Clydesdale Bank.
Mr T took out a one year's additional  warranty when the two-year  warranty  that came with 
the car was expiring. He said he took out the warranty  to not only protect himself from 
Ref: DRN46876506repair costs for the car as there was an ongoing  fault, but also because a warranty 
protects the value of the car. While  I have no evidence  that the car's value is either 
retained or enhanced by a warranty, I could  appreciate why Mr T had decided to renew,  
however, I also had to take into account  that at this point he was not using the car and 
hadn't done so for several months.  I didn't think  I could say it was essential that Mr T took 
this warranty out and so I didn't think it was fair to consider  Clydesdale Bank liable for this 
expenditure.
Mr T had requested he was reimbursed  the interest that had accrued on his credit card 
from paying the service,  insurance and extending warranty.   But although I accepted it 
was for Mr T to choose how he paid for these items  I thought  it would be unfair  to require 
Clydesdale Bank  to cover the additional  cost of the credit card interest.   And as I didn't 
think all the items that were placed on the credit card should be reimbursed  by 
Clydesdale Bank,  I was also unclear how the accrued  interest would now be calculated.
Mr T said that he should be reimbursed the cost of adding a ceramic coating to the 
paintwork. I'd seen this was undertaken  when the car was being  repaired following the 
minor collision. However, it's one of the terms of the agreement (see 6.1.5)  that any 
alteration, addition  or improvement made  to the car by Mr T must first have the 
agreement of Clydesdale Bank. I didn't have any evidence that Mr T had acquired the 
agreement for this work, and it was something  he had chosen to do. While  I appreciated  
Clydesdale Bank  would  take back a car with this added paint protection  that was not an 
upgrade it had requested or agreed,  so I didn't think it was reasonable to ask it to now 
cover this cost.
Mr T said that before hed acquired the car, hed paid for a pre-purchase  inspection, 
which was in addition  to the checks carried out by the dealership.  I didn't think it was fair 
for me to ask Clydesdale Bank to reimburse  this amount. This additional inspection was 
not required as part of the financial agreement, and so I didn't think  I could fairly require 
Clydesdale Bank  to reimburse that amount.
Finally, I thought Mr T had been  caused unnecessary  distress  and inconvenience dealing 
with the faulty  car and the multiple  trips to the garage for repairs. I thought  £250 
compensation was fair to reflect the impact this has had.
So, for the reasons given above,  I intended  to uphold Mr and Mrs T's complaint but was 
not intending to reimburse  them all the items they have requested.
Although Clydesdale Bank has agreed  with my provisional view it has asked  that the interest 
added to the reimbursements be capped to the start of August 2020. Mr T, however, has 
asked that I look again  at some of the items  I have  either restricted  in the amount to be 
reimbursed or not asked  Clydesdale Bank  to repay  him. Mr T says that my provisional  
resolution to his complaint favours Clydesdale  because  the cars  value  isnt depreciating but 
actually increasing  over time. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN46876507While I appreciate my decision will be of disappointment  to Mr T I havent changed my view. 
Mr T has provided  me with a lot of research  that he has undertaken as to the cars current 
value. He has also provided me with the values  placed on the car by the insurance 
companies used  by Mr T to cover  the vehicle  during  the time he has had it in his possession. 
I appreciate that with this being  a premium high-performance car the situation regarding  its 
value may be different  from what is usually the case.  That is, the value of the car may have 
increased rather than depreciated over time. But I have  to take into account that Clydesdale 
Bank is not a car dealer and, as is usual  when cars are handed  back  in these circumstances, 
the car is likely to be sold at auction. This means that there  is no guaranteed price it will 
fetch. Further, the car appears to have  a significant  fault which I think is reasonable to 
assume will have an impact  on its value. So, I dont think in these particular circumstances 
that I can say the cars value will have definitely  increased and that Clydesdale  Bank  will 
profit from taking the car back. Accordingly,  I dont  think  its fair that I take the potential  value  
of the car into account when considering what would be fair reimbursements to Mr T.
Mr T says that although its fair he pays something  for the use he had of the car, it should be 
noted that his use was hampered by the fuelling issue. Mr T has set out in some detail his 
views about the costs he has paid and the cars potential  current  value in his response to my 
provisional decision. But as set out above, it would  be impossible for me to accurately 
assess how much Clydesdale Bank will receive for the car, so Im not taking the possibility 
that the car will have  appreciated  in value into my decision as to what would be a fair 
outcome for Mr and Mrs T. Therefore, I dont think its necessary to respond to all the points  
raised by Mr T in my decision.
While I accept from the evidence that Mr T wasnt able to drive the car as he had planned, 
Ive also seen that he added 3,000  miles to the odometer and so I cant  say he had no use 
from it.  Im aware that he didnt intend to use the car daily and that there was a period 
before April 2018 when either he didnt drive it out of choice or because it was having 
unrelated repairs.  So, taking those things into account I still think that being  reimbursed  50% 
of the monthly  payments from April to November 2018 is fair. I appreciate  Mr T is unhappy I 
have used the monthly payments like a rental fee, but I think it is reasonable to consider 
these payments when  deciding  how a consumer will cover the usage of a vehicle.
Mr T says that it isnt fair that he isnt receiving 50% back of the costs of the insurance  and 
road fund licence for the period April to November 2018. But, as I have explained, these 
costs arent  affected  by the amount of use a car has, they remain  payable if the car is on the 
road. Mr T was also provided  with courtesy  cars, so he was kept mobile. I still think that if 
these costs are reimbursed, he would be in a better position as it would mean  he would have 
had free travel for that period (save  petrol  costs). So, Im not requiring Clydesdale  Bank  to 
reimburse these costs
Mr T says that he should be reimbursed  the cost of the tracker and its subscription fee as 
otherwise he wouldnt  have been able to arrange  insurance for the car, or the insurance 
would have been far more expensive. He says under the agreement it was his responsibility 
to have the car comprehensively insured which I agree. But while I accept a tracker can 
reduce the cost of insurance and some insurers stipulate that they are necessary before 
agreeing cover I cant say Mr T would have been  unable to insure the car without this being 
in place. So, while I accept it was sensible to have a tracker  fitted,  I dont agree it was 
essential and I cant fairly  say that Clydesdale Bank is responsible for this cost.  I still think it 
was reasonable  to say that Mr T chose to add the tracker.
Ref: DRN46876508Mr T says that he arranged the pre-purchase  inspection to ensure that the car did not have  
issues with wear and tear of certain  parts  that would not be covered by the warranty. He 
says he considered this check  to be essential.  I understand Mr Ts approach,  but I cant  
agree this was essential  and something that Clydesdale Bank would have  expected him to 
do. While  I understand  that Mr T wished to avoid  expensive  maintenance issues  it was still 
his choice to have the car checked  prior to the point of sale.  I havent changed my view that 
it would  be unfair to ask Clydesdale  Bank to reimburse this amount.
Mr T says that extending the warranty was necessary as if this service hadnt upheld  his 
complaint, he would have been  facing very expensive repairs. While I accept this was a risk, 
I think its reasonable to say that Mr T chose to take this action and it wasnt  something that 
Clydesdale Bank  would  foresee. So, again although  it may have been sensible, I dont think  
its fair Clydesdale Bank cover that cost.
Mr T hasnt  asked  me to look again  at the cost of the ceramic coating  or the interest that had 
accrued on his credit card paying for the service  etc for the car.
Clydesdale Bank  has said that the interest  to be added  to the reimbursements should be 
capped to the start of August 2020  because of the length of time it has taken to conclude  this 
complaint. Im not upholding this request. While I accept it has taken  some  time to reach a 
conclusion on this matter  that isnt due to any act or omission by either Mr or Mrs T. 
Clydesdale Bank,  although agreeing to take the car back during the investigation into Mr and 
Mrs Ts complaint, didnt offer them sufficient reimbursement  for the various costs they had 
covered during the time they had the car. And I dont  think it would be fair or reasonable to 
curtail the interest  payments. 
So, for the reasons given above  Im upholding Mr and Mrs T complaint but Im not altering 
the resolution I set out in my provisional  decision.
my final decision
For the above I'm intending to uphold Mr and Mrs T complaint. I am asking Clydesdale Bank 
Plc to do the following:
Cancel  the agreement  with nothing further to pay.
Collect the car at no cost to Mr and Mrs T.
Remove any adverse information about  this agreement from Mr and Mrs T's 
credit file.
Reimburse Mr and Mrs T's deposit of £15,000 together with interest at the 
yearly rate of 8% simple  from the date of payment until the date of 
settlement.
Reimburse 50% of Mr and Mrs T's monthly  instalments from April 2018 to 
November 2018 together with interest  at the yearly rate of 8% simple  from 
the date of payment  until the date of settlement.
Reimburse all Mr and Mrs T's monthly  instalments from November  2018  to 
date together  with interest  at the yearly rate of 8% simple from the date of 
payment until the date settlement.
Reimburse Mr and Mrs T the cost of insuring the car from November 2018 to 
date together  with interest  at the yearly rate of 8% simple from date of 
Ref: DRN46876509payment until the date of settlement once an invoice has been  provided.
Reimburse Mr and Mrs T the cost of the road fund licence for the car 
from November 2018 to date together with interest at the yearly rate of 
8% simple from the date of payment until the date of settlement once 
an invoice has been provided.
Reimburse Mr and Mrs T the costs of having the car serviced and MOT'd 
after November 2018 together with interest at the yearly  rate of 8% simple 
from the date of payment until the date of settlement  once  an invoice has 
been provided.
Pay Mr and Mrs T £250  compensation for the distress  and inconvenience  
caused by having to deal with the faulty car.
If Clydesdale Bank  Plc considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold 
income tax from that interest,  it should tell Mr and Mrs T how much its taken off. It should 
also give Mr and Mrs T a tax deduction  certificate if they ask for one, so they can reclaim  the 
tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  17 October  2020.
Jocelyn Griffith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4687650