K822xcomplaint
Mrs S complains that The Newton-Barr Partnership gave her unsuitable advice to transfer 
her Occupational Pension Scheme  (OPS) benefits  to a personal pension  plan.
background 
Newton-Barr advised Mrs S to transfer her OPS benefits to a personal pension plan in 1999. 
I sent my provisional decision to Mrs S and Newton-Barr on 3 October  2019,  explaining  why 
I thought this complaint was one we can consider  and that it should be upheld. My 
provisional decision is attached and forms part of this decision. I set out the background to 
this complaint within that decision, so I have  not repeated this here. 
Briefly, I found that: 
Newton-Barr is responsible for Mrs S complaint. 
The complaint  had been brought  in time.  
Throughout the course of our investigation  material information  has been shared with 
Newton-Barr. 
The complaint  we have considered is that raised by Mrs S  but, in any case, our 
remit is informal and inquisitorial,  so I can take a wider view. 
The advice to transfer was not suitable. 
Mrs S accepted my decision. Newton-Barr disagreed with my findings, in summary, it said:  
The submissions focus on matters it believes ought to be considered prior to a final 
decision being issued.
Where matters set out in the provisional decision are not addressed, this should not 
be viewed as an acceptance of the position  set out in that decision. 
The complaint  should be time-barred. The approach  set out in the provisional 
decision is wrong on two accounts: 
oThe test applied is incorrect, in respect of the state of awareness or 
knowledge of the complainant. 
oProper regard was not given to the 2011 pension review.  
The relevant  test is whether or not the complainant knew or ought reasonably to have 
known she had cause  for complaint.  
This requires an objective assessment of whether  the information available  to the 
complainant at the relevant time was such that, if acting  reasonably, she would  have 
been aware of the existence  of grounds for complaint. 
The decision fails to do this and is instead  based  on a subjective assessment of 
Mrs S actual  knowledge. 
It is because of the loss of guarantees that Mrs S considers that she was poorly 
advised, these  are not two distinct issues. They are inherently  linked. The relevant 
knowledge for the purposes of time bar is the knowledge of the loss of valuable  
guarantees. Knowledge that the complainant has received  bad advice  flows  from and 
is ancillary to that.
A complainant will be considered to have sufficient knowledge, if there  existed 
sufficient information to make it reasonable to commence investigations which  would 
have been likely to lead to the claim being identified  (see Howard  & Ors v Fawcetts 
Ref: DRN434199822006 UKHL 9 and Seton  House Group & Anr v Mercer Ltd 2014 EWHC 4234 (Ch)). 
The complainant does not need to know that they have been  badly  advised.  They  
only need to have sufficient information, which if explored, would lead to the 
knowledge that they have  been badly advised.
In this instance, there was enough information for Mrs S to be aware that she had 
given up valuable guarantees when  she transferred her pension and that information 
was enough for a reasonable  person  to think about whether or not it was appropriate 
to give up such guarantees. If the advice was wrong, then that investigation would 
have led to knowledge of the existence of a claim. 
It believes that, if the complainant has grounds for complaint, she had sufficient 
knowledge at the point of transfer to determine  that she had grounds for complaint. 
Even if that is not the case,  Mrs S certainly would have had that knowledge  following 
the review of her pension in 2011. 
The remedy provisionally  imposed is not one the respondent can comply  with, it 
would require highly specialist support and information that is not currently available 
to it. 
The investigator responded to Newton-Barr on my behalf in relation to the time-bar  issue  and 
that of redress I said: 
I dont think that the complaint has been  brought too late. I dont agree that [Mrs S 
name] would  have known from the point of transfer that she had been badly advised.  
Also, we have had sight of documentation relating to the review of how her pension 
was invested in 2011 and there  is no indication that the merits of the earlier OPS 
transfer were discussed. 
It is normal for the calculation of redress in such cases to require the involvement of 
an actuary. It is possible that the business may not have all of the information it 
requires at the moment  although  most  of the basic details of the scheme and     
[Mrs S name] entitlement were included  in the TVAS. Newton-Barr also has a copy 
of the deferred  benefit statement and, if it proves necessary, could contact the ceding 
scheme for additional information.
Newton-Barr responded saying that I had misapplied our time-bar rules  again in not correctly 
considering whether Mrs S ought reasonably to have  known she had cause for complaint. It 
also confirmed that other  than that it had nothing  to add beyond what  was in its previous 
submissions dated  15 November 2019. 
Because agreement  could  not be reached, this case has been passed back to me for further  
consideration. 
my findings
I have first looked at all of the information provided by both parties in order  to decide  whether 
this complaint is one we can consider.  And, having  done so, I have concluded the complaint 
is one we can consider.  So, I have also considered all the available evidence and arguments 
to decide what  is fair and reasonable in the circumstances  of this complaint when deciding 
its merits. My consideration of each point is set out below.
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I have  taken  into account relevant law and 
regulations; regulators  rules, guidance and codes of practice; and what  I consider to have 
been good industry practice at the time.
Ref: DRN43419983Where the evidence is incomplete,  inconclusive, or contradictory (as some of it is here),  
I reach  my decision on the balance  of probabilities  in other words, what I consider  is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
The parties to this complaint have provided detailed submissions to support their position.  I 
have considered these submissions  in their entirety.  However, I trust that they will not take 
the fact that my decision  focuses on what I consider to be the central issues  as a
discourtesy. The purpose of this decision is not to address every point raised in detail, but to 
set out my findings  and reasons for reaching  them.
Time-bar
DISP 2.8.2:
The Ombudsman  cannot consider a complaint if the complainant refers it to the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service:

(2)more than:
(a)six years  after the event complained of; or (if later)
(b)three years from the date on which the complainant became aware (or 
ought reasonably  to have become aware) that he had cause for 
complaint;
unless the complainant referred the complaint  to the respondent or to the 
Ombudsman within that period and has a written  acknowledgement or some  other  
record of the complaint  having been received;
unless:
(3)in the view of the Ombudsman, the failure to comply with the time limits in 
DISP 2.8.2 R or DISP  2.8.7 R was as a result  of exceptional circumstances; 

In line with the above, we cannot consider a complaint  where it has been brought:
More than six years after the event took place; and
More than three years after the complainant became aware, or ought reasonably to 
have become aware, that she had cause  for complaint; unless
The business consents to us looking into the complaint despite it having  been 
brought out of time; or
Exceptional circumstances apply, for example, where the complainant has been 
incapacitated  and, as a result of this, was unable to bring the complaint to this 
service within  the applicable time limits.
There is no dispute that the events  complained  about  took place more  than six years  ago. 
Because of this, I focused on whether or not Mrs S would  have, or ought reasonably to have, 
Ref: DRN43419984become aware  that she had cause for complaint more than three years before the complaint 
was raised.
Having reconsidered  all of the available evidence and Newton-Barrs submissions, I remain 
of the view that this complaint has been brought in time. I do not agree  that Mrs S would 
have  or ought reasonably to have  become aware that she had cause for complaint more 
than three  years before she complained. 
For the avoidance of doubt, in reaching  this conclusion  I have  thought about whether or not 
Mrs S became aware  she had cause for complaint and whether or not she ought to have 
become aware  that she had cause for complaint in line with our rules as set out above.  
I understand Newton-Barr  disagrees with the conclusions  I have reached  and believes that 
the test I have applied is incorrect. I do not agree with its assertions. 
Newton-Barr recommended that Mrs S transfer her OPS benefits  to a personal  pension. It 
now says that Mrs S ought  reasonably  to have become aware  that she had cause complaint 
from the point of transfer. This is because her complaint is that she lost out on valuable 
guarantees which meant that she was badly  advised and she would reasonably have been 
aware about the loss of guarantees from the point of transfer. 
Having received a recommendation  to transfer  from her financial adviser I think  she would  
have most  likely  and reasonably  considered the transfer to be in her best interests. In 
turn, I do not think it unreasonable that she would not have become aware   based on the 
available information  and taking into account  the context within  which this was provided  
that the loss of guarantees was a cause for complaint or meant that the advice was 
unsuitable. Or, that the information  ought  to have led Mrs S to undertake a further 
investigation. 
There is no indication that the 2011 review of Mrs S pension involved a review of the 
transfer from her OPS  or a discussion about  the merits  of this. So, I do not think that this 
ought to have alerted Mrs S to the fact that she may have cause for complaint either. 
Taking all of this into account,  I remain of the view that this complaint has been brought in 
time. 
Suitability of the advice 
The advice for Mrs S to transfer her OPS  benefits  was unsuitable. In light of Mrs S 
circumstances, there  was no justification for the loss of guarantees and increased risk 
resulting from the transfer. In order to likely achieve the level of growth required to match the 
benefits available under the scheme Mrs S would likely have needed to employ a higher risk 
investment strategy  than was suitable  for her. 
The potential for increased TFC did not make it suitable for Mrs S to transfer. For reasons I 
set out in more  detail  in my provisional decision,  I think that there  are steps  that Mrs S could 
have taken to address  any concerns  she had about  repaying her mortgage without putting 
her pension at risk. 
Taking everything into account,  I think that suitable advice would have been for Mrs S to 
retain her OPS benefits. 
Ref: DRN43419985It has not been argued that Mrs S was likely  to disregard suitable advice from a regulated  
adviser  but, for the sake of completeness, I did consider this. Having done so, I am 
satisfied that it is more likely than not that Mrs S would have listened to suitable advice  
and, in turn, that if Newton-Barr had given  suitable  advice Mrs S would not have transferred 
her OPS benefits. 
Summary 
Overall, I have  concluded that: 
Newton-Barr is the correct respondent to Mrs S complaint. 
Scottish partnerships do have a separate legal  personality but that does not limit the 
liability of the partners  they are still jointly and severally liable.
We have not been  provided with any evidence of a transfer of liabilities to the limited 
company which succeeded  the partnership.
Even if such a transfer did take place, we could  still consider the complaint against 
the partnership.  
The events that are the subject of this complaint took place more than six years ago, 
but I am not persuaded that Mrs S became aware  or ought  reasonably  to have 
become aware   that she had cause  for complaint  more than three  years  before she 
complained. 
We investigated the complaint raised  by Mrs S. Details of the complaint raised and 
the information we gathered were shared with Newton-Barr. 
The advice complained about  was not suitable  because: 
oMrs S lost valuable guarantees upon transfer  and her fund was exposed to 
investment risk and charges. 
oThe critical yield required just to match the benefits available under the OPS 
was just under 9% - the highest rate used for projecting investment growth set 
by the then regulator.
oMrs S did not have the requisite  attitude to risk or capacity for loss for it to be 
suitable for her to employ the type of investment  strategy  required to likely 
achieve this type of growth with her pension provision. 
oIt was not suitable for Mrs S to transfer  her OPS  benefits over 20 years  before 
her intended retirement date for the potential for higher tax-free cash. 
oIf suitable advice  had been  given  it is most  likely that Mrs S would have 
listened to this. 
So, I find that Newton-Barr should compensate Mrs S for any financial loss she may have 
suffered as a result  of transferring her OPS benefits  and for the distress  and inconvenience 
caused by being poorly  advised and losing  valuable benefits. 
fair compensation
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint,  and that a fair and reasonable outcome 
would be for the business to put Mrs S, as far as possible, into the position she would now 
be in but for the unsuitable  advice.
The Newton-Barr Partnership  must  undertake a redress  calculation  in line with the 
regulators pension review  guidance  as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in 
October 2017.
Ref: DRN43419986This calculation should  be carried out as at the date of this decision, and using the most 
recent financial assumptions published (at the date of this decision). In accordance  with the 
regulators expectations, this should  be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider 
promptly following receipt of notification of Mrs S acceptance of the decision.
The Newton-Barr Partnership  may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions 
(DWP) to obtain Mrs S contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension  Scheme  
(SERPS or S2P). These details should then be used to include a SERPS  adjustment in the 
calculation, which will take into account the impact of leaving the occupational  scheme  on 
Mrs S SERPS/S2P entitlement.
If the redress calculation  demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mrs S pension plan.  The payment  should  allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief.  The compensation  should not be paid into the pension  plan if it would 
conflict with any existing  protection or allowance.
If a payment  into the pension is not possible or has protection or allowance implications,  it 
should be paid directly to Mrs S as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow  for 
income tax that would otherwise have  been paid. 25% of the loss would be tax-free and 75% 
would have been taxed according to her likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to 
be 20%. So, making a notional  deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects  
this.
The compensation resulting from the loss assessment must where possible be paid to Mrs S 
within 90 days of the date The Newton-Barr Partnership receives notification of her 
acceptance of my decision. Further  interest  must be added  to the compensation amount at 
the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my decision to the date of settlement for any 
time, in excess of 90 days,  that it takes The Newton-Barr  Partnership to pay Mrs S this 
compensation.
It is possible that data gathering  for a SERPS  adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes  beyond  the 90 day period allowed for settlement above   and so any 
period of time where  the only outstanding  item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest will not apply.
I also direct  The Newton-Barr Partnership  to pay to Mrs S £200 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused. 
my final decision
My final decision is that this is a complaint we can consider and I uphold the merits of Mrs S 
complaint. I direct The Newton-Barr Partnership to compensate Mrs S as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 February  2020.
Nicola Curnow 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN43419987COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mrs S complains that The Newton-Barr  Partnership gave her unsuitable advice  to transfer her OPS 
benefits to a personal pension plan.
background
We have  been provided with a copy of a Pension Transfer Value Analysis dated  9 August
1999, this confirms:
Mrs S was aged 39 with an intended retirement age of 60.
The critical  yield required to match her scheme benefits by that age was 8.73%.
Her ceding scheme would provide £38,839 in Tax Free Cash (TFC) and an income  of 
£19,039.
If the critical yield was achieved the Personal  Pension  Plan (PPP) would  provide £63,381  in 
TFC and an income of £19,510.
The scheme would pay a 50% spouses pension.
The transfer value was £78,821.00
Ref: DRN43419988As part of our investigation we asked  Mrs S to complete a questionnaire confirming her circumstances 
at the time of the advice. Mrs S confirmed  that her circumstances at the time of the advice were as 
follows:
Married with two dependent children.
Employed as a chartered accountant.
Savings and investments (cash  deposits, ISAs  and premium bonds) totalling  £20,625.
An £175,000 interest-only mortgage.
Her only pension provision was the OPS  transferred  on the advice  of Newton-Barr.
Our investigator reviewed the complaint and concluded:
The complaint was brought  in time.
There was no evidence that Mrs S was  or ought  reasonably  to have been,  aware that she 
had cause for complaint more than three years before she complained.
Whilst there was minimal evidence  as the partnership no longer had a file  she was 
satisfied that Mrs S was an unsophisticated  retail client and that the transaction  was advised.
The relevant critical yield was 8.73%.
Mrs S attitude to risk would have been assessed by a reasonably competent body of advisers 
as falling  somewhere between cautious and moderate.
Mrs S did not have any personal  pension  provision in addition to that transferred as a result of 
Newton-Barrs advice.
The critical  yield required to match the benefits Mrs S would have received as at 60 was just 
under the highest rate of growth  used in standard pension illustrations in November  1999.
At that time, a reasonably competent body of advisors would not have considered that the 
yield required to match the benefits that Mrs S would be giving up by transferring would  
more likely  than not  be achievable  within a degree of risk which was appropriate for Mrs S.
Also,  the critical  yield does not reflect all of the relevant factors   such as, in this case,  the 
security and peace of mind the defined benefits would have afforded Mrs S particularly seeing 
as this was Mrs S only pension provision.
The TVAS suggests that maximising  tax free cash was a priority  but, there was no way of 
knowing what Mrs S tax free requirements, if any, might  be some 21 years later at her 
anticipated retirement date. Or, what changes there  may be to taxation rules during that 
period.
There was no reason  why a decision  on whether or not it would be suitable  for Mrs S transfer 
 giving  up the security  and avoidance of investment/conversion risk that her OPS provided  
in order to potentially secure higher tax free cash, needed  to be taken  at that time.
Suitable advice would have been to retain  her OPS  benefits and not transfer to a PPP; if 
Newton-Barr had given suitable advice Mrs S would  have  listened to this. 
Newton-Barr disagreed.  In summary it said:
Liability
Under Scots law a partnership  is a separate legal  entity, distinct from the partners personally.
The partnership  has been dissolved and no longer  exists.
The one remaining  former  partner  (who  has responded to the complaint) does not accept  
liability for any decision  issued against the partnership  by us.
The liability of the partnership for this complaint is currently unclear  its authorisation  ceased 
with effect from 7 December 2005 and its assets were transferred  to a limited company  but, 
due to the passage  of time, no paperwork is held in respect of this.
It believes that the then regulator would only have accepted the application for cancellation of 
authorisation if provision  was made for the liabilities  of the partnership  including historic 
complaints  typically through run-off insurance or liabilities being  passed to another 
authorised firm.
Ref: DRN43419989It has been unable to obtain any records from the time to establish  the position.
Complaint
It has little detail  as to exactly what Mrs S complaint is.
No evidence has been provided  setting  out what valuable guarantees  Mrs S is alleging to 
have lost.
Our assessment addresses issues beyond the scope of the complaint.
Mrs S has provided no evidence that guarantees of any sort were  important to her at the time 
of the sale  there  is evidence that Mrs S was informed and advised that the policies she now 
complains about  did not have any guarantees.
It is not reasonable to require it to compensate Mrs S for what  appears to be a retrospective 
change of mind on her part.
Time-bar
Mrs S says that in 2016  she reviewed her pension planning and at that point became  aware 
that transfers from OPS  are seldom recommended because of the loss of valuable 
guarantees.
Mrs S reviewed  her pension arrangements with a financial adviser  in 2011, at that time she 
made an alteration to how her pension was invested.
The adviser  had detailed discussions with Mrs S about her pension  arrangements and would 
most likely  have undertaken a fact finding exercise.
Nothing changed materially and no new information came to light between 2011 and 2016.
So, Mrs S knew,  or ought reasonably to have known, that she cause  for complaint in 2011.
Mrs S ought to have known she had cause for complaint at the time of advice  at that time 
she was a chartered  accountant, had three separate pension schemes  and not insignificant  
amounts invested elsewhere.
The risks associated with the transfer, including  the loss of guaranteed benefits, would  have 
been  or ought to have been  clear  to a financially astute chartered accountant,  which  Mrs 
S was.
Merits of the complaint
At the time of the advice it is the Financial Services Act 1986 that applied  under  this, in the 
context of an advised sale, Newton-Bar was required to give best  advice which meant that its 
advice had to be suitable taking into account the customers circumstances.
The individuals appetite for risk and capacity for loss were key considerations in advising 
someone to transfer from an OPS to a more flexible  (but perhaps riskier) personal  pension  
but, consideration must also be given  to the clients broader priorities.
The assessment seeks to apply  standards other than that which  applied at the time.
It does  not agree  with our conclusions in respect of the assessment of Mrs S attitude to risk 
or the suitability of the advice  in the context of the regulatory requirement which actually  
applied  best advice.
The fact that an individual  chooses to retain cash deposits and maintain an ISA does not 
necessarily indicate  their attitude to risk and does not mean that they are not going  to make 
riskier investments.
The critical  yield required to achieve a 63% increase in tax free was at the higher end of the 
regulators standard  performance  guidelines,  it was reasonable to conclude that Mrs S was 
prepared to take that risk.
Mrs S and her husband  had sufficient investments in low risk vehicles to provide comfort for 
them and their dependants, allowing them to accept  a greater  risk in return  for the benefit of a 
possible 63% increase in tax free cash at retirement (which could  be used to repay  the capital  
on their interest only mortgage).
Whilst the pension transferred was Mrs S only pension,  her husband  had pensions that would  
most likely  have provided benefits  to Mrs S.
Ref: DRN434199810Mrs S was 39, a chartered accountant and had substantial  disposable income  between  her 
and her husband.
Taking everything into account it cannot be concluded, on the evidence available, that is was 
not best advice for Mrs S to transfer her OPS.
Calculation of loss
The partnership  has not traded for over 10 years and the remaining former partner has no 
means to carry  out the calculation.
It has approached an actuary who confirmed that there is insufficient information available to 
perform the calculation.
Distress & Inconvenience
The complaint has caused a great deal of distress  for the respondent party.
Other  than the day-to-day inconvenience of bringing  a complaint it does not consider that Mrs 
S has suffered  distress and/or inconvenience worthy  of an award of compensation.
As part of our investigation we asked  Newton-Barr to provide us with any evidence it may have of the 
transfer of liabilities to the limited company.  It confirmed that due to the amount of time that had 
passed since  the partnership  was dissolved it did not have any evidence and had not been able to 
obtain any.
We also highlighted to Newton-Barr that s234B says:
s234B FSMA  - Transfers  of liability
(1) This section applies  where a person (the successor)  has assumed  a liability (including a 
contingent one) of a person (the predecessor)  who was, or (apart from this section)  would 
have been, the respondent in respect of a complaint falling to be dealt with under the 
ombudsman scheme.
(2) The complaint may (but need not) be dealt with under this Part as if the successor were  
the respondent.
This means  that even  when the liabilities have  been  transferred, we have the discretion to consider a 
complaint against the predecessor. This was acknowledged  by Newton-Barr. Separately, the limited 
company confirmed  to us that no transfer of liabilities  took place.
my provisional  findings
Ive first looked at all of the information provided by both parties in order to decide whether this 
complaint is one we can consider. And, having done so, Ive concluded the complaint is one we can 
consider. So, Ive also considered all the available  evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. My consideration of each point is set out below.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant law and 
regulations; regulators rules, guidance and codes of practice;  and what I consider to have been good 
industry practice at the time.
The parties  to this complaint have provided  detailed submissions to support their position. I have 
considered these submissions in their entirety. However,  I trust that they will not take the fact that my 
decision focuses on what I consider to be the central issues as a discourtesy. The purpose of this 
decision is not to address every point raised in detail,  but to set out my findings and reasons  for 
reaching them.
Ref: DRN434199811Newton-Barrs arguments  focus on a number of broad issues;  the partnerships  liability, the complaint 
raised, our jurisdiction to consider the complaint, the suitability of the transfer and the compensation 
awarded. I have addressed these in turn.
Jurisdiction
The partnerships liability  for this complaint:
Newton-Barrs arguments  in respect of responsibility  focus on two points:
Under Scots law the partnership is a separate legal entity and, given that the partnership has 
been dissolved,  the partners cannot now be pursued.
The assets  and liabilities of the partnership passed on to the limited company  that succeeded  
it.
Scots law and partnerships
I have reviewed everything Newton-Barr has provided  along with the available information about the 
partnership. I am satisfied  that Newton-Barr is the correct  respondent  to Mrs S complaint.  Whilst  the 
partnership dissolved some  time ago I have not been provided with any evidence that its liability  was 
limited  or, otherwise, that the responsibility  for any complaints raised lays with another party.
Scottish partnerships do have a separate legal personality but that does not limit the liability of the 
partners  they are still jointly and severally liable.  Section 9 of the Partnership Act 1890 confirms  
that:
Every partner in a firm is liable jointly with the other partners,  and in Scotland  severally also, 
for all debts and obligations  of the firm incurred while he is a partner; and after his death his 
estate is also severally liable in a due course of administration for such  debts and obligations, 
so far as they remain unsatisfied, but subject in England or Ireland  to the prior payment of his 
separate debts.
Section 10 provides that:
Where, by any wrongful act or omission  of any partner acting in the ordinary course of the 
business of the firm, or with the authority  of his co-partners,  loss or injury  is caused to any 
person not being a partner in the firm, or any penalty is incurred, the firm is liable therefor  to 
the same extent as the partner so acting or omitting to act.
Section 12 provides that:
Every partner is liable jointly with his co-partners  and also severally for everything for which 
the firm while he is a partner therein becomes liable under either  of the two last preceding  
sections.
So I think that the partners  are liable despite the partnership having  a legal personality and I have not 
seen any evidence that would suggest that the dissolution of the partnership  affects the partners joint 
and several  liability in this instance.
Transfer of liability
As highlighted in the background to this complaint,  we exchanged  correspondence with Newton-Barr 
in relation to the points  it raised  about the transfer of liability to the limited company which succeeded 
the partnership. Newton-Barr has not been  able to provide us with the details of  or evidence of  
any such transfer.
Ref: DRN434199812Under the circumstances, it is not clear  if a transfer of liabilities took place or what  the terms of this, if 
any, were.
In any case, even if a transfer of liabilities did take place, that would not stop us from being able to 
consider a complaint  against  Newton-Barr  (the predecessor)  in line with s234B FSMA (quoted  
above). Newton-Barr  (partnership) gave Mrs S the advice  that is the subject of this complaint and we 
can  at our discretion  consider a complaint against it.
Time bar:
Newton-Barr has objected to us looking into Mrs S complaint on the basis that it has been brought  
out of time.
In accordance with the rules  that govern the jurisdiction of our service, known as DISP,  we cannot 
consider a complaint  where it has been brought:
More than six years  after the event took place; and
More than three years  after the complainant knew, or ought reasonably to have known, that 
she had cause  for complaint; unless
The business consents  to us looking into the complaint despite it having been brought  out of 
time; or
Exceptional  circumstances apply, for example,  where  the complainant  has been incapacitated 
 and, as a result  of this, was unable to bring  the complaint to this service within  the 
applicable time limits.
There is no dispute that the events complained about took place more than six years ago. Because  of 
this, I have focused  on whether or not Mrs S would have, or ought reasonably to have, known that 
she had cause  for complaint more than three years before the complaint was raised.
Newton-Bar has argued that the three years ought to start from the point of sale when Mrs S was 
informed that she was giving  up guarantees by transferring  from her OPS  and, if not then, then 
when she had her pension arrangements reviewed  in 2011.
There is very little information available  from the point of sale. I have reviewed the TVAS and the 
letter from Newton-Barr  which Mrs S has provided. The TVAS does provide some information about 
the OPS, its benefits and how these may compare to what  she may get from a personal  pension.  
Because of the nature of this document, it does  not proffer any view as to whether or not the transfer 
is a good idea  or, go into great detail about the true value of the guarantees or the risks involved  
with the transfer.
The TVAS does say:
Please note,  that whilst the benefits under [name of ceding scheme] are relatively secure, the 
benefits you would receive from a [name of new provider]  contract  may be more or less than 
the amounts projected  above,  depending  on future investment growth  rates and annuity rates  
at retirement.
Overall, I am not persuaded that Mrs S fully appreciated risks involved with the transfer and the 
implications of these. And, in any case, her complaint is not only that she has lost valuable  
guarantees but that she was badly advised.  Newton-Barr  gave positive  advice to transfer and I think 
she relied on that advice. I dont think I can reasonably conclude that Mrs S knew  or ought 
reasonably to have to have known  that the advice  was not suitable at that time.
Mrs S, with the help of a different adviser, reviewed her pension arrangements in 2011.  As a result of 
which she switched all of her holdings  from a selection of funds to one managed  fund. There is no 
indication that the review was of anything other than her then current arrangements or, that there was 
a conversation about the suitability (or otherwise) of the transfer  out of her OPS.
Ref: DRN434199813Taking everything into account, I think that the complaint  has been brought  in time.
Merits
The complaint raised:
Mrs S complained that she believed  she had been  badly advised to move the benefits  accumulated in 
her OPS to a personal pension. The details of her complaint and the supporting documentation 
provided were passed on to Newton-Barr. Material evidence obtained  throughout the course of the 
complaint has been shared  with Newton-Barr and it has been afforded the opportunity to respond to 
this.
We looked  into the complaint Mrs S raised; specifically, whether or not she was poorly advised  or, in 
this instance, whether or not the advice  was suitable. I dont think we did expand/look beyond the 
complaint raised. But, for the sake of completeness,  I would note that, I am not limited to simply  
answering the points of complaint  I can take a wider view.
Suitability:
Newton-Barr advised  Mrs S to transfer her OPS  to a personal pension. As a result of this 
recommendation Mrs S transferred twelve years of qualifying service  from her OPS. The OPS  would 
have provided:
Tax free cash
An index linked pension
A spouses pension of 50%
Benefits could be taken between ages 60 and 65.
Newton-Barr does  not have  the file from the point  of sale. So, as mentioned above, there  is very little 
information about the sale. There  is no evidence  of the quality of the advice  process followed or the 
information provided  at the time.
Upon transfer Mrs S lost the valuable guarantees associated with her OPS  and her sole pension  
provision was exposed to investment risk and charges.  Taking everything into account I am not 
persuaded that there was any justification for this in this case.
The critical yield required just to match  the benefits available under  the OPS  was just under 9% - the 
highest rate used for projecting  investment growth set by the then regulator. Whilst there is no 
absolute link, to likely achieve  the investment  growth required,  on balance Mrs S would  have to invest  
in relatively high risk funds/investments. Based on what we know about  Mrs S circumstances and 
investment experience, I am not persuaded  that she had the requisite attitude to risk or capacity for 
loss for it to be suitable for her to employ  the kind of investment strategy  required to do this with her 
only pension provision.
Newton-Barr has said that the increased tax free cash that would be available under  the new 
arrangement if the critical yield was achieved  would  have  been attractive  to her as she had an 
interest-free mortgage with no repayment vehicle. If, at the time of the advice, repaying the interest-
only was a real concern  for Mrs S, there are a number of options that she could have pursued ahead  
of putting her pension provision at risk. For example, making capital repayments (if allowed), 
switching to a product that was on a repayment basis  or, building up sufficient savings  in an 
appropriate product. I do not agree, in this instance, that it was suitable to transfer her OPS over 20 
years before her intended retirement date for the potential  of higher tax free cash.
Ref: DRN434199814Overall, taking into account Mrs S wider circumstances, investments and savings  including  Newton-
Barrs comments about her husbands pension  provision   I remain  of the view that it was not suitable 
for Mrs S to transfer her OPS benefits.
I think  that if Newton-Barr had given suitable advice, it is more likely than not that Mrs S would  have 
listened to this. Mrs S was a chartered accountant but this did not mean that she was a pension 
expert and I am satisfied  that she relied  on Newton-Barrs advice.
In turn, I think that Newton-Barr should compensate Mrs S for any losses she may have suffered as a 
result of transferring her OPS benefits as a result of its advice. I note Newton-Barrs comments in 
respect of the difficulties it will face in completing the redress calculation  and, whilst I appreciate that it 
will most likely  require  the assistance of third parties, I think the redress methodology set out below is 
fair and reasonable under  the circumstances of this complaint.
I also think  that in addition to any financial loss established by way of the below  calculation Mrs S has 
suffered distress and inconvenience.
fair compensation
My provisional  decision  is that I uphold the complaint,  and that a fair and reasonable outcome would  
be for the business to put Mrs S, as far as possible,  into the position  she would now be in but for the 
unsuitable advice.
The Newton-Barr Partnership  must  undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension 
review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in October  2017.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of this decision,  and using the most  recent 
financial assumptions  published (at the date of that decision). In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken  or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following 
receipt of notification  of Mrs S acceptance  of the decision.
The Newton-Barr Partnership  may wish to contact  the Department for Work  and Pensions (DWP)  to 
obtain Mrs S contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS  or S2P). 
These details  should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will take 
into account  the impact  of leaving the occupational  scheme  on Mrs S SERPS/S2P entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation  should if possible be paid into Mrs S 
pension plan.  The payment  should allow  for the effect  of charges and any available tax relief. The 
compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension  plan if it would conflict  with any existing protection or 
allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection  or allowance implications,  it should be 
paid directly to Mrs S as a lump sum after making  a notional deduction to allow  for income tax that 
would otherwise have been paid. 25% of the loss would be tax-free  and 75% would have been taxed 
according to her likely income  tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making  a notional 
deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects  this.
The compensation  resulting  from the loss assessment must where  possible be paid to Mrs S within 90 
days of the date The Newton-Barr  Partnership receives  notification  of her acceptance of my decision.  
Further interest must be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from 
the date of my decision  to the date of settlement for any time, in excess  of 90 days, that it takes The 
Newton-Barr Partnership to pay Mrs S this compensation.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean  that the actual time taken to 
settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above  and so any period of time where 
the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data from DWP may be added to the 
90 day period in which  interest  wont apply.
Ref: DRN434199815my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that I uphold Mrs S complaint  and I intend to direct The Newton- Barr 
Partnership to pay to her compensation as set out above.
I will consider anything  either  party wants to add as long as I receive it by 3 November  2019.
Nicola Curnow
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4341998