K821x#15complaint
Mr B complains about the amount  offered  by Admiral  Insurance  Company Limited for the 
value of his car after he claimed on his motor insurance policy.
background
Mr Bs car was damaged in an accident. Admiral said that in view of the amount of damage it 
wouldnt arrange for the car to be repaired but would offer a cash  payment. Following an 
inspection by an assessor Admiral offered Mr B a payment of £800.
Mr B complained that the offer was too low and said his car was worth much  more than this. 
He complained but Admiral wouldnt increase the offer.
When Mr B brought the complaint to this service  our investigator said Admirals offer was too 
low. She asked Admiral  to pay £1,723  (less any excess payable by Mr B). Admiral  didnt 
agree with this valuation  and requested an ombudsmans decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy terms say that where Mr Bs car is damaged  as a result  of an accident,  Admiral 
will either pay for it to be repaired or pay a cash sum representing no more  than the market  
value of the car.
Because there was a lot of damage, the repairs would have cost more  than the value of the 
car, so Admiral offered a cash payment instead. I think that was reasonable in the 
circumstances. But Mr B was unhappy  with the amount offered, so I need to decide what a 
fair payment would be.
Assessing the value  of the car isnt an exact  science.  Ive seen some adverts for similar cars, 
which were considered as part of the process of valuing  Mr Bs car. They  give a range of 
valuations. Some are lower than £800  but Mr B says these are for a different model and 
those which  are for the same model  car as his give a valuation of £1,500.
I would generally  find the valuations given  in motor-trade guides most persuasive  - these are 
based on research  of likely selling prices, using advertised prices and auction prices to work 
out what the likely selling  prices would be. 
Admiral looked at some guides but couldnt  find a value in them  for Mr Bs car. So it relied on 
a valuation from an assessor, who inspected the car. Based on this report  Admiral  offered 
Mr B £800,  having deducted his excess. However, there is another guide that does provide a 
value for this car.
Our investigator referred  to the valuation given in that guide of £1,723. This is based on the 
specific car and its condition at the time.  I appreciate this is higher than the adverts for other 
cars. And Admiral based its valuation on an inspection of the car. But it did that because  it 
said there wasnt a valuation available from any of the guides. Since there  is a valuation in 
one of the guides, I think that is a better way to approach the valuation. As Ive said,  I would 
generally find these  guides more persuasive.
Ref: DRN43649222The guide  values the car at £1,723. I think thats the most reliable basis  for the valuation and 
so in these circumstances it would be fair to pay that amount to Mr B  less any excess  he 
has to pay under his policy terms.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint  and direct  Admiral Insurance  Company 
Limited to pay Mr B £1,723  less any excess he has to pay  for the value of this car.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 January 2020.
Peter Whiteley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4364922