K820x#14Complaint
Miss P is unhappy with the increases in premiums  on her home  insurance with Aviva 
Insurance Limited. 
Background
Miss P had a home insurance policy which she took out through a bank. Although the policy 
was sold by the bank and branded with its name,  it was actually underwritten by Aviva  which  
is the business that set the price  and is responsible for this complaint.
Miss Ps home insurance policy started in February 2013. The premium charged  in 2014 
was £387.42 for the year. This increased in 2015  to £451.02. In 2016 her premium reduced 
to £409.91 after she called to query the price.  In 2017 it increased to £510.49, and in 2018  to 
£577.23. 
Miss P complained to Aviva in 2019. She was unhappy with the increases in her premium, in 
particular after seeing media coverage  suggesting  loyal customers  pay more for home  
insurance than new customers. She went into a branch of the bank that sold the policy  and 
found a policy that is half of what she was paying.  She cancelled  her existing policy  and took 
out a new policy in January 2019  for a premium  of £324.83. 
Miss P thinks Aviva has taken advantage  of her by unfairly increasing the cost of the policy  
every year. Shes also unhappy that she queried  the price of the premium in 2016  but that 
Aviva just took off additional extras and didnt advise her to go into branch and discuss  her 
premium where she couldve been offered a better deal. She feels  she has been paying  
three years worth of higher premiums  when she couldve used the money she was 
overcharged since 2016 for the upkeep of the property. She says she was charged too much 
and she should  be compensated for the extra she had paid over the years.
Aviva didnt think it had acted unfairly  and our adjudicator  agreed. Miss P disagreed  so the 
complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont have the power to tell a business  what its insurance should  have  cost.  I would be, in 
effect determining  or telling a business how it should  operate  and thats not my role. But I 
can look at whether Aviva has treated Miss P fairly throughout  the period she held her 
insurance policy.
In 2014, Miss Ps home insurance cost £387.42  for the year,  and rose until 2016 when she 
contacted Aviva in relation to the premium. Introductory discounts are often applied to new 
policies. This isnt uncommon  and policies may well initially be priced lower to attract new 
customers. I dont think  its unfair  for an insurer to seek to recoup that cost over the first few 
years. I think its likely thats what happened in Miss Ps case.  
Miss P engaged  with Aviva about her premiums in February 2016. On this call Miss P 
informed Aviva of a change in circumstances as her mother had passed away and so was 
removed from the policy.  Aviva says this change increased the policy  to £539.28. Aviva  then 
Ref: DRN43930932removed additional  cover which reduced the price of the policy  to £455.41. It also says it 
applied a discount of £45.54. This meant  her premium  became £409.91.  Miss P appears  to 
have been happy with the premium offered at this point  and couldve chosen  not to renew 
the policy had she been unhappy  with the price.  
Miss Ps premium  increased in 2017 and 2018  and she contacted  Aviva  again in January 
2019 and cancelled the policy. At this time she realised her existing policy had been 
discontinued and she was offered another policy with a lower premium. 
If Aviva increased the price just because Miss P didnt engage at each renewal, that wouldnt 
be fair. Looking at all the facts, Im not persuaded it increased the price  just because she 
didnt engage  at renewal and cant say it acted unfairly.
Miss P says she was overcharged from at least 2016 and should get a refund.  She points to 
the alternative lower  premium she was offered on her new policy  after she went into branch.  
Ive thought about this. But Aviva has said the new policy  was a different product, so there  
wouldve been differences in cover and difference excesses. I must also take into account 
the new policy in 2019 possibly included a new business discount on the premium  cost as 
well. So this doesnt  make  me think Aviva  acted unfairly.
I know this will come as a disappointment to Miss P but I do not think  Aviva acted unfairly so 
dont uphold this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 February  2020.
Gemma Farrell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4393093