K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain that when advising them on the amount  theyd  need  to borrow  on a 
remortgage, Connells Limited omitted to take into account the amount required to redeem 
their existing mortgage. 
background
Mr and Mrs Gs house was mortgaged  to H, a bank. They  owed about £80,000. They 
decided to remortgage that house through Connells on a buy-to-let (BTL) basis  to fund or 
assist with the purchase and renovation of a new house. It appears from the offer document  
produced on 26 October 2017 and the solicitors completion statement that the amount to be 
released on the remortgage  was £216,000.
Completion was set for 31 October  2018.  Mr and Mrs G say that on 26 October they noticed  
from the completion statement that contrary  to what theyd been led to believe, the amount 
they were borrowing didnt include the money  needed to redeem the mortgage  to H. 
They say that they contacted Connells and that it admitted the error.  It arranged to increase  
the remortgage loan by £16,000 but this still left a shortfall which  Mr and Mrs G had to cover.
On their complaint  to Connells  it said it could find no evidence that would suggest that 
Mr and Mrs G required  additional funds for home improvements.  It said that when 
remortgaging to another lender the existing mortgage would need  to be repaid.  
Mr and Mrs G were responsible for the repayment  of this mortgage. Connells wasnt  
persuaded that they had lost any money and was unable  to consider any reimbursement of 
this amount. It offered to pay £150  compensation for the distress  and inconvenience the 
matter had caused.
Mr and Mrs G werent happy with this and brought their complaint to this service.  They  said 
they were £80,000  in debt (credit card debts,  personal loans and a second charge loan) 
because of Connells  negligent mistake, and they wanted a significant  contribution  towards 
this. 
However our investigator didnt recommend  the complaint be upheld. He said hed seen an 
email dated 11 September 2017 in which Mr and Mrs G had broken down the amounts  they 
needed when  moving to the new property. This included  £100,000  for a deposit, £35,000 for 
the mortgage and solicitors  fees and £75,000  for furnishings. The deposit figure of £100,000 
was consistent  with the new mortgage  application  and the investigator could see that they 
had £75,000 which would  have covered the renovations.  But the £35,000  for the mortgage  
and solicitors fees wouldnt have covered the existing  mortgage.
The investigator couldnt say that Connells had made an error. He couldnt see that Connells 
was specifically told that Mr and Mrs G needed  an additional £80,000 to repay their 
mortgage, as well as needing £200,000 for renovations and a deposit. The investigator 
thought Connells had recommended products  which  were in line with their requests at the 
time.
Conscious that Mr and Mrs G believed that the broker  should  have  picked up on this 
information, the investigator had also considered their complaint on the basis that Connells 
had made  an error.
Ref: DRN40449502He said that when Mr and Mrs G were advised  that the maximum lending they could get 
would be £216,000, they decided to proceed. Knowing they wouldnt  have  enough they still 
went ahead  with the purchase.
When completing the applications,  they already had the work estimate meaning they were 
already aware  of the amount they needed  for renovations. They had all the required 
information and could have checked the figures  themselves at any time before and after their 
mortgage applications were submitted.
Mr and Mrs G didnt accept the investigators view and asked for an ombudsman  to look at 
the case. They said the £35,000 wasnt intended  to cover the mortgage but the fees 
associated with the sale and remortgage of the properties.  They  thought that the outstanding 
mortgage was included in the new mortgage.
I took a different view of the complaint to the adjudicator. So I decided to issue  a provisional  
decision, setting  out my view of the case and inviting further comments. Neither  party has 
responded and so I issue my final decision.
my provisional decision
In my provisional decision,  I said:
A mortgage broker shouldnt have to be specifically told by his client that on a remortgage,  
the existing mortgage needs to be redeemed. But I cant  see that Connells failed to take this 
into account. 
The solicitors completion statements  for the remortgage of the existing house  and the 
purchase of the new house show that after completion of these transactions,  and taking into 
account the amount required to redeem the mortgage to H, there  was a balance  due to 
Mr and Mrs G of £13,109.64.
So there wasnt a shortfall  in terms of the money required to complete  the transactions. The 
shortfall was in terms of the money  Mr and Mrs G expected to have left over for the matters 
referred to in their email of 11 September 2017.  Namely £75,000 for renovations including  
fitting out the bathroom and kitchen of the new house, and an unspecified  sum for 
furnishings.
However that email  was addressed to Mr and Mrs G themselves, not to Connells. Connells  
says Mr and Mrs G didnt tell it that they required  these funds to be covered by the 
remortgage. Its notes  indicate that Mr and Mrs G said they wanted to lower  repayments by 
taking a fixed-interest product so they had more spare cash  to decorate  the new house  as 
they went on each  month.
Connells Record of Advice  Suitability dated 31 October 2017 recorded  only:
 Customers wanted to add fees to the mortgage as they would rather spend  this money on 
decorating the onward purchase.
.
customer [sic] want an interest only mortgage  because they want  as much income as 
possible to carry out buildings  [sic] works  on their onward purchase.
Ref: DRN40449503.
Customers wanted a 2 year fixed so the payment was lower so they had more  spare  cash  to 
decorate the house as they went on each month.
.
Customers wanted a 20 year term so they had NDI to decorate the house as they go.
Ive seen an email from Mr and Mrs G to themselves dated 4 September 2017 attaching a 
mortgage illustration  dated 29 August 2017 and a job estimate dated  2 September  2017  
but theres also no indication that these were sent to Connells.
On 1 October 2018 Mr G emailed the adjudicator: 
I thought  I would send  you another few emails about our intention  to make  the home 
improvements in one hit before we moved in as we were also expecting a baby in Mar 2018 
as well.
Ive read these but cant see that they provide  any evidence that Mr and Mrs G intended to 
make the home improvements in one hit before they moved in, still less that that intention  
was communicated  to Connells.
The figures didnt  add up, but on the evidence  it seems  to me that that was because 
Connells wasnt told that Mr and Mrs G wanted the remortgage to cover the renovation  costs  
as well as the purchase.
the responses to my provisional  decision
Neither party responded to my provisional  decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has made any objection to my provisional conclusions,  I confirm them here.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  23 August 2019.
Edward Callaghan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4044950