K820x#14complaint
Mr M and Mrs K say Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax  at the time,  mis-sold them  a 
mortgage payment  protection insurance (PPI) policy.
Mr M and Mrs K have also complained that Bank of Scotland plc will not refund any of the 
commission it received from their PPI premiums.  
background
Mr M and Mrs K took out a PPI policy with a mortgage in 2007. This was a Total Mortgage 
Protection Plan (TMPP), with a PPI element  called Mortgage Repayment Cover. The TMPP 
also included life and critical illness cover,  but Ive only looked into the sale of the PPI in this 
complaint. 
They paid a monthly amount for the policy, which covered them  for around  £738.59  each for 
accident, sickness and unemployment. And it wouldve paid out for up to 12 months for any 
one claim.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr M and Mrs K disagreed with the adjudicators  
opinion, so the complaint has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Mr M and Mrs Ks complaint about  the mis-sale  of the policy
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr M and Mrs Ks case. 
Having done so, I dont think Mr M and Mrs Ks policy was mis-sold, and Ill explain why.
Halifax had to make it clear to Mr M and Mrs K that the policy was optional.  And it had to get 
their consent  before  it added PPI to their account.
Both parties  accept that Mr M and Mrs K agreed  to take the policy.  But Mr M and Mrs K say 
they were told they had to take the protection because of the amount they were borrowing. 
Halifax says it was never a condition of the borrowing and the adviser  wouldve made 
Mr M and Mrs K aware it was optional. 
I havent been able to see a copy of the agreement  Mr M and Mrs K completed. But the key 
facts document  which sets out all the information  relevant to Mr M and Mrs Ks mortgage 
application included  a section about  insurance. It confirms that they didnt need to take any 
insurance through Halifax and referred to PPI under a section entitled Optional insurance . 
So, even though I dont know what was discussed  at the time, from this documentation  I 
think it shouldve been clear to Mr M and Mrs K that the PPI was optional.  
Ive also seen a letter that confirms Mr M and Mrs K accepted the cover, which  shouldve  
been sent to them following the sale of the policy. It says thank you for choosing our Halifax  
Total Mortgage Protection Plan (TMPP). I think this also wouldve indicated that the policy  
Ref: DRN42075142was optional. So considering everything, I think Mr M and Mrs K wouldve known they had a 
choice about whether  to take PPI.
Both parties  agree that Halifax  recommended  the PPI to Mr M and Mrs K. That means it had 
to check the policy was suitable for them  and based on what Ive seen of their 
circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For example they werent  affected  by any of the 
exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover and they seem to have had a need for the cover.
Mr M and Mrs K say they had sick pay from their employers which  they couldve relied on. 
But theyve also said they didnt have any other means of keeping  up their mortgage 
repayments had either,  or both of them been unable to work. But upon a successful claim 
the PPI wouldve paid out for up to 12 months, and this wouldve been  on top of their sick 
pay entitlement. So they were free to use these funds for other expenses at the time. And as 
the mortgage is likely to have been  their most substantial  financial commitment, secured 
against their home, I think having the policy in place provided them  with some additional 
security. So I still think the policy was suitable  for them. 
The cost of the policy was shown. So I think Mr M and Mrs K wouldve understood how 
much they would need to pay for it, and chose to do so because  of the benefits the policy  
provided. But its possible some of the other  information Halifax gave Mr M and Mrs K about 
the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve been.  But, as Ive said, they chose to take it out - so it 
looks like they wanted this type of cover. And it seems like it would have been useful for 
them if something went wrong. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have 
put them off taking out the cover.
Mrs K has mentioned that she was unable to claim on the policy  when she was off sick from 
work. I havent considered this, but if Mrs K is still concerned about it, she may wish to 
contact the insurer.  
Mr M and Mrs Ks complaint about  the commission  charged on their PPI policy
In 2017, following a Supreme Court judgment, the Financial  Conduct  Authority (FCA), 
issued some rules about how businesses should deal with complaints about  PPI.
The FCA said that if a business got a high level of commission and profit share  from the PPI 
policy  more than 50% of the PPI premium  and it didnt tell the consumer, then that could 
create an unfair relationship between the parties.  So to put that right, the FCA said that 
businesses should  pay back  the amount of commission and profit share  that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium. 
But these  rules and the Supreme Court judgment relate to the unfair relationship  provisions 
in the Consumer Credit  Act 1974. The unfair relationship provisions were added to the 
Consumer Credit Act in 2006  and came  into force on 6 April 2007. For these provisions to 
apply to credit agreements taken out before this date, the credit agreement would still need  
to be running on 6 April 2008 and it would  still need  to be covered by the Consumer  Credit  
Act on this date.
On 31st October  2004 the regulation of mortgages by the FCA began   and mortgages were 
no longer covered by the Consumer Credit Act. Mr M and Mrs K took out their mortgage in 
2007. Based  on what we have seen and what we know about how Halifax arranged  
mortgages taken  out after October 2004,  Im satisfied that Mr M and Mrs Ks mortgage was a 
regulated mortgage.  And this means  the scope of the Consumer Credit  Act or the FCAs 
Ref: DRN42075143relevant rules and guidance dont apply. So Bank of Scotland plc, who is now responsible for 
all Halifax  complaints, doesnt need  to refund any of the commission Mr M and Mrs K paid 
for the PPI they had with their mortgage.
my final decision
So I dont  think the policy was mis-sold and I dont think Bank of Scotland plc have to give 
back any of the PPI premiums Mr M and Mrs K paid. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision  before  20 April 2019.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4207514