K820x#14complaint
Ms P complains  that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) didnt act fairly or 
reasonably when advising her about her mortgage.  She says that the product given was 
unsuitable and she was put on the wrong  interest rate. Ms P wants  matters put right.
background
Ms P took out a mortgage with NatWest; she borrowed more  to buy out the joint owner  of the 
property and transfer the mortgage into her sole name. She said that NatWest didnt give her 
a suitable mortgage product as the further advance  didnt end at the same time as the 
original mortgage  and shed had to pay an early repayment charge as a result when she 
remortgaged. Ms P also said that she was put on the wrong interest rate, and so overpaid  
her mortgage.
Ms P complained to NatWest. It said Ms P was told initially when she applied to borrow the 
extra money that she could do so on the standard variable rate. This was incorrect and Ms P 
was told the correct position  shortly  afterwards; she could only go ahead if she selected one 
of the available interest rates and mortgage products. NatWest said Ms P chose a two year 
product due to last until April 2020,  and the offer was sent to her in writing. But it paid £150 
compensation for the trouble and upset  caused and told Ms P that if she wanted to change  
her application  to borrow more, she needed  to contact it, but she couldnt borrow at the rate 
she wanted due to its lending policies. NatWest  paid an extra £150 after Ms P noted  that 
shed spoken  to several members of staff and given conflicting information.
Ms P complained to us. NatWest consented  to this service  considering  the complaint (which 
had been brought outside of the six month period  following the final response letter).  The 
investigators view was that NatWests offer was fair and reasonable. She said that it had 
given incorrect advice  initially but put it right and Ms P chose  to go ahead  with the product 
offered. The investigator  thought that the product was suitable  and it wasnt possible to end 
the two products on the same date.
Ms P disagreed. She said she had wanted  to borrow the extra money  jointly with her ex-
partner, but was told it would be easier  to do it later on her own. NatWest  said that the 
adviser had no memory of such a conversation. It pointed  out that in any event the extra 
borrowing wouldve been  done  under the same lending policies and products even if done 
earlier and jointly (unless the original mortgage  had been paid off early and a larger  
mortgage taken  out, but this would incur  early repayment charges and Ms P didnt want  to 
pay fees).  The investigator didnt  change her view and said NatWest had offered a suitable 
product.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think it would be helpful if I explained the difference between  a mortgage and a mortgage  
product. A mortgage is the entire  loan over a property  they generally last many years. The 
mortgage product  is the wrapper  it sets a special interest  rate for a period of time (often 
between one to five years, though longer  periods are possible). It is the product that sets out 
any early repayment charges potentially due.
Ref: DRN42055182Ms P started  out with a mortgage in her husbands name, with a product which set an 
interest rate in place until January 2019.  But Ms P and her husband were separating and 
wanted Ms P to stay in the property and take over the mortgage. This meant Ms P had to 
borrow more money  to buy out her ex-partners interest, as well as take over the original 
mortgage. The alternative was to remortgage entirely, but this would lose the special interest 
rate and would  be more  difficult as Ms P wasnt on the original mortgage.
Ms P and her ex-partner  got advice from NatWest. It was required to recommend a suitable  
product to meet Ms Ps needs. This isnt necessarily  the same  as the best product. NatWest 
advised Ms P to transfer the original mortgage into joint names, then into her sole name. 
This was the simplest  way forward, protected the special  interest  rate and saved Ms P 
paying an early  repayment  charge. I think this was suitable to meet her needs. Ms P also 
extended the length of the mortgage term to make it more affordable; this was suitable.
NatWest also advised that to borrow  the extra money to complete the whole transaction, 
Ms P should take out a second  mortgage  product. Theres no record  of Ms P wanting to do it 
earlier with her ex-partner  and in any event, it wouldnt have made a difference. NatWest  is 
able to use its commercial judgement and set out lending policies about to whom to lend and 
on what basis. NatWests lending policies  required  further advances to be given using a 
product and a special  interest rate. This was the case whether Ms P borrowed alone  or 
jointly.
Where NatWest went wrong was initially telling  Ms P she could borrow under the standard  
variable rate and be free to remortgage when the first mortgage  product ended without 
paying an early  repayment  charge. But it corrected this error promptly (within two days) and 
set out the correct position in written  advice, its final response letter  and in the product offer 
it made Ms P. Ms P knew that she could only borrow the extra money  from NatWest  using a 
product and chose  to go ahead. That was her decision, but as NatWest clearly  set out the 
interest rate and the fact that Ms P would have  to pay an early repayment  charge if she 
repaid this part of the borrowing before April 2020,  I dont  think its acted unfairly or 
unreasonably.
The product  itself was the cheapest available for a consumer  in Ms Ps position according to 
the evidence available  to me. It was suitable to meet her needs. And while  Ms P felt that the 
date to pay an early repayment charge under the further advance  product should match the 
early repayment period  end date of the first mortgage product, that wasnt possible. And 
Ms P had been  told in advance of the early repayment period for both products in writing.
NatWest has paid more  than fair and reasonable compensation for its admitted failings in my 
view. It corrected the incorrect information given  and Ms P had the right information  before 
her when she accepted the offer made  by NatWest.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept  or reject my decision before 
24 August 2019.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4205518