K820x#14complaint
Mr O complains that a used car he acquired  with a hire purchase  agreement from Black 
Horse Limited is of unsatisfactory quality.  
background
Mr O got this car near the start of 2017. He says it came with the wrong radio and there  was 
a problem with the heater at the outset. Hes had to pay over £4,000  for repairs to the diesel 
particulate filter (DPF) and fuel injectors, amongst other things. The car broke  down last year 
and its been off the road since then. Mr O has been  told theres a major electrical fault 
and/or a problem  with the engine control  unit (ECU) which  is beyond  economical repair. He 
thinks the car was of unsatisfactory  quality when he got it so Black Horse  should take it 
back, provide  a refund and pay compensation.  
Black Horse  says the dealer arranged for the heating  to be repaired  early on at no cost to Mr 
O. Black Horse  offered  to pay Mr O £75 compensation for any trouble and upset he 
experienced as a result of that, but it doesnt think theres enough evidence  to show  that the 
other issues complained  about were present at the point of supply. In summary Black  Horse 
says:
Mr O had a problem  with the DPF after ten months and 30,000  miles;
fuel injectors were replaced after 13 months  and over 39,000  miles;  and
the most  recent issues were reported  22 months after supply, by which  time the car 
had covered about 64,000 miles. 
Black Horse  thinks  it is unlikely that this car could have been driven so far if it had been 
faulty at the outset. It offered  to reconsider if Mr O obtained  independent  expert evidence 
that suggested this was not the case.    
Our adjudicator doesnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. He accepts  there was a 
problem with heating  early on but hes satisfied  that was fixed at no cost to Mr O who 
accepted the repair.  Given the age and mileage of the car when Mr O got it - along with the 
distance he was able to cover  after that - our adjudicator is not persuaded that its likely the 
remaining faults complained about  would have been  present at the point of supply. He thinks 
it is more likely these are the result of wear and tear. Hes not persuaded that this car was of 
unsatisfactory quality  at the point of supply and doesnt recommend Black Horse should  
have to do more  than it has already. 
Mr O didnt agree and he asked for an ombudsman to review  the matter.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I am sorry to disappoint Mr O but I have 
reached much the same conclusions as our adjudicator for broadly the same  reasons. 
Where evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here),  I reach 
my decision  on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to 
have happened  in the light of the available evidence and the wider  circumstances. 
Ref: DRN49802522I can see that Mr O feels strongly about what happened here.  I want  to assure him that I 
have considered everything  he has said and sent to us carefully.  Ive had the benefit,  in 
particular, of reviewing  the paperwork provided by the third party  garage (which  Ill refer to as 
R) that repaired the car several times  - as well as the report from a DPF specialist who 
inspected the car more  recently. I have also considered  the cars MOT history. 
Mr O acquired  this car with finance provided  by Black Horse and Black  Horse was required 
to ensure that the car was of satisfactory  quality at the point  of supply. The level of quality 
that is to be considered satisfactory varies,  depending on individual  circumstances. It is 
generally considered  reasonable to take the cost, age and mileage of a car at the point of 
supply into account.  
This car was four years  old, cost about £6,000 and had over 76,000 miles on the clock  when 
Mr O got it. As such I dont think he could reasonably  expect it to be perfect as there was 
likely to be some wear  and tear. This means parts would need  to be repaired or replaced 
sooner or later and thats reflected in the lower price paid for a used  vehicle.
I dont think theres any dispute that there  was a problem with the cars heating  early on. Like 
our adjudicator, I am satisfied that the dealer had this repaired at no cost to Mr O. I think this 
was reasonable  and Mr O seemed to accept  that at the time. 
Mr O doesnt seem  to have had any more  trouble  with the car until near the end of 2017 
when he had a problem with the DPF. He took the car to R who fixed the issue and reported  
the car drives as it should. R recommended the car should be driven regularly  on the 
motorway at low revs to encourage the regeneration required  to keep the DPF working 
properly and indicated  the DPF might need  to be cleaned or replaced in due course. 
Mr O had driven the car around 30,000 miles at this stage.  I find it unlikely that he would 
have been able to travel so far if the DPF had been faulty at the outset. I think it is more  
likely than not this issue was the result  of the use Mr O had of the car after supply and I am 
unable to reasonably hold Black  Horse responsible for that. 
I can see that Mr O had the car serviced a few months later by R and a number of 
service/maintenance parts were  replaced.  The car broke down not long after and Mr O paid 
R to replace fuel injectors, amongst other  things. R reminded Mr O about previous advice in 
relation to the DPF. It acknowledged he was using a DPF cleaning product but said the DPF 
should be either replaced or cleaned due to the vehicles high usage. The car had about 
115,000 miles on the clock at this stage. And I am not persuaded its likely that these repairs  
were required  as the result of faults which were present when Mr O acquired  the car - or he 
wouldnt have been able to drive it so far in the meantime. 
In July 2018 R replaced one of the fuel injectors  as a gesture of goodwill. It told Mr O at the 
same time that there was a problem with the ECU  and the car should not be driven - 
because as this would  probably  cause  more damage. The car had nearly  130,000 miles on 
the clock at this point.  I think Mr O must have continued to drive the car after that because 
he told Black  Horse  it had accumulated around  140,000 miles when he got in touch after a 
breakdown in December 2018.
Mr O had a DPF specialist  check the car about  a month later,  in January  2019. He was told it 
looks as if theres a major  electrical fault,  an issue with the ECU and the cars not worth  
repairing. I have no doubt this is really frustrating for Mr O. But, I am satisfied that hed 
Ref: DRN49802523driven this car over 60,000 miles by this stage. On balance,  I find it unlikely that the car 
would have been able to travel so far if these faults were present at the outset.  
Mr O has mentioned that the original radio was replaced when the car was supplied. He 
feels this is significant  as the radio is linked to the cars information display. I have seen 
nothing to suggest that the radio is the source  of (or otherwise contributed to) the electrical/  
ECU or any other fault. If that was the case, then Id expect Mr O to have experienced 
problems much sooner  - and I think R, or the specialist who inspected the car last January, 
would have commented. I dont think its unusual for parts like a radio to be replaced in a 
used car. And I cant fairly find this car was of unsatisfactory quality solely  on those grounds.  
I have sympathy for the situation Mr O finds himself  in. But, I can only hold Black Horse  
responsible for faults that I am satisfied are likely  to have been present at the point of supply. 
On balance overall, I am not persuaded that the issues  Mr O has complained about here are 
likely to have been there when  he got the car. This means I cant  fairly require Black Horse  
to take the car back, pay for repairs or do any thing further.
I appreciate my decision is likely to come as a disappointment to Mr O - as its not the 
outcome he wanted.  But, for the reasons Ive explained,  I am unable to uphold  his complaint. 
I leave it to Mr O to contact Black Horse  if he would like to accept its offer of compensation 
(if it hasnt paid that already). 
Mr O has told us that he is finding  it difficult to meet his monthly repayments. I am sorry to 
hear about that. I encourage  Mr O to contact Black Horse to discuss the options available to 
him - which may include early termination  and/or setting up an appropriate repayment plan. 
And I remind Black Horse of its obligations to respond positively and sympathetically  if Mr O 
is in financial difficulties.  Mr O may find it helpful to contact a free source of money advice 
and we can provide  more  information about that if he would like it. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my decision is I do not uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 October  2019.
Claire Jackson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4980252