K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a loan payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 2010. 
Mrs B says Black Horse  Limited mis-sold her the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Bs case.
Having done this, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why. 
Mrs B and Black Horse  agree the policy was sold during a telephone call at the same  time 
the loan was taken out.  During  that telephone call, Black Horse shouldve  made  Mrs B 
aware the policy was optional.   Unfortunately Black  Horse doesnt have a copy of the call 
recording from the actual  sale but it has provided  me with a call script it says would have 
been used by its representatives  at the time. I can see from the script that it wouldve asked 
Mrs B if she wanted to add the cover. 
In addition, Black Horse has also provided  a copy of Mrs Bs credit agreement. On there is 
has a section headed optional  payment protection plan, and it asks applicants  to sign 
separately from the borrowing to agree to taking  the PPI. On Mrs Bs form shes signed  in 
agreement to take out the PPI. 
Taking everything into account,  I think Black Horse made it clear that Mrs B didnt have to 
take out the PPI and she chose to take it out  although I can understand why she cant 
remember this.
Black Horse  recommended  the PPI to Mrs B so it had to check that the PPI was right for her 
 and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time,  I think that it was. For 
example she wasnt  affected  by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover  and she 
seems to have had a need for the cover. Ive noted Mrs Bs comments  about a medical 
condition she had at the time. Looking at what shes told us about her condition,  I think its 
unlikely Mrs B would  have thought this would be the main reason she might have needed to 
claim on the policy in the future.  And the policy would  have covered Mrs B for other  things. 
So I dont  think Black Horse was wrong  to recommend the policy  was suitable for her.
Mrs B says she would  have received six months  full followed by six months half sick pay 
benefits from her employer. The PPI would have  paid the monthly benefit for up to 12 
months if Mrs B was made unemployed and for 24 months if she was off work due to an 
accident or sickness. It would also have paid in addition to any sick pay she wouldve got  
allowing her to use her employer benefits for other important  expenses.  And it doesnt look 
like she had any other means  such as savings  to make  her repayments if she was 
unable to work. So I think she couldve found the policy useful.  
Its possible the information Black Horse  gave Mrs B about  the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But she chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type of cover.  
And it seems like it would  have been useful for her if something went  wrong. It also looks like 
it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put her off 
taking out the cover.  
Ref: DRN48324222Which means Black  Horse doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs B.
But Black Horse has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs B because:
Black  Horse got a high level of commission and profit share  (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs B about that. Because  Black  Horse didnt tell     
Mrs B, that was unfair.  
To put that right, Black Horse has paid back the amount of commission  and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Black  Horse Limited does not have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mrs B.
But Black Horse Limited does have  to pay back to Mrs B any commission  and profit share  it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand  it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs B to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 April 2019.
Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4832422