K820x#14complaint
Mrs B complains about how Admiral Insurance  Company Limited dealt with a claim against 
her motor insurance policy, more specifically,  its valuation of her car. Mr B is helping Mrs B 
to bring her complaint. 
background
In June 2018, Mrs B made a claim against  her motor insurance  policy  following an accident. 
Admiral said that the car was a total loss. It valued  Mrs Bs car at £4,780. Admiral paid to the 
finance provider  that amount, less the excess due under Mrs Bs policy. 
Mrs B says that Admiral  undervalued her car. She says that it initially valued it at £4,450,  
then £4,680 and finally £4,780. Mrs B says that an HPI check  she did showed the forecourt 
value of her car was £5,514 and that she could have  sold it for over £5,000.  In the complaint  
form, Mr B said that Admiral used the wrong  figures  when it paid the finance provider. Mrs B 
wants the full value of £5,514 or at least £5,000.
Our investigator didnt  think that Admiral had acted  unfairly. He said that hed looked at four 
motor trade  guides,  which gave valuations for Mrs Bs car of £4,707,  £4,780, £4,995 and 
£5,336. He discounted the highest valuation,  as it was significantly different from the other  
three. The investigator said that Admirals valuation of £4,780  was fair as it was within  the 
range of the other  three valuations. He said that he hadnt seen any evidence that Admiral 
sent the wrong amount  to the finance  company. 
Mrs B didnt agree with the investigator. Mr B responded on her behalf. He said that Admiral 
tried to offer less than the car was worth  from the outset. Mr B said that the car was worth 
over £5,000 and hed have got more than that in a private sale. He said that he told Admiral 
that he wanted a minimum valuation of £5,000  and the figures the investigator  mentioned  
suggested that was right. Mr B said that he didnt complain that Admiral  sent the wrong 
amount to the finance provider. 
As there was no agreement between the parties, the complaint was passed to me, an 
ombudsman, for a decision. 
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The starting point  is Mrs Bs policy, which provides that on total loss, the most Admiral  will 
pay is the market value of the car. The policy defines market value as:
The cost of replacing  your car with one of a similar  make, model, year,  mileage and 
conditions based  on the market prices  at the time of the loss.
This service doesnt value  cars but we look to see if the insurer,  Admiral in this case,  has 
come to a reasonable valuation using the motor-trade guides. 
Ref: DRN44135892We look at market value  as the retail price the consumer  would  have had to pay for a 
comparable vehicle at a reputable dealer, immediately  before the time of the damage or 
loss. Assessing the value of a used  vehicle isnt an exact science. We generally find the 
valuations given in motor trade  guides most persuasive. These guides are based on 
extensive nationwide research of likely selling prices. The guides  use advertised prices  and 
auction prices to work out what likely selling prices would have been. 
The investigator set out in his view the motor-trade valuations and Ive referred to them 
earlier. I think that its right to discount  the highest  of the four valuations,  as its out of line 
with the others.  Admirals  valuation of Mrs Bs car was reasonable, as its within  the range of 
those valuations. I do appreciate that Mrs B would like more but, based on what Ive seen, 
there are no grounds on which to direct Admiral to increase its valuation.   
In response to the investigators view, Mr B indicated  that he didnt wish to pursue the part of 
the complaint  about Admiral using incorrect figures  on settlement, so I dont comment on 
that further. 
my final decision
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr and Mrs B but, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold the 
complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 March  2019.
Louise Povey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4413589