K821x#15complaint
Mr Rs complained about the service he received from CashEuroNet  UK LLC (trading as 
Quick Quid) in relation  to a short-term loan after he was a victim of identity theft.
Mr R has been helped  in bringing this complaint by his wife, Mrs R, but for ease  Ill refer to 
all actions and comments as being those of Mr R. 
background
In November 2017 Mr R told Quick Quid he was the victim of identity theft. He said someone 
had used his personal details to take out a short-term loan with Quick Quid  which it had paid 
into his bank account. Mr R said he told his bank what had happened and they moved  the 
money into a suspense account. In December he wrote to Quick Quid  again and said hed 
forward his banks response.
In January 2018 Quick Quid said it had run a number  of credit checks  to confirm  Mr Rs 
identify when processing the loan and hed need  to provide evidence  to say it wasnt him. It 
said this could be in the form of a letter from his bank. Mr R provided Quick Quid  with 
another letter from his bank  that confirmed hed been the victim of identity theft. 
On 13 February Quick Quid wrote to Mr R and told him it had rejected the claim he made  to 
its fraud department  as it couldnt be sure he wasnt involved in obtaining the money.  It said 
it has passed his account to its collections department.  
On 18 February Quick Quid sent Mr R a default  notice because  he hadnt  made  a payment. 
It said if he didnt make a payment it would refer his account to a collections agency  and 
inform credit report agencies. On 20 February - after reviewing  the information he had sent 
earlier in the month - Quick Quid let Mr R know it accepted the loan application was 
fraudulent and had told credit  reference  agencies to remove all the entries  it had made. It 
said it had frozen the account and would deactivate it once  it had received the money back 
from the bank. It said it was necessary to carry out the checks it had when alerted to a 
fraudulent transaction.
Mr R was satisfied Quick  Quid accepted the application was fraudulent but didnt think  it had 
done enough to compensate him for what happened. So he brought  his complaint to us. He 
said the way Quick Quid had dealt with things and chased him for money had added to the 
stress and upset hed experienced as a victim of identity  theft.  
Quick Quid said it had spoken to Mr R on 29 December to request supporting  information.  
And also sent a letter  to let him know what it needed. It said it spoken to him again on           
31 January and gave him its bank details so he could return the loan. Quid  Quick said it 
received a letter from Mr R on 8 February which it reviewed  on 20 February  due to a post 
queue. 
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld.  He thought that     
Quick Quid had accepted that the transaction was fraudulent  and it had removed entries 
from Mr Rs credit file. But he thought Quick Quid should compensate Mr R £200  for the 
unnecessary stress and worry  it caused him in investigating and wrongly concluding initially  
that this wasnt fraud.
Ref: DRN45911072Mr R accepted our investigators recommendation but Quick Quid  disagreed and asked for 
an ombudsmans decision. It said its short  delay in processing Mr Rs letter shouldnt warrant  
compensation of £200. It said it would pay Mr R £50 compensation as a gesture of goodwill. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Quick Quid has accepted that the activity was fraudulent and I understand the account  has 
now been deactivated and entries removed from credit reference  agencies. So all thats  
been left for me to consider is whether it would be fair and reasonable for Quick  Quid  to 
compensate Mr R for what happened.
I accept Quick Quid needed to carry out a full investigation as it had been  informed of a 
fraudulent transaction. And I can also understand information waiting in a post queue  to be 
actioned. But I can see Mr R first made  Quick  Quid aware of what  had happened some 
months earlier.
Mr R said he first told Quick Quid about the fraudulent  activity  in early  November.  Hes also 
provided letters to show he wrote to Quick  Quid  on 17 November, including  his bank 
statements showing the activity on his account.  Mr R also wrote  to Quick  Quid on                  
5 December to explain his bank had also made some errors  in its letter and he would 
forward its response. He also sent a letter from his bank on 18 January that confirmed there 
had been fraudulent activity. 
Quick Quid said it contacted Mr R on 29 December which is over a month  after he reported 
the fraudulent  activity.  I havent seen anything  to persuade me any delay here was 
reasonable and I think  Quick Quid  had a number of opportunities to look into things and 
carry out its investigation. 
Mr R clearly made a number of attempts  to contact Quick Quid  about  what had happened 
but once it got in touch with him it seems to have very quickly decided  his claim wasnt 
fraudulent. Quick Quid wrote to Mr R 11 January telling him he needed to repay the loan 
within 14 days or his account  would be passed to collections. Mr R replied to this and on    
31 January it wrote  to him again  asking him to repay  the loan. It didnt provide a deadline for 
this and he replied  to this letter on 5 February  which doesnt seem  to me to be an 
unreasonably long time. In this letter Mr R said his bank had confirmed the process for    
Quick Quid to recover the money and it wasnt for him to repay it directly. 
While I understand Mr Rs letter  hadnt  been reviewed at the time Quick Quid  wrote to him 
rejecting his claim, thats not Mr Rs fault.  If Quick Quid knew it had post queues  it might 
have been helpful for it to have waited  longer  for his response before passing his account  to 
collections. Given the information Mr R had already provided Id have expected it to have 
done more before coming to the conclusion that the application wasnt  fraudulent  and 
passing his account to its collections  team. It also told Mr R he needed to pay the money 
back himself rather than recovering  it from his bank when his bank had said in its letter that 
Quick Quid would need to follow the process  for it to return  any money.
I accept being  told Quick Quid didnt think the application was fraudulent  would have been  
distressing for Mr R. I also think receiving a default  notice and having his account passed to 
the collections department would have  added to this. In addition, Mr R spent a number of 
Ref: DRN45911073months trying to sort things out. When taking account of everything thats happened I think  
the fair and reasonable outcome to this particular complaint would  be for Quick  Quid to 
compensate Mr R for the distress and inconvenience it caused him. When  taking account of 
other awards  our service makes for cases of similar  seriousness Im satisfied £200 is a fair 
and reasonable amount of compensation.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require CashEuroNet UK LLC to pay    
Mr R £200 compensation  for his distress and inconvenience. 
CashEuroNet UK LLC should  pay this within 28 days of us telling  it Mr Rs accepted my 
decision. If it pays later than this it should  add interest at 8% simple per year from the date of 
my decision  to the date it makes payment.1
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 June 2019.
Sarann Taylor
ombudsman
 
1 If CashEuroNet  UK LLC considers that its required by HM Revenue  & Customs to take off income 
tax from that interest, it should tell Mr R how much its taken off. It should  also give Mr R a certificate 
showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue  & Customs if appropriate.   
Ref: DRN4591107