K821x#15complaint
Mr R complains HSBC  UK Bank  Plc has not correctly  refunded  some disputed  transactions.
background
Mr Rs credit card was used for some fraudulent transactions in March  and April 2018.  The 
details of those  transactions  do not form part of this complaint as HSBC appear to have  
accepted they had not been  authorised by Mr R by virtue  of its actions in refunding the 
transactions to his credit card.
But Mr R complained that not all the amounts had been refunded correctly.  In  its final 
response to Mr R, HSBC said following an investigation, it was going to hold him liable  for 
the transactions and had re-debited the funds.  But it hadnt re-debited the funds and it 
became apparent it had confused this complaint with a previous complaint  brought by Mr R 
exactly a year prior to this one.
Our investigator looked into matters when the complaint was brought to this service.  She 
explained HSBC  had probably  confused the two complaints  but in the most  recent  
transactions, it had credited Mr Rs account  and had not applied any re-debits.
She also explained, from looking at Mr Rs statements, that two of the disputed  transactions 
had been credited to the account but then re-debited.   This was not consistent with all other  
transactions which remained having  been  credited.  She asked these be paid to Mr R and 
that he be paid compensation  of £200, interest at the rate of 8%, and any interest and 
charges which  had been added to the account  as a result.
HSBC did not accept it had made an error.   It said the correct funds had been refunded on 
27th April 2018.   Our investigator  could not see that they had  so the matter was passed  to 
me for a final response.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im afraid HSBC is mistaken.   It did indeed credit the two disputed transactions  of £1109  
each  once in April and then once in June.  But it also debited these two payments  again 
in April and then in December 2018.  This was in addition to the two disputed transactions 
for the same amount  leaving  Mr Rs account  in March 2018.
So, Mr R is still owed two payments of £1109 each.
HSBC does not say in its response to the investigators view that it is holding  Mr R 
responsible for these  payments  so it must follow that they are returned to him.
my final decision
My final decision is I uphold  this complaint.
HSBC UK Bank Plc must:
Ref: DRN42005622-repay £2218  to Mr Rs account
-refund  any charges  or interest  associated with these payments
-pay interest at the rate of 8% on the amounts from the date of the transactions  to the 
date of settlement
-pay Mr R £200 for the poor service received
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 August 2020.
Shazia Ahmed
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4200562