K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs F complain  that Charterhall Associates Ltd (CAL) gave them unsuitable  
mortgage advice  in 2016.
background
Mr and Mrs F owned property A, which they understood was worth around £350,000.  In 
September 2016 they had outstanding secured debt of approximately £39,000.
Mr and Mrs F were  interested  in downsizing and moving to property B  which  had a 
purchase price of approximately £189,000. They first approached a high street lender to 
discuss financing the purchase. Mr and Mrs F were then referred to CAL as theyd indicated 
they may be interested in bridging finance - something the high street lender didnt offer.  
 
Mr and Mrs F met with one of CALs advisers. CAL recommended  that they take out a 12-
month interest only bridging loan secured jointly against both property A and property B. The 
first bridging loan it recommended was declined at application  stage. It then recommended 
another similar, but more expensive, loan with a different lender. The loan was on a retained  
interest basis  so additional funds  were borrowed at the start to make the monthly  interest 
payments as they became due. 
In total it was recommended that Mr and Mrs F borrow £300,000. This was made up of 
£243,550 as a loan to buy the new property, pay off the existing borrowing and carry out 
work on the two properties, £11,450 to cover fees and £45,000 as retained  interest  to cover 
the monthly repayments. Additional fees of just over £5,000 were also to be repaid  at the 
end of the term making the total amount repayable,  according to the credit agreement, just 
over £305,000.
As part of the application  process  the lender instructed a valuation of both properties  in 
November 2016.  The valuation report estimated the market value of property A as £300,000. 
It also noted projected market valuations if it were to be sold within 90 days (£270,000) and 
180 days (£300,000).  Mr and Mrs F had consulted an estate agent by then and were  
marketing property A for sale for £350,000.
The advice wasnt revisited  or changed  following this valuation and the loan application went  
ahead as initially recommended. The loan was advanced  in January 2017. Mr and Mrs F 
moved into property B and continued to market  property  A for sale.  12 months passed and 
the loan came to the end of its term, but property A had not sold despite the asking price 
having been reduced. 
Mr and Mrs F agreed a six-month extension with the lender. Mr and Mrs F were still unable 
to find a buyer at the end of this extended  term, despite again reducing the asking price 
several times. As they had been unable to sell, and the lender was requesting repayment of 
the balance, property A was surrendered to the lender.  Property A was eventually sold in 
January 2019  for £216,000. 
Mr and Mrs F were  left with an outstanding balance of almost  £150,000 secured against their 
home, property B. And that figure  continued  to accrue contractual  interest.
Ref: DRN44514852Mr and Mrs F complained to CAL that the advice they were  given was unsuitable. They  said 
the risks, specifically that both properties  could  be lost, were too great and the full potential 
cost of the agreement  was not made clear. 
CAL rejected  the complaint  as it felt the advice was suitable and Mr and Mrs F had 
proceeded in a fully informed position.
Mr and Mrs F also complained to the lender  at the same time about its actions  in particular 
it agreeing to extend the facility after the initial twelve  months  and how property A was sold.
My considerations  so far
I issued provisional  decisions in November 2019  and February  2020,  which  Ill summarise 
here.
Circumstances leading  to the advice
Mr and Mrs F were  interested  in downsizing to a smaller  property as Mrs F had 
recently recovered from a serious illness and had difficulty  using stairs. They had 
found a property they were interested in  property  B. And they had made an offer to 
buy property B at the time they approached CAL. But I hadnt seen anything to 
suggest this offer had committed them to the purchase.
Mr and Mrs F contacted CAL to discuss  bridging finance. Id seen an email from a 
high street lender to CAL introducing  Mr and Mrs F to it and I thought it unlikely a 
high street lender wouldve referred  customers to a broker, if it instead could have 
offered the service  they were  looking  for. And Mr and Mrs F acknowledged they were 
referred to CAL for this reason.
I didnt think Mr and Mrs F approaching CAL to talk about bridging finance meant 
they had a specific bridging loan or loan structure  in mind. If they had they wouldnt 
have needed to approach  CAL  theyd  have likely gone to a lender directly  so as not 
to incur the several thousand pounds of advice fees that were paid to CAL.  I was 
satisfied that theyd approach CAL for advice on whether bridging finance  was 
suitable. I didnt  think them  asking about  bridging  finance meant they understood all 
the associated  costs and risks.  And even though they mayve had a form of financing  
in mind, it was CALs responsibility,  according to MCOB, to look at their overall 
circumstances and make a recommendation that was suitable for them.
Although CAL argued that Mr and Mrs F were  unequivocally committed to purchasing 
property B  as it was their ideal home  and they did not want to risk losing it  I 
thought they had been willing to consider other options and if appropriate wouldve 
been willing  to miss out on property B. And while they mayve  described it in the 
terms CAL referenced   ideal   I didnt think they were so committed to the 
purchase that they wouldve disregarded  the costs or risks involved.
I thought Mr and Mrs Fs aim, if they downsized, was to purchase their new property 
outright with no borrowing secured. 
Ref: DRN44514853I also thought  that, at the time of seeking advice,  Mr and Mrs Fs intention was not to 
put their new home at risk. CAL argued that the consumers had a recorded high 
attitude to risk. But it hadnt provided  anything to support this. And I found  it unlikely,  
based on Mr and Mrs Fs circumstances,  that theyd want to take significant risks with 
their finances. This transaction was not an investment geared towards a future gain. 
It was to purchase (downsize to) a different, smaller,  property  that would be their 
main residence. And I didnt think theyd have wanted to risk, based on simply finding 
a property that they liked, ending up having  nowhere to live. So overall, I didnt think  
they were willing  to accept a lot of risk.
The advice given  by CAL and whether it was suitable
The Mortgages and Home Finance: Conduct  of Business sourcebook  (MCOB)  the 
rules set by the Financial  Conduct Authority (FCA) around  the provision of mortgage 
advice  says a business should  keep a record of a customers  information, including 
about their needs and circumstances,  as well as a record explaining why advice  
given is suitable,  for a minimum  of three years.  But we were  provided very little by 
way of records of Mr and Mrs Fs intentions at the time, the details CAL gathered, 
why it believed the recommendation made was suitable at the time it was given  or 
that this was set out to Mr and Mrs F. 
MCOB requires businesses to act in accordance with the best interests of its 
customers and advice  provided  must be suitable  to the customers.  For the 
recommended product,  and advice, to be suitable businesses  are required to take 
account of a customers needs and circumstances as well as any other relevant facts 
it should reasonably be aware of. 
CAL advised Mr and Mrs F to take bridging finance over a term of 12 months,  
secured against  both property A and property B, on a retained interest basis. The 
reasons for this recommendation were unclear beyond allowing  the purchase of 
property B, due to the lack of documentation to support it.
The limited notes  available from CAL about the advice relate to a recommendation 
for a smaller,  cheaper loan with a different lender  than the one that ultimately 
completed. 
The loan that was taken out, which CAL recommended,  was for just over £243,000 
with fees, costs and interest bringing  the total amount to be repaid to over £305,000.
The reasons  for recommending  different levels of borrowing between  the first and 
second loan applied for / lender applied to were unclear.
Taking bridging finance to buy property B while property  A was sold would have  met 
one of Mr and Mrs Fs aims.  But I didnt think the recommendation met, or was likely 
to meet,  their other aims.
Ref: DRN44514854The loan was secured against properties  A and B. This put property  B at risk. And I 
didnt think this was in line with Mr and Mrs Fs aims. I didnt  think  Mr and Mrs F 
approached CAL with this particular set up already decided upon  and I was satisfied 
that this was what CAL recommended  they do  but again  I could  see no clear  
explanation why, or the reason for alternative options being discounted. And there 
was no evidence of CAL explaining why it thought this was suitable to Mr and Mrs F.
The cost of the loan recommended was always going to be significant  over £60,000  
even if the loan was repaid at the end of twelve months. This was more than the 
amount of outstanding borrowing secured on property A. So, in relative terms, the 
cost, when they were  actually downsizing was very high. No explanation  was 
provided why incurring this level of cost was suitable, particularly considering  Mr and 
Mrs Fs aim of getting to a position of being mortgage free after downsizing.
Based  on the total amount borrowed and the valuation by the lender at the time of 
the application, the repayment vehicle, sale of property A, was always unlikely to 
clear the outstanding balance on the bridging loan. This wasnt in line with Mr and 
Mrs Fs aims of being mortgage free. And I thought  it highlighted a risk to the 
effectiveness of the repayment strategy.
Despite CALs arguments to the contrary,  I felt the evidence  available  suggested 
there was no discussion  about a potential  residual  balance  or steps to address it at 
the point of sale.
CAL said that Mr and Mrs F rejected the valuation undertaken by the lender as part 
of the application, which was carried out by a qualified valuer, as inaccurate  as they 
felt a higher price  was achievable.  CAL said that this had caused the problems 
encountered. Its adviser has also since said they didnt think  Mr and Mrs F were  
committed to the sales process from the outset. If this was the case, although  the 
evidence of this was limited, a common-sense  evaluation at that point shouldve  
indicated that there  was an increased risk of the repayment vehicle failing / being 
unlikely to result in the repayment of the loan within the term from the outset. And this 
wouldve resulted  in the need  to extend the agreement or refinance  a residual 
balance  which if for whatever reason was not possible, could result in property B 
being lost. So, the problems that have been  encountered since were foreseeable. 
However, neither  of these apparent reservations were recorded  anywhere and there  
is nothing to indicate that the advice was revisited  at any stage. So, I didnt think I 
could say the adviser was acting in Mr and Mrs Fs best interests.
CAL also said that it made  its recommendation because Mr and Mrs F wouldve gone 
ahead with bridging finance  regardless of cost or risk. I didnt agree with this. But I 
also noted that these were  characteristics associated with potentially  insistent clients. 
And none of the documentation  from the point of sale mentions or indicates that Mr 
and Mrs F were  insistent or that this mayve  played a part in the recommendation.
So overall, I felt the reasons for the advice  were unclear, the recommended product 
did not meet  the majority  of Mr and Mrs Fs aims, the risks were not in line with what  
they were likely willing to accept and overall  it was unsuitable for them.
Ref: DRN44514855I found that Mr and Mrs F relied  on and were guided by the advice given by CAL.
In terms of information provided I was satisfied that an outline of costs  had been 
provided in the loan illustration and that the loan offer set out the overarching risk in 
its simplest form.  But in addition to the advice being unsuitable, I couldnt reasonably 
say that Mr and Mrs F had been given clear enough information by CAL about all of 
the risks involved, in order to make an informed decision.
Whether Mr and Mrs F wouldve  acted differently
CAL argued that Mr and Mrs F would always have  gone ahead with the purchase. 
Again, I noted there was no indication of them being considered  insistent in the 
documentation provided. I noted that CAL had provided a significant  amount of 
correspondence from after the advice was given, indicating that Mr and Mrs F were 
keen to conclude  the application and for the loan to be advanced to complete the 
purchase of property B. But these were from after the advice, which  they relied on, 
was given. And I didnt think this indicated that theyd fully understood the 
recommendation made  or that they had accepted the risks involved.  And I didnt think 
it reflected their position prior to the advice.
Based  on all of the information available, I thought that if Mr and Mrs F fully 
understood the costs and risks involved with the recommended  product, they 
wouldnt have taken  the bridging loan as I didnt think  it matched  all of their aims  or 
their attitude to risk.
I considered whether  Mr and Mrs F mayve tried to complete the transaction  
purchasing property B before completing on the sale of property A  by using 
different funding. But the risks involved in doing  so would likely have been broadly 
the same   putting property B at risk. So, I didnt think this was in line with their aims 
and intentions so on balance I didnt think it likely theyd have done this.
I also thought  about whether Mr and Mrs F mayve stayed in property A and 
renovated it to match their new requirements   something they suggested they 
wouldve considered.  But I thought  the renovations were likely  to involve additional 
borrowing, and the refinancing of their existing borrowing, leaving them with a larger 
sum secured  on their home.  And this wouldve resulted in a lot of disruption  and a 
portion of their property  being unused. So, I thought  on balance  they wouldve opted  
against this.
I thought the action  they would likely have taken wouldve been to market  and sell 
property A, while still living there,  and use the proceeds to repay  their existing  
borrowing and purchase a smaller property outright  be that property B or an 
equivalent. While this meant they mayve been  unsuccessful in purchasing property 
B  and I didnt  doubt this wouldve caused  significant disappointment to them  I 
thought theyd have been willing  to accept this. And I felt that this is the course  of 
action theyd likely have taken  if theyd been made  aware  of the significant  risks and 
costs associated with the bridging finance  and if they hadnt been  provided 
unsuitable advice.
Ref: DRN44514856Putting things right
To resolve the complaint, I felt it fair that CAL pay Mr and Mrs F redress that put 
them as close as possible to the position that they likely  would otherwise have been 
in had it not been for the unsuitable advice. I acknowledged that deciding how to 
fairly accomplish this was very difficult due to the circumstances involved and the 
sequence of events that was set into motion  by the advice given. There were also a 
lot of variables that had to be considered and estimated.
I noted Mr and Mrs F did have outstanding borrowing before the advice was given. 
But that didnt  mean it was necessarily fair that they are left with outstanding 
borrowing now  if this is not what I thought was most likely to have happened had 
they not been given  unsuitable advice.
I felt that the sale price achieved for property  A had been affected  by it being 
voluntarily surrendered and sold as a vacant possession.
Had Mr and Mrs F remained in the property and marketed it for sale, I said I thought 
the sale price achieved wouldve been  higher. Although there was no way to say for 
certain what this wouldve  been, I felt the lower estimated  value given by the 
professional valuer at the time the loan was taken out  £270,000  was a 
reasonable estimate of what was likely to have been  achieved.
Repayments to the existing borrowing  wouldve continued while the sale process was 
ongoing  reducing  the amount owed.
After repayment of the existing borrowing from the proceeds  the equity remaining 
wouldve likely been sufficient, based  on the sale price  and current market value of 
property B, for Mr and Mrs F to have purchased it or an equivalent outright,  even  
accounting for associated costs.
The position they are in now is that they owned  property B but owed in excess of 
£120,000 secured  against it (this figure  had been reduced  by an agreed settlement 
between Mr and Mrs F and the lender in relation to their separate complaint). I felt 
this balance all stemmed from the unsuitable advice  that set in motion  everything  
that had since  happened. And I didnt  think, based on the available  information, that 
Mr and Mrs F had acted  unreasonably or failed to mitigate their loss. So, I felt a fair 
resolution was that CAL pay Mr and Mrs F compensation equivalent to the amount 
required to settle the outstanding loan.
There was the question of whether it was reasonable that CAL be required to cover 
interest accrued  on the balance since this complaint had been  ongoing.  I initially 
concluded it should. But in my second PD felt this may be unreasonable given the 
agreement Mr and Mrs F made  when their complaint  against  the lender was 
resolved. 
Ref: DRN44514857responses to my provisional  decision
I gave both parties an opportunity to make further comments or send further  information  
before I reached a final decision.
CAL said it was disappointed with the outcome of my investigation. It maintained  that it felt 
Mr and Mrs F were  committed to the purchase and that the risks of the loan were  explained.  
It also reiterated that it felt there was no evidence that Mr and Mrs F intended  to be 
mortgage free after moving and said Id made this conclusion without relevant evidence.  But 
it did offer to pay Mr and Mrs F £65,000  in full and final settlement of their complaint  which 
it felt was fair.
CAL went  on to say it didnt think that the recommended  redress was fair and that what  I had 
recommended penalised  it for events outside  of its control. It said that, if the initial  loan was 
considered unsuitable, then the actions by the lender when the original term expired  
providing an extension  on the borrowing  were  also unsuitable.  CAL said it considered 
these as separate events. So, it said, in the event the complaint is upheld,  it should not be 
held responsible for the shortfall accrued due to interest and costs being  applied to the 
balance after the initial term ended  as these were due to the actions  of the lender. And it 
therefore thinks the most it should reasonably be held responsible for is the difference  
between the amount of the initial loan and the sale price of property  A, which  it estimates is 
in the region of £87,650.
Mr and Mrs F said that none of what has happened would have taken place without the 
unsuitable advice,  so they thought the entire  loss, including  the interest accrued while the 
complaint was ongoing, was due to CALs  actions and they felt it should cover  the entire 
balance. With this in mind, they said they reserved the right to pursue CAL for further losses.
further correspondence and comments from both  parties
Following the responses, I looked  at everything again and the arguments made around the 
recommended redress.  Having done  so I wrote to both parties asking for their further 
comments.
I explained that, Id seen  correspondence from the point the extension  to the bridging finance 
was agreed in January 2018,  that indicated CAL may still have been acting for Mr and Mrs F 
and providing  advice. So, in light of CALs  position  that this was an intervening act to the 
original advice, and the potential consequences for causation and redress,  I wanted to know  
if either party had any additional information  or comments  on this information.
I also said I was still considering if interest  accrued  after Mr and Mrs F agreed a settlement 
with the lender should form part of any recommendation in this case,  in the event that I felt it 
should be upheld.  So, I invited further  comments on this.
CAL said,  while it was listed  as intermediary, it did not give any formal advice in relation to 
the extension  to the bridging finance.  This was a decision  taken by Mr and Mrs F and 
something CAL should not be held responsible for. And if I concluded differently it would like 
to know on what basis I had done  so. 
Ref: DRN44514858CAL did not accept that it should be responsible for further interest. It also reiterated its 
objection to my overall decision  and the suggested award.  It said the recommended loan 
had enabled  Mr and Mrs F to purchase their dream home. And while it sympathised with 
their position  CAL felt that the situation Mr and Mrs F are now in had been caused  by 
decisions they made  including  them refusing to reduce  the asking price of property A. CAL 
said Mr and Mrs F had ignored advice to this effect  and so it felt I was applying  a double 
standard by saying CAL shouldve revisited its advice following the valuation by the lender 
when Mr and Mrs F had not altered the asking  price of property A. It also indicated  it 
believed Mr and Mrs F had rejected  offers that would  otherwise have  mitigated  their losses.
Mr and Mrs F also said that CAL did not provide advice at the time of the extension and they 
had been unaware of the correspondence Id referred to.
They reiterated that they had received  no offers for property A so felt they couldnt have 
done more to mitigate the loss. As a result, they said that they felt CAL should  pay redress  
covering the entire current outstanding balance and interest that was continuing to accrue. 
Mr and Mrs F also added  they felt CAL should  also be covering the legal costs  theyd 
incurred thus far.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs Fs circumstances and the advice they were given
In terms of the suitability  of the advice, CAL does not agree with my interpretation  of the 
available information.  But the reasoning it has given in response  to my findings is largely 
based on points  Ive already considered and addressed.
As I set out in my provisional  decisions, the industry  regulator, the Financial Conduct  
Authority (FCA), sets rules around  the provision of mortgage advice. These  are detailed in 
the Mortgages and Home  Finance: Conduct  of Business sourcebook (MCOB).  These say 
that, amongst  other things, advice must be suitable  taking  account  of a customers  needs 
and circumstances  as well as any other  relevant facts. They also say a business should  
keep a record of a customers information,  including  about their needs  and circumstances, 
as well as a record explaining why advice given is suitable. 
CAL hasnt been able to provide much  by way of records relating to Mr and Mrs Fs needs or 
circumstances or a record explaining why the loan recommended to them  was suitable. I 
wouldve expected  to see a fact find, or similar document,  detailing  Mr and Mrs Fs needs, 
aims and circumstances. And Id normally expect this to be counter signed by them  to 
confirm they agreed  with the contents.  Id have also expected to see a written  summary 
detailing to Mr and Mrs F why CAL considered the loan (both  the one originally 
recommended  for which the application did not succeed  and the second more expensive  
loan  which was eventually taken)  was right for them, when considering  the information 
recorded in the fact find. But no such records have been provided. 
This alone doesnt mean that the advice was not suitable. But it does call into question  
whether CAL gathered appropriate information from Mr and Mrs F. And whether the advice 
given was based on a full review of their circumstances and was suitable.
Ref: DRN44514859The lack of documentation around the advice and reasons  for it has also meant  Ive had to 
look at the information that is available, including both parties testimonies, and decide based  
on the balance  of probabilities whether I think the recommendation was suitable.
For the reasons  set out in my provisional  decisions,  I concluded  that I didnt think  the advice 
was suitable as it was not appropriate based on Mr and Mrs Fs circumstances at the time, 
including their likely attitude to risk and did not meet all of their needs or aims.  In summary it 
put property B at risk, the repayment strategy  was unlikely to clear  the balance  and it left 
them unlikely to be in a position  of being mortgage  free  with a residual sum that would 
need addressing that could result in the loss of property  B. It also came  at a significant  cost 
to achieve their modest aim of moving to a smaller,  cheaper home.
This transaction was to purchase their permanent residence at the end of their working lives, 
with Mrs F having only recently  recovered  from a serious illness. It wasnt  for investment 
purposes. It was to purchase what would be Mr and Mrs Fs home  a smaller property than 
the one they already owned.  So, on balance  this high risk, high cost strategy  was, in my 
opinion, not appropriate. And I havent seen anything that leads me to change  my opinion 
about Mr and Mrs F not wanting to put their new property at risk.
CAL has again said there  is no evidence that Mr and Mrs F intended to live mortgage free 
and feels Ive been inconsistent by making  this conclusion. It said Id made this conclusion  
without reference  to evidence but on the other hand, had highlighted that CAL had not been  
able to provide  documentary  evidence  to support its arguments.
As Ive said MCOB requires business giving mortgage advice, as CAL was here, to retain 
records including records relating to its customers needs and circumstances.  This 
requirement helps  businesses evidence that they provided suitable advice, taking into 
account its customers needs and circumstances at the relevant time. And here CAL hasnt 
been able to show that it has done  so or provide copies of relevant  information. This is the 
major reason why records  of Mr and Mrs Fs intentions are limited.
There isnt any requirement  for Mr and Mrs F, as customers, to independently write down 
and keep a record  of their aims and intentions in order to compare these with that of CAL in 
the event of a dispute. Nor do I think it is reasonable to expect them to have done so. CAL is 
correct that there is no written evidence from the time to show  it was Mr and Mrs Fs 
intention to live mortgage free  but again that is largely because it hasnt provided records  
of what it recorded  relating  to this. So again, Ive had to decide  on balance  if I think  this was 
likely their intention.  
Mr and Mrs F have  said that they intended,  by downsizing, to no longer have to make 
mortgage repayments and be mortgage free. Ive seen details of their income  from the 
application form for this lending.  This was modest and a lot of it made up from pensions.  
Given their stage of life  that they were  at or nearing retirement  this was unlikely to 
increase significantly.  So, I think it is understandable that theyd have wanted to reduce their 
outgoings. And again, having considered the stage  of life that Mr and Mrs F were in at the 
time, along with the fact that Mrs F had just recovered from a serious illness,  and the overall 
aim of what  they were  looking into  to purchase  a smaller home  I believe that it was their 
intention to be mortgage free.
Ref: DRN445148510The cost in terms of interest and fees for this arrangement was also significant  over 
£60,000. Again, Mr and Mrs F were  simply looking to move  to a smaller home,  not invest  or 
generate a return. And there is no information available  to explain why CAL considered them 
incurring this cost was appropriate.
CAL has said Mr and Mrs Fs sole aim was to secure  property B, implying  that if being 
mortgage free was also Mr and Mrs Fs aim, they wouldve been willing  to compromise and 
have an outstanding balance secured on property B to secure it. But as Ive said in my 
provisional decision, I dont agree that Mr and Mrs F were set on property B to the point  
theyd ignore any risks or costs or their other aims. 
CAL has also said there  were discussions at the outset about how a residual balance could 
be refinanced  including the option of an equity  release mortgage. So, it thinks  Mr and 
Mrs F were expecting  to have outstanding borrowing and were willing  to accept this. Mr and 
Mrs F deny  this was discussed.  And there is no mention of this in the limited notes available 
from the time or the subsequent email correspondence before completion. If this did form 
part of a discussion, including some strategy for dealing  with this, Id have expected  to have  
seen at least some basic acknowledgement of this and suggested proposals. But there is 
nothing showing this. The first mention  of a strategy  to refinance a shortfall  that Ive seen 
was in January  2018, in an email exchange between CAL and the lender,  at the end of the 
initial loan term  when  it was apparent there  would be a balance  outstanding. So, on 
balance I dont think this did form part of the initial discussion and advice. 
As I said in my provisional decisions,  I think its entirely reasonable based on the expected 
difference between  the prices of the two properties  and the level of Mr and Mrs Fs existing 
borrowing that they thought theyd end up in a position of being mortgage free, even 
accounting for the renovations to their new property that were funded by a small portion of 
the borrowing.
So overall, while I note CAL does not agree with my opinion, Im not inclined to depart from 
the findings in my provisional decisions that the mortgage advice provided was unsuitable as 
it was not in line with Mr and Mrs Fs attitude  to risk and did not meet  all of their needs  / 
aims.
would Mr and Mrs F have  acted differently
When we identify that a business has made  an error and something has gone wrong, well 
think about whether  the error  has caused  a loss or if the loss wouldve happened anyway. 
This is a key thing  for us to consider  and something Ive done  when  thinking  about this 
complaint.
One of CALs main  arguments is that the losses incurred here would always have happened. 
And it says this because  it maintains that Mr and Mrs F had decided  that they wanted  
bridging finance and would always have  taken this out and gone ahead with the transaction,  
regardless of the risks involved or if they had been advised differently, as they were set on 
buying property  B. This goes back to Mr and Mrs Fs overall attitude to risk.
Ive explained  that I dont  agree with CAL on this point. And I havent been  provided any new 
information that leads me to depart from this conclusion. 
Ref: DRN445148511CAL has said that Mr and Mrs F had a recorded high attitude to risk. But it has provided 
nothing to support  that. It has provided  no records relating  to their attitude to risk or how CAL 
categorised this. So, Ive seen  nothing  to support this statement. And the lack of evidence  of 
this recorded attitude calls into question whether  CALs statement about Mr and Mrs Fs 
attitude to risk is based on any factual evidence it gathered when  giving advice. 
CAL has also said that Mr and Mrs F had a high tolerance for, and were willing to take on a 
lot of, risk  to the point they were going to take a bridging loan whatever it said to them.  If, 
as CAL says, on speaking to Mr and Mrs F it felt this was their position  that they were 
going to take bridging finance regardless of the advice given  Id have  expected it to have 
recorded this, and potentially treated them as insistent clients.  But there is no mention in the 
limited information available of this being the case.  So again, in my opinion this calls into 
question that statement.
Due to the lack of written  documentation, to decide  if Mr and Mrs F wouldve acted 
differently, Ive again had to decide on balance what I think  their attitude  to risk most likely 
was. And having  done so do not think theyd have wanted to take on a lot of risk. As Ive said 
a number of times so far, Mr and Mrs F were  nearing the end of their working lives and 
Mrs F was recovering from illness. They were buying the house  that they were to use as 
their main  residence. No investments were  being made with a view to future return.  They 
have said they did not want to put their new home at risk or have outstanding secured debt. 
And taking  all of their circumstances into account I believe them. So, I think it is unlikely that 
what CAL has described  they were willing to accept a high level of risk for the sake  of 
securing property B  was their attitude.
Im satisfied Mr and Mrs F did contact CAL to discuss bridging finance  - they were  referred  
from a high street lender for this purpose  (and its unlikely a high street  lender wouldve 
referred them on, and lost out on business, if they had been  looking to discuss  a service it 
offered). 
But I dont think this means they were set on taking bridging finance regardless of the risks, 
costs or consequences. Again, I go back to the underlying purpose of what they were 
looking into  to move from their existing house to a smaller one and to live there  and their 
circumstances. I think  they wanted  advice on whether bridging finance, or alternative 
options, were suitable for them, based on their circumstances. Otherwise  I think  they would  
have gone direct to a lender and avoided the cost of advice  which here amounted  to 
several thousand pounds.  They paid a significant sum to receive  advice and that advice 
shouldve been  in their best interests.
CAL says the property  they were buying  was their dream home. And Mr and Mrs F have not 
disputed that they were  keen on it. But even so, I dont think being keen on the property 
alone is enough that they would have disregarded their overall attitude to risk just to secure it 
 with the distinct chance they might then lose it in short order.
CAL says it did set out the risks involved but again Id have expected to see some written 
evidence of this  in line with the requirements of MCOB to record why it was concluded that 
the advice given was suitable. But nothing along  those lines has been  provided by CAL. 
Certainly nothing  close to explaining the ramifications of the repayment strategy failing  or 
resulting in a shortfall  that they could end up losing  both property A and property B. If that 
had been made clear   given again  they were just looking at moving  home  and they were 
clearly advised of these  risks by CAL, I remain of the opinion  that they wouldnt have taken a 
bridging loan.  
Ref: DRN445148512So, I remain  of the opinion that without  the unsuitable advice Mr and Mrs F would  not have 
taken a bridging loan and would have downsized to property B, or an equivalent , 
conventionally without  bridging finance.  And although, as I explained in both of my 
provisional decisions, there are a significant number of variables involved,  on balance,  I think 
they would  likely have  been in a position of being  mortgage free after everything was 
concluded. 
The current  position  and whether it stemmed from the advice
The situation  Mr and Mrs F find themselves in is that they have moved to a smaller home  but 
have a significant outstanding secured  debt  which is different to the position I think  they 
would likely  have been in had the unsuitable advice not been given. What I have to 
determine is how much  of the loss was caused by, and was a reasonably foreseeable 
consequence of, the incorrect advice.
CAL has said that the position came about  as a result of a number of actions, most of which 
were outside  its control. It has said these  include the marketing of the property by Mr and 
Mrs F and whether they couldve done  more to achieve a better price and mitigate  the 
current position  mentioning that it believes they rejected  offers for the property. It also cites 
the actions of the lender  in agreeing  an extension  to the borrowing facility, which it says was 
a separate event to the advice it gave, and how the lender ultimately sold property A as 
being responsible for a great deal of the loss. So, CAL doesnt  think it is fair that it be held 
fully responsible for putting Mr and Mrs F back in the position I consider they likely would be 
in had the unsuitable advice not been  provided. Mr and Mrs F say that CALs advice caused 
everything that has happened afterwards.
First, looking at Mr and Mrs Fs attempts to sell property A. Ive seen evidence that the 
advertised sale price of the property was gradually  and regularly  reduced. Ive also seen 
information which indicates multiple different estate  agents were used at different stages of 
the sales process. CAL has said it thinks Mr and Mrs F were not committed  to the sale of 
property A from the outset. But I think the information Ive seen is indicative of Mr and 
Mrs Fs genuine  attempts  to sell the property. In terms  of whether any reasonable offers  
were rejected - Mr and Mrs F have said they received  no offers  before  surrendering  the 
property to the lender. And I havent seen anything to suggest offers  were  received and 
rejected. Indeed, correspondence Ive seen involving  Mr and Mrs F, the lender and 
marketing agents  around the time property  A was surrendered indicates  that there had been 
no offers  made to that point. So, based  on what Ive seen on balance  I think  Mr and Mrs F 
were making genuine attempts  to sell property  A.
CAL recommended  the bridging loan to Mr and Mrs F in September 2016. The mortgage 
offer confirms that the total amount to be repaid was £305,122.50.  The loan was drawn 
down in January  2017 with an initial term of 12 months. 
The loan had not been repaid by January 2018 as Mr and Mrs F had been  unsuccessful in 
selling property A (the repayment vehicle).  As a result, a six-month extension  of the loan to 
July 2018 was agreed with the lender. If the loan was not repaid by July 2018, the total cost 
of this extension  to Mr and Mrs F would be £31,500.
The loan was not repaid  by July 2018.  Interest continued to accrue  on the balance at the 
contractual level of £3,750 per month.
Ref: DRN445148513Property A (the repayment  vehicle)  was surrendered to the lender  in September  2018.  The 
lender marketed the property and eventually sold it for £216,000 in January 2019. This left a 
total sum to be paid of £147,353. Monthly interest  then continued to accrue  on the 
outstanding balance while discussions about  the residual balance continued. During this 
time, this complaint  was made against CAL to the Financial Ombudsman  Service. The 
outstanding figure in July 2019, one year after the expiry of the original extension,  was 
approximately £152,900.
CAL says the decision to extend the term of the loan was agreed independently with the 
lender and was a separate event to that of the original advice. And it was these actions by 
the lender that triggered what  came  after January  2018.
As explained earlier, Ive seen  emails  from the point  the extension  was agreed between  the 
adviser from CAL that sold the original loan and the lender,  indicating  the adviser  was still 
assisting Mr and Mrs F. So, I questioned whether CAL had also provided  advice  relating  to 
the extension. CAL strongly denied that it had. And it said that documentation  had been 
signed by Mr and Mrs F agreeing they were proceeding  on an execution  only basis   which 
Ive seen copies  of. The signing of such documentation does not necessarily mean advice  
was not given. But Mr and Mrs F have also confirmed they did not receive  advice from CAL 
at that point. So, Im satisfied that CAL was not officially involved and didnt make a 
recommendation to extend the loan.
 
But while it may not have been officially involved in the extension,  I think the extension was 
arguably a foreseeable consequence of the advice it gave. CAL says what  happened after 
the initial loan term expired in January 2018 is a separate event to the advice. But 
information at the point  the loan was sold, including  the valuation of the property by the 
lender, indicated that there was a strong  possibility that the repayment vehicle would not be 
sufficient to repay the bridging finance in full. And given  the short-term  nature of the lending 
there was always a risk that it may not have repaid it at all within  the initial term  
necessitating some further action,  such as surrendering property or extending the loan, 
which wouldve resulted  in additional costs.  So, I think it can reasonably  be considered  that 
the extension  formed part of the overall sequence of events set in motion  by the poor advice.
In any event though, the outstanding  balance  on the account does not now include the cost 
of the extension itself.  
As Ive explained previously, Mr and Mrs F also made a complaint to the lender in addition to 
the one Ive considered here.  This was primarily about the sale of property A after surrender 
and that the extension granted in January 2018 was unsuitable. The lender disputed its 
actions in selling property A were incorrect. In respect of the extension  to the lending facility  
a settlement was agreed between Mr and Mrs F and the lender in August  2019. 
In settlement  of that complaint the lender agreed  to recalculate the loan on the basis that the 
extension (costing £31,500) had not happened. It assumed that, instead of the loan being 
extended, at the end of the initial twelve-month  term, property A would immediately have  
been surrendered to the lender. It then assumed it would have been sold in roughly the 
same timescale with similar  costs involved as to when it was surrendered   with interest 
continuing to accrue  on the full balance in the meantime. And it assumed that after the 
property was sold, the remaining residual outstanding balance would not have been 
immediately repaid  in line with what actually happened when property A was sold.  
Ref: DRN445148514The lender  recalculated that without the extension and with the assumptions mentioned 
above the outstanding  balance should reduce from approximately  £152,900 to £120,190.28 
 the figure  that Ive said in my provisional findings that CAL should be responsible for. Mr 
and Mrs F agreed to the proposal by the lender. The lender also agreed to suspend interest 
until the end of October 2019 after which point it would begin  to accrue at the contractual  
rate. I think the recalculation puts the account in the position  it wouldve  been in had the 
extension not been agreed  as it removes the cost of that extension.  So, CAL is not being 
held liable  for the direct cost associated with this extension.
CAL says it shouldnt be held liable for anything (including costs,  interests  etc.) that occurred 
after the extension  was granted and should  only be responsible for the difference  between 
the initial cost of the loan and the sale price  of property A. But I dont agree, and Ill explain 
why. 
The remaining  balance, after the recalculation following the settlement agreed between Mr 
and Mrs F and the lender, is made up of several  parts. It includes:
1)the shortfall between  the amount payable under the original loan agreement  just 
over £305,000 (inclusive of interest  due over the original twelve month  term and fees 
 some of which were deferred until redemption)  and the amount received from the 
sale of property A (£216,000),  which  comes to approximately £89.000. 
2)the interest that accrued  at the contractual rate between the property being  
surrendered and it being sold (£18,750)   which wouldve accrued at the same rate 
had the property been surrendered earlier and the sales  process taken roughly the 
same amount of time.
3)the legal  costs associated with the surrender of property A and the marketing and 
other costs relating  to the sale by the lender. The lender  provided evidence that the 
cost of these when property A was sold came to £5,080.50. Which  it can reasonably 
be assumed wouldve  been very similar even had the property been  surrendered  six 
months earlier.
4)the interest that continued to accrue on the shortfall balance after the sale of property  
A, while repayment was discussed,  which came to just over £8,000  for six months. 
Which would likely always have accrued in the event of a shortfall  as, based on the 
information in the application forms  including relating to their income,  it was unlikely 
Mr and Mrs F would  be in a position  to have repaid this immediately.
I think these are reasonable  estimates  and assumptions.
Had the extension  not occurred in January  2018, property A would not have sold one day 
after the end of the initial term and the loss would  not simply have been  the difference 
between the initial amount  borrowed and the sale price achieved.  The additional parts of the 
total amount outstanding would still have accrued  they just wouldve begun  accruing in 
January 2018  rather than July 2018.  
What actually happened was that parts 2-4 of the total loss, explained above, were 
essentially delayed by the six-month extension to the borrowing. But they still stem from the 
initial finance  which CAL recommended. They werent caused by the extension. And again, 
the direct  cost of the extension isnt included  in the outstanding figure.
Ref: DRN445148515So, taking everything  into account I think the outstanding balance, £120,190.28, came 
about, and was caused by, the incorrect advice given by CAL.
putting things  right
When it comes  to determining what the appropriate  way to put things right in a complaint is, I 
must have  reference  to the act under which our service was established - the Financial 
Services and Markets  Act 2000 (FSMA).  This says, if a complaintis  determined  in favour 
of the complainant, the determination may include:  (a) an award against the respondent of 
such amount as the ombudsman considers fair compensation  for loss or damage suffered by 
the complainant. This provides a wide discretion, as it is down to our judgement to 
determine what is fair. That is not always  straightforward. In the circumstances of this case, 
determining fair redress  has been challenging  particularly given so much  has happened  
since the advice  was given and the significant  number of variables  that Ive had to take into 
account. And even  accounting for the discretion afforded to me, Im mindful of the need for 
any recommendation to be fair to both parties.
As Ive said,  without the recommendation  to take the bridging  loan, I dont think Mr and 
Mrs F wouldve taken  bridging finance. Without  this incorrect  advice I think  theyd likely be in 
a position of having moved to a smaller  property  be that property B or an equivalent  and 
be mortgage free.
Instead they were  left owing £120,190.28  as of August 2019. And I think the potential  for this 
scenario to happen was foreseeable at the point the advice was given.
Because of this, I think the figure of £120,190.28 (the recalculated  outstanding balance  had 
the extension  not occurred)  represents the loss caused by the unsuitable advice given by 
CAL. So, I remain of the opinion that the reasonable way to settle this complaint  is for CAL to 
pay that amount  to Mr and Mrs F. 
This figure has accrued interest since 31 October 2019  the settlement agreed  by Mr and 
Mrs F with the lender  confirmed interest would begin  accruing at the contractual rate from 
that date. In my provisional decisions I came to contrasting views on whether CAL should  be 
responsible for covering this. Initially  I concluded  it should  on the basis that had the advice 
not been given, the outstanding  balance  would not have come about so would not now be 
accruing further  interest while the matter  was in dispute.
I then later concluded that, in accepting the settlement from the lender, Mr and Mrs F had 
agreed to be responsible  for this. Mr and Mrs F argued they had not and that CAL should 
pay this amount.
I again reviewed  the wording of the settlement offer from the lender, agreed in August 2019. 
It noted that interest would begin accruing at the contractual  rate from 31 October  2019 if 
repayment was not made  by then. And it talked about liability  for the amount owed still being 
that of Mr and Mrs F notwithstanding  the outcome of their dispute with CAL. 
Ive thought about this matter again   taking into account the wording of the settlement 
agreed in Mr and Mrs Fs complaint against the lender. But I still think  in agreeing the 
settlement with the lender  as part of an independent  and separate complaint, Mr and Mrs F 
agreed to the application  of this additional  interest  in the knowledge that its payment would 
be required, ultimately by them. So, while I know Mr and Mrs F do not agree, I still think it is 
reasonable that they pay any interest accrued  on that balance  after 31 October 2019. 
Ref: DRN445148516That being  so, I also understand  that the resolution  of this complaint will play a big part in Mr 
and Mrs Fs ability  to settle the position with the lender and avoid further interest  being  
incurred on the amount  Ive recommended that CAL pay. And I dont think it would be fair for 
them to be responsible for additional interest  incurred  on that amount, in the event CAL does 
not settle this complaint in a reasonable time frame.  And I consider a reasonable time frame 
would be 28 days from CAL being notified  of acceptance of this decision  if Mr and Mrs F 
do in fact accept  my decision. So if payment  of the redress  Ive instructed has not been 
made within that time frame  thus causing further  additional interest to be added to the 
amount of £120,190.28  I think CAL should  be required to also pay that further interest.
Mr and Mrs F have  also said that they think CAL should cover  the legal  costs  they have  
incurred, specifically in their dealings with the lender. While related to the outstanding  
balance central  to this dispute, it was ultimately Mr and Mrs Fs decision to engage  legal 
counsel, at a cost,  rather than to deal directly with the lender.  So, I dont think  I can 
reasonably require CAL to cover these costs.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained I uphold Mr and Mrs Fs complaint.
I direct  Charterhall Associates Ltd to pay Mr and Mrs F £120,190.88. This should be done 
within 28 days of it receiving notification  that this decision  has been accepted  if Mr and 
Mrs F choose to accept my decision.
If Mr and Mrs F do accept, but payment of the settlement is made outside of the timescale 
described, Charterhall  Associates Ltd should  make  an additional payment to Mr and Mrs F  
equivalent to interest  added  by the lender to the amount of £120,190.88 for the period of 
time between the end of the 28 day timescale described above  and the date of settlement.
Mr and Mrs F said they wished to retain the right to take further action. I want  to reiterate that 
a final decision represents the end of the ombudsmans process. Section 228(5) of the 
Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (FSMA) states that if a final decision is accepted it 
is binding on the business and complainant and final. It is unlikely that Mr and Mrs F can 
accept my decision and then take the business  to court to claim  further compensation. This 
was confirmed by the Court  of Appeal  in the case of Clark  & Anr v In Focus Asset  
Management & Tax Solutions Ltd [2014]  EWCA Civ 118. Mr and Mrs F should consider  
seeking independent legal  advice before accepting  this decision if they are unsure about 
their options.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision  before  29 August 2020.
Ben Stoker
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4451485