K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that John Lewis Financial Services Limited (John  Lewis)  offered him a 
personal loan at a higher rate than that indicated on its website, and wont  tell him the 
reason why. 
background
In August  2018  Mr C applied for a loan of £15,000  over 48 months. He was offered a 4.9% 
interest rate. Mr C had expected to be offered an interest rate of 2.9%, which was the 
representative annual  percentage rate (APR) advertised by John Lewis for loans of up to 
£15,000 at the time he applied. 
Mr C called John Lewis to ask why hed been offered the higher rate. He says he was told it 
was because he was a higher risk. But when John Lewis didnt give him a specific  reason for 
this, he made a complaint to it. In its response John Lewis  said that 2.9%  was the lowest 
rate it could offer. It was subject to change with every customer depending  on their loan, 
including the loan amount  and duration. 
Unhappy with this response,  Mr C brought his complaint to us. He said hed been able to get 
a rate of 2.9% from another lender. He still wanted to know why he didnt get offered the 
2.9% rate by John Lewis. Our investigator  said we wouldnt  expect lenders to tell a customer  
or us the full details of its lending criteria as these  are commercially sensitive. He thought  the 
John Lewis  website was clear that the rate of 2.9% was subject to change once the 
application was assessed. Finally, he said that he appreciated that Mr C had been  able to 
obtain a loan at 2.9%  interest  from another  lender  who was part of the same  group as John 
Lewis. He said John  Lewis was a separate brand, and may have separate  lending criteria, 
rates and loans.  
Mr C responded, saying he felt hed been  discriminated against and it was wrong to withhold 
the information that the judgment  of his ability to repay the loan was based on. He said hed 
never defaulted on any account and didnt think he was risky. 
Our investigator asked  John Lewis if it could offer specific  reasons and if it could comment 
on why Mr C was able to get a lower rate from another  lender who was part of the same  
group. Once he had this information, our investigator replied to Mr C, saying that John Lewis  
had said it doesnt  just base its decision on whether hed had any late payments or his credit 
score. One of the main  things it looks at is overall lending  and indebtedness. There  are 
many other factors that may affect the rate offered. 
Mr C asked for a decision from an ombudsman. He said he didnt have a mortgage, owned 
his home  outright (with  his wife),  had no loan at the time and no outstanding credit balances.  
He thought John Lewis was being misleading  and were  now reluctant to provide  any 
information that would expose this. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I can see that Mr C feels very strongly 
that John Lewis should have to provide  an explanation  as to why it offered him a higher rate 
than the advertised  representative APR. Thats plain by the fact hes brought his complaint to 
Ref: DRN48409492us and asked  for a decision  from an ombudsman. But Im afraid Ill have to disappoint him as 
I agree  with our investigator, for much  the same reasons. 
John Lewis  provided  a quote  to Mr C for a personal loan. On its website John Lewis said 
that:
The representative APR may not be the rate youll receive. Well offer you a rate based on 
our assessment of your personal  financial circumstances.  
In essence, Mr C wants to know what factor in that assessment meant he was offered  a 
higher rate than the representative rate. But like our investigator, I cant  see any way in 
which John Lewis is obliged to tell him that. Its not under any contractual  or legal 
requirement to do so. Mr C was offered a rate, and he was free to accept it or to reject it and 
take his custom  elsewhere and that is what he did. 
I think John Lewis handled  Mr Cs complaint fairly. It gave  him some general reasons as why 
interest rates offered  differ. And our investigator gave some further general reasons provided  
by John Lewis. Mr C doesnt  think those reasons are relevant   he owns his home, and has 
no current debt, including  no balances owed  on credit cards. 
I appreciate that Mr C does not want a possible explanation from me. Rather, he wants me 
to tell John Lewis that it must give him specific reasons  he was offered a higher interest  rate. 
But he may find it helpful if I say that the amount of credit available  (such as available  limits 
on credit  cards) and past indebtedness are also factors  that are widely  taken into account in 
loan decisions.  There are a very large  range of factors, too numerous to mention but some  
obvious ones  are age of applicant, time at address  and electoral roll status.  I mention  these 
merely to make the point that there  are a very large  number of factors,  some  obvious, some 
not so obvious, and it is for each business,  including John Lewis  to use its commercial  
judgment as to what weight to give to the different factors. 
If Ive understood  him correctly, in his request for a decision from an ombudsman Mr C 
implies that John Lewis has used the lower rate to draw customers in. In essence,  he thinks  
it has been misleading. My role is to consider individual complaints. I havent seen any 
evidence to support  this in relation to this case. 
It might be helpful if I comment that the Financial Conduct Authority regulates financial 
businesses. One of the things it requires is that businesses who advertise loans with a 
representative interest rate must reasonably  expect  at the time of the advertisement  to 
provide credit at or below  that interest  rate to at least 51% of borrowers. If Mr C is concerned 
that this is not the case at John Lewis, he may wish to ask the FCA to investigate.  But this is 
not intended to suggest Ive seen anything to show this is the case. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 February  2019.
Helen Wheatley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4840949