K820x#14Complaint
Mr G complains that Blake Financial Services were  responsible for unsuitable advice by their 
appointed representative (AR)  Pension  Transfer Advisory Services Ltd (PTAS)  to 
transfer from an occupational pension scheme  (OPS) to a Section 32 (S32) Buy Out 
scheme.
Background
Mr G had preserved pension benefits  in an OPS.  He had ceased to be a member  of the OPS 
in January 1996. 
In 2001 PTAS provided Mr G with advice to transfer his preserved benefits in his OPS to a 
S32 pension  plan. A Transfer  Value  Analysis  (TVAS)  report  was prepared  on 13 July 2001. 
The transfer value  of Mr Gs OPS when the TVAS was prepared was £16,045.10.
Mr G transferred his OPS to a S32 Buy Out Plan with Clerical Medical on 8 October  2001  
with a transfer value of £14,916.50.  
Mr G made  a complaint  about the transfer  in 2017, through a claims management company 
(CMC). The claim was initially made to the Financial Services Compensation Scheme 
(FSCS). But the FSCS rejected the claim explaining that when  the advice was given in July 
2001 PTAS were an AR of Blake, and that any complaint would need to be addressed to the 
partners of Blake.
The CMC brought  Mr Gs complaint to our service. The rules our service operate under set 
out when we can look into complaints. Our investigator considered these rules and didnt 
think Mr Gs complaint was one we could help with. 
Because Mr Gs CMC  didnt agree an ombudsman reviewed the case. The ombudsman then 
decided that we could look at this case.  He explained that the complaint had been made 
within the necessary  time limits. He explained  that PTAS  was an AR of Blake from 
16 October 2000 to 31 October 2001  and thought  that Blake  were  responsible  for the 
regulated activities  that PTAS conducted when the advice  was given. 
Our investigator then looked further  into this complaint to consider the merits of it. He upheld  
the complaint  because  he didnt think the advice to transfer was suitable  for Mr G. He 
suggested that Blake should perform a redress calculation in line with the Pensions Review 
methodology to put Mr G, as far as possible, into the position hed have been in if he hadnt  
been given the unsuitable advice.
Blake didnt  accept our investigators view. They still put forward  the argument that they 
werent responsible  for the transfer which took place after PTAS had become an AR of 
another principal  firm. They didnt offer any arguments regarding our investigators  view 
about the suitability of the advice Mr G was given by PTAS. 
This complaint was referred for an ombudsman decision  on the merits of Mr Gs complaint. I 
issued a provisional decision, explaining  my thoughts on this case  and giving both parties 
the opportunity  to comment.
My provisional findings
In my provisional findings I said:
Ref: DRN40391052Im grateful  to both parties whove  submitted  detailed arguments throughout our 
investigation. Numerous  arguments have been raised, and whilst Ive read and considered  
them all, in my findings  Ill focus on what I think are the key considerations in reaching  a fair 
and reasonable outcome.
Blake disputes that it was the business responsible for PTAS in the case  of Mr Gs pension 
transfer. As no final decision has been reached on this complaint yet, Ive first had to 
consider this aspect  of Mr Gs complaint. So I need to decide whether its fair and 
reasonable to hold Blake responsible for Mr Gs potential losses following the advice of 
PTAS.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) keep a register of regulated businesses and this 
shows PTAS as an AR of Blake from 16 October 2000 to 31 October 2001. From 1 August  
2001 until April 2006 PTAS were the AR of a new business  Premier Financial Solutions 
Limited (Premier). 
Blake say they had stopped approving business from PTAS  in summer 2001 when they had 
concerns over the advice they were  giving. However, they havent  been able to provide 
correspondence or contract information  regarding their business relationship with PTAS  
during this time. In the absence of this evidence, I cant say for certain when Blake ended 
their business relationship  with PTAS. I appreciate that looking at the regulators records in 
isolation, it would seem from 1 August 2001 until 31 October 2001 the accountability for 
PTASs activity could  have rested with either  Blake or Premier.  However,  this service has 
seen multiple cases  where AR records do overlap by 2-3 months when  a new principal is 
registered. This might be down to delayed deregistration of the former principal. I would think 
its unusual that the same kind of financial business  is put through multiple  principals at any 
given time.  I think its more plausible that once a new principal is registered for an AR, the 
AR would be putting all their business  through them as the relationship  with the previous  
principal had come to an end. So it would be reasonable to assume it was in the ARs  
interest to put business through their new principal  to provide a good start to their 
relationship. Applying  this to this complaint, I think its more likely than not that from 1 August 
2001 PTAS was acting as an AR to Premier,  so Premier were  responsible  for their actions.
Mr G hasnt been able to provide much documentary evidence from the time. And Blake 
have maintained that they have no record of the sale so havent been able to provide any 
evidence of the advice to transfer. Mr Gs CMC have some of PTASs documentation from 
the time because Mr Gs representative  from his CMC was also the advisor  at PTAS who 
provided the advice  on this pension transfer. It is this documentation  that forms the bulk of 
the documentary  evidence from the time of sale.
The CMC says Mr G was referred to PTAS  by a third party who didnt have the FCA 
permissions to give pension transfer advice. PTAS  contacted Mr Gs OPS  in May 2001  to 
obtain information on his scheme benefits  and transfer value in order to advise on the 
suitability of a transfer.  And on 28 June 2001 PTAS sent Clerical  Medical  the details of 
Mr Gs OPS benefits, to obtain a quote  for both a Section 32 pension  and a Personal 
Pension Plan. 
Mr Gs CMC says the advice to transfer  was given in July 2001, at a time when Blake  was 
the sole principal.  Theyve shown  us a copy of an advice letter  for Mr G. It was dated  5 July 
2001 and headed to Mr G. The letter didnt include Mr Gs address though.  In fact the CMC 
says the letter would  have been  sent to the adviser  who referred  Mr G to PTAS  and not to 
Ref: DRN40391053Mr G directly. But theres no evidence when this was forwarded. And the 5 July 2001 pre-
dated the TVAS  which  was prepared on 13 July. The letter  referenced  the TVAS,  so I dont 
think its likely that such a recommendation  letter would be sent before the TVAS was 
available. The letter also refers to both a S32 plan and a personal pension  and it uses critical 
yields (the amount investments  would have to grow  by each year to match  the benefits of the 
OPS) for a personal pension when Mr G ended up applying for a S32 plan. This is also an 
indication that this wasnt the finished letter. So on balance I think  its more likely than not 
that this was a draft letter. This letter hasnt been provided by Mr G, but by Mr Gs CMC. And 
Mr G cant remember  ever seeing  the suitability letter.  So I dont think  that it provides 
persuasive evidence  of the date Mr G was provided with the advice to transfer.
Mr Gs CMC have  also shown  us a copy of undated correspondence to Blake. The letter is 
addressed to Blake and the only reference on it were the initials  LJ. I think Its more likely 
than not that they were merely the initials of the named adviser on the letter, rather  than a 
reference to Mr Gs case. The letter wasnt dated, saying only date as per reason why 
letter. The letter says as per the discussion with our compliance adviser  on 20 March 
2001, please confirm in writing your acceptance  that the case is satisfactory  from your point 
of view, by signing  and returning  the tear off slip below. I can see nothing in this letter that 
persuades me its anything more than a template letter  intended to be sent with copies of 
recommendation letters, to allow Blake to oversee transfer advice. The return  slip referred to 
has a section for the person the transfer relates to, which was blank. Theres  no signed 
return or acceptance. This document doesnt  offer persuasive evidence  that details of Mr Gs 
transfer were ever sent to Blake to approve.
From 1 August 2001 PTAS became an appointed representative of Premier. Blake explain 
that because Premier  was founded  by a former  partner of Blake,  they were shared a copy  of 
Premiers new client database to avoid  future  confusion. And since we issued a decision on 
jurisdiction and our investigator  gave  a view on the complaints merits, the retired  director  of 
Premier has been located and confirmed this. Premiers new client  database  indicates  that 
Mr G was entered as a new client in December 2001. And Blake have shown us an extract  
of their own client database from this time and there is no record  of Mr G on it. It also 
appears that the commission from Clerical Medical  for the sale of the S32 Buy Out plan was 
paid to Premier and not to Blake.
Ive considered the implications of this to Mr Gs case. PTAS started the review of Mr Gs 
pension around  May 2001. The TVAS and the drafted letter,  indicating  that PTAS  were 
recommending the transfer, were done  in July. These activities were conducted by PTAS at 
a time when  Blake were clearly the sole principal and responsible  for PTASs regulated 
activities. But for the reasons Ive given, I dont  think its clear when Mr G was given the 
advice that PTAS prepared.
Clerical Medical have shown us the pension transfer application form which  was completed 
on 28 August 2001 and sent by PTAS  on 30 August.  This application form is the only thing 
Ive seen that is signed by Mr G indicating his agreement to follow  PTASs  advised transfer. I 
can see that the accompanying letter that PTAS  sent with the application form had a footer 
that stated that they were an AR of Blake. But this could simply be pre-printed  stationary. So 
Im not persuaded that the footer on the letter is conclusive  proof  that PTAS were  acting in 
their capacity as an AR of Blake  when  the application was sent. 
So for the reasons Ive given, I think that Blake were responsible for the regulated  activity  
that PTAS carried out up until 1 August  2001. That would  have  included  obtaining 
information from Mr Gs OPS  to evaluate the transfer on his behalf,  and the work done  to 
Ref: DRN40391054prepare the advice. And I think that Premier would have been the principal most likely 
responsible for PTASs  actions after 1 August. In this case,  PTAS  only received the TVAS  
report two weeks before becoming  an AR of Premier. I think  its likely they wouldve known  
when they received the TVAS that their status  as an AR with Blake was coming to an end. 
That close  to commencing as an AR with a new principal, I think  its more  likely than not that 
PTAS wouldve waited  until after 1 August  2001 to put Mr Gs new business  through  that 
new principal. Which  is why the commission was paid to Premier, and why Mr G is on 
Premiers new client database and why theres no clear evidence of Mr G being sent the 
recommendation in July 2001. 
Ive explained  why I dont think the transfer  advice was given to Mr G until after 1 August. 
But, even  if it had been given before that, Mr G would only have been caused  any detriment 
from unsuitable advice  after hed followed the recommendation in that advice. This started in 
late August when the application was submitted and when the actual transfer happened in 
October. When Premier were the principal that was most likely responsible for the activities 
of PTAS. As a result I cant fairly  say that Blake were responsible for Mr G transferring his 
OPS to a S32 pension,  or any potential losses he suffered  as a result.
The response  to my provisional  findings
Blake have  offered no further evidence for me to consider following my provisional decision.
Mr Gs CMC have  submitted a detailed  response, and Im grateful for the time theyve taken 
to consider my provisional decision. Theyve  pointed out a number of areas where they 
interpret the evidence in a different way than I have. 
They have said that PTASs procedure was that all cases in the pipeline  up to 31st July 2001 
would continue as an AR of Blake  up to a maximum date of 31st October. And said PTAS 
wouldnt have needed to delay putting business  through their old principal to create a good 
first impression with their new principal, because  they were an excellent AR producing a lot 
of high value business. They remain firmly of the belief that the advice  that was provided to 
Mr G was done as an AR of Blake.  And they dont  accept  my view that the letter footer  on 
the letters doesnt necessarily mean that PTAS  could only have been the AR of Blake.
They have acknowledged that the evidence doesnt indicate the date on which the advice  
was given to Mr G. But accept that it would have  been some  time towards the end of August.
They agree that there is no evidence that Blake  were ever made aware of the transfer  advice 
to Mr G. But say that omission  is a matter of compliance between PTAS and Blake so should  
have no impact on whether or not Mr G was a client of Blake.
They commented on the issue of the payment  of commission, suggesting  it is irrelevant to 
this case as the liability rests with the provider  of the advice, which  they maintain was Blake.
They have also called  into question the character of the director of Premier  suggesting  that 
his testimony should have  little or no value.  And questioned the importance of the client 
registers as Premiers list didnt show Mr G as a client until December 2001. Which they say 
was too late after the transfer  completed to be an accurate reflection of the way that new 
client lists would have  been kept.
My findings
Ref: DRN40391055Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The facts  in this case are far from clear because the records are incomplete. The evidence 
implies its unlikely that Blake ever had any awareness of Mr Gs transfer.  So I dont make 
any inference from their inability to produce  documentary support in this case. And Mr G 
wasnt able to provide  any documentation  after so many years. The only documentation now 
available is what Mr Gs CMC have been  able to obtain. Which they explain has been 
obtained from the liquidators of the AR.
I have to decide, on balance, what is more likely than not to have happened,  taking all the 
evidence as a whole  into account. And having considered  it again,  and Mr Gs CMCs 
comments on my interpretation I havent changed  my decision.
Mr Gs CMC would  like me to attach no weight to the testimony provided by the retired  
director of Premier. Taken alone, I agree  that it would not be persuasive. But it is an 
independent account that corroborates the case put forward by Blake  as well. 
Ive considered that Mr Gs CMC  says that PTAS would  have put everything already in the 
pipeline by the end of July through Blake.  And I presume that view is put forward  on the 
basis that Mr Gs representative was also the person  responsible for the advice at PTAS  at 
the time.  And whilst this version of events would be plausible, Im not convinced  it is any 
more or less so than the idea that the business  went through Premier after 1st August. So I 
am left with Mr Gs representatives  word  against that of Blake and Premier. 
I have therefore  looked to other sources of evidence to support the likelihood of either 
argument. The fact that there is no evidence to indicate PTAS  ever sent Blake  a notice of 
Mr Gs transfer  becomes more important  than Mr Gs CMC suggests. In this context it is 
more than just evidence of failed compliance  by PTAS - although that would  call into 
question the conduct of PTAS or their intention to put this business  through Blake as a 
principal. Without it though, a key piece of evidence that supports the argument that Blake 
were still responsible during the transition period is missing.
In my provisional findings I explained  my thoughts on the dates of the suitability report and 
application forms. And I note that Mr Gs CMC accept that Mr G was most likely provided  the 
advice to transfer in late August 2001. And for the reasons I gave above, I still think  this adds 
to the likelihood that PTAS were acting as AR of Premier for this transfer.
In addition, whilst not evidence that would  be decisive on its own, the facts that Mr G was 
missing from the client list that Blake provided  us, and present on Premiers client list tends 
to support Blakes  argument too. Similarly, the fact that the commission payment appears  
not to have been paid to Blake adds further weight  to the argument that they werent  the 
principal responsible. And whilst  I am aware that PTASs letters had a footer naming Blake, 
that isnt of enough weight  to make me think its more likely than not that Blake were the 
principal responsible in this case.
In summary,  I think the evidence implies that Premier  were  more likely than not accountable 
for the advice to transfer. This will not be the outcome that Mr G wanted.  I can see that Mr G 
will most likely have lost out as a result  of the advice  PTAS  provided and can understand it 
will be frustrating  because he cant complain against PTAS because  they were  an AR. And 
Premier were a limited  company that no longer exist to bring a complaint  against either.  
Neither of these things  though mean that its reasonable to hold Blake accountable for 
something they werent responsible for. 
Ref: DRN40391056My final decision
For the reasons  that Ive given in my above  findings  and provisional  decision, my final 
decision is not to uphold Mr Gs complaint  against  Blake Financial Services.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 February  2021.
Gary Lane
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4039105