K822xcomplaint
Mrs S is unhappy with how her claim under her emergency assistance  policy  was handled  
by Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA).  
background 
Mrs S holds an emergency assistance policy  with IPA. In March  2019 she contacted  the 
helpline as her hot water  and heating were not working properly. An engineer  attended the 
next day and found a replacement part was needed. The engineer said he would order the 
necessary part and return to complete the repair. Mrs S was told later the engineer would re-
attend on 18 March.  At this point she still had some heating and hot water.
On 17 March, Mrs S experienced a further issue with her central heating, this time leaving 
her with no heating  or hot water at all. She contacted IPA at 9.30 in the evening requesting 
assistance. She was told that as an engineer was due to attend the next day, IPA wouldnt  
send round another engineer. Mrs S was unhappy with this as she felt this was a new issue  
and an engineer should come out immediately.   
The next day Mrs S was told the part had not been  received, and the engineer would be 
coming to her house on the 19 March. Mrs S requested an engineer  to come out that day as 
she had no heating or hot water. Because  the engineer refused, Mrs S got her own engineer 
to come out and fix the system at a cost of £80. This engineer  also confirmed that the part 
that had been ordered could be bought from a local store with no delay.  The original 
engineer attended the next day and replaced  the damaged part. 
Mrs S complained to IPA about the service she received. She said the IPA engineer should 
have bought the damaged  part rather than ordering it and waiting for it to be delivered and 
an engineer should have  been sent out when she contacted them on the 17th. She requested 
IPA reimburse her the costs of the repair and compensation for distress caused  by the 
discomfort and inconvenience  and the poor handling of her claim.    
IPA reviewed the case, and didnt think it had done anything  wrong,  so Mrs S brought  her 
complaint to this service.  The investigator reviewed the case  and concluded it was fair for 
IPA to refund Mrs S the £80 as that repair should have been done  under the policy and 
awarded £100 trouble and upset because of the late cancellation of the appointment on the 
18th and the failure to send another engineer out at that time.   
IPA accepted this, but Mrs S didnt. She said she wanted £300 for the trouble and upset 
being left in the cold caused her and her family.  As Mrs S didnt accept the investigators 
opinion, the case  was passed  for ombudsman review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusions as the investigator. Ill explain why below. 
Having looked  at what happened  after the engineer attended on the 13 March, I cant  see 
that he or IPA did anything wrong  here. He identified what  was needed to fix Mrs Ss heating 
and planned  to complete  that fix. I appreciate that that repair  could possibly have been done  
quicker, but I dont  think it was unreasonable for the engineer to follow  IPAs internal  
Ref: DRN43725662processes to get the part. There was only an expected delay of a couple of days  waiting for 
the part, and importantly Mrs S had heating  and hot water at this point. 
Turning to what happened after the second  breakdown of Mrs Ss heating  and hot water. I 
dont think it was the case that IPA were refusing to treat this second problem as a separate 
incident, it was more that as an engineer was due at her property the next day, there was 
nothing else at 9.30 pm for them to do. And at that time, I dont think  it was unreasonable for 
the next steps to be for the IPA engineer to look at the problem when he went to the property 
the next day.  
I do agree  with the investigator that after it became  apparent that the IPA engineer  wasnt  
going to be attending on the 18th, IPA could have  taken further action and sent out another  
engineer to see if anything else could be done. IPA has already agreed to reimburse  Mrs S 
the cost of the repair. I have also asked it to pay 8% interest on that amount from the date 
Mrs S made payment to the date of settlement.   
It follows that if I think IPA should  have  done  more, then they should  compensate  Mrs S for 
the additional trouble and upset caused.  I consider the amount  recommended  by the 
investigator of £100 to be fair for the additional  trouble caused by the failure to send out an 
engineer on the 18th and for any inconvenience  caused by the short notice  cancellation of 
that visit. I know that Mrs S feels that this is too low for the distress this caused her family  
and that it is not enough  to make IPA realise it didnt treat her fairly. But it is not the role of 
the Financial Ombudsman Service to punish businesses. When  we award compensation, we 
look at the avoidable trouble or upset caused, and in this instance,  I think the £100 is fair for 
the circumstances of this complaint.  
my final decision
It is my final decision to uphold this complaint against Inter Partner Assistance SA.  
In full and final settlement,  I require Inter Partner  Assistance  SA to reimburse Mrs S the £80 
cost of the repair of her heating, plus 8% interest from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement, and pay her a further £100 for the additional trouble and upset caused
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 February  2020.
Sarah Holmes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4372566