K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs R say Lloyds Bank Plc, trading as Cheltenham & Gloucester plc (Lloyds) mis-
sold them  a payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Mr and Mrs R bought  the policy in 2009  around the same time as taking  out a mortgage. 
Lloyds says they applied for the mortgage  and PPI policy  over the phone  with paper 
applications completed subsequently.  
Lloyds has only been able to provide us with a summary of their policy  from the time of sale.  
I dont think its unreasonable that the policy terms are no longer available given how long 
ago the policy was sold. But Ive looked at a comparable Cheltenham & Gloucester policy 
from the time of sale (which I think is likely  to be the same as or at least similar to their policy  
terms), in conjunction with the policy summary to help me decide  this case. 
The policy provided  cover  for Mr and Mrs R for accident, sickness, and unemployment  
subject to its exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay £1,233.42 plus an additional cash  
benefit of £3.00 for every  £1,000 borrowed,  up to maximum of £1,300.00  a month towards  
Mr and Mrs Rs mortgage balance in the event of a successful claim.  The benefit payable  
was split between  them - 25% was payable for Mrs R and 75% for Mr R. At the time, it cost 
£93.50 a month. 
At the time,  Mr R says he was employed as a marketing assistant. But his mortgage 
application form shows he was working as a manager for a different  employer.  As his 
application form is from the time of sale, I think its more likely  to be right and he was 
employed as a manager. He told us he was entitled  to sick pay, redundancy pay, and death  
in service cover through his employer but this was in relation to his job as a marketing 
assistant. Mr R hasnt told us what (if any) benefits he had while  employed as a manger. 
Nonetheless, based on his role and his length of service, I think  its likely that he did have 
some employee benefits available  to him at the time of sale.  He told us he didnt have any 
other means  (such as savings) of repaying  their mortgage should he be unable  to work. 
Mr R has said he suffered  an injury sometime before the sale. 
Mrs R was says she was employed as a logistics  planner at the time of sale. But her 
mortgage application form shows she was working in a clerical/secretarial role albeit  for the 
same employer. As her application is again from the time of sale,  I think  its likely to be right 
 but in any event,  as both roles were with the same  employer, I think  the employee  benefits 
she told us about  are likely to be the same,  or at least  similar, in either  role. She told us she 
was entitled to sick pay, redundancy  pay and death  in service cover through  her employer. 
She also says she didnt have any other means of repaying their mortgage should she be 
unable to work. Mrs R has said she was in good health at the time of the sale. 
Lloyds has sent us screenshots to show that the mortgage account started in 2009. 
Mr and Mrs Rs representative has made lengthy  and substantial  representations on their 
behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr and Mrs Rs representative says:
Ref: DRN41416692Lloyds failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time.  In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr and Mrs R 
wouldnt have taken  out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr and 
Mrs Rs representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Lloyds should have 
told Mr and Mrs R about the poor value;  
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Lloyds should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mr and Mrs R and the 
impact they would have had on their chances of making a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
The information Mr and Mrs R received was misleading. These  policies were  
promoted as providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations 
on the scope of the cover meant  this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr and Mrs R disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion for several  reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
Ref: DRN41416693relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Rs. I dont intend to set that 
out in much detail  here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Rs complaint.
The mortgage was arranged after mortgage  lending became regulated in October 2004  as 
such this was an FCA regulated mortgage.  That means the unfair  relationship provisions set 
out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme  Court  judgment in Plevin about 
s.140A of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable.
This sale took place  in 2009 after the sale of general  insurance  products like this became 
regulated by the Financial Services Authority (FSA) in January 2005 and after the FSA 
renewed its insurance conduct  rules in January 2008. So the FSAs and the FCAs 
overarching principles for businesses and insurance conduct rules  (ICOBS) are applicable to 
this complaint.
Its also relevant to note that there  have for some  time been codes governing the sale of 
insurance products  such as PPI. There is much in common between  the present statutory 
regulatory regime and the non-statutory provisions that preceded  it (and, indeed, the position 
at law). 
Although the non-statutory provisions no longer apply as specific requirements on those 
selling insurance,  I consider they still represent a helpful guide to good  industry  practice. As 
a result its appropriate for me to take them into account along  with the relevant ICOBS rules 
and the other relevant considerations.
In the period immediately before statutory regulation in 2005, there was a period of industry 
self-regulation by the General Insurance  Standards  Council (GISC). It published  The 
General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance Code for private customers   the 
GISC Code. This set out minimum  standards of good practice for its members  to follow 
when selling  insurance, including PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
Lloyds, selling insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
Ref: DRN41416694The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
The sale took place  after the sale of mortgage products became regulated by the FSA. So 
the mortgage conduct of business rules  (MCOB)  are applicable to this complaint. Prior to 
regulation subscribing  lenders and mortgage intermediaries followed a voluntary mortgage 
code. While predominantly about mortgage  related matters, it also included  some insurance-
related commitments.  As with the sale of general insurance, there is much in common  
between the pre and post-regulatory position.
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. The sale took place after insurance mediation became  a regulated  activity  in January 
2005, so Lloyds was required to take into account the provisions  in DISP App 3 when 
considering Mr and Mrs Rs complaint.
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If Lloyds gave advice,  whether  it advised Mr and Mrs R with reasonable  care and skill 
 in particular,  whether the policy was appropriate or suitable for them,  given their 
needs and circumstances. 
-Whether Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs R sufficient, appropriate and timely information  to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take out the policy,  
including drawing  to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions of the policy  and significant  limitations  and 
exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr and 
Mrs R, I must then go on to consider whether and to what  extent Mr and Mrs R 
suffered loss or damage and what  I consider  would amount to fair compensation for 
that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr and Mrs R 
and Lloyds, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Rs complaint. Ive set out my reasoning  
below. 
did Mr and Mrs R know they had a choice?
Lloyds had to make it clear that the PPI policy was optional. 
Ref: DRN41416695Mr and Mrs R say they applied for the PPI by completing a postal application, whereas 
Lloyds says they applied over the phone. Lloyds has sent us the evidence  that is still 
available which indicate they applied over the phone. But I can see documents were 
subsequently signed by Mr and Mrs R, so this was likely done either in person at branch or 
over the post (like Mr and Mrs R say). In any event, as the policy  was sold so long ago, there 
is no recording of the call. I dont think thats unreasonable,  but it does mean Ive had to rely 
on the paper  documents still retained,  as well as both Lloyds and Mrs and Mrs Rs testimony 
to help me decide the case. 
I can see Mr and Mrs R completed and signed  a PPI application form as well as a direct  
debit mandate  agreeing to take the PPI. Lloyds also completed a demands and needs  
document where the advisor  recorded that Mr and Mrs R had agreed to its recommendation 
to take the PPI. Neither of these documents indicate that the PPI is compulsory. So I think 
Mr and Mrs R agreed  to take it knowing they had a choice. 
I can also see their mortgage offer explicitly says they dont need to take out any insurance 
through Lloyds  and the PPI is set out under the heading optional insurance.  Although  this 
was sent to them after they agreed  to take the PPI, it was sent before their mortgage started 
and before theyd  made any payments for the PPI. Had they been led to believe the PPI was 
compulsory when they agreed to take PPI, I wouldve expected them  to have questioned this 
on receipt of this document. 
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely Mr and Mrs R knew the policy was 
optional and they agreed to take it out without undue pressure. 
did Lloyds provide  advice?
Lloyds says that advice was provided  during this sale.  Mr and Mrs R havent said whether 
they agree.  Looking  at what happened  when Lloyds  sold Mr and Mrs R the PPI, Im 
persuaded that it provided advice. I say this because Lloyds completed a demands  and 
needs statement  to help it assess the suitability  of the policy  and also gave them  a 
recommendation to take PPI. And Mr and Mrs R havent given  me any contrary information 
for me to take into consideration. 
This means  Lloyds had to advise Mr and Mrs R with reasonable care and skill, in particular 
whether the policy  was appropriate or suitable  given their needs and circumstances.
the advice
While I dont know what was discussed  during  the telephone call, the documentary evidence  
suggests that Lloyds took some steps  to establish  whether  the policy was a suitable  
recommendation for Mr and Mrs R. The adviser  had information about some of Mr and 
Mrs Rs financial  circumstances  as part of the mortgage application. But although a 
demands and needs  statement was completed to try and establish whether Mr and Mrs R 
had a need for the policy  by asking questions about their wider circumstances such  as any 
health issues  I dont think it did enough to ensure  the PPI was suitable. I cant see for 
example it sought  to establish whether they had others means of repaying  their mortgage 
should they be unable to work such as their employee benefits or savings. 
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded Lloyds did all it should have done 
to determine whether  the policy was suitable  for Mr and Mrs R given their circumstances. So 
Im not persuaded Lloyds advised  with reasonable care and skill.
Ref: DRN41416696While Im not persuaded Lloyds did all it should  have done  to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mr and Mrs R, I do think its more likely than not that the policy was ultimately 
suitable for them. In reaching that conclusion  Ive taken into consideration:
-Mr and Mrs R met the eligibility criteria  for the policy.
-Mr and Mrs R had a need  for the policy  it seems likely that Mr and Mrs Rs ability  to 
continue to meet their mortgage repayments would have been put under strain if they 
were not working  for an extended  period of time  even allowing for employee  
benefits they say they would have been entitled  to.
-The monthly cost of the policy appears  to have  been affordable for Mr and Mrs R.
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mr and Mrs R. 
There was nothing  about Mr and Mrs Rs employment or occupation which  would 
have made it difficult for them  to claim.  Mrs R hasnt told us about any pre-existing 
medical conditions  that could affect  her ability to claim. Mr R has told us about an 
injury he suffered many  years before the sale but he only took a few days off school 
because of the injury,  and he hasnt told us he had any ongoing problems with it. So I 
dont think this injury made  the policy unsuitable for him.  There were also no 
additional restrictions on cover  for mental health  or back  problems.
-While  there were  limits to the cover provided  by the policy  (including:  the any similar 
gainful occupation condition, the requirement  that Mr and Mrs R be disabled or 
unemployed for 60 days before  they could make  a claim and the fact the policy would 
only pay benefits for a maximum of 12 months  for each claim), the policy still 
provided valuable  cover given:
Mr and Ms Rs circumstances, including their likely employers sickness  and 
redundancy provisions (which  they might expect to provide an income during 
the policys 60-day  qualification period) and the limits  to those provisions, 
which mean the policy could play an important role after those provisions 
were exhausted; and
The fact the policy protected  the mortgage  repayments relating to their home  
and the potential consequences  should  Mr and Mrs R be unable  to make the 
repayments on loans  secured against their house.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Lloyds  gave Mr and Mrs R sufficient  
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable them to understand what Lloyds 
was recommending to them and make  an informed decision about whether to follow that 
advice and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr and Mrs R were given a broad description  of 
what the policy was intended to cover  (that is that the policy  would protect their payments if 
Mr and Mrs R were unable to work  through accident, sickness  or unemployment.). I have 
reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely Mr and Mrs R would have taken out the 
policy without any sense  of what the policy was for. I can also see the direct debit mandate 
Ref: DRN41416697they signed before the policy was set up had the exact premium quoted, as did the demands 
and needs document that was prepared during their discussion  with Lloyds  so Im satisfied 
Mr and Mrs R were told and understood the cost. 
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Lloyds  gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit or about the exclusions or limitations  before Mr 
and Mrs R agreed to take out the policy. 
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr and Mrs R Im not persuaded 
Lloyds did enough  to present information about the policy  it was recommending in a way that 
was fair and reasonable to them. Im not persuaded Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs R all of the 
information they needed about the policy to make an informed  decision about  whether to 
follow the recommendation  and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr and Mrs Rs representative has raised a 
number of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr and Mrs 
Rs. Ive considered these  carefully  and summarised them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr and Mrs Rs representative considers to be 
poor value   and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business rather than 
the insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr and Mrs R about the limitations  and exclusions,  it should have gone further 
and explained  the significance of them  to them. 
Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Rs representatives views on this. The duty of utmost 
good faith in insurance law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose 
material facts and not to make material misrepresentations.  While I cant be certain what a 
court would say  I think its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer  
having to disclose the claims ratio information or explaining the significance of the limitations 
and exclusions in the way Mr and Mrs R have suggested. And taking into account  the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude that Lloyds ought to have  done  either.  
what effect did Lloydss shortcomings have on Mr and Mrs R? To what extent did Mr 
and Mrs R suffer loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that Lloyds  didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy to Mr and Mrs 
R. So I have gone  on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mr 
and Mrs R suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide whether or 
not Mr and Mrs R would have still taken out the policy, had Lloyds done  things  properly. 
Ref: DRN41416698While Im not persuaded Lloyds took the steps it should have done to establish whether the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Mr and Mrs R, I have found that the policy  was 
ultimately suitable for them.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr and Mrs R have suffered loss 
or damage  in this case primarily  depends  on whether, if Lloyds had explained things  
properly, Mr and Mrs R would have acted  differently,  or whether they would have taken  out 
the policy in any event.
Mr and Mrs R say they wouldnt  have  taken it out and believe I should presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. Ive considered the representations of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mr and Mrs R had some  interest  in taking out 
payment protection insurance. By this I mean when Lloyds advised them that there was a 
suitable product  they could buy that would protect their mortgage payments in the event  they 
were unable to work because of accident,  sickness and unemployment, they concluded they 
wanted that product. But they made that decision based on incomplete information, meaning 
what they thought they were getting is not exactly what they got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr and Mrs Rs circumstances at 
the time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally  wrong  or unsuitable  for them.
I consider it likely that Mr and Mrs R knew they would have to pay something for the policy.  I 
think the demands and needs document likely reflects the discussions they had with Lloyds  
at the time they agreed to take the PPI and this sets out the exact  premium  amount. 
Additionally, the direct  debit mandate they signed before the policy  was actually set up, also 
set out the exact monthly cost. So, I think its more likely they knew the cost of the policy  
when they agreed  to take it or at the very least knew what  it was before it was set up and 
they were charged  for the PPI. 
As Ive also already explained, the information Mr and Mrs R were given about  the cost was 
clear. But the information  about other  aspects  of the policy, such  as the benefit, limitations 
and exclusions werent as clear as it should have been.  
Im not persuaded Lloyds made clear exactly what Mr and Mrs R would get back in return in 
the event they made a successful claim. But I think its unlikely  Mr and Mrs Rs expectations  
about what the policy would pay in the event of a claim (an amount  sufficient  to meet  their 
mortgage payment)  was significantly different to what the policy actually did  if anything,  it 
is more likely than not that the policy actually paid more in the event of a claim than they 
would have expected as there was an additional cash payment.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr and Mrs R thought they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
Ref: DRN41416699The policy excluded claims relating to any condition, injury, illness,  disease or 
sickness which Mr and Mrs R knew about or should  reasonably have known about at 
the commencement date, or about  which they had seen  or arranged  to see a doctor 
about; or for which  they had received advice treatment  from a doctor during the 12 
months immediately before the commencement  date 
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr and 
Mrs R werent  permanent  employees;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mr and Mrs B be 
unable to do their own job or a similar job which their experience, education or 
training reasonable qualified them to do;
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Mr and Mrs R pause for thought  and may well have caused them to conclude the policy 
wasnt as good  as they thought and they might have  decided not to proceed.  The limitations 
on the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might  have dissuaded  
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs R from taking out the 
policy. 
But the evidence  about Mr and Mrs Rs circumstances at the time of sale shows that the 
policy wasnt fundamentally wrong  or unsuitable  for them.  They were eligible for its benefits 
and it provided cover  that, despite  its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable  to 
them should  the insured  risks have become a reality. As explained above, Mrs R didnt have 
any medical conditions.  And although Mr R says he suffered an injury  many years before the 
sale and the policy wouldnt  have provided cover  had he needed  time off work because of it, 
I dont think better information  about  this exclusion would have put them  off agreeing to it. I 
say this because  Mr R suffered this injury a significant number of years  ago, only requiring a 
few days off school.  He also told Lloyds at the time of sale that he didnt have any medical 
conditions and hadnt been to see a doctor  in the 12 months leading  up to the sale.  So I 
dont think he wouldve envisaged needing  to make  a claim because of it. 
And I havent seen  any evidence  to suggest  they wouldve been caught  by any of the other  
significant exclusions. So I still think they had some good reasons to take the policy  out.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Mr and Mrs R would 
have expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some evidence  
to support that claim.
If Mr and Mrs R had known they could only claim for disability if they were not only unable  to 
do their job but also any similar job which in the insurers  view they might reasonably  be 
qualified for, it might  have  played into their thinking about what  they would do. And I accept it 
may have  given them pause for thought  although  its possible they may not have been  
overly concerned given  that if Mr and Mrs R were unable (through  disability)  to carry on their 
own occupation, the chances  that they would  be able to take up a similar occupation would 
also, in all probability, be limited.
Lloyds may not have  told Mr and Mrs R that any claim they made would be limited  to a 12-
month period.  This may have differed from what they expected and might have hoped for  
but 12 months was a longer period than Mr and Mrs R would have likely received full sick 
Ref: DRN414166910pay for and their statutory  redundancy entitlement  was also significantly less than 12 
months income.
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mr and Mrs R would still have thought a policy that 
paid up to 12 monthly mortgage  payments  would  have been of benefit to them and would 
help them manage the consequences  should Mr and Mrs R be unable to work  in the 
circumstances covered by the policy. The policy allowed for multiple claims to be made, it 
could help reduce their outgoings at a difficult and uncertain time,  ensure their home was not 
placed at risk and might  potentially help preserve Mr and Mrs Rs sick pay or redundancy 
money for other use.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs R would still have taken out the policy. The policy was suitable for them, 
was sufficiently close to what  its likely  they thought they were getting  and provided  benefits 
that would  help them manage  the consequences  if Mr and Mrs R were  made redundant,  or 
unable to work through accident  or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs R would have taken out the policy  in any event notwithstanding  the 
limitations on cover.
Mr and Mrs Rs representatives say the rules  about  how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP 
App 3) make it clear that, where a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr and Mrs R would not have bought the PPI they bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr and Mrs Rs 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr and 
Mrs R found themselves in as a result of the sale was the same position  they would have 
been in had the breach  or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr and Mrs R believe the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs R in the position they would have been in if 
they had not bought the policy.  
Ref: DRN414166911That is because,  while I accept it is possible that they would not have taken  out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that they would still have 
taken out the PPI had they been  given clear, fair and not misleading information about the 
policy they were buying. So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude Lloyds should pay Mr and Mrs R compensation, as that would  
put them in a better position than they would have been in if everything had happened as it 
should have done. 
Im also aware that Mr and Mrs R think Lloyds misrepresented the terms of the policy  in how 
it described the PPI. While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
Lloydss statements misrepresented the contract,  in my opinion  the reason why Lloyds failed 
to act fairly  and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs R, in the way it did, 
was insufficient  to meet the standards  I consider  it fair and reasonable to expect it to have 
met in 2009  when providing information about  an insurance policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs Rs representative says a court  might  take 
if it were to find Lloyds negligently misrepresented the contract to Mr and Mrs R and about  
the remedy a court  might award if it were to find that Lloyds had been in breach of its duty of 
utmost good  faith. But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about  what is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mr and Mrs R in a better position than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  25 February  2021.
Asma Begum 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4141669