K820x#14complaint
Mr C1 and Mr C2 complain that HSBC UK Bank Plc (trading as First Direct) misled them 
about whether  their mortgage was portable. As a result, when they moved house they had to 
apply to a different lender  and incurred an early repayment charge (ERC) of £3,100. Mr C1 
has handled the complaint throughout. He asks that First Direct refunds the ERC and 
improves its application process.
background
In July 2018 Mr C1 and Mr C2 took out a 10 year fixed rate product and additional  
borrowing. Mr C1 says he asked First Directs adviser whether the mortgage product was 
portable and was assured it was. He says theyd already identified a property they were 
interested in moving to. So if First Direct had asked him for more  information about their 
plans, it would have  been able to tell him that they wouldnt be able to port the product to 
that property.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She said she hadnt 
seen evidence that at the time Mr C1 and Mr C2 took out the product they had a particular 
property in mind. She said they were aware  of the ERC when they took out the product and 
when they decided to apply for a mortgage with a different lender.
Mr C1 and Mr C2 didnt  agree, and so the complaint has been  passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely  to have happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances. 
Mr C1 contacted  First Direct about  taking out a new product, reducing  the mortgage  term 
and taking out additional borrowing.  Mr C1 and Mr C2 spoke to a mortgage adviser. They  
told the adviser they wanted a 10 year fixed rate product for stability. HSBC accepts that 
Mr C1 asked the adviser if the mortgage  could  be transferred and the adviser said this 
wasnt a problem.
First Direct  recommended  a mortgage product to Mr C1 and Mr C2 with a 10 year fixed  rate. 
An ERC applied  during  the fixed rate period. 
Porting is intended  to help customers who move home during the term of a fixed  rate 
product. They  can transfer the product to the mortgage on the new property and dont  have 
to pay the ERC.
HSBC accepts that Mr C1 and Mr C2 asked whether the product was portable. But I dont 
think its reasonable to say that simply asking whether a product is portable  should itself 
have prompted  First Direct to ask more questions about Mr C1 and Mr C2s plans. I think  
many customers would ask whether a product is portable, especially when theres an ERC in 
place for 10 years. Even  customers  with no plans to move might want to check that they 
could port the product  if their circumstances changed.
Ref: DRN47232072Unfortunately, First Direct cant provide recordings of all the calls it had with Mr C1 and 
Mr C2. Ive listened  to the call recordings it has provided. Theres  no mention in these calls 
of Mr C1 and Mr C2 having identified a property  to move to. 
HSBC provided the mortgage advice report sent to Mr C1 and Mr C2 in March  2018. This 
report sets out Mr C1 and Mr C2s needs  and objectives: theres  no mention of them 
intending to move house in the near future. 
If Mr C1 had told First Direct they wanted to move to a new build property using the 
Governments help to buy scheme,  Id expect First Direct to be clear about whether it was 
likely to agree to this. But, based on the available evidence, I dont think I can fairly find that 
First Direct  was aware that Mr C1 and Mr C2 intended to move in the near future  and had a 
particular property in mind. So I dont think it should  reasonably have been prompted  to ask 
questions about  the property.
Mr C1 says they wouldnt  have taken out the product  if theyd known porting was subject to 
assessment. But the mortgage offer says any porting request would be subject  to First 
Directs normal assessment criteria. 
In October  2018 Mr C1 and Mr C2 applied to port the mortgage.  They  wanted to buy a new 
build property and hoped  to use the Governments help to buy scheme.  First Direct said it 
requires a 15% deposit for new build properties, which Mr C1 and Mr C2 didnt  have. It said 
it doesnt offer mortgages with the help to buy scheme. It provided information about its 
lending criteria: I think the information  it gave  Mr C1 and Mr C2 was correct.  
The ERC is set out in the product offer, which Mr C1 and Mr C2 accepted. Under  the terms 
of the mortgage,  First Direct is entitled  to apply  the ERC if the mortgage  is repaid during the 
fixed rate period. I dont think, in the circumstances, its fair and reasonable to require First 
Direct to refund  the ERC.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C1 and Mr C2 
to accept or reject my decision before 21 February 2020.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4723207