K820x#14complaint
Mr D, a sole trader, is unhappy with the settlement of his claim for malicious damage by 
Allianz Insurance Plc under his property  owners  insurance.
background
Mr D owns a portfolio of properties, all of which  are insured under a property owners policy  
with Allianz. In 2015 he decided that he would refurbish one property,  consisting  of a block  of 
six flats. In the course of the year various  tenants  left but Mr D had to take possession  
proceedings against the final tenant, who left in November 2015. When Mr D took 
possession of the property, considerable damage  was discovered, including smashed doors,  
sanitary ware and kitchens, additionally  the walls were covered in graffiti. Mr D made a claim 
to Allianz, who sent out a loss adjuster in December  2015. By that time,  some of the 
damaged items had been cleared away.
On receiving the loss adjusters report Allianz  queried the coverage under the policy, as five 
of the six flats were  unoccupied at the time of the claim. It proposed  to settle the claim for 
just one flat. But after Mr D complained and after consulting with its underwriter Allianz 
agreed to cover all six flats. Mr D was asked to provide a quote for the damage, which  he did 
in May 2016.  This was for £127,081.00 plus VAT.  Allianz arranged to revisit  the property. It 
made an initial offer of £29,000 plus 15% of the preliminary  costs  in September 2016. This 
fell far short  of the amount  Mr D was requesting. Mr D objected  setting out more detail as to 
why he thought he should be paid the full amount. Allianz revised  its offer to £47,750 plus 
the same  percentage of preliminary costs. 
Mr D made  a formal complaint to Allianz. By its response, sent at the end of December 2016 
it agreed to increase the payment by a further 25%. In February 2017 Allianz released a 
payment to Mr D of the amount  it had offered, plus an allowance for emergency repairs  and 
a payment for loss of rent of the full amount allowed for under the policy (£26,520). It also 
paid £500 compensation  for the delays it had caused.
On referral to this service  our investigator  considered Mr Ds complaint but ultimately 
decided that Allianz  had acted reasonably and had paid a fair amount  of compensation.
Mr D didnt agree, he complained in particular that the loss adjuster had acted 
unprofessionally and in an un-businesslike  way in its approach. He said that because the full 
funds werent made available  to him to refurbish the property to the required standard,  he 
had to sell it. He sold it for £350,000 but says that if the property had been fully remodelled 
and refurbished he could  have sold it for £1m. He thinks  Allianz  should  pay his full losses, 
limited to the maximum amount this service  is able to award.
I issued a provisional decision. In it I said that I thought that Allianz  had made a fair offer to 
settle the matter  and had paid a reasonable amount of compensation in respect  of the 
delays it was responsible for.
Allianz had no further comment  to make on my decision.
Mr D didnt agree  I shall set out his comments and my response in my findings.
Ref: DRN42774622my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
the settlement
In my provisional decision I said:
Mr D asserts that the settlement wasnt fair to him and that the loss adjuster didnt  produce  
a schedule of works,  instead increasing its offer when he made  complaints.  He also says the 
full detail was available  to the loss adjuster in December 2015. He contends  that our 
investigator was wrong to suggest that any work  had been  done when the loss adjuster first 
visited in December 2015.
The first point to make  is that Mr D had always intended to carry out a complete 
refurbishment of the property before  the malicious damage was found.  I dont  think, as he 
suggested, that the loss adjuster acted unprofessionally. In this case  Mr D was always  going  
to use his own contractors, so it was up to him to supply details of his costs.  
While I appreciate that there was an initial delay (which Ill deal with below), Mr D didnt 
supply full details  of his costs until May 2017. The loss adjuster's notes make  it clear how 
difficult the damage was to assess. Allianz  was only responsible for the damage caused  
maliciously, not any caused by neglect or wear and tear. The loss adjuster also had to 
separate out the costs  of renewal or refurbishment not related to the insurance claim. It may 
well be the case that no reinstatement works had taken place at the first visit, but a 
substantial amount of clearing out had, including the complete  removal  of three kitchens.
Allianz did make three offers to Mr D, revising  them substantially upwards  each  time.  I 
appreciate that this was frustrating to Mr D, but again Ive seen no evidence that the loss 
adjuster acted unprofessionally. The evidence Ive seen shows that very careful  
consideration was given  to Mr Ds costs, using BCIS (Building Cost Information  Service) 
rates. When  the loss adjuster visited  in July 2017, a substantial  amount of work had been 
carried out, including the removal of stud walls. I appreciate that Mr D had to get on with 
some work, but a lot of the assessment of the costs relied on the information he gave. I note 
that he couldnt break down his costs between works  required  to fix the maliciously  damaged 
items and refurbishment. He also couldnt  provide  invoices for work done.
When we assess a case we dont carry out our own assessments of costs, so we have to 
rely on any expert evidence in this respect put forward by both sides. In this case I think  the 
evidence shows that that the consideration of the settlement simply took some time and the 
offer increased substantially because of further  information provided by Mr D. I consider that 
to be a reasonable approach to the case.
Mr D complains that the offer and more so each subsequent offer were presented in an 
uncalculated way. They were given in a put up and shut up and go away sort of attitude. 
There was no real breakdown of subsequent  offers.
He takes on board the comments surrounding the fact the property  would have undergone 
refurbishment, and also understands there would have been  a deduction for betterment. 
That said,  he says there was no real pointer to the calculation of betterment.
Ref: DRN42774623He believes that I should look into the finer detail as to how the loss adjuster and insurer  
arrived at the calculations of offers made and provide full feedback. Hes certain  I will find 
anomalies as to the reason for the reduced offers.
I can only go from the information provided to me, all of which  has also been  provided to 
Mr D. The first offer to Mr D was fully broken  down.  The second offer was provided in 
narrative statement, as explained in our investigators view. This said that the first offer 
hadnt taken into account: 
Damage caused to the bathrooms  and kitchens, as well as associated work needed 
to rectify this
That the patch  redecoration which had been  proposed in the initial  offer was 
inadequate
That the cost of certifying  the electrical work  was not recognised in the offer made  of
£200 per flat
That the costs  proposed  by Allianz  were  insufficient to carry out the work suggested
 
Increased costs  for each element were given  but not broken down further.
The final (third) offer gave  an increase  of 25%.  It said that there  was some damage 
presented in the initial survey which hadnt  been  taken  into account, but again gave no 
further breakdown.
Other than considering whether this was fair which I have done,  I cant assess  the costs  any 
more than that. As Mr D has sold the property, no further assessment can be carried out. So 
Ive assessed  whether  it would be fair to make Allianz pay more  because it hasnt given a 
more detailed breakdown of its second and third offers. I take into account that:
Mr D was instructing his own contractors  so it was up to him to provide full figures.
The damage  was difficult to assess, because at the first inspection a fair amount of 
strip out work had already taken place and at the second inspection a substantial  
amount of work had been carried out.
Mr D was unable to break down his costs between  works required  to fix the 
maliciously damaged  items and refurbishment, and couldnt provide invoices for work 
done.
As the policyholder carrying out the work  and making the claim, it was Mr Ds 
responsibility to show  he had a claim and the quantum of that claim.
I think Allianzs final offer was made  on the basis of what felt fair and I dont think  in this case  
that that was the wrong or an unreasonable approach. Taking into account  the above  factors 
I havent changed my view on the terms of the settlement.
compensation
In respect of compensation I said in my provisional  decision that I did think it took Allianz 
some time, over three months, to reply in detail  to Mr Ds complaint and to revise its final 
offer. It could have  dealt  with this quicker.  I note that for the delays in the case it has paid 
£500. I thought  that was reasonable. I havent changed my view on that. 
On the following matters in my provisional decision, I have no further  comment. Neither Mr D 
nor Allianz have specially  commented on them. I said:
Ref: DRN42774624further costs
Mr D says that because  Allianz failed to pay him enough to carry out the necessary  
refurbishment he had to sell the property at a loss (Ive set out the figures in the background 
above). Ive noted that Allianz made  the settlement in February 2017. Mr D sold the property 
in January 2018 without opting to carry out any more work. Whilst I understand that he says 
he was unable to raise any funds, I dont think it was unreasonable for Allianz to assume that 
he would  be able to carry on refurbishing the property in the meantime as that had been his 
expressed intention  before  the claim. His business I note consists  of a fair number of 
properties. I dont  think that Allianz is responsible for his losses in selling the property.
loss of rent
Mr D was paid a figure for loss of rent which was the full amount  allowed for under the 
policy. Mr D says that because of Allianzs  failure  to accept the full claim for four months 
(whilst it considered the unoccupancy issue) he should be paid a further four months  rent.
Allianz wouldnt accept  the full claim  at first because it had noted that five out of the six flats 
had been unoccupied for more than thirty days at the time of the claim. It decided to pay the 
full claim because, under the section  of the policy which deals with malicious damage it 
excludes damage in respect of any Building  which is Unoccupied  (my emphasis). As the 
whole building  was insured under the one policy, Allianz decided that as one flat was 
occupied, it couldnt  apply the exclusion in respect  of malicious damage.
But the policy has a condition concerning unoccupied buildings which deals with what 
happens when  ".. any Building or portion thereof becomes Unoccupied for a period 
exceeding 30 consecutive  days.  (my emphasis). That term says that loss of rent in that 
event wont be insured. Mr D was required under the policy  term here to notify Allianz if any 
part of the building became unoccupied,  which I dont believe he did. 
I note that Allianz  didnt  pursue that point and paid the full amount allowed under the policy  
for loss of rent. It could  have decided its position on whether  the property was unoccupied  
sooner. But it did, as Ive noted above,  pay £500 compensation for the delays. As Mr D has 
had his full payment for loss of rent when Allianz could have enforced the policy  term in 
respect of unoccupied  properties, and had compensation  for the delay, I dont propose to 
make any further finding in that respect .
Those provisional views  now form part of this final decision.
overall
Overall I think  that Allianz made a sufficient  payment  to Mr D in respect  of his losses, and 
that it has paid a reasonable amount for any delays it was responsible  for.
my final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 February  2019.
Ref: DRN42774625Ray Lawley 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4277462