K822xcomplaint
Mrs R has complained about the service she received when she sought assistance  abroad 
under her Breakdown Insurance  policy. The underwriter of her breakdown policy  is DAS 
Legal Expenses Insurance Company  Limited.
background 
In October  2017 Mrs R and her husband were travelling in their motorhome in Europe.  
Unfortunately as a result  of a collision with another vehicle, a wing mirror  was damaged  and 
needed to be replaced. 
Mr and Mrs R drove  to two garages to try and order a replacement wing mirror.  But they 
were told it wasnt  possible  to order one unless they ordered it from the UK because their 
motorhome was a UK model.  So Mrs R contacted DAS. 
DAS tried to assist Mrs R - even though  the circumstances meant the policy didnt provide 
cover as their motorhome hadnt  broken down. A week later it arranged  recovery  of the 
motorhome to a garage. A few days later the garage  fitted  a replacement wing mirror.  
In June 2018 Mrs R complained to DAS. She said the service  it had provided was appalling. 
DAS said it made every  effort to assist  Mrs R. But any delay caused by the availability of 
parts or the duration of repairs wasnt something  that it was responsible for. While it didnt 
uphold Mrs Rs complaint,  it was sorry she felt DAS hadnt kept her updated while  it tried to 
assist her. So as a gesture of goodwill, it paid Mrs R £25. 
Mrs R asked us to look at her complaint. She was unhappy that DAS told her if she wanted 
to claim for the costs to replace the wing mirror, she would need  to pay an excess  of £200. 
Mrs R said she believed DAS should  have offered recovery immediately to a garage or to 
their final destination.  
Our investigator thought there were long periods of time when  DAS hadnt contacted Mrs R. 
And she thought  DAS should have offered to recover  Mrs R to a garage or destination 
sooner. But because Mrs R hadnt broken down, she thought DAS wasnt  responsible for the 
repairs. And it had correctly explained  that if Mrs R wanted to claim for the costs of the 
replacement wing mirror, she would need  to make a claim under her insurance policy  and 
pay the excess. So for the delay in offering  recovery of Mrs Rs motorhome to a garage, the 
investigator recommended DAS pay Mrs R £50 compensation. This was in addition  to the 
£25 good will payment it already made.  
DAS accepted the investigators findings. Mrs R didnt agree. So shed like an ombudsman 
to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Mrs R complained  to DAS in June 2018, she said she waited  all day on Friday 6 
October 2017 for an update from DAS.  In Mrs Rs first letter to us, she said she contacted 
DAS on Tuesday 5 October 2017.  
Ref: DRN40908832But the 5th date was a Thursday. DAS contact notes show its first contact from Mrs R was 
Friday 6 October 2017 just after 4pm. Mrs R has since told us that she first contacted  DAS 
on Tuesday 3 October 2017. As both parties  have provided conflicting information, I cant  
safely conclude which date Mrs R first contacted DAS. I think  on balance its more  likely that 
Mrs R made  contact with DAS on either Thursday 5 or Friday 6 October 2017. 
Mrs Rs policy provides  cover in the event of a breakdown. It doesnt provide cover  for an 
incident which doesnt result in a breakdown. The policy defines a breakdown as follows:
Breakdown
(a) Mechanical or electrical failure; or
(b) accidental damage,  or damage  caused  by vandalism, fire, theft or
attempted theft;  which stops your vehicle moving.
I think the wording is clear. As the damaged wing mirror didnt stop Mrs Rs car from moving,  
I dont think the circumstances met DASs definition of a breakdown.  In its notes from 6 
October 2017 at 4.31pm, DAS wrote:
Customer's near side mirror is broken due to a small accident. I advised  that this 
isn't something that we could cover, but we can possibly find him (Mr R) a garage 
that would  have or could order the part.
So I think Mr and Mrs R were made reasonably  aware from the beginning that DASs 
Breakdown Insurance  policy didnt cover  their circumstances. However, DAS agreed to try 
and obtain a replacement part. 
Mrs R chased DAS for an update on Saturday  7 October 2017.  DAS said that as it was the 
weekend it would be unlikely to have an update until Monday. 
Just after 9am on Monday, DAS made  enquiries about a replacement wing mirror  for Mrs Rs 
motorhome. 
On Tuesday it found out that the part could only be obtained in the UK and it told Mrs R. 
DAS said Mrs R would need  to obtain  the replacement part. Mrs R was unhappy about this. 
This is what  theyd been told by the other garages  the week before. Mrs R wanted  DAS to 
order the part for them. DAS agreed to look into it. 
On Wednesday Mrs R called DAS for an update. DAS said it would arrange for a recovery  
agent to tow Mrs Rs motorhome to a garage  about eight kilometres  away. This happened on 
Thursday. 
The garage ordered a replacement wing mirror but it was the wrong one. So the garage 
ordered another one which arrived on Monday.  The garage fitted the wing mirror on the 
same day. Mrs R was very happy  with the way the garage assisted her and Mr R over the 
weekend. 
Mrs Rs policy with DAS has exclusions.  This isnt unusual.  The policy says it wont  cover the 
cost of replacement  parts. And recovery to a nearby garage was only an option  in the event 
of a breakdown   and where  an agent couldnt  repair Mrs Rs motorhome at the roadside. 
Ref: DRN40908833So while I agree that there were times when DAS could have updated Mrs R more regularly, 
I think it did try to assist Mrs R outside  of the terms of her breakdown policy. But I think  once 
DAS agreed to assist  Mrs R, it could have  offered  to provide recovery  to a garage  sooner. 
So I think the investigators recommended compensation  award  of £50  which  DAS accepts 
 is reasonable  for the inconvenience DAS caused Mrs R.
Mrs R says her DAS policy  says it operates 365 days a year.  So she doesnt  feel its fair for 
DAS to use a weekend as a reason for any delay. But I dont think its unusual  for garages to 
be closed at the weekend in the country  where  Mrs R was at the time. I think  the operating 
hours of other businesses  isnt something in DAS control. But I can see Mrs R was able to 
speak to DAS at the weekend.
If Mrs R wants to make a claim for the repairs to her motorhome  as a result of the incident, 
she will need  to do this under her insurance  policy. Our investigator explained that its 
standard across  the industry to pay an excess when a claim is made  and that a claim may 
have an impact on future insurance premiums. As this appears to be what  DAS told Mrs R, I 
cant say its acted in an unfair way. Mrs R will need  to contact her insurer directly  if she is 
unhappy about the claims process  - as this is separate to her breakdown insurance policy 
which is underwritten by DAS.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that I uphold  this complaint in part. I 
require DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limited to pay Mrs R £50 compensation 
for the inconvenience  it caused. This is in addition to the £25 its already  paid her. 
DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limited  must pay the compensation within  28 
days of the date on which we tell it Mrs R accepts my final decision. If it pays  later than this it 
must also pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of 
payment at a simple  rate of 8% a year.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 March 2019.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4090883