K820x#14complaint 
Mr F complains that BMW  Financial Services (GB) Limited (BMWFS)  mis sold him a 
protection package  when  he took out a Hire Purchase Agreement for a car. He would like 
the cost of the protection package refunded.
background
Mr F says he took out a Hire Purchase  Agreement with BMWFS on 3 January 2019. He says 
as part of the finance agreement BMWFS  sold him a Protectx Protection Pack (PPP) at a 
cost of £499. He says BMWFS also sold him products to cover damage  to tyres and alloys 
(£399) and minor damage protection (£399)
Mr F says he didnt  want the PPP product applied. And that he had emailed the sales person  
to confirm this. 
He says he cant afford the product.  And, as he didnt agree to have it, he wants the cost 
refunded.  He says he would then return the cleaning products package  he received as part 
of the PPP.
BMWFS said Mr F signed the paperwork for the agreement, which specified, and included 
the cost of the PPP product. It said it couldnt  refund the cost as the polish product had 
already been applied  to the car. However as a gesture of goodwill the dealership  had offered 
a payment of £150.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint.  He didnt find any evidence  of 
misrepresentation. He said the product was specified on the vehicle  order  form. And Mr F 
signed the finance agreement accepting the cost of the PPP.
He noted a particular email in which Mr F asked how the different insurance products worked 
as he believed the PPP would also cover other products. So he felt Mr F was aware of the 
PPP. He felt the offer of a gesture of goodwill  payment of £150 was reasonable.
BMWFS accepted this view but Mr F didnt. He said he had looked at the insurance  
documents he had but they didnt  show how he could cancel them.
Our adjudicator didnt  feel he could comment on the insurance documents as Mr F had been 
unable to provide  them.  He didnt  change his view as he felt the fact Mr F had signed  an 
agreement that covered  the PPP meant he was aware and accepted  it. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr F feels strongly  about this so I appreciate he is going to be disappointed as Ive reached 
the same  conclusion as our adjudicator.
I dont think there is any dispute that the PPP was added  to Mr Fs finance  agreement.  Or 
that the polish product, which formed part of the package, was applied  to the car. The main  
issue seems to be if Mr F agreed to the cost of the PPP being  included in his finance 
agreement. He says he didnt. BMWFS disputes  this.
Ref: DRN40626352I have seen the sales invoice and the Hire Purchase Agreement  Mr F signed. The invoice 
clearly includes the cost of the PPP (£499). I am slightly  concerned  that the invoice is dated 
11 January 2019  when  Mr F took out his agreement on 3 January 2019.
However as Mr F referred to being charged for the PPP in an email  dated 4 January 2019  I 
have concluded,  notwithstanding the invoice date,  that he was aware he had been charged  
for this product.
The finance  agreement doesnt specify the inclusion  of the PPP.  But the figure  for the total 
vehicle cash price is consistent with the vehicle invoice and includes the cost of the PPP.
On the basis of the invoice, the finance  agreement and the email Mr F sent to the sales  
person the day after he signed  the agreement it seems reasonable to me to conclude that Mr 
F did know  he had paid for PPP.
Mr F has told us he repeatedly said, from December 2018,  he didnt want the PPP applied to 
his agreement. Unfortunately Mr F hasnt given us any evidence of this. I do appreciate its 
difficult for consumers, if they are relying  on conversations  to support what they say to 
provide any evidence. 
But from what Mr F has told us the PPP was a particular issue for him. And if he had been 
constantly saying  he didnt want it I am surprised he went ahead  and signed  the finance  
agreement for a sum that covered the PPP.
It does seem to me from the email dated 4 January 2019 that Mr F was possibly confused 
about his products he bought. Along with the PPP he has told us he paid for Tyre and Alloy 
insurance at a cost of £399 and Minor damage protection also at a cost of £399. He said in 
that email he thought  the £499 PPP payment covered all three products.
I am conscious Mr Fs complaint is only about  the sale of the PPP and the only redress he 
has asked for is a refund of that particular payment. He hasnt given us any details of the two 
other products he paid for. These dont seem to show on the sales  invoice. So I assume he 
paid for these separately.
However as his complaint isnt about these other  products I cant, in fairness to BMWFS 
consider these here as it hasnt had an opportunity, if appropriate, to comment  on these.
I have no evidence to show  that Mr F could  reasonably have assumed that the one payment 
he made for the PPP covered the two other products he tells us he has paid for. Nor that he 
didnt want the product.  So on that basis I dont think I can reasonably ask BMWFS to refund 
the full cost of the product. I also think that wouldnt be fair since part of the cost included a 
polish product applied to the car that has been done.
I understand from BMWFS that the dealership has offered a £150 as a gesture of goodwill. 
That seems  reasonable  to me. But I leave it to Mr F to decide if he wishes  to take this or not.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN40626353Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 May 2020.
Bridget Makins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4062635