K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain  they were mis-sold a mortgage by an appointed representative of 
Legal & General Partnership Services Limited.
background
Mr and Mrs M had a fixed rate mortgage.  When the rate came  to an end, they took advice 
from L&G, which recommended a new mortgage with a different lender. As part of the 
re-mortgage Mr and Mrs M consolidated  some, but not all, of their unsecured debt.
Theyre now represented by a claims management  company  (CMC).  The CMC acting on 
their behalf  complains that the mortgage advice was unsuitable because  Mr and Mrs M had 
no need to re-mortgage or change lender, and the debt consolidation was unnecessary. It 
also complains about various fees associated with the re-mortgage, and about referrals L&G 
made to a solicitor firm and a will-writer  as part of the process.
L&G didnt uphold  their complaint. It said the mortgage was suitable and the fees 
Mr and Mrs M paid were  clearly explained  to them. It said there  was no will-writing  service.  
Since the complaint has been  with us its offered to pay Mr and Mrs M the commission it 
received from the solicitors it referred them to plus interest and £100 compensation, which 
Mr and Mrs Ms representative  has accepted.  That leaves the issue  of whether the mortgage 
itself was suitable and the fees charged  fair. Our investigator didnt think  Mr and Mrs Ms 
credit card debt should have been consolidated, but otherwise thought the advice was 
suitable. The CMC  asked for an ombudsman to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont think it was unreasonable  to recommend that Mr and Mrs M re-mortgaged  when they 
did. They  were at the end of their previous fixed rate and a new rate would  have prevented 
their monthly payments increasing.  So I dont think the advice to take out a new mortgage 
was of itself unfair or shouldnt have been  given.
However, I agree with our investigator  that it wasnt necessary to consolidate all the debt. Mr 
and Mrs M had a loan, three credit cards and two storecards. The loan had around  five years 
to run, and the remaining mortgage term was only eight  years.  The mortgage interest rate 
was less than half the loan rate, so I think Mr and Mrs M made a saving by consolidating the 
loan  both in terms of their monthly outgoings,  and in terms of the overall cost.
L&G recommended  consolidating the three credit card balances,  but not the two storecards. 
The storecards each  had balances of less than £100.  But the three  credit  cards also had 
relatively small balances  two of a few hundred pounds each, and one of around £1,000. 
The fact find records that Mr and Mrs M had a significant surplus each month  of income over 
expenditure. Based on that  and no-ones suggested its incorrect   Mr and Mrs M were  not 
in any financial difficulty and could  have cleared the credit card balances in a very short time 
if theyd chosen  to. 
In my view, there was no need for Mr and Mrs M to have added the card balances  to their 
mortgage, making them more expensive to clear  and secured against  their property  in 
Ref: DRN45734222the process. I think this part of the mortgage advice was unsuitable. L&G should refund the 
additional amount it cost them to repay  the debt this way. As the arranged  mortgage would 
have been redeemed by now, the loss crystallised  on the redemption date (assuming Mr and 
Mrs M havent  extended the term since then)  and so interest  should  be paid from then on.
The CMC says Mr and Mrs M were advised  to take out, and pay for with the mortgage 
balance, a will writing package from a third party. L&G says they werent, and the reference 
to will admin fee on the solicitors completion statement is a typing error.  What L&G says is 
supported by the solicitors covering letter, which describes the same fee as an admin fee 
paid to the broker, not a will admin fee. As the CMC  hasnt provided  any evidence  to show  
that Mr and Mrs M actually used, or paid for, a will writing service  I dont  uphold  this part of 
the complaint.
The CMC also complains  about a fee charged  by the broker  for legal and administrative 
services. It says this fee wasnt  necessary and shouldnt have been charged. But I think  it 
was made  clear to Mr and Mrs M what they would be charged  for L&Gs  services.  And while 
other brokers may have  been cheaper, or structured their fees differently, I dont think L&G 
treated Mr and Mrs M unfairly,  and ultimately  they received the service they paid for.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I uphold  this complaint. In addition  to the 
redress already agreed in respect of the referral to solicitors, Legal & General  Partnership 
Services Ltd should:
Calculate the difference between what it would have cost Mr and Mrs M to clear the 
credit cards had they remained  unconsolidated (assuming the payments in the fact 
find continued), and what it actually cost them to repay them via the mortgage;
Pay the result to Mr and Mrs M, adding simple  annual interest of 8% running  from the 
date their mortgage was finally redeemed to date of settlement.
In order for the redress to be calculated, Mr and Mrs Ms representative  will need to provide 
L&G with evidence of the date Mr and Mrs M paid off their mortgage.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  20 January 2020.
Simon Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4573422