K821x#15complaint
Ms A says she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. Financial 
Insurance Company Limited  (FICL), as the insurer, have  taken  responsibility  for the sale.  To 
keep things simple, Ill only refer to FICL in this decision, rather than any other business.
background
I sent my provisional decision on 3 April 2019. A copy of my provisional decision is 
attached and forms part of this final decision.
My provisional decision sets out the background of this complaint. It explains why I thought 
it was most likely that this PPI policy had not been  mis-sold.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted  to send me  so long as I received it by 
3 May 2019.  But neither Ms A nor FICL  have sent me anything new to consider.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither side have  sent me any new evidence or arguments. So having  reconsidered the 
case, Ive come to the same conclusion as before: that I dont think  this policy was mis-sold.
my final decision
For the reasons  I explained above and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold  Ms As 
complaint about  Financial  Insurance  Company  Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 June  2019.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN44117492COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Ms A says she was mis-sold  a payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy. Financial Insurance  
Company Limited (FICL), as the insurer, have taken  responsibility for the sale.  To keep things simple,  
Ill only refer to FICL in this decision, rather than any other business.
background
Ms A bought the policy in 1995, at the same time as taking out a store  card by filling out an 
application form in a shop.  It covered her repayments in case she was off sick or lost her job.
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. FICL disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, so the 
complaints been passed  to me to decide.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken  
this into account in deciding  Ms As case.
Based on what Ive seen so far, I dont  think this PPI policy was mis-sold  Ill explain why.
Ms As store  card application had a section for PPI. It briefly  explained what  the policy  was for, and 
then had two options  to choose  from: one to buy the policy and one to turn it down. The option to buy 
PPI was chosen, and Ms A signed the application form. So I think that Ms A was made  aware she had 
a choice  about buying the PPI, and that she chose  to take it at the time  though I can understand if 
she doesnt  remember doing so after so long.
FICL didnt give Ms A a personalised recommendation  about buying PPI, so they didnt have to check  
if it was right for her. They did have to give Ms A enough  information  to decide if the PPI was right for 
her.
Its possible that the information FICL gave Ms A about PPI wasnt  as clear  as it shouldve  been. The 
question, then,  is whether I think better information was likely to have changed her mind. Here,  Ms A 
chose to take out the policy, which  implies she wanted this type of cover. While Ms A had some sick 
pay through work, its most likely the PPI covered her for longer, and it paid out on top. And she 
doesnt seem  to have had any other cover in case she lost her job. I understand her friends and family 
mightve been  willing  to help, but there was always  the chance theyd be unable to help when  needed. 
And this policy meant Ms A wouldnt have to ask her friends or family to pay for her store card. So the 
PPI couldve been useful for her in case something went wrong. And if Ms As circumstances 
changed, she could cancel the PPI at any time without  a penalty.
As our adjudicator  pointed out, Ms A did have a medical condition which might not have been 
covered. FICL  questioned how the condition mightve affected her ability  to work, and we asked her 
representatives, but they havent  given  us any more details. So they havent told us that Ms A ever 
took time off work for her condition. They havent mentioned her suffering any complications, or said it 
affected her ability to work in any significant way. Its worth bearing  in mind that the PPI was there to 
cover extended time off work, and I havent been told anything that makes it seem likely Ms As 
condition wouldve caused  that. So based on what Ive received it doesnt sound like, at the time of 
sale, Ms A wouldve thought it likely shed ever need to claim for her condition.  Further,  she could 
have claimed  for time off for other  conditions, and she wasnt affected by any of the policys other 
exclusions or limitations. So I still think the policy couldve  been useful for Ms A in her circumstances. 
And so I dont think that better information was likely  to have put her off taking out the policy.
Ref: DRN44117493my provisional  decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont plan to uphold Ms As complaint.
Please could  Ms A and FICL send me any more information or comments  to look at by 3 May 2019. 
After that, Ill reconsider the case.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4411749