K821x#15complaint
Mrs W has complained about BlackStar  Wealth Management Ltd. Shes unhappy about 
pension advice she received in 2016.  BlackStar advised  her to transfer two pensions  she 
held into a Self Investment Personal  Pension (SIPP) and then invest through  a discretionary 
fund manager  (DFM).
background
Mrs W took advice in 2016. She held two pensions with her employer  and a personal 
pension. She was still contributing to one pension with her employer and so this was left in 
place. BlackStar advised her to transfer  the other occupational pension which was a defined 
benefit or final salary  pension scheme  along  with the personal pension. These had a 
combined value  of just under £50,000.  
In fact, only the personal pension was transferred and the occupational pension remains  in 
place.
Mrs W complained  to BlackStar in 2017.  It didnt uphold the complaint saying that the 
transfer was suitable and met her objectives. So the complaint  was referred to this service  
where it was investigated by an investigator. She said the complaint should  be upheld. 
Although the OPS  had not been  transferred, she looked at the advice  to transfer as one of 
the reasons given for transferring both pensions, was to consolidate them.  
The investigator didnt  think the advice was suitable.  Mrs W was giving up guaranteed  
benefits and the critical  yield required to match the benefits given up was over 10 per cent 
which was higher than the 6 per cent that BlackStar  considered realistic. She said that there 
was no clear reasoning  as to why the personal pension should  be transferred. The transfer  
involved a penalty  and then there were additional  costs including a set-up charge, costs  for 
advice and then annual charges for management and fees to the DFM.  Overall,  the 
investigator wasnt satisfied that Mrs W should have been advised to transfer.
BlackStar didnt agree.  It said, in summary,  that Mrs W had pre-determined  objectives  which  
included potentially taking  tax free cash at 55. She also wanted  to have the ability  to stop 
and start payments  in retirement as she was likely to work part-time  and to have the option  
of accessing the whole fund in retirement. BlackStar said that leaving the plans in situ would 
not have allowed these options. Mrs W wanted  to be able to leave funds to her dependents.
BlackStar said that the investigator was wrong to place such  weight on the critical yield 
required to match the guaranteed benefits  and more weight  should  be attached to the wish 
to benefit from pension freedoms.
As no agreement has been reached the case has been referred to me for a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive summarised the investigators view 
and BlackStars response to it, but I have considered  everything  that has been said.
Having done that, Ive reached essentially the same  conclusions as the investigator.  I uphold 
this complaint.
Ref: DRN46908632I note what BlackStar has said about  Mrs Ws objectives and the soft facts that influenced 
its advice. But overall, Im not satisfied that a transfer of the final salary OPS  was suitable for 
her. I dont  think it was in her best interest  to give up the guaranteed benefits the OPS 
provided. If there had been no recommendation to transfer the OPS  then I doubt very much 
that the personal pension would have been transferred in isolation. The value of the personal  
pension would probably not have  justified setting up a SIPP  with the costs  and charges 
involved, particularly  when using a DFM.
Mrs W had been interviewed  as part of the referral process to BlackStar. At that stage, her 
primary aim was noted as being  to grow  her pension funds to support her in retirement. 
Whilst an assessment of the advice to transfer  cannot be based  on the critical yield alone,  
not that this was the case here anyway, it is relevant. In this case  the critical yield required 
demonstrates that Mrs W could not have expected  to invest the transfer value of the OPS, 
and have any realistic  hope of matching the guaranteed benefits  it provided in retirement.
Putting it another way, leaving the plans in situ would have had a better chance of meeting 
her objective  of supporting her in retirement.
Its also true that Mrs Ws desire to have access to cash at 55 or to make provision for her 
dependents could have  been met, at least partially,  by accessing funds from the personal 
pension and retaining the guaranteed benefits of the OPS. 
In this case, it could  also be said that the full intended  transfer  value, of under £50,000,  
didnt truly justify arranging a SIPP  and appointing  a DFM. This would leave the fund open  to 
three sets of annual charges, for the SIPP, for the DFM and for Blackstar before  any 
investment transactions were undertaken.
Mrs W was noted as wishing to have an income  of £1,000 per month in retirement. An 
appropriate and low risk way to achieve  this would have been to retain the guaranteed 
benefits from the OPS  which would have  supplemented her state pension. Mrs W was 
described as a novice investor  and I think the transfer of the final salary scheme was a high 
risk strategy. I think it posed a higher degree of risk than she ought to have been  advised  to 
take.
Overall, Im not satisfied  that the transfer advice was suitable  for Mrs W or in her best 
interests. Although  the OPS was not transferred, I doubt she would have transferred the 
personal pension  in isolation.  So I think its fair that she is compensated for any losses 
associated with the transfer.
To put things right, BlackStar should  compare  the current  notional  value of personal pension  
with the actual value of the SIPP. If the notional value  is higher than the actual value then 
there is a loss, and this loss should  be paid into the SIPP after allowing for available  tax 
relief.
Ref: DRN46908633my final decision
I uphold this complaint  about BlackStar Wealth Management Ltd. It must calculate and pay 
redress as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 May 2019.
Keith Taylor
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4690863