K820x#14complaint
RPs complaint relates to a claim it made  on a buildings insurance policy  it has with Aviva  
Insurance Limited. It is dissatisfied that Aviva declined the claim on the basis  that the 
foundations of the property were inadequate when  it was built and so the policy  terms 
excluded the damage from the available cover.
background
The house  covered by the Aviva insurance  policy was built in 1997  and the first purchasers 
were provided with a ten year building warranty. It would appear a claim was made under 
that warranty in 1999,  within the first two years  of its term, during which time the warranty  is 
effectively a builders  guarantee. The warranty provider confirmed that the claim had been  
resolved by the builder buying  the property back from the original purchaser.
There is no information about what happened  to the property after the builder bought it back, 
but RP bought it in 2003. In 2007 there were some  works completed  on the garage wall, but 
it isnt clear what the cause of this was. Aviva is under  the impression from the discussions 
that took place  when  the insurance policy  was sold that there had been a problem with the 
wall dropping. The account RPs  representative  has given during our complaint investigation 
is that there  had been an impact from a car resulting in a partial rebuild  of the wall. 
In 2014 RP attempted to sell the house in an auction. The buyer had a survey  completed 
and it indicated there were significant  issues with the structure of the house. The surveyor 
had contacted the provider of the building warranty given to the first owners and received 
confirmation that concerns had been raised in 1999.  The surveyors report noted open  and 
previously repaired cracking  around the property. The surveyor  said In our opinion, there 
has been significant movement affecting all external walls, together with the interior. We are 
of the opinion that the movement is progressive. There [sic] sufficient evidence of significant  
failure of the foundations, due to the proximity of the Oak Tree.
If a claim had been lodged and accepted by the [building warranty provider] in 1999, we 
may be able to link the current  situation  with the original  claim as the cause was undoubtedly 
the mature oak. As a secondary course  we could  instigate a claim against  the owner of No. 6 
as owner of the tree.
RP contacted the building warranty provider and it confirmed that the property had been  
bought back by the builder, rather than it having dealt with a claim. The warranty  provider 
confirmed no claim funds  had been  provided.  In other words, the issues  had not been dealt 
with under the insurance element of the warranty and there was no claim that could be 
extended to cover the current  problems.
In November 2014 RP wrote to the broker it had purchased the insurance policy through  and 
explained that in the August  of that year the property covered by the policy  had been  sold at 
auction. It went on to detail the situation  regarding the survey results and that the buyer  was 
looking into alternative arrangements  for mortgage funding because  of the problems found. 
In addition, RP was also looking into a resolution to the structural  problems itself.
Ref: DRN48526932On 22 January 2015 RP wrote  to the selling  broker  again and confirmed that after getting a 
quotation for underpinning the house,  works had commenced. However, the councils 
building control  department hadnt been  happy  with the fact there were fibrous roots  at the 
bottom of the underpinning  trench. This had resulted in a structural engineer being called 
and plans for a piled raft foundation being drafted. It was confirmed the foundation work had 
been done and signed off by building control  and rectification of the interior of the property 
was about to start.
It appears the broker hadnt  received  RPs November 2014 letter as it telephoned to ask for 
a copy following receipt of the 22 January  2015  letter. A copy  was forwarded by post on 
26 January 2015.
On 30 January 2015 RP called Aviva  to inform it of the situation.  Aviva appointed a firm of 
loss adjusters to assess the situation  and determine  if there was a valid claim under  the 
insurance policy. 
Avivas loss adjusters  attended the property  on 17 February 2015. At this point the loss 
adjuster was unable to inspect the first floor of the property as the staircase had been 
partially removed, as had much of the downstairs of the property in order  to enable the piled 
raft foundation to be installed. The report produced at the time detailed  that the property was 
built on London Clay and there was a mature oak tree ten metres from the house as well as 
the neighbours beech hedge one metre  away on the boundary line between the two 
properties. It was detailed that the loss adjuster had been told the subsidence damage had 
affected the entire property, however, it was noted  that as much  of the property had been 
stripped out to enable the building works to start, there was limited evidence of damage.  
The external  damage  noted, some of which had previously been repaired,  indicated to the 
loss adjuster there had been  lintel deflection  above  doors and windows. There was evidence 
of brickwork having stepped out slightly at the damp proof course  height  on the left and 
right hand  elevations. The loss adjuster considered a crack in the garage  wall might be 
related to a minor episode of subsidence.  Given the lack of subsidence  damage  in the rest of 
the house, the loss adjuster thought  the beech hedge may have caused  the subsidence in 
the garage. It was concluded  the minor subsidence damage would have been possible to 
deal with by management of the hedge and the repairs to the garage wall would  cost less 
than the policy excess. 
RP asked  for comment from the councils building control inspector. He said  I have 
always believed that the problem that occurred to this above property soon after construction 
was as a result of subsidence or heave, This I believe was caused by the proximity of the 
large oak tree and the clay soil. It was also stated that the piled raft solution  was decided  on 
and designed  by RPs structural engineer and building  control  hadnt  recommended  it.
Avivas loss adjuster  confirmed to RP its findings  and that it didnt consider the oak tree was 
the cause of the small amount of subsidence damage present; that it was more  likely caused 
by the much closer hedge given the localised damage. Had the oak tree been the cause 
there would have been more widespread  damage present. It confirmed it would have dealt 
with the subsidence by vegetation management and the repairs  were likely to have cost less 
than the policy excess. 
Ref: DRN48526933RP werent  happy  about the conclusions Aviva reached and the claim being turned down. 
Further correspondence was exchanged  between the parties.  It seems  Aviva at some  point  
accepted the damage was more widespread than its loss adjuster originally thought as by 
the middle of 2016 it was declining the claim on the basis  there had been defective design  or 
inadequate construction of the foundations when the property had been  built. 
Again RP didnt  accept this decision and discussions continued. Aviva  maintained its 
position that the foundations had been inadequate.
Ultimately RP raised a complaint with this service. As a complaint hadnt  been made to 
Aviva, we referred  the matter to it. It rejected the complaint. Aviva said that the surveyors 
report concluded that there had been significant movement to the building  including  the 
external and internal walls. It also said there  had been a significant  failure  of the foundations 
due to the proximity  of the oak tree. As the oak tree pre-dated the construction  of the 
property the foundations should have been constructed to cope with the effects of the oak 
tree. As the foundations had failed it concluded they were not designed properly and the 
claim was excluded because either  the foundation  depth was incorrect on the construction 
plans or the developer hadnt  built them  properly.
During our investigation it was established that there  was no evidence  available  from any 
source about the original foundations; their size, type or the damage to them  prior to the 
piled raft being  installed. However,  Aviva  confirmed that given the proximity of the mature 
oak tree to the property, its engineers had calculated from widely  used industry guidance 
that the foundations would have needed to be at least 2.4m  deep  when the house  was built.  
One of our investigators  considered the complaint and recommended it be partially upheld. 
She didnt  consider that Aviva  could reasonably rely on the poor design  exclusion to defeat the 
claim as there was insufficient  evidence to show what  the foundation depth  actually was 
before RP arranged  for underpinning  to start.  Given that Aviva accepted there was subsidence 
damage to the garage and as such,  it should reassess the claim. She confirmed that Aviva 
would only be responsible for repairs  to the area where it had concluded  subsidence had 
affected the property,  not all of the works done.  She also considered  that had Aviva been 
given the opportunity to carry out repairs, those  repairs were  likely to have involved vegetative 
management rather than underpinning.  As such,  Aviva would only be liable for the cost of 
works it would have had to have undertaken had it been able to manage  the claim.
RP didnt  accept the investigators view of the complaint. It pointed  out that whilst vegetation 
management might potentially have been  an effective way of managing  the risk going 
forward, it wouldnt have dealt with the damage  that had already occurred. It said that the 
underpinning was needed.  It considered  that if Aviva reassessed  the claim, it needed to 
accept that due to the presence of the old oak tree no other type of foundation would have 
been appropriate. It also commented that the senior structural engineer confirmed the 
remedial scheme undertaken was the minimum that was required after excavation  identified 
tree roots at three metres depth.
In addition, it said that when the claim was first reported to Aviva  it was asked whether the 
works being undertaken should  be stopped.  The response stated  to have been received was 
that the works should carry on. In addition, RP said that Insurers  also received a Notice of 
Repair via the Agent.  By this I understand it is saying the broker  that sold the policy  would 
have informed Aviva that RP wanted  to make a claim when RP wrote  to the broker  at the 
end of 2014. 
Ref: DRN48526934Whilst our investigator considered the further  comments, it didnt change  her view of the 
complaint. As such, RP requested the complaint be referred to an ombudsman for 
consideration. 
On 6 April 2020  I issued a provisional  decision. In that document  I set out my conclusions  
and reasons for reaching them. Below  is an excerpt of that document.
Aviva  ultimately declined the claim because it concluded the foundations were  inadequate. It 
may well have been right about that given  the comments of the buyers solicitor and the link 
he made with the previous building warranty resolution findings  his report  indicated  the 
issue reported had been linked to the foundations and the cracking  in the property.  The fact 
that the builder  bought the property back from the original home  owners would indicate the 
problem was very significant.  However,  we dont  have  any direct evidence  from the building 
warranty provider to support the implications made by the surveyor  or any assumptions  that 
might follow on from it. 
There is no evidence about  the condition, type or size of the foundations before the piled raft 
was installed.  Whilst there  was a structural engineer involved, no report  as to the damage,  
cause or repairs needed  has been provided  by that engineer. So the evidence  consists  of a 
report from the buyers surveyor which isnt particularly detailed  and was done without any 
investigations into the existing foundations or soil investigations having been  done. The loss 
adjusters report was produced based on a partial  assessment of the property  after it had 
been stripped  out (to the extent the first floor was not accessible) and after the piled raft had 
been installed. So some  of the damage  couldnt be assessed and the foundations  couldnt 
be investigated.
I have noted more recent submissions have said that the new foundation  hadnt been 
installed at the time of the loss adjusters visit and that RP offered to stop works when the 
claim was reported. However,  the contemporaneous  evidence in the form of the letters to the 
broker, make it clear  the foundation works  had been  completed  weeks  before the loss 
adjusters visit. 
I also note that RP has said that it believes Aviva was made aware  of the claim before works  
had commenced  as the broker informed  it of the situation when it received RPs letter in 
November 2014.  I dont accept that is the case. I say this as when the broker  received the 
22 January 2015  letter  it contacted RP to question the correspondence as it had not 
received the November 2014 letter. RP provided it with a copy of the November 2014 letter 
only a few days before RP telephoned  Aviva  directly to report the claim. As such, I am 
satisfied that Aviva  knew nothing of the claim or the problems with the property until after the 
new foundation  had been installed. 
The evidence in this case is to say the least inconclusive.  I think the reason for that is because 
of the works RP had done  before the claim was made  to Aviva.  That work effectively stopped 
Aviva being  able to adequately assess the damage  to the property,  the cause and whether it 
had any liability for that damage under the policy terms and conditions.  In the circumstances, I 
can only conclude RPs actions prejudiced Avivas position and as such, I dont consider I can 
ask it to accept the claim or take any further  action in relation to it.
Aviva acknowledged  receipt of my provisional decision and confirmed it didnt  have anything  
further to add. RP didnt respond  to the provisional  decision, although I am satisfied it 
received it and had the opportunity to respond to it if it wanted to.
Ref: DRN48526935my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments from the outset to decide  whats 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so and in the 
absence of any further comment or evidence from the parties, I see no reason to alter my 
conclusions. 
In summary,  I consider RP prejudiced Avivas position to such an extent it was unable to 
assess the claim and establish  if it had any liability under  the policy. As such, I dont  consider  
I am able to ask it to accept the claim  or take any further action in relation to it.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs S 
trading as RP to accept or reject my decision before  12 June 2020.
Derry Baxter
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4852693