K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs T complaint that Nationwide  Building  Society (Nationwide) mis-sold them a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr and Mrs T took out a secured loan with Nationwide in 2004. At the same time they were  
sold a PPI policy which wouldve covered the repayments on their loan if Mrs T had been  
unable to work. It also provided  life cover.
Mr and Mrs T say that the PPI was added without their knowledge and that the cost and 
benefits werent explained. They indicate  that they didnt need the cover.
The adjudicator didnt think Mr and Mrs Ts complaint should be upheld.  Mr and Mrs T 
disagree, so their complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website  and Ive taken it 
into account when  deciding this case. Having done  so, Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Ts 
complaint. Ill explain  why Ive reached this decision.
Mr and Mrs T explain that they took out a loan secured against  their home in 2004. They say 
that the loan was taken out over the phone. Nationwide, understandably  given the passage 
of time, havent been able to provide a recording of the initial  call or any of the follow-up 
calls. But there doesnt  seem  to be any reason to think that the loan and PPI werent sold 
this way.
This service has seen copies of the skeleton sales script in use by Nationwide  around the 
time of sale.  Im satisfied  from this that the optional nature of the PPI wouldve been made 
clear. And I can see from the loan agreement that the PPI is described as optional on this 
too.
There was a necessary  delay between Mr and Mrs T receiving  the credit  agreement and the 
loan being provided. This gave Mr and Mrs T a substantial amount of time to review  the 
credit agreement and to query the inclusion of the PPI if they hadnt agreed to it or had 
decided not to take it. Mr and Mrs T both signed  this agreement.
I also have to take into account  that, when speaking to Nationwide  about their complaint, 
Mr T said that he had no memory of the loan at all.
On balance, Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs T bought  the PPI knowing they had a choice about 
it, although I understand why they dont  remember  this now.
Nationwide didnt make  a personal  recommendation  to Mr and Mrs T about the PPI, so it 
didnt have to check whether  it was suitable  for them. So, it was up to Mr and Mrs T to 
decide for themselves whether the policy was right for them  and whether they wanted or 
needed it.
Ref: DRN44908312Looking at the information Nationwide  provided  I think that the cost and benefits would have 
been clear to Mr and Mrs T. Its possible they werent aware of some  of the exclusions or 
restrictions on the policy  such as those relating to existing medical  conditions.  But I dont 
think Mrs T (whom the policy covered) was affected by any of these, so I dont think  it 
wouldve prevented  them buying the policy if theyd known  everything about it.
So, I dont think Mr and Mrs T lost out as a result of anything Nationwide mightve done 
wrong.
my final decision
Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Ts complaint so it follows that Nationwide  Building Society 
doesnt have to pay any compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 February  2019.
Sally Allbeury
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4490831