K820x#14complaint
Mr S says Bank of Scotland  Plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) mis-sold him a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background
Mr S bought the policy in 2001  at the same time as taking out a credit  card.
 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr S disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ss case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ss complaint. Ill explain why.
I think Halifax made Mr S aware that he had a choice  about buying the PPI, and that he 
chose to take it.
Halifax has provided a copy of Mr Ss credit  card application form and it includes a box to 
select PPI. The box has been  filled with a cross, and Mr S has signed  the form. 
It looks as though the PPI box was pre-filled before the form was printed. But I think this was 
the result  of a discussion between  Mr S and Halifax. I say this because  the form also 
includes a box with the option  for Mr S to purchase another type of insurance   which has 
been left blank. So I think Halifax most  likely made Mr S aware that both of the insurance  
products were optional,  and he chose only the one which suited him. I also dont think Mr S 
wouldve signed the form if he didnt agree to take the PPI.
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mr S, and it seems  to have been right for him based on 
what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time. Mr S has said that he was entitled to up to 
six months sick pay from his employer if he was too unwell to work.  The PPI wouldve  paid 
out for up to twelve months if Mr S was off work because of sickness, and for up to ten 
months if hed lost his job. 
I also havent seen  anything that wouldve prevented Mr S from making a successful claim, 
such as a pre-existing medical condition or unusual working arrangements. So I think the 
PPI couldve been useful to Mr S, and I think the recommendation Halifax  made was 
appropriate for his circumstances.
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr S about  the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve  
been. But Mr S doesnt appear to have been  affected by any of the main things the policy  
didnt cover  and based on what I know about  his circumstances it looks like the policy 
couldve been useful  to him. So I dont  think better  information wouldve stopped  him buying 
it. 
Ref: DRN40648632Ive taken into account Mr Ss comments,  including what  hes said about not being aware of 
the PPI, nor having  to sign separately for it. But as I think  Mr S chose the PPI, and as Halifax  
wasnt required to gain a separate  signature before it sold the PPI to Mr S, this point doesnt 
change my conclusion.
I also understand that Mr S says hes successfully claimed back  PPI from other lenders, 
from around the same time as he took this policy. But each  complaint has individual 
circumstances, and each  policy  wouldve  had different terms, so Im afraid Mr Ss other 
complaints dont have  any bearing  on my decision in this case.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 April 2019.
Sam Wade
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4064863