K821x#15complaint 
Mr S complains about the suitability of the advice by Chattertons  Wealth  Management 
Limited (CWM) to transfer to a self- invested  personal pension  (SIPP),  and the subsequent 
investment into a model portfolio managed  by Financial  Express Investments (FEI).
background
In August 2017,  Mr S completed  a fact find and risk questionnaire with CWM. It was 
recorded that he was 65 years old, married and retired. Mr S and his wife were in good  
health, and he was receiving pension income of £22,000 per year. This was made up of 
£10,000 from his state pension and £12,000  from his private pension. He owned his own 
home and had around £33,000 in personal savings accounts.
Mr S had two pension policies with Old Mutual Wealth (Old Mutual)  which had a combined 
value of around £280,000, which he was taking his drawdown payments from. He also had a 
pension with Aviva  which  had a transfer  value of around £2,000. 
Mr Ss attitude to risk was recorded  as Medium. Amongst a number  of objectives, it was 
recorded that Mr S wanted to achieve  higher returns and greater flexibility when drawing his 
pension. His income requirements remained the same and he wanted to review his pension 
on an annual  basis.
On 30 August  2017, CWM recommended  Mr S to transfer his Old Mutual pensions  to a SIPP 
in order to facilitate  a bespoke portfolio service to be managed by CWM. The 
recommendation was made in order to access a wider range of investment funds. Mr S 
accepted the recommendation  and the transfer  process commenced.
On 1 November 2017, an additional  suitability report  was issued to Mr S which  
recommended that he also transfer his Aviva pension to his new SIPP arrangement.
On 20 November 2017, CWM issued correspondence to Mr S confirming that the adviser  
who had recommended the bespoke portfolio service had left the firm and so this service  
could not be offered anymore.
A meeting subsequently took place on 8 December 2017  and CWM  discussed the 
investment of Mr Ss pension into a portfolio managed by FEI instead.  Another  risk 
questionnaire was completed  at this time which recorded Mr Ss attitude to risk as 
Moderate.
On 17 December 2017 CWM recommended Mr S switch his investment to FEI where his 
pension would be managed on a discretionary basis.
In 2018, Mr S met the adviser  who had initially provided the advice for a bespoke portfolio. 
The adviser was now employed by another  adviser firm, and after reviewing the advice  
provided by CWM, he raised a complaint  on his behalf. The complaint centred around the 
fact that the recommendation to transfer to a SIPP in order to invest using FEI was not in 
Mr Ss best interests.
One of our adjudicators  upheld the complaint and found that the advice to transfer into a 
SIPP -whether into a bespoke portfolio or into a portfolio with FEI- was unsuitable. He didnt 
believe the additional  charges were  justified.  He said Mr Ss original plan with OId Mutual 
Ref: DRN46080472offered access to around 1250 different funds which  he could switch between free of charge. 
He thought Mr Ss objectives could have been met by keeping his existing pensions.
The adjudicator  suggested  for CWM  to compensate Mr S by comparing the value of Mr Ss 
investment with the FTSE UK Private investors  Income Total Return Index which is  
considered reasonable  for someone with Mr Ss attitude to risk. If this showed  a loss, the 
difference should be paid to Mr S (after allowances for income tax had been made). He also 
asked CWM  to pay Mr S £200  for the disruption  to his retirement planning.
CWM accepted the adjudicators view and Mr S signed our settlement  form to conclude this 
complaint. However,  CWMs redress  offer wasnt accepted  by Mr S who believed it was 
calculated incorrectly as they had deducted  charges from the benchmark values. Both 
parties came back to the adjudicator for guidance. 
Our adjudicator explained  that charges should not be deducted from the redress  
methodology and the principles behind it, however CWM contested that it was unfair to 
assume that Mr S would  not have  any charges  whatsoever to pay and it was unfair to 
compare against an arbitrary benchmark without charges against a portfolio which includes 
charges.
As no agreement could be reached  the complaint was passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the investigator that the advice to transfer to a SIPP  was unsuitable, whether 
further investment  would have been managed through a bespoke  portfolio or through  a 
portfolio with FEI. I cant see that Mr S needed access to a wider range of investments than 
already available through his existing  pensions with Old Mutual or more control  of his 
investments. And so the additional costs of either of the proposed new arrangements  were in 
my view unjustified. I think suitable advice would have been for Mr M to keep his existing 
pensions as they were.
The redress  methodology which the adjudicator proposed is one commonly  used by this 
service and considered  reasonable if its not clear what the complainant would have invested 
in had suitable advice been  given. A benchmark or mix of benchmarks  is often used  in these 
circumstances. We generally consider it fair to not reduce the benchmark  for charges 
because if we did we would effectively be assuming that the complainant  would have made 
an investment which would have always underperformed against the benchmark. 
If a business gives  unsuitable advice the consumer did not have a chance to choose a 
suitable investment   and some of those  investments may have done  significantly better  
than the benchmark, despite the charges. So reducing the benchmark  return  to allow  for 
charges does not seem fair to the consumer  particularly given that some investments have 
very low charges.
Having said all this I think the more appropriate  redress in this complaint is different. As 
explained above I think Mr S should  have been recommended to remain with his existing 
Ref: DRN46080473pensions (with Aviva  and Old Mutual) and I cant see that there was a strong  need  for Mr S 
to invest differently within these arrangements either. 
So I think without unsuitable  advice Mr S would have done nothing  to his existing 
arrangements. So the more appropriate comparison here is what the value of his Aviva and 
Old Mutual pensions would have been  if he had stayed invested as he was. We have 
already clarified  with Aviva and Old Mutual  that such notional values can be provided by 
them. If they couldnt be provided  for any reason, then the redress proposed by the 
adjudicator using the benchmark (not reduced  for charges) would be the suitable alternative.
I appreciate that Mr Ss representative in this complaint is the adviser who gave him the 
original advice to change to a bespoke  portfolio.  So he might think  Mr S had the need to do 
something different.  But Im satisfied that looking  at Mr Ss circumstances there was no need 
for him to change  anything.
I previously set out my proposed redress methodology to both parties. 
CWM accepted my decision. Mr Ss representative thought it was unfair  that CWM  was 
allowed to change their mind after they had accepted the adjudicators opinion and offered 
compensation. He also thought interest should  be awarded for the further delays CWM had 
caused in this matter.  And he wanted to make sure that any compensation would be paid 
into Mr Ss pension.
I understand Mr Ss frustration and I agree its disappointing that CWM agreed to settle  in 
line with the adjudicators assessment and then retracted after they realised that charges 
shouldnt be deducted.  However, an adjudicators assessment isnt legally binding on either 
party. And despite mediation  attempts by the adjudicator,  no agreement could be reached 
about the compensation payment. So Mr Ss complaint  was referred for an ombudsmans 
decision. 
As an ombudsman Im independently  reviewing the case and decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. And in this case I dont agree that the proposed redress by 
the adjudicator  put Mr S in the position  he most likely would be in if CWM had given him 
suitable advice.  
I dont know whether the proposed redress methodology  of using notional values by Mr Ss 
previous pensions means Mr S will be offered more or less compensation than using the 
benchmark. However, this isnt influencing  my decision as Im satisfied  it is the fairest 
redress methodology in the circumstances and puts Mr S as much  as possible in the position 
he would  be in now without CWMs unsuitable advice.
However, when revisiting my proposed redress  I noticed  that I hadnt made any award  for 
lost investment gains  from the time the notional values are capped in 2018  (when  Mr S 
changed advisers and investments) until the complaint is settled.  Its an oversight I apologise 
for. 
If the notional  values show Mr S suffered a financial loss (until  June  2018),  then he has lost 
out on investment  opportunity on this additional  sum for the past two and a half years.  So to 
put him back  in the position he would  be in bar CWMs advice this needs to be 
compensated. 
Ref: DRN46080474I think using the return of the FTSE UK Private investors Income Total  Return Index between 
4 June 2018 and the date of this final decision is fair to compensate  for this and should be 
applied to the financial loss in order to put Mr S in the position he would be in bar the 
unsuitable advice.  Im using the index as its possible  that even though Im satisfied that on 
balance Mr S would have stayed in his existing arrangements until June, he could have still 
changed investments  as he did, stayed in his existing pensions in the same  funds, changed  
funds within  his existing  pension or moved somewhere elsewhere entirely after that. The 
benchmark is reasonable as Mr Ss exact actions in this scenario arent known.
I appreciate that CWM isnt responsible  for the additional time it has taken since the 
complaint was referred for a decision. However,  I want to be clear that the added 
compensation for lost investment opportunity is not intended as a punishment for any delays. 
It simply puts Mr S back in the position  he likely would be in now if suitable  advice had been  
given.
Whilst I believe my proposed redress using notional values is the fairest  resolution,  I do 
agree that this should have been  handled  differently by CWM. I think  the redress  set out by 
the adjudicator  was sufficiently clear and if they didnt agree  or didnt understand the details 
they should not have  accepted it. This caused  frustration,  delays  and unnecessarily  raised 
Mr Ss expectations about the forthcoming compensation.  
 
I considered that CWM offered Mr S £1,080.94  for his financial loss plus £200  for the 
distress and inconvenience caused and £61.78  in adviser fees. Mr S didnt accept this offer 
as it didnt follow the adjudicators recommendations, so I think its understandable he didnt. 
In the event that my proposed redress results in a lower amount than this, I think  its fair in 
the particular circumstances  that CWM  honours this previous  offer. 
putting things right 
My aim in awarding fair compensation is to put Mr S back into the position  he would likely 
have been in, had it not been for CWMs unsuitable advice. I think this would  have meant he 
would have stayed  in their existing pensions  invested in the same way as before at least  
until 4 June 2018 when Mr S moved  away from CWM as his advisers and invested 
differently.
Any loss Mr S has suffered should  be determined by:
A)obtaining the notional values of his pensions from Aviva and Old Mutual  as of 4 June 
2018 on the basis that they had remained invested  the same  way as they were  
before the transfer. Any withdrawals during this period can be deducted  from the 
combined notional  values. 
B)CWM should then subtract  the value of Mr Ss pension  as of 4 June  2018  (I 
understand this to be £275,502.91)  from the sum calculated under A. 
C)If the above shows a loss, then the return rate of the FTSE UK Private  investors  
Income Total Return Index between  4 June 2018 and the date of this final decision 
should be applied  to this sum.
D)Aviva  has provided a notional value and Old Mutual have told us they can provide 
them too. However, if for any reason  Old Mutual cant  provide notional  values in this 
case, CWM  should  compare Mr Ss Old Mutual pensions  against the FTSE UK 
Private investors Income Total Return Index as suggested by the adjudicator (without 
deducting charges).
Ref: DRN46080475E)Pay Mr S £200 for the disruption to his pension planning. This can be paid to Mr S 
directly.
F)CWM should pay Mr S the higher of: the redress calculated  under A to E above or 
their previous offer of £1,342.72 (£1,080.94 plus £261.78).
Other than the amount  under E, the compensation should be paid into Mr Ss pension  plan. 
The payment should  allow for the effect of charges and any available  tax relief. The 
compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict  with any existing 
protection or allowance.
Only if a payment  into the pension has protection or allowance implications or the provider 
doesnt allow a contribution, it should be paid directly to Mr S as a lump sum after making  a 
notional reduction  to allow for future  income tax that would otherwise have been paid. The 
reasons should  be explained to Mr S. If Mr S hasnt yet taken any tax-free cash  from their 
plan, 25% of the loss would be tax-free and 75% would have been taxed according to their 
likely income  tax rate in retirement  presumed  to be 20%. So making  a notional reduction of 
15% overall  from the loss adequately reflects this.
my final decision
My decision  is to uphold  this complaint and I require Chattertons  Wealth Management 
Limited to pay the compensation  as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 February  2021.
Nina Walter
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4608047