K821x#15complaint
Mr D complains about Tesco Personal  Finance PLCs decision to lend to him.
Mr D is represented by his mother, but, to keep things simple, Ill refer to everything thats 
been said on his behalf as if Mr D had said it himself.
background
I set out the background  to Mr Ds complaint in my earlier decision which  was a provisional 
decision. However, for ease of reading,  and so that all relevant information is in this one 
document, I will repeat that background here.
In July 2018 Mr D took out a personal  loan with Tesco Personal Finance for £4,000. Mr D 
says he could not afford the loan. In particular, he suggested that because  he was using 
almost the whole of his authorised overdraft  for his day-to-day living, Tesco  Personal 
Finance, ought  to have been well aware  that he couldnt afford the loan. Moreover,  Mr D 
indicated that he had been constantly using his overdraft, in this way, for the two years 
immediately before applying for the loan.
Further, just before he took out his loan with Tesco Personal Finance,  he had taken out a 
new loan, a new credit  card and a new store  card with third parties. Between them these 
three new accounts represented  about  £9,000 worth of new debt.
Moreover, Mr D also had a pre-existing credit card account with another  third party. He told 
us that on this pre-existing account,  his borrowing increased by around  £3,000  in January 
2018 alone. It appears he was right up to his limit on this account too. In addition,  he was 
just making minimum payments to this account, as a result he was not making any 
headway in clearing  the balance in any significant way.
Also, Mr D told us that he had a gambling problem  in July 2018,  which  had made his
already precarious  financial situation  even worse.
In short,  Mr D explained that he was in no position to service  any more  debt in July 2018.  
So, when in August 2018, the first payment  became  due on the Tesco Personal Finance 
loan, he missed it because he simply didnt have the money to pay it. Moreover,  he tells us 
this wasnt a one-off  he has never been  in a position  to make any repayments to the loan. 
Instead his mom  made the first repayment and she together with her husband  has 
continued to make all the monthly repayments  ever since, fearful of what would happen  to 
their sons  credit rating if they did not.
For all of these reasons, he explained that the debt from Tesco Personal Finance, which 
came at a time when  his debt was escalating,  has caused him distress.  
He also mentioned the impact of the loan on both his mom and his dad who have 
experienced respectively, stress and ill health  in part, they think due to this debt. 
In light of the above, Mr D asked that the debt be written off.
Tesco Personal Finance didnt agree it had done anything wrong. It told Mr D his online 
application had passed its internal scoring process.  Further, it confirmed his salary  by 
looking at his bank  statement  for June 2018, that is the month  before he received the loan. 
While it was doing this it also assessed his conduct  of this account.  It also took a look at 
Ref: DRN40185842his pre-existing credit commitments.  In its opinion all of the accounts  it knew  about were  up 
to date in their payments and the payment history was satisfactory. 
In contrast  to Mr Ds stance, Tesco Personal  Finance did not think  that Mr Ds use of his 
full agreed overdraft facility indicated that he was over- indebted. Rather, it pointed out that 
many people choose to use their overdraft like this without  issue. From its perspective 
having finished its checks, it concluded it need  do no further checks  and he could afford 
the repayments for the loan. Moreover,  it didnt agree  that there was any indication of 
problem gambling  on the bank statement it looked  at. 
For all these reasons, Tesco Personal Finance did not accept it needed to do anything 
further in response  to Mr Ds complaint.
Dissatisfied with this response, Mr D came to our service.
I took a look at Mr Ds complaint. I issued a provisional decision. I set out my reasoning from 
my provisional decision below.
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail  than the parties 
and Ive done so using  my own words. Im not going  to respond to every  single  point made 
by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what 
I think are the key issues here. 
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal  nature  of our service  as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres  something Ive not mentioned,  it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every  individual  argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome.
Where the evidence is incomplete,  inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider  is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
When Tesco  Personal Finance lent to Mr D it was a regulated business  providing regulated  
finance. That meant it had certain obligations to fulfil before it lent to him. Under  the 
relevant regulations at that time Tesco Personal Finance was obliged  to make sure that its 
lending was affordable and responsible. In particular, it was required to carry out checks 
that were proportionate  in the circumstances,  which  might include considerations about the 
amount borrowed  and Mr Ds borrowing history.  Exactly what a lender should consider was 
for each  lender to decide and the rules listed  a number  of factors  which a lender such as 
Tesco Personal Finance might  have wished to take into account.
Further, Tesco Personal  Finance had to be able to demonstrate that it did enough to 
ensure that Mr D could  repay the borrowing in a sustainable manner without it 
adversely impacting on his financial situation.  This assessment needed  to be borrower 
focused.
Taking into account the relevant rules,  guidance,  good industry  practice and law, I 
think there are some overarching  questions  I need to consider in order  to decide 
Ref: DRN40185843whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. These questions  
are:
Did Tesco Personal Finance complete reasonable and proportionate checks  
to satisfy itself that Mr D would be able to repay  the loan in a sustainable 
way? If so, did it make  a fair lending decision?
If not, would  those checks have shown that Mr D wouldve been able to do so?
Did Tesco Personal Finance act unfairly or unreasonably  in some other way?
I explained that if I determined that Tesco Personal  Finance didnt  act fairly and reasonably  
in its dealings with Mr D and that he has lost out as a result, Id go on to consider what  is a 
fair way to put things right.
As set out above, the regulatory framework requires Tesco  Personal  Finance to have 
carried out a proportionate assessment, based on sufficient  information, of whether Mr D 
could afford  to repay the loan with it in a sustainable manner.
This affordability assessment had to be borrower focused in the sense that rather than 
focusing on the credit risk for Tesco Personal  Finance the assessment  needed  to have 
sufficient checks to satisfy Tesco Personal Finance that Mr D would be able to repay the 
finance sustainably,  without the repayments  having a significant adverse  impact on Mr Ds 
financial situation.
Tesco Personal Finance has told us, as I have already mentioned,  that before lending to Mr 
D, it requested proof of his income  by asking for his bank statement for June 2018. It said Mr 
D passed its internal  scoring process and affordability checks  although it did not explain 
what these were.
Moreover, it said it also looked at the conduct  of Mr Ds accounts  which  it found acceptable. 
It was aware that Mr D was using  his full overdraft, but it suggested he was using the 
overdraft in an appropriate manner. It didnt agree that the information it saw in Mr Ds bank  
statement indicated that Mr D had a gambling  problem. It asked for no further information 
and chose to do no further checks.
On the basis of the steps Ive outlined  above  Tesco Personal Finance thought it had done 
enough to check  if the lending was appropriate before it agreed to lend to Mr D.
It has been helpful to see the checks Tesco Personal Finance undertook. I do not doubt that 
Tesco Personal Finance concluded  it had gone far enough to establish it was appropriate to 
lend. That said, I do not think  those checks were proportionate in these specific  individual  
circumstances. This is particularly so when I also take into account what Tesco  Personal
Finance knew about Mr D.
Mr D has told us about the situation  with his overdraft and how the use he made of it showed 
he was having  serious money troubles even before he took out the loan. I take his point in 
large part. But it is not correct to say he was using it permanently for two years  before he 
took out the loan with Tesco Personal  Finance. Rather, the situation was more  nuanced than 
that. I have  looked  at his bank statements for the two years before July 2018. Between  July 
2016 and August 2016 Mr D was almost at the limit of his overdraft. His situation  changed  at 
the end of September 2016  he did not use his overdraft again  until mid-February 2017. After 
that point, Mr D continued to use his overdraft  until March 2018. For part of March  2018 he
Ref: DRN40185844wasnt using his overdraft  and then he started  to use it again right up until July 2018.
Further, although Mr Ds income  seemed  to easily cover his priority  outgoings his spending  
particularly his spending on gambling always ended up eating  away  at the sometimes  
significant credit in his account, until once again,  he was near the top end of his overdraft 
and barely managing. Ill say more about his gambling later.  Moreover, it seems that on 
more than one occasion Mr Ds mom had to make  payments into Mr Ds account to stop him 
going into an unauthorised overdraft. This is notable because it wasnt as if the overdraft was 
small it was £5,000 at some points and £4,000 at others, almost twice  Mr Ds salary.  Plus,  
although he did sometimes  clear  the overdraft this was only by virtue of one-off payments 
such as money from the sale of his house.
Tesco Personal Finance is correct to say that there  are many people  out there who never
clear their overdraft for months on end. But it is also correct to say that is not how an 
overdraft is meant to be operated. Instead  what is expected  is that a consumer  should  go 
into and then out of an overdraft on a monthly  basis. I think the fact that Mr D did not run his 
overdraft in that orderly way indicates that even before he took out the loan he was indeed  
having money troubles.
Moreover, an overdraft is repayable on demand. If Mr Ds bank had ever decided  to take his
overdraft away Mr Ds financial position  would have  collapsed  entirely.  By July 2018, Mr D 
was at the top of his overdraft limit with apparently no realistic prospect  of clearing the 
overdraft and hed been in that situation  for several consecutive  months.  The only way Mr D 
had of making his repayments to his loan with Tesco Personal Finance  was by using credit. 
In other  words, he had to use credit to repay credit which was inappropriate. That said,  he 
could not even do that because hed run out of credit by the time he had to make his first 
repayment to his loan.
The way Mr D was relying on his overdraft to keep  afloat  financially was obvious even from a 
cursory look at his statements,  including the statement Tesco  Personal  Finance saw. I think 
this is enough  by itself to say that Tesco Personal Finance ought  to have looked more 
closely at Mr Ds financial situation before it lent. 
But then we also have  Mr D taking  out three new credit accounts very close to the point 
when he also borrowed from Tesco Personal Finance. The size and timing of this new debt 
plus the fact that it was plain that Mr D would only be able to make these repayments  with 
more credit ought reasonably to have prompted Tesco Personal Finance to make  further  
checks. I also think that this combination of events  should also have alerted Tesco Personal 
Finance to the realisation that Mr D could  not in all likelihood  repay the borrowing in a 
sustainable manner  without it adversely impacting  on his financial situation.
It follows that, I am not satisfied that the checks Tesco Personal Finance undertook  before  
lending to Mr D were  proportionate in the circumstances or that it undertook  a reasonable 
assessment of what it did know about Mr D.
It also follows from what Ive said above  that I am satisfied that Mr D could not afford to 
borrow from Tesco Personal  Finance when he was allowed to.
When I looked at Mr Ds statements for the two years before  he borrowed from Tesco 
Personal Finance  they showed  that Mr D was constantly capsizing his financial stability  with 
his gambling. That said that picture only became clear when I looked at these  statements in 
their entirety. But Tesco Personal  Finance only looked at his statement for the month before 
Ref: DRN40185845it lent to Mr D. And nothing in that statement  would have  shown  Tesco that Mr D had an 
established pattern  of problem gambling.  Id not expect Tesco Personal Finance, in these  
very individual circumstances to have checked two years worth of bank statements before 
agreeing this loan.  Neither do I think the borrowing that Mr D took out immediately before his 
loan with Tesco Personal Finance ought  reasonably to have alerted it to Mr Ds problem 
gambling. There was nothing about the type of lending he was taking, its amount and timing 
that might  reasonably  have suggested  to Tesco Personal  Finance that Mr D took out that 
finance to gamble with it.
Mr D has asked that the debt be written  off. However, I cannot  see that it would be fair and 
reasonable to say that the debt should  be written  off, that would overlook that Mr D has had 
the benefit of the money he borrowed,  and I find it is fair and reasonable that he ought  to be 
responsible for paying back the capital.  That said I find it fair and reasonable that the interest 
and charges he has paid in relation to this money should be refunded  with interest.
Mr D mentions the impact  of his borrowing on his parents. Mr D appears to be very 
fortunate in having caring and proactive  parents who have told us about their worries 
for Mr D and the actions  they took to help him. Whilst I appreciate that they have been 
impacted by Tesco Personal  Finances decision to lend to their son, I cant  compensate  
them. I have no power to do so, this is because only Mr D is an eligible complainant 
here. Under  our rules I only have the power to make  an award to benefit him. I have no 
leeway here.
For all of these reasons I concluded that Tesco Personal Finance had to do the following to 
put things right.
My provisional decision is that I intend to require Tesco Personal Finance PLC:
To refund all interest  and charges that Mr D has paid in relation to his loan. Interest 
should be added to that refund at the rate of 8% per year simple.  The interest  to 
run from the date the payments were made  until the date of settlement. 
It can pursue Mr D for the balance of the capital of the loan, but it must charge Mr 
D no further interest on that capital. Mr D may want Tesco  Personal Finance to 
apply the refund  to the outstanding balance of the capital, if he wants  it to do that 
please can he say so if he chooses to respond  to this provisional decision.
It must  ask the credit reference agencies to remove any adverse information it 
has asked them to register on Mr Ds credit file in relation to this loan.
I invited the parties  to respond to my provisional  decision. Mr D responded to accept  it and 
ask that the redress  be used  to help reduce his debt with Tesco  Personal  Finance.
Tesco Personal Finance also responded to reject  my provisional decision and provide a 
detailed rebuttal. Ill go into the details of its response below.
my findings
I thank Mr D and Tesco Personal Finance  for their responses to my provisional decision.  Ive 
re- considered all the available evidence and arguments  to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive reviewed the complete file again  and 
revisited my provisional decision.
Ref: DRN40185846Where the evidence is incomplete,  inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider  is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
problem gambling
First, Id like to clear  up some apparent  confusion. It seems from reading Tesco Personal 
Finances response  to my provisional  decision  that it thinks I have found it ought reasonably 
to have been aware of Mr Ds problem gambling.  I confirm I am saying the opposite.  I found 
in my provisional decision and find again here,  that in the circumstances, Tesco  Personal 
Finance could not reasonably have  known that Mr D had a gambling problem. I say this for 
the reasons I set out in my provisional  decision and repeated again above. It seems  no one 
is disputing this any longer in any event.
pre-lending checks and affordability
Tesco Personal Finance sets out a number of reasons why it rejected my provisional 
decision. In summary,  its stance is, that it looked  at both Mr Ds likelihood  to repay and his 
ability to repay. When assessing  these two points it took into account a number of factors.  
Specifically, when it looked  at Mr Ds outgoings including his other debts  and his repayments 
to it, Mr D still had £320  per month to spare. Further,  Tesco  Personal  Finance, 
acknowledged that Mr D was using his overdraft.  However, it did not agree that there was 
any cause for further investigation because:
The bank statement  did show  his overdraft balance increased by nearly  £1,500 but it would 
not be reasonable for us to reach  the conclusions that Mr D was living  outside  his means - 
the statement  also shows a single large outbound payment of £1,327.50  that does not look 
like regular  expenditure, and it is not unusual to see revolving credit go up and down 
depending on the timing of large purchases. 
Its also not unusual  to see an increase in revolving credit followed by a new loan application 
- the customer was a homeowner with a mortgage who stated the loan was for home 
improvements, he may have paid for these improvements on revolving credit then applied  for 
the loan.
As outlined  above  the customer could afford to repay all his existing debts and the new loan 
in a reasonable time period and with a large  amount to spare.  Based  on the above, I dont 
think it was apparent that Mr D wouldnt be able to afford the loan or that the loan was 
proportionate to his situation that would warrant further bank statements being viewed.
Moreover, Tesco Personal Finance pointed out that from its perspective  all of Mr Ds credit 
accounts were in good order. It accepted  it was possible that Mr Ds parents might  have  
masked the situation, to some extent, by helping out their son with his finances,  but that was 
not something it could  have been expected to know about. 
I think it is worth repeating what I am looking at when assessing  this complaint. I am 
looking at whether Tesco met its regulatory  obligations to carry out sufficient checks. 
And I am also looking at whether Mr D could afford the borrowing. When I do that there  
are some overarching questions I need  to consider in order  to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  These questions  are:
Ref: DRN40185847Did Tesco Personal Finance complete reasonable and proportionate checks  
to satisfy itself that Mr D would be able to repay  the loan in a sustainable 
way? If so, did it make  a fair lending decision?
If not, would  those checks have shown that Mr D wouldve been able to do so?
Did Tesco Personal Finance act unfairly or unreasonably  in some other way?
I accept Tesco Personal Finances point  that if I look in isolation at Mr Ds outgoings and his 
incomings it seems he had a reasonable surplus.  If Tesco Personal Finance  was able to rely 
on just that then it would have grounds  for saying it had done  enough in terms of pre-lending 
checks. But Tesco Personal Finance was obliged to look in the round at Mr Ds situation, 
and if it had done that I dont find that any reasonable lender would have gone  ahead without 
further checks. I say this because the number  of new debts (new loan, new credit card, and 
new store  card) the size of debt (£9,000) and its timing (immediately before he took out his 
loan with it) were all significant. I think this would have caused  a reasonable lender to probe 
further. In addition, Mr D had maxed  out his pre-existing credit card and was merely making 
minimum payments towards it. This all speaks to a consumer  who was stepping  up his 
borrowing rapidly and significantly. And again, I think this would have made  a reasonable 
lender take a closer look.
Further all of this new borrowing, the pre-existing  borrowing and the new borrowing from 
Tesco Personal Finance was all going  to come out of Mr Ds overdraft. He was going to pay 
credit with credit. Tesco ought reasonably to have been aware of this.
The situation  with Mr Ds overdraft was not quite  as Tesco Personal Finance says either. 
There was indeed what seems to have been  a one-off payment of £1,327.50. But even 
without that payment Mr D would  still have been  thousands of pounds into his overdraft. 
Moreover, I recognise that Tesco Personal  Finance asked to see Mr Ds bank statement for 
June 2018 primarily  to validate his salary. But it also told us in its response to my provisional 
decision that it also asked  to see the bank  statement for a more complete  understanding of 
his financial situation. I think the statement  said a lot about Mr Ds financial situation. It 
would have seen  or ought  to have that at the end of June, the overdraft, which  was 
substantial (£5,000),  was being  used  almost to its full extent. If Mr Ds mother  had not made 
an urgent  payment into Mr Ds account it would have been very close  to going into an 
unauthorised overdraft. The overdraft was about twice the size of Mr Ds salary. He had no 
realistic prospect of clearing it, certainly  not that month and for many months to come. 
Further, Mr D had not cleared his overdraft for several  months before he took out the loan with 
Tesco. Rather than clearing the overdraft every month  as an overdraft  is meant  to be used. It had 
become hardcore, in that it remained uncleared  for several consecutive months  leading  up to 
Mr D borrowing from Tesco Personal Finance. This was not just therefore a case of revolving 
credit going up and down. Neither did Mr Ds self-declared home  renovations explain  the 
situation. Rather, even the June statement  alone  would have  shown  Mr D was using  his overdraft 
for day-to-day living and was within a hairs breadth of going  into an unauthorised overdraft.
Tesco Personal Finance said, Whilst  Mr D was utilising his overdraft, his credit  record 
indicated that he was managing it well. I dont agree, that the situation I have  described above 
would be reasonably  viewed  by a reasonable lender as managing an overdraft well. Even more 
so when I also take into account  everything  that Tesco Personal Finance knew  about Mr D. I 
Ref: DRN40185848accept that the credit  records would not have  shown Mr Ds mother  swooping in with a vital 
payment in June  2018, but the statement I saw did show  this.
Moreover, I find it is telling  that Mr D has been unable  to make any repayment towards his 
loan. Not even  the first payment, despite having  taken out all the new credit  before taking out 
his loan with Tesco Personal Finance. 
For all of these reasons I find that Tesco Personal  Finance did not carry out proportionate 
checks. If it had done so it would have found  that Mr Ds financial situation each month was 
very precarious and that he would not be able to make repayments to it in a sustainable 
manner without it adversely impacting on his financial situation
In its response to my provisional decision Tesco Personal Finance also said, we have 
shown that the loan was affordable  based  on Mr Ds finances and you seem  to agree with 
this, as you feel it would be unfair  for Mr D to not pay for the capital of the loan. This is not 
why I think Mr D should have to pay the capital  of the loan. I find it is fair and reasonable he 
should repay the capital because he has had the benefit of that capital. And I underline,  
again, that I find that the loan was not affordable.
I have not been persuaded by the points that Tesco Personal Finance raised following my 
provisional decision. It follows that I have come to the same conclusions  for the same 
reasons as I went through in my provisional decision and above.
my final decision
My final decision is that I intend  to require Tesco Personal Finance  PLC:
To refund all interest and charges that Mr D has paid in relation to his loan. Interest 
should be added to that refund at the rate of 8% per year simple.  The interest to 
run from the date the payments were made  until the date of settlement. *
It can pursue Mr D for the balance of the capital of the loan, but it must charge Mr 
D no further interest on that capital. Mr D wants Tesco Personal Finance to apply 
the refund  to the outstanding balance of the capital  and it must  do this.
It must  ask the credit reference agencies to remove any adverse information it 
has asked them to register on Mr Ds credit file in relation to this loan.
*If Tesco Personal Finance considers its required by HM Revenue  & Customs to take off 
income tax from that interest, it should  tell Mr D how much  its taken  off. It should also 
give Mr D a certificate showing this, if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from 
HMRC if appropriate.
Ref: DRN40185849Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 April 2021.
Joyce Gordon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4018584