K820x#14complaint
Miss B complains  that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
Miss B took out a credit  card by post with Lloyds in 2001.  At the same  time she bought a PPI 
policy which  wouldve helped cover her repayments  on her credit  card for up to 11 months  at 
a time. In the 12th month the outstanding balance wouldve been paid off. It also provided 
some life cover.
Miss B says she didnt  understand  the PPI. She says she thought that taking the PPI would 
increase her chances  of getting  the credit card. 
The adjudicator didnt think Miss Bs complaint should be upheld.  Miss B disagrees and has 
asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website  and Ive taken 
this into account  when deciding this case.  Having done so, Im not upholding Miss Bs 
complaint. Ill explain  why Ive reached this decision. 
Miss B applied for the credit card in a postal application. Lloyds has provided a copy of the 
application form and I can see theres  a separate  section for PPI. Miss B has ticked  to say 
she wants it. If she hadnt wanted it she couldve ticked to say she didnt want it as there was 
a clear choice given. Theres nothing on the application form to suggest her application for 
credit would be affected depending on whether she took the PPI, so I dont  think  it was 
anything Lloyds did wrong that made her feel this way.
On the evidence I have, I think its most likely Miss B took the PPI knowing she had a choice 
about it.
Lloyds didnt personally advise Miss B to take the PPI, so it didnt have to check  that it was 
right for her. But it did need  to make sure Miss B had enough information about  the policy so 
she could make her own informed decision about buying it. I think  its possible Lloyds  didnt 
give her enough  information, because theres not much detail on the application form about 
it. But this doesnt  mean  I should automatically  uphold Miss Bs complaint. I have to consider 
whether Miss B wouldve  acted differently and not bought the policy if shed  had all the 
information she needed. 
I dont think Miss B wouldve acted differently. I say this because:
Miss B was eligible for the policy and wouldnt have been affected by any terms 
which mightve made it more difficult for her to make a successful claim, such as 
those related to existing medical conditions or self-employment;
Miss B wasnt entitled to any contractual sick pay or redundancy pay, so if she hadnt  
been able to work I think the policy wouldve offered a useful benefit;
Ref: DRN40567172The cost of the policy was comparable to other  similar policies on the market  around 
the same  time. It was flexible and could be cancelled at any time without penalty.
So I dont   think more  information wouldve made  Miss B decide  not to take the policy. So I 
dont think Miss B lost out as a result of anything Lloyds mightve done wrong.
my final decision
Im not upholding Miss Bs complaint, so it follows that Lloyds Bank Plc doesnt have to pay 
any compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 May 2019.
Sally Allbeury
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4056717