K821x#15complaint
Mr R complains that a car he has been financing through an agreement  with 
Moneybarn No.1 Limited (Moneybarn)  has been  of unsatisfactory  quality.
background
Mr R took receipt of a used car in April 2018.  He financed the deal through a conditional sale 
agreement with Moneybarn. At the point of supply  the car, which was first registered in 2009, 
had completed almost 101,000 miles.
Mr R experienced problems with the car almost  immediately. He took the car back  to the 
garage and they replaced two coil packs and four spark plugs. But the next day Mr R 
experienced similar problems. 
He complained to Moneybarn  and they arranged for an independent inspection  of the 
vehicle. The inspector didnt think it was likely that the fault Mr R complained of would have 
been present  or developing at the point of supply.  He thought it was likely a misfire would 
have been apparent at that time if that were the case.
So Moneybarn rejected Mr Rs complaint  as they said there was no proof the car had been  
supplied in an unsatisfactory condition.  But Mr R disagreed with their view and he therefore 
referred his complaint to this service.
Our investigator disagreed with the independent inspector. He thought there was evidence of 
a misfire at, or very close to, the point of supply as Mr R had taken the car back to the 
dealership the day after he took receipt  of it. He noted that a subsequent  repair  at the main  
dealership to resolve the problem had identified that all coil packs;  spark  plugs and fuel 
injectors needed replacing  and that it had also identified that there was a fault with the fuel 
system that meant the car would misfire when the fuel level dropped. He thought this was 
evidence that the repair completed  early had not been successful. 
So he considered what action Moneybarn should take to put things  right. He noted  that the 
fault had now been repaired so he didnt  think  it would  be fair to tell Moneybarn to allow  Mr R 
to reject the vehicle. But he did think they should  refund  the costs  of the repair  which were 
around £1,700  and he did think they should  refund two monthly  finance  instalments as it was 
clear Mr R had been without the use of his car for some time. He also accepted  that Mr R 
had been inconvenienced  by this matter and in the circumstances he thought Moneybarn 
should pay him compensation of £150.
Moneybarn accepted the adjudicators view but Mr R didnt. He said he should be allowed to 
reject the car and he said hed had a few other  subsequent problems  with the car e.g. with 
an engine warning light. He said he was constantly  concerned the car would breakdown  
again. So he asked  for a final decision by an ombudsman.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the investigators view. I know that will disappoint Mr R so please let me explain 
why.
Ref: DRN49955732Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr R acquired  his car under a conditional  sale agreement. This is a regulated consumer 
credit agreement and as a result  our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant  law says,  amongst  other  things, that the car should  have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied.  If it wasnt then Moneybarn, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant  law also says the quality of goods  is satisfactory  if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price  and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would likely include 
things like the age, mileage and price at the time the car was supplied  to Mr R. The car here 
was around nine years old and had travelled over a hundred thousand  miles so I think  a 
reasonable person would expect some  problems but I dont think theyd expect the car not to 
be driveable.
I take account of relevant law when deciding what is fair and reasonable. On this basis  if I 
thought the car was faulty when supplied and this fault made the car not of satisfactory  
quality, Id think it fair and reasonable to ask Moneybarn to put this right. 
Im persuaded that this car was not of satisfactory quality when it was supplied  to Mr R 
because I think theres  evidence of misfiring problems from an early stage that have clearly 
not been resolved by the dealership as the car broke down the day after it was supposedly 
repaired. A subsequent repair from a main dealership  has identified similar problems and 
also identified a fuel system issue that I think would reasonably explain the problems Mr R 
had been experiencing.
Im not persuaded by the report from the independent engineer.  He has commented that 
there is no evidence  the fault was there from inception  but I dont think  he could have taken 
into account that Mr R returned  the vehicle to the dealership the day after he took receipt  of 
it and that he was complaining of the very same  problem  the independent inspector said was 
probably not evident at the point  of supply. I think, given the limited time there had been for a 
fault to develop, its clearly more  probable  than not that the fault was there from the 
beginning.
The car has now been repaired and Ive seen  no independent evidence  of the problems 
Mr R says still remain. In those circumstances  I think the fairest  solution  is to tell Moneybarn  
to refund the cost of the repairs that Mr R had done  to the fuel injectors; coil packs; spark 
plugs on 24 July 2018, as these are costs that Mr R should not have needed to pay. They  
should also add 8% simple interest per year to that cost as Mr R has been deprived of the 
money.
I also think its clear  Mr R has been without  the vehicle for some  time whilst repairs  have 
been conducted and that his use of the car will have been affected by the problems he 
Ref: DRN49955733experienced. I therefore agree that it would be appropriate to tell Moneybarn to refund two 
monthly instalments  that Mr R has made  towards his finance  agreement.
Its clearly been a distressing experience for Mr Rs been inconvenienced  by matters so in 
the circumstances I would agree that Moneybarn should pay him £150 compensation.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint and tell Moneybarn  No.1  Limited to:
refund  the cost of the invoice Mr R paid to have the car repaired on 24 July 2018.  
Moneybarn should add 8% simple interest per annum  from the date of payment to 
the date of settlement.
pay Mr R £150 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience hes 
experienced
refund  two monthly finance instalments and add 8% simple interest per annum from 
the date of payment to the date of settlement
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 November  2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4995573