K820x#14complaint
Mr D has complained that Starling Bank Limited wouldnt allow  him to set up a 
cryptocurrency website as a payee on his current account and gave  him inaccurate 
information about why it hadnt allowed this.
background
Mr D holds two current accounts  with Starling Bank, a personal; account and an account for 
his business. In June 2019 he attempted to make a payment of £2 to a bank account 
connected with a cryptocurrency website. He says the payment was required to verify his 
account so he could withdraw money  from the website. When  he tried to add the account  to 
his payees he received  a message from Starling saying it didnt support payment  to 
overseas accounts  associated  with cryptocurrencies.
Mr D complained to Starling Bank and said the account he was trying  to set up as a payee 
was held at a bank in the UK so the reason hed been given  was incorrect. Starling Bank 
didnt uphold  his complaint. It said the account  terms and conditions  didnt  allow trading in 
cryptocurrencies.
Mr D wasnt happy with Starling Banks  response  and referred his complaint to this service.
our initial conclusions
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint should be upheld. He said hed been given 
evidence showing Mr D was trying to add the payee to his business account and the terms 
and conditions of that account  prohibited  trading in cryptocurrencies.
Mr D didnt accept our investigators recommendation. He says he tried to set up the payee  
on his personal  account  and, irrespective  of the type of account,  the message giving the 
reason for declining the payment was incorrect.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The evidence Ive seen  shows Mr D was trying to set up the payee on his business account.  
I understand he tried, subsequently to set up the payee on his personal  account and that 
has also been declined.  I believe Mr D has made a separate  complaint to Starling Bank  
about his personal  account, but that is outside the scope of this decision.
The terms and conditions  of Mr Ds business account clearly  dont allow  trading in currency  
exchange, including virtual currencies. Im therefore  satisfied Starling Bank was entitled  to 
prevent Mr D from setting up the account held by a cryptocurrency website as a payee  on 
his account.
I agree  the reason Mr D received for the refusal to set up the payee was incorrect  and 
Starling Bank should have  given  him a clearer explanation when he tried to set up the 
payee. But this doesnt mean Mr D should have been allowed to set up the payee as this 
wasnt permitted under the account  terms and conditions. He may have suffered some  
Ref: DRN41457882trouble and upset  as a result of the incorrect reason he was given for this. But Im not 
persuaded it would have  been sufficiently material to justify a payment of compensation.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given my final decision is I dont uphold  this complaint. I make  no award 
against Starling  Bank  Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 December 2019.
Charles Bacon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4145788