K821x#15complaint
Mr B complains that Admiral  Insurance Company  Limited wrongly cancelled his motor 
insurance policy. It said the cancellation was due to incorrect information having been  
provided. It thought  the policy was set up by a broker (possibly  an unregulated one).
 
background
Mr Bs policy  was set up by his uncle  (Mr K) to start on 25 February 2019. It was paid for in 
full using his mothers  credit card. On 26 February  2019 Admiral emailed Mr B to inform  him 
of the cancellation. As Mr B was away  on holiday,  his mother  (Mrs  B) called Admiral  to 
explain that her brother had set up the policy. She said he wasnt  a broker, but helped family 
members and friends in setting up policies. Admiral told her it still intended to cancel the 
policy. It wouldnt allow Mr B to do so instead,  which meant hed have to declare it to other 
insurers in the future.  
In its reply to Mr Bs complaint, Admiral said it thought  the policy may have been set up 
fraudulently. It said the email address  used to buy it was linked to several  other policies and 
quotes. It said it wasnt satisfied with the explanation given by Mrs B about  Mr Ks 
involvement.  Admiral also said it had relied on the details provided  by Mr B and that any 
misrepresentation could result  in the policy being cancelled  or voided. 
One of our investigators  considered Mr Bs complaint. She noted that Admiral had picked up 
on three quotes in which  two addresses and three different dates  of birth for Mr B were 
given. She said the addresses were Mr Bs university address and his home address. Mr B 
couldnt explain why different dates  of birth appeared  on the quotes. But she said that on the 
policy that was taken out, all the details were correct. She said Admiral hadnt  said what 
questions it had asked  that it thought were wrongly  answered.
The investigator said there was nothing to show that Mr B had misrepresented  anything in 
order to get the policy.  And she thought it was unfair  for Admiral to say Mr K shouldnt help 
family members with their insurance. She said there  was no evidence  that he was acting as 
a broker. So she thought the cancellation was unfair. She said Mr B had been unable  to use 
his car since  the cancellation due to prohibitive insurance costs.  She thought Admiral should  
pay him £750 compensation for distress and inconvenience. 
Admiral said if Mr Bs policy  was set up by an unregulated  intermediary (a ghost broker)  it 
could be based  on incorrect  information. It referred  to the different dates of birth on the 
quotes for Mr B. It provided a list of the accounts created from Mr Ks email address for 
people around  the country. It said when Mrs B called Admiral  she said Mr B may have  tried 
to obtain a quote when  Mr K was away and had put the wrong date of birth down in error. 
Admiral said Mrs B also said Mr B was a lab technician doing medical tests,  when  it had 
previously been  told he was a lab technician in engineering. And it said that in a quote on 
14 February 2019 Mr B was described as unemployed. It said as a result  of all these 
discrepancies  plus the possibility that a ghost broker  was involved  it had cancelled  the 
policy and returned  the premium. 
When the investigator queried  these issues with Mr B, Mr K responded. He provided  a copy 
of Mr Bs CV showing  he was a junior  engineer employed in a medical lab. He said the 
wrong date of birth was entered on a quote in error  by a cousin  who was living with Mr B. He 
couldnt understand why unemployed  had been  entered. Mr K said since the cancellation  
Ref: DRN42940332Mr B had tried to get insurance  from many  firms  but was refused. He said the only available  
insurance would have cost thousands of pounds, so it wasnt  affordable.
The investigator issued  a second  view.  She said although an error about  Mr Bs date of birth 
had been made on a quote, the right details were given when he bought  the policy. So there 
was no attempt to get a cheaper premium based on that. In terms of his occupation, she said 
Admiral didnt investigate  it or cancel  the policy because it thought Mr B had given the wrong 
details. She thought Mr B had given Admiral  the right details anyway. 
The investigator said Admirals reason for cancelling the policy was its belief that a ghost 
broker had set up the policy fraudulently. She didnt  think Admiral  had shown that Mr K had 
acted in that capacity.  She referred  to a previous decision about Admirals  cancellation of a 
policy Mr K had set up for his wife. In that case, an ombudsman said there wasnt enough 
evidence to show that Mr K had acted as a ghost  broker.   
Admiral repeated that the email address  Mr K used was linked to quotes for people with 
addresses all over the UK. It said that pointed to broker use. It said the discrepancies  on the 
various quotes for Mr B pointed to deliberate  or reckless misrepresentation. It said a date of 
birth can make a significant difference to the premium for a young  driver. It said providing  the 
wrong date of birth three times - plus giving the wrong occupation  pointed to someone 
trying to obtain a cheaper premium. It said it wasnt able to rely on the details  provided  and 
that it was enough for it to suspect the policy was set up by a ghost  broker.
Admiral also queried the £750 compensation proposed by the investigator.  It didnt think it 
was clear what the sum represented. It said there was no evidence that Mr B hadnt obtained 
insurance elsewhere (perhaps on a new car) or that he still owned the old car. It asked for 
the complaint  to be reviewed by an ombudsman. I issued a provisional decision as follows: 
I understand Admirals  concerns, but I dont think it has been able to show that Mr K set up 
Mr Bs policy  acting  as a ghost broker. Mr B is Mr Ks nephew. But Admiral has given us a 
list that shows Mr Ks email address was used to get quotes for several people at different 
addresses. The list is the same one it gave us in the previous case thats linked to this one. 
Mr K has been able to explain who all the people  on the list are. He says most of them  are 
family members and the rest are friends.  I dont  think Admiral can show  that isnt the case. 
Admiral queried the dates  of birth for Mr B that were given in the quotes. But the date of birth 
provided for the policy he took out was correct. It isnt clear why the wrong date was 
provided elsewhere. But Mr Bs date of birth is in 1996, and the other  dates given were 1997  
and 1999. As these  dates would have made it appear that Mr B was younger than he is, I 
cant see how using them would have produced a cheaper quote. The address given for 
Mr Bs policy  was also correct, but Admiral  also queried his occupation. 
Admirals concern seems  to have been  that Mr B wasnt  a lab technician  in the engineering 
industry, as it had thought, but worked in a medical  facility. I think  the specific query  about  
that was resolved when Mrs B explained  that he worked in a medical environment,  but his 
role was to repair  the machines used there. 
Since then,  it has emerged  that Mr B left his job in January 2019 and after that he worked  in 
his parents shop.  So it seems the details provided on this point were incorrect.  Admiral may 
have been able to show that it wouldnt have offered Mr B cover  had it known about his 
change of occupation. Alternatively, it may have been able to show that it would still have  
offered him cover, for a higher premium. But Admiral  didnt investigate the issue.
Ref: DRN42940333In its cancellation  notice and final response  letter, Admiral  referred  to one of the policys  
general conditions.  The condition says if the policy holder (or someone  acting  for the policy 
holder) deliberately or recklessly misrepresents information that could affect its ability  to offer 
cover, the policy could  be cancelled. But to rely on this, I think Admiral would have to show a 
breach of the policy condition happened, and that it was prejudiced  by it. I dont  think  it did 
that when it cancelled the policy.  As far as I can see, it doubted some of the details it had 
been given and it thought  Mr B may have used an unauthorised broker.     
In these circumstances, I dont think it was fair and reasonable for Admiral to cancel Mr Bs 
policy. Mr K says that since the cancellation,  it hasnt been  possible to find cover for Mr B at 
an affordable price.  Mr K has shown that Mr Bs car was declared off the road in the spring 
of 2019 and that Mr B got a partial refund of his road tax. Hes also shown that Mr B is no 
longer the cars registered keeper. Admiral  thinks Mr B may have insured another car. But 
theres no evidence  of that. And as a young  driver who had only recently passed his driving 
test, I think  a cancellation is likely to have made it hard for him to find affordable cover.  
In my opinion, it would be reasonable for Admiral to pay Mr B £500 compensation for the 
inconvenience hes faced  by not being able to drive  for social  or work purposes since the 
cancellation. I also think it should remove any record of the cancellation and send a letter  to 
Mr B that he can show to other insurers saying the policy was cancelled  in error.    
I asked the parties  to comment on my provisional view. Both Mr B and Admiral accepted  it.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As both parties accepted  my provisional 
view, theres no reason  to depart from it.
  
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Admiral Insurance  Company 
Limited to pay Mr B £500 for distress  and inconvenience, write  to him stating that the policy 
was cancelled in error and remove any record of the cancellation from databases.  Under the 
rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or reject my 
decision before  27 April 2020.
Susan Ewins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4294033