K820x#14complaint
Mr S has complained that MBNA Limited  wont remove a CIFAS loading  that was applied 
after he disputed a withdrawal from his account  made in 2017.  CIFAS is the UKs fraud  
prevention service. 
background
Mr S says that he lost his wallet,  containing  his MBNA credit card, when he was on holiday 
with his family in the USA. Someone used  his card to make a cash  withdrawal which, after 
currency conversion, amounted to just under £500.  Mr S says it wasnt  him.   
Mr S raised the issue with MBNA  at the time, but initially chose not to pursue it. However, he 
later found  out that MBNA had registered  his details  with CIFAS, making it very difficult  for 
him to obtain  financial services. He complained that that was unfair, since hed been honest  
when hed made the claim that he wasnt responsible for the withdrawal. He referred  the 
matter to this service, and one of our investigators looked at it. 
Our investigator concluded however  that it was more likely than not that Mr S had made the 
withdrawal; it wasnt  therefore  unfair  of MBNA  to have added  the fraud marker in the way it 
did. Mr S didnt  accept that conclusion  and asked that the case be reviewed  by an 
ombudsman.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, however, Ive reached 
the same  overall  conclusions as the investigator  did, and for similar reasons.
MBNAs records indicate that Mr Ss genuine  card was used, with the correct PIN, to make 
the cash withdrawal. That the genuine card was used is of consistent with his own version  of 
events  that he lost his wallet. But Mr S hasnt, in my view,  been able to explain 
satisfactorily how anyone  who took his wallet from him or found it by chance knew his PIN. 
He didnt keep  a record of it, but suggested that someone might have seen it when he used 
a different card (with the same PIN) on the same  day. 
However, Mr S didnt use that other  card on the same day, and in fact hadnt used it for 
some time. When challenged about this, he said hed tried to use the card, but the payment  
hadnt gone through. But the card provider said that there were  no attempted payments 
either  and its records would have shown  if there  had been. 
When Mr S reported the matter to MBNA, he said that one other card (the one Ive referred  
to above) was taken  at the same  time.  But he mentioned a third card to this service, and said 
hed submitted a claim in respect of that card as well. I find it unlikely however that Mr S 
made a claim on that card and simply forgot to mention it to MBNA when he first made his 
claim. 
Mr S said as well that his driving  licence was in his wallet. He told MBNA hed applied  for a 
replacement. He was however unable to provide evidence  of that, and later said that he 
hadnt in fact needed a replacement, as hed found himself in a position where he in fact 
already had two licences.  I can understand that he might have forgotten that he had two 
licences (however that situation had come about), but it seems to me most unlikely that he 
genuinely thought hed applied  for a replacement  when  in fact he hadnt. 
Ref: DRN49302372Finally, the bank pointed out that it was several hours after Mr S thinks he lost his wallet  until 
his card was used. And the cash withdrawal left significant unused  available credit  on the 
card account. It said that was not indicative of fraud. I agree with Mr S that this is not 
conclusive of anything. But its not irrelevant  either  and, taking account of the other matters 
Ive mentioned above, I believe  there is strong evidence that Mr Ss account of events is not 
accurate. I think its more likely than not that he was responsible for the cash  machine 
withdrawal but told MBNA that he wasnt. In the circumstances, I think  it was reasonable for 
MBNA to record the CIFAS marker in the way it did. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont require MBNA Limited to do anything further to resolve Mr Ss 
complaint. Under  the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  24 October  2019.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4930237