K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S say Lloyds Bank  PLC mis-sold  them a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Mr and Mrs S bought the policy  in 1999 at the same time as taking out a mortgage. They 
applied for the mortgage and PPI policy in branch.
Lloyds records are no longer complete enough to say for certain how the policy was set up  
whether it was in joint names or in the sole name of Mr or Mrs S. But given the mortgage 
was held in joint names,  I think  its reasonable to assume that the PPI policy was set up in 
joint names too. And in the absence  of anything to suggest otherwise, I have assumed the 
policy was split equally in terms  of the monthly  benefit. 
So the policy  provided cover for Mr and Mrs S for accident, sickness,  and unemployment   
subject to its exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay around £360 a month towards  Mr 
and Mrs S mortgage balance in the event of a successful claim It also paid an additional 
amount calculated at £3 for every £1,000 of mortgage taken. Lloydss records  arent entirely 
clear on the cost at the time  but there is evidence that at some point in time it cost just over 
£28 a month. 
At the time,  Mr S was employed as an electrician. He has told us he was entitled to at least 
six months sick pay and a similar amount in the event of redundancy. He has said he had a 
critical illness policy with £80,000 of cover. He has also said that he suffered a broken bone 
many years before the sale - but I consider that to all intents and purposes he was in good 
health at the time of the sale. I will come back to this later on.
Mrs S was employed as an administrator. She has told us she cant  remember her employee  
benefits in terms  of sick pay or redundancy. She hasnt told us about any other policies  or 
savings she could use to repay their mortgage  should she be unable to work. Mrs S has said 
she was in good health at the time of the sale. 
Lloyds has sent us evidence to show that the mortgage account closed in 2005. 
Mr and Mrs S representative has made  lengthy  and substantial representations on their 
behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr and Mrs S representative  says:
Lloyds failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time.  In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr and Mrs S 
wouldnt have taken  out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr and Mrs 
Ss representatives believe there to be no evidence  to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
Ref: DRN46485442The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Lloyds should have 
told Mr and Mrs S about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Lloyds should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mr and Mrs S and the 
impact they would have had on their chances of making a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
The information Mr and Mrs S received was misleading. These policies  were  
promoted as providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations 
on the scope of the cover meant  this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr and Mrs S disagreed  with the adjudicators 
opinion for several  reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs S. I dont intend to set that 
out in much detail  here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs S complaint.
This sale took place  in 1999 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
Ref: DRN46485443The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2005. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Lloyds  at the time. So Im satisfied I should take the ABI Code and these 
other publications into account  when  deciding, what is in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of Mr and Mrs S case. 
There was also the Mortgage Code which was a voluntary code followed by subscribing 
lenders and mortgage intermediaries. While predominantly about  mortgage related matters, 
it also included some insurance related commitments. 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Banking  
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Banking  Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman  was 
required to decide  complaints by reference  to what was, in his opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances   and that the Ombudsman was required to observe any applicable 
rule of law or relevant judicial authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. 
This sale took place  before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so Lloyds was 
required to take into account the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were  guidance when  
considering Mr and Mrs S complaint. 
key questions
Ref: DRN46485444Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If Lloyds gave advice,  whether  it advised Mr and Mrs S with reasonable care and skill 
 in particular,  whether the policy was appropriate or suitable for them,  given their 
needs and circumstances. 
-Whether Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs S sufficient,  appropriate and timely  information to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take out the policy,  
including drawing  to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions of the policy  and significant  limitations  and 
exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr and 
Mrs S, I must then go on to consider  whether and to what  extent Mr and Mrs S 
suffered loss or damage and what  I consider  would amount to fair compensation for 
that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr and Mrs S 
and Lloyds, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs S complaint. Ive set out my reasoning  
below. 
did Mr and Mrs S know they had a choice?
Lloyds had to make it clear that the PPI policy was optional. 
Lloyds hasnt got all the paperwork from the time of the sale. But it has provided us with a 
copy of Mr and Mrs S mortgage application.  Looking  at this I can see that towards the end 
of the application there  is a section headed  Insurance which  after asking about household 
insurance requirements went on to ask:
Payment Protection  Insurance... I wish to apply for cover and have completed the relevant 
proposal form. which was followed by two tick boxes Yes and No. And there is a tick in the 
Yes box. The application  didnt say or imply that PPI had to be taken out  if Mr and Mrs S 
didnt want PPI they couldve ticked the No box.
So taking everything into account, I think its more likely  that Mr and Mrs S knew  the policy  
was optional and they agreed  to take it out without undue pressure. 
did Lloyds provide  advice?
Lloyds says it did provide  advice  during this sale. Mr and Mrs S have said it didnt. But on the 
basis that it is Lloyds  own testimony  that it provided  advice, Im persuaded that it likely did 
provide advice in this case.
This means  Lloyds had to advise Mr and Mrs S with reasonable  care and skill, in particular 
whether the policy  was appropriate or suitable  given their needs and circumstances.
the advice
Ref: DRN46485445I dont know what steps Lloyds took to establish whether the policy  was a suitable 
recommendation for Mr and Mrs S. It seems Mr and Mrs S cant remember clearly what 
happened and there is no record of what the adviser discussed  in relation to the policy. 
Notwithstanding the time that has passed,  this is unsurprising  in respect  of a sale during a 
meeting. The adviser had some limited information about Mr and Mrs S financial 
circumstances from the mortgage application,  but there is no specific  evidence  to show the 
adviser took steps to establish whether Mr and Mrs S would have been caught  by the 
significant exclusions and limitations which might have meant  the policy did not fully meet 
their needs.  For example,  there is nothing to suggest Lloyds considered whether Mr and Mrs 
S had any pre-existing  medical  conditions.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded Lloyds did all it should have done 
to determine whether  the policy was suitable  for Mr and Mrs S given their circumstances. So 
Im not persuaded Lloyds advised  with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded Lloyds did all it should  have done  to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mr and Mrs S, I do think  its more  likely  than not that the policy was ultimately 
suitable for them. In reaching that conclusion  Ive taken into consideration:
-Mr and Mrs S met the eligibility criteria for the policy.
-Mr and Mrs S had a need for the policy   it seems likely that Mr and Mrs S ability to 
continue to meet their mortgage repayments would have been put under strain if 
either or both of them were not working  for an extended period of time  even 
allowing for the sick pay and redundancy benefits they say they would have been  
entitled to. Mr and Mrs S didnt have  any savings they could fall back on, so the 
policy would have  helped  Mr and Mrs S manage  the consequences if they were 
unable to work.
-Mr S says he had a critical illness policy at the time. But this isnt a comparable policy 
to PPI  this pays out a lump sum on the diagnosis  of a pre-determined list of critical 
illnesses whereas PPI pays  out a regular monthly amount  upon accident, sickness or 
unemployment. So they have different functions.  This critical illness policy  was a 
useful benefit  for Mr and Mrs S as they took out their mortgage  but it did not make 
the recommendation of PPI unsuitable. 
-The monthly cost of the policy appears  to have  been affordable for Mr and Mrs S. 
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mr and Mrs S. Mr 
S says he was in a high risk occupation.  But there was nothing  about either Mr or 
Mrs S employment or occupation which would have  made it difficult for them  to 
claim. Mrs S hasnt told us about any pre-existing medical conditions  that could affect 
her ability  to claim. 
And while Mr S has referred  to breaking a bone  whilst at school, I do not consider 
this to be a pre-existing  medical condition  Mr S hasnt for example said there  were  
recurring issues with it. So I dont think this appears to be caught by the policy 
limitations and exclusions.  There were  also no additional restrictions  on cover for 
mental health or back problems.
-While  there were  limits to the cover provided  by the policy  (including:  the any similar 
gainful occupation condition and the fact the policy would  only pay benefits for a 
maximum of 12 months for each claim), the policy still provided valuable  cover given:
Ref: DRN46485446Mr and Mrs S circumstances, including their employers sickness  and 
redundancy provisions and the limits to those provisions, which  mean the 
policy could play an important role after those provisions were exhausted; and
The fact the policy protected  the mortgage  repayments relating to their home  
and the potential consequences  should  Mr and Mrs S be unable  to make  the 
repayments on loans  secured against their home.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Lloyds  gave Mr and Mrs S sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable them to understand what Lloyds 
was recommending to them and make  an informed decision about whether to follow that 
advice and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr and Mrs S were given a broad  description of 
what the policy was intended to cover  (that is that the policy  would protect their payments if 
Mr and/or Mrs S were  unable  to work  through accident,  sickness or unemployment) and of 
the approximate  costs. I have reached  this conclusion because  I think its unlikely Mr and 
Mrs S would have taken out the policy without any sense of what  the policy was for and of 
how much  the premium might be. Im mindful  that the mortgage application where they 
ticked to say they were  interested in the cover  said they were  required to complete a 
separate proposal form, which  I think wouldve  likely  set out more detail of the nature of the 
cover.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Lloyds  gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost or about  the exclusions or 
limitations before Mr and Mrs S agreed  to take out the policy.  
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr and Mrs S Im not persuaded 
Lloyds did enough  to present information about the policy  it was recommending in a way that 
was fair and reasonable to them. Im not persuaded Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs S all of the 
information they needed about the policy to make an informed  decision about  whether to 
follow the recommendation  and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr and Mrs S representative  has raised a 
number of general points with regard  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr and Mrs 
S. Ive considered  these carefully and summarised  them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr and Mrs S representative considers to be 
poor value   and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business rather than 
the insurer. 
Ref: DRN46485447-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr and Mrs S about the limitations  and exclusions, it should have gone further 
and explained  the significance of them  to them. 
Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs S representatives views on this. The duty of utmost good 
faith in insurance  law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose material 
facts and not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what a court  
would say  I think  its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer having to 
disclose the claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and 
exclusions in the way Mr and Mrs S have  suggested.  And taking into account the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude that Lloyds ought to have  done  either.  
what effect did Lloydss shortcomings have on Mr and Mrs S? To what extent  did Mr 
and Mrs S suffer loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that Lloyds  didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy to Mr and Mrs 
S. So I have gone  on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mr and 
Mrs S suffered  loss and damage as a result. To answer this, I must decide whether or not Mr 
and Mrs S would  have still taken out the policy, had Lloyds done things properly. 
While Im not persuaded Lloyds took the steps it should have done to establish whether the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Mr and Mrs S, I have found that the policy  was 
ultimately suitable for them.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr and Mrs S have suffered loss 
or damage  in this case primarily  depends  on whether, if Lloyds had explained things  
properly, Mr and Mrs S would have acted differently, or whether they would have taken out 
the policy in any event.
Mr and Mrs S say they wouldnt have taken  it out and believe I should presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. Ive considered the representations of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mr and Mrs S had some  interest  in taking out 
payment protection insurance. 
By this I mean when  Lloyds advised  them that there  was a suitable product they could buy 
that would  protect  their mortgage payments in the event they were unable to work because 
of accident, sickness  and unemployment, they concluded they wanted that product. But they 
made that decision based on incomplete  information, meaning what they thought they were 
getting is not exactly what they got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr and Mrs S circumstances at 
the time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally  wrong  or unsuitable  for them.
Ref: DRN46485448Although I consider it more likely than not that Mr and Mrs S knew  they would have to pay 
something for the policy, it doesnt appear Lloyds told them  the exact premium at the point 
Mr and Mrs S applied  for the policy. Having said that, it seems  likely Mr and Mrs S would 
have been told the cost before the policy started and they paid for the policy for a number of 
years, so if the costs were  significantly at odds  with their expectations at the point of sale, its 
possible they might have raised  that with Lloyds  at the time or reconsidered their decision.
Overall, Im not persuaded Mr and Mrs S would have found the cost unacceptable  if they had 
been given the exact figure during the meeting in which they agreed to the policy.
In addition, Im not persuaded  Lloyds  made  clear  exactly what Mr and Mrs S would  get back  
in return in the event they made  a successful claim.  But I think  its unlikely Mr and Mrs S 
expectations about what the policy would  pay in the event of a claim (an amount sufficient to 
meet their mortgage  payment) were significantly different  to what  the policy actually did  if 
anything, it is more likely than not that the policy  actually paid more in the event of a claim 
than they would have expected as there was an additional cash  payment.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr and Mrs S thought  they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions that Mr and Mrs S knew 
about or ought to have known about at the start date of the policy,  or anything they 
had seen a doctor about in the 12 months  before the start date; 
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr and 
Mrs S werent permanent employees;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mr and Mrs S be 
totally unable to do their own job and any similar gainful occupation  they may 
reasonably become  qualified for in view of their training, experience  and ability;  and
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Mr and Mrs S pause for thought  and may well have caused them to conclude the policy 
wasnt as good  as they thought and they might have  decided not to proceed.  The limitations 
on the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might  have dissuaded  
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs S from taking out the 
policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mr and Mrs Ss circumstances  at the time of sale shows  that the 
policy wasnt fundamentally wrong  or unsuitable  for them.  Mr and Mrs S were eligible for its 
benefits and it provided cover that, despite  its limitations and exclusions,  couldve proved 
useful to them should the insured risks have become a reality. 
I also havent seen  any evidence to suggest Mr and Mrs S wouldve been caught by any of 
the significant exclusions  as Ive previously said Mrs S didnt have any pre-existing medical  
conditions and to all intents and purposes I think Mr S wouldve considered himself to have 
been in good health too (his broken bone  some 13 years prior to the sale is not in my view a 
pre-existing medical condition.) Mr and Mrs S were  also in permanent employment, so I still 
think they had some good reasons  to take the policy out.
Ref: DRN46485449The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Mr and Mrs S would 
have expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some evidence  
to support that claim.
If Mr and Mrs S had known they could  only claim for disability if they were unable  to do both 
their job and any similar gainful  occupation which in the insurers  view they might  
reasonably become qualified for, it might  have played into their thinking about what they 
would have done. And I accept it may have  given them pause for thought   although  its 
possible they may not have been overly  concerned  given that if Mr and Mrs S were unable 
(through disability) to carry  on their own occupations  the chances  that they would be able to 
take up a similar occupation would also, in all probability, be limited.
Lloyds may not have  told Mr and Mrs S that any claim they made would be limited to a 12-
month period.  This may have differed from what they expected and might have hoped for  
but 12 months was a longer period than Mr and Mrs S would have each received full sick 
pay for and their statutory  redundancy entitlement  was also significantly less than 12 
months income.
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mr and Mrs S would still have  thought a policy that 
paid up to 12 monthly mortgage  payments  would  have been of benefit to them and would 
help them manage the consequences  should Mr and Mrs S be unable to work in the 
circumstances covered by the policy. The policy allowed for multiple claims to be made, it 
could help reduce their outgoings at a difficult and uncertain time,  ensure their home was not 
placed at risk and might  potentially help preserve Mr and Mrs S sick pay or redundancy 
money for other use  for example  ongoing  and other fixed household expenditure.
So having  considered all of the evidence and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs S would still have  taken out the policy.  The policy was suitable for them,  
was sufficiently close to what  its likely  they thought they were getting  and provided  benefits 
that would  help them manage  the consequences  if Mr and/or Mrs S was made redundant, or 
unable to work through accident  or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs S would have  taken out the policy in any event notwithstanding  the 
limitations on cover.
Mr and Mrs S representatives say the rules about  how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP App 
3) make it clear  that, where  a significant failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr and Mrs S would not have bought  the PPI they bought  unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Ref: DRN464854410Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr and Mrs S 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr and 
Mrs S found  themselves  in as a result of the sale was the same  position they would have  
been in had the breach  or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr and Mrs S believe the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs S in the position they would have been in if 
they had not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that they would not have taken  out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that they would still have 
taken out the PPI had they been  given clear, fair and not misleading information about the 
policy they were buying. So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude Lloyds should pay Mr and Mrs S compensation, as that would 
put them in a better position than they would have been in if everything had happened as it 
should have done. 
Im also aware that Mr and Mrs S think Lloyds misrepresented the terms of the policy  in how 
it described the PPI. While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
Lloydss statements misrepresented the contract,  in my opinion  the reason why Lloyds failed 
to act fairly  and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs S, in the way it did, 
was insufficient  to meet the standards  I consider  it fair and reasonable to expect it to have 
met in 1999  when providing information about  an insurance policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs S representative says a court might  take if 
it were to find Lloyds negligently misrepresented the contract to Mr and Mrs S and about  the 
remedy a court might award if it were to find that Lloyds had been in breach of its duty of 
utmost good  faith. But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about  what is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mr and Mrs S in a better position than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  21 January 2021.
Ref: DRN464854411Paul Featherstone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4648544