K821x#15complaint
Ms F says the advice given and the arrangements made by Portafina LLP to transfer her 
occupational and personal  pensions  into a Montpelier  Self-invested Personal Pension  (SIPP) 
and associated investments was unsuitable.
background
Ms F was a member of the Scope occupational pension scheme (OPS) and had 
accumulated certain defined benefits which were deferred until retirement.  She also had 
three personal pensions  with Royal  London.
In 2010 Ms F received  a cold call about  her retirement provision. She was 55 at the time and 
told us her main priority  was to make sure she had a decent pension.  Ms F says she never 
met the adviser. Everything was done  over the phone with papers being  sent through  the 
post.
Ms F says Portafina told her she could access some of her money and still have a good 
pension when she left work. She thought the money could be useful  to get some work done 
on her house.
Portafina issued  a suitability report on 22 October  2010, it identified Ms Fs objectives as to: 
Use your existing pension plans  to provide an income at a later date and to take your Tax 
Free Cash entitlement  immediately.
Retain a residual  fund that remains  invested  until such a time that you require an income  in 
your retirement.
Ensure that you have a good  awareness of investment opportunities available to you.
Ensure your portfolio  reflects your current Risk & Reward profile.
Be kept informed  of the performance of your portfolio.
Consolidate your investments,  as far as reasonable, to facilitate clearer  and simpler 
reporting on investment  performance.
Ultimately Ms F was persuaded  to transfer  her pensions to a SIPP  with Montpelier. At the 
time of the advice,  her OPS had a cash equivalent  transfer value of around  £55,000,  and her 
personal pension  plans were worth  about  £15,000 in total.  Her funds  were  moved  in 
December 2010.  She received nearly  £17,500  tax-free cash  (TFC) and the remainder  of her 
money was invested  in specialist funds, the bulk of which were related to the leisure sector.
Ms F, who is represented,  says she became aware  there might  be a problem in 2017, when 
she received a statement from her SIPP provider which  indicated  that her pension was only 
worth around £15,000.
Ms F had various concerns about  what had happened. For example,  she didnt think  the 
process Portafina followed in advising her about moving her pension provision was 
appropriate. And she thought the advice to invest in the funds she ended up didnt  match her 
attitude to risk.
Ref: DRN42861502Portafina sent Ms F its final response  on 13 November 2017.  It argued  that shed brought  
her complaint too late and so this Service couldnt consider it. While it later accepted  our 
jurisdiction, it hasnt  engaged effectively with arguments around  the merits of her case.
Ms Fs complaint has now been passed  to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this case.  Wheres theres conflicting  information about 
what happened and gaps in what we know, my role is to weigh the evidence we do have and 
to decide, on the balance  of probabilities,  whats most likely to have happened.
Ive not provided  a detailed response  to all the points raised in this case. Thats  deliberate; 
ours is an informal service  for resolving disputes between financial businesses  and their 
customers. While Ive taken into account and considered  all submissions, Ive concentrated 
my findings  on what I think is relevant and at the heart of this complaint.
Im upholding Ms Fs complaint. Ill explain why.
how does the regulatory framework inform  the consideration of Ms Fs case?
The first thing Ive considered is the extensive regulation around transactions like those 
performed by Portafina for Ms F. The FCA Handbook contains eleven Principles for 
businesses, which it says are fundamental obligations firms must adhere to (PRIN 1.1.2 G in 
the FCA Handbook).  These include:
-Principle 2, which requires a firm to conduct  its business with due skill, care and 
diligence.
-Principle 3, which requires a firm to take reasonable care to organise  and control  its 
affairs responsibly and effectively,  with adequate risk management systems.
-Principle 6, which requires a firm to pay due regard to the interests of its customers.
So, the Principles  are relevant and form part of the regulatory framework  that existed at the 
relevant time. They must always be complied with by regulated  firms like Portafina. As such, 
I need to have regard to them in deciding Ms Fs complaint.
Further, COBS 2.1.1  R requires a firm to act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance  
with the best interests of its clients, in relation to designated investment business  carried on 
for a retail  client. The definition of designated investment business includes arranging 
(bringing about)  deals in investments.
COBS 9.2.1R sets out the obligations on firms in assessing the suitability of investments. 
They are the same  things  that I look at when reaching a decision about whether the advice 
was suitable. In summary, the business must  obtain  the necessary information  regarding: 
the consumers  knowledge and experience in the investment field relevant to the advice; 
their financial  situation; and their investment objectives.
When I consider a case where someone  has switched their pension  funds,  I look at their 
circumstances at the time. Why were they interested in switching? Were those wants  or 
needs reasonable? And so, should  the adviser have recommended  the switch?
Ref: DRN42861503Each case is different,  but Id expect the switch to be in Ms Fs best interests to make the 
advice suitable.  And in this regard, Id expect  to see a comparison was made between  her 
former pensions and the recommended new arrangement.
In 2009 the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), then the Financial  Services  Authority, 
published a checklist  for pension  switching  that I think is still helpful  today. It highlighted  four 
key issues it thought should be focussed  on:
- Charges  - has the consumer been switched to a pension that is more expensive  than their 
existing one(s) or a stakeholder pension, without good reason?
- Existing benefits - has the consumer  lost benefits  in the switch  without good reason? This 
could include the loss of ongoing contributions  from an employer, a guaranteed annuity rate 
or the right to take benefits early.
- Risk - has the consumer  switched  into a pension that doesnt match their recorded attitude 
to risk (ATR) and personal circumstances?
- Ongoing fund management - has the consumer switched into a pension with a need for 
ongoing investment  reviews but this was not explained, offered or put in place.
In July 2010 the FCA issued guidance  about  unregulated investments in a Good and Poor 
Practice report.
The report  contained  examples of good  practice  in relation to unregulated investments, for 
example where  a firm had robust  controls in place and limited  client exposure to 3% to 5% of 
their portfolios, where  those clients had been  assessed as being  suitable for unregulated 
investments. An example  of bad practice  given by the FCA was where up to 100% of a 
clients holdings were  invested in a single  UCIS  (unregulated collective  investment  scheme).
Even if the unit trusts  Ms F was invested  in werent  technically a UCIS, they share  similar 
characteristics including  the high-risk nature of the investment, being illiquid, subject to 
counter-party risk and uncertain valuation. And I think these matters are relevant to my 
consideration.
Its also important to review the FCAs specific stance on advice provided about SIPPs.  For 
example, in January 2013 it issued  an industry alert which said:
It has been  brought to the FSAs  attention that some financial advisers are giving advice to 
customers on pension transfers or pension switches without assessing the advantages and 
disadvantages of investments  proposed  to be held within the new pension. In particular, we 
have seen financial advisers moving  customers  retirement  savings to [SIPPs] that invest 
wholly or primarily in high risk, often  highly illiquid  unregulated  investments
Financial advisers  using this advice model  are under the mistaken  impression that this 
process means they do not have to consider the unregulated investment as part of their 
advice to invest in the SIPP and that they only need  to consider the suitability of the SIPP  in 
the abstract. This is incorrect.  The FSAs view is that the provision of suitable advice 
generally requires  consideration of the other  investments held by the customer  or, when 
advice is given on a product which  is a vehicle for investment in other products (such as 
SIPPs and other  wrappers), consideration of the suitability of the overall proposition,  that is, 
the wrapper and the expected underlying investments in unregulated schemes..
Ref: DRN42861504If, taking into account the individual circumstances of the customer, the original pension  
product, including its underlying holdings, is more suitable for the customer, then the SIPP is 
not suitable. This is because if you give regulated advice and the recommendation will 
enable investment in unregulated items you cannot separate  out the unregulated elements 
from the regulated  elements. There are clear requirements under the FSA Principles and 
Conduct of Business rules.
Although the alert was issued after the advice given to Ms F, it wasnt new guidance; it was 
the regulator re-stating its position.
did Portafina adhere to the regulatory  requirements  placed on it?
In short,  I dont think Portafina met the regulatory  requirements placed on it. Ill explain why.
There are two documents supplied by Portafina  relating to its transaction with Ms F that are 
important to my consideration, these are the fact-find and the suitability report. 
Portafina had to obtain information from Ms F in order  to understand essential facts about  
her. In order  to advise  her to transfer/switch her pension funds into the SIPP with Montpelier 
and facilitate investments  in the funds it recommended it had to believe that:
-The service or recommended transaction met Ms Fs investment objectives (including  
her attitude to risk, the purpose  of investing  and how long she wanted to invest  for).
-Ms F was able to financially withstand  the investment  risks.
-Ms F had the necessary experience or knowledge to understand the risks involved.
Portafina hasnt  met these  obligations.
At the time of Portafinas advice Ms F was a family support worker earning  around £17,500 a 
year. Shed been with her then employer for a year and was a member of its OPS. She was 
55 and its recorded  that she expected to retire when  she was 65. Details  of her household 
situation arent clear, although its recorded  that her children were  grown-up.
Ms F had her own home, savings of £11,000 in a bond and £1,500 as an emergency  fund. 
She had no other assets, aside from her pensions. She didnt have a mortgage, loans or 
credit outstanding.
The first objective  Portafina recorded for Ms F in this transaction  was to:
Use your existing pension plans  to provide an income at a later date and to take your [TFC]  
entitlement immediately.
Unfortunately for Portafina what it records throughout the process  only serves to undermine 
the transaction it recommended.
Concerning the position  on the TFC. I can see in the fact-find  the adviser records:
No urgent need for TFC as has savings but tied up and does not use them  and has a good 
disposable income but still wishes to take max TFC now to enjoy  in case does not reach 
retirement age and has stated that will have state pension + LGPS [Local  Government  
Pension Scheme] presently contributing  too. Also has unencumbered  property and could sell 
and move into rented if needed to.
Ref: DRN42861505Im concerned that this distillation of Ms Fs thoughts didnt start alarm bells ringing for 
Portafina. For example,  there was no pressing need  for her to take TFC in 2010. Shed other 
sources she could draw on later if needs  be. She was in good health  so her concern about  
being unable  to benefit from her TFC later seems a weak reason for accessing her benefits 
early. Shed only accrued 1 year of service in the LGPS OPS  and even if she remained with 
her employer until retirement, she wouldve only built up about 10 years  of service.
Portafina was in a good position to have  analysed, tested, challenged and advised  Ms F 
about what was in her best interest  for retirement planning. It knew  pension  pots built up 
over many years are to provide for retirement.  And certainly, when early access  to benefits 
are recommended  there need to be compelling reasons, that wasnt  the case  here.
Instead its arguable  Portafina acted to facilitate  Ms Fs want  at the time,  which  Im not 
satisfied was deeply held or necessary, to access some cash  from her pension provision.
Turning to the other aspect of Ms Fs first objective,  to provide an income  in retirement,  the 
investigator found: 
The advice was given during the period when the Financial Ombudsman Service  was 
publishing 'discount rates' on our website for use in loss assessments where a complaint 
about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Whilst  businesses weren't required to refer 
to these rates when  giving  advice on pension transfers, I consider they provide a useful 
indication of what growth rates would have been  considered reasonably achievable.
The investment return (critical yield) required to match [Ms Fs OPS] at retirement  was 
around 9.7%  per year. When  the advice was given,  the discount rate was 5.8% per year for 
9 years to retirement. For further comparison, the regulator's upper projection rate at the 
time was 9% per year. I've taken  this into account,  along with the composition of assets in 
the discount rate, Ms F's medium attitude to risk and also the term to retirement. I think she 
was likely to receive a substantially lower  pension than the occupational scheme at 
retirement, as a result of investing  in line with that attitude to risk.
I agree  with the investigators finding  here.  Leaving aside what we know  in hindsight  about 
the investments  recommended  to Ms F, Portafinas  advice  was always more  likely than not 
going to destroy  value  in her pension funds  even in the best-case scenario for performance 
of her funds.
I have various other concerns about  the advice Portafina  gave  and the arrangements  it 
made for Ms F to transfer/switch  her pension funds. For example, it conducted a risk 
questionnaire with Ms F. It indicated that she had a balanced attitude to investment risk. This 
was defined in the following terms:
Balanced investors  typically have moderate levels of knowledge  about  financial matters and 
will pay some  attention  to keeping up to date with financial matters.  They  may have some  
experience of investment, including investing  in products containing risky assets such as 
equities and bonds.
In general,  balanced  investors understand that they have to take investment risk in order  to 
be able to meet their long-term goals. They  are likely to be willing to take risk with at least  
part of their available assets.
Ref: DRN42861506Balanced investors  will usually be prepared to give up a certain  outcome for a gamble 
provided that the potential rewards from the gamble are high enough.  They will usually be 
able to make  up their minds on financial matters  relatively quickly,  but do still suffer from 
some feelings of regret when their decisions  turn out badly.
Some of the responses  Ms F gave to the questions that were part of Portafinas risk appetite 
assessment were potentially revealing, for example:
-I am not willing to take any risk  agree
-Id rather take my chances  with high risk/return investments  than increase the 
amount Im saving   disagree
-When it comes  to investing. Id rather be safe than sorry  agree
-I have little experience  of investing  in property  agree
-Usually it takes me a long time to make  up my mind on financial matters - agree
I accept Ms Fs responses to other  questions  mayve  indicated a different outlook  and all 
information gathered  needs to be taken together and reviewed. But I cant  find any proper 
exploration of what underpinned its assessment of her risk appetite.  Rather, it seems her 
answers were fed into a system and dealt with in a mechanical manner without further 
enquiry.
On reviewing the suitability report issued by Portafina, I dont think the risks of 
transferring/switching Ms Fs pension funds into a SIPP  enabling the recommended 
investments were adequately weighed.
Given Portafina knew Ms F was considering investing the bulk of her funds into unit trusts 
related to hotel  development,  a substantial element of which  was overseas, Im surprised 
that specific warnings around  counterparties, development and valuation uncertainty  were 
not clearly brought to her attention.
Crucially, even if I was to assume  that the risk assessment Portafina conducted for Ms F 
was right,  I dont think the investment portfolio it recommended was an appropriate  match for 
a balanced risk outlook. And I cant see that it gave her an unequivocal warning about this or 
set out the implications for her.
Ms F was recommended investments where  80% of her money  would be placed in 
specialised unit trust funds linked to hotel  development. Two of these funds  were  described 
as follows:
The Raithwaites Hypa Fund is a specialist investment in a five star hotel development in 
Whitby, Yorkshire designed to yield 8% per annum. In addition the fund has secured a 
discount to current  market value which means  that the investment should be worth 25% 
more than the amount, you invest once the Hotel opens in August 2011. Our due diligence  
research evaluates this as a low to medium risk investment  which will run over an 
approximate 7-year period and should provide  an average compound return of 11% once 
capital growth and income are taken into account.
Ref: DRN42861507The Hypa Asia Fund invests in "Off-Plan"  villas  and Hotel Rooms which will be resold at 
higher prices  once  buildings complete.  The developments are all financed by local banks 
and the fund is designed to run over a three  year period and return  between  50%-100%  on 
the original investment. Because of the added currency risks involved this investment is 
medium to high risk but its inclusion in your portfolio is balanced by the other lower risk 
investments.
As well as creating  a serious lack of diversification in how Ms Fs funds were  being invested, 
Portafina hasnt  done enough to satisfy me that she was a sufficiently experienced or 
sophisticated investor to appreciate the risks she was taking on here.
Im also concerned that Ms Fs capacity  for loss doesnt appear to have  been  thought  
through. Although she had another 10 years  or so before  her planned  retirement date, she 
was being advised to transfer/switch almost her entire accumulated  pension  provision  and to 
invest in a high-risk portfolio. She only had modest  savings  to fall back  on.
It seems  Portafina was more concerned with facilitating what Ms F said she wanted to do 
with her valuable  pension funds and less so in providing effective advice  about  what  was in 
her best interests.  But it was being paid a lot of money to provide best advice.
Those charges  are another area of concern. Its recorded that she was charged a 5% 
commission for the initial advice. There was a 1% ongoing advice fee for Portafina. There 
were fees for the SIPP provider. And there  were  management fees associated with each of 
the funds she was investing in. 
I think Portafina failed  to provide a clear comparison of the charges she would  incur  in the 
new arrangements  compared  to her former  pension  plans.  Whats clear is that shed be 
paying substantially  more than she had been.
Overall, I think Portafina shouldve provided  Ms F with an explicit  recommendation not to 
proceed with the transfer/switch of her pensions into the Montpelier SIPP,  the purpose of 
which was to invest in a high-risk portfolio. I say this because of what  it knew about her 
attitude to risk, her capacity for loss and her lack of experience of the sort of investments it 
was recommending. It failed to do this.
Instead, Portafina made arrangements for the transfer of Ms Fs OPS  and personal pensions 
into the SIPP and much more costly arrangements,  which even in the best case  it knew 
would erode the value of the main investment she was making from her OPS.
In doing all this, Portafina was aware  Ms F was being exposed to significant risks in the 
investments it was facilitating.  It knew these funds could be illiquid, meaning Ms F might 
have difficulty getting access to her pension funds.  The investment was specialised,  out of 
the ordinary and reliant on third parties. And it was subject to valuation  uncertainty.
I think that if Portafina had given Ms F effective  advice  she wouldnt have gone ahead  with 
the transfer/switch  from her OPS and personal  pension plans to the SIPP  and the high-risk 
portfolio it recommended.  She didnt have  a pressing need for the TFC,  indeed  I understand 
a significant portion of that was left unspent. Its unusual  for a lay person  to seek 
professional advice and then go against the recommendations received.
Ref: DRN42861508To conclude  I dont think the switch of Ms Fs OPS and personal  pension funds into the 
Montpelier SIPP and the investment in the high-risk portfolio of funds it recommended could 
sensibly be regarded as fair to her. As such I think Portafina failed to meet the regulatory  
requirements when  providing her with advice and making the arrangements.
So, taking all the circumstances of the case into account, its reasonable to uphold this 
complaint against  Portafina and for it to put things  right.
putting things right
Im upholding Ms Fs case. So, she needs  to be returned to the position she wouldve  been  
in now - or as close to that as reasonably  possible  had it not been for the failures which  I 
hold Portafina  responsible  for.
If Portafina had done  everything  it shouldve, I dont think  Ms F wouldve transferred / 
switched her OPS and personal  pension funds into the Montpelier SIPP, and so she wouldnt 
have suffered the financial  loss shes facing. I think its most likely she wouldve left her 
pensions where  they were.
So Portafina  LLP need to do the following.
1. Calculate a notional  loss Ms F has suffered  as a result of making the transfer/switch of her 
pension funds
(a)  In relation to her occupational pension  scheme
Portafina should undertake a redress calculation in line with the Pension  Review  
methodology, as amended by the FCA in October 2017. A figure  should  be derived up to the 
date of calculation.  And this should be carried out using the most  recent  financial 
assumptions published.
Portafina will need to contact the Department  for Work  and Pensions  to obtain Ms Fs 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related  Pension Scheme (SERPS  or S2P). These 
details should  then be used to include any SERPS adjustment in the calculation,  which  will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Ms Fs SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
(b) In relation to her personal pension plans,  one of which  included  certain protections
Portafina should obtain the notional value of Ms Fs previous personal pension  plans  with 
Royal London, allowing for the fact that one of these had certain protections,  as at the date 
of calculation. So, as if they hadnt  been transferred to the Montpelier SIPP. It will need  to 
obtain the value of the plans as previously  invested.
If there are any difficulties in obtaining  a notional valuation then the FTSE UK Private  
Investors Income Total Return  Index (prior to 1 March  2017, the FTSE WMA  Stock Market 
Income Total Return Index) should be used as Im satisfied thats a reasonable proxy  for the 
type of return that couldve  been  achieved if Ms Fs pension had remained invested in her 
previous plans.
Ref: DRN42861509Portafina will then have  the total notional  value for Ms Fs previous pensions  (a+b). It should 
then find the current  value of her SIPP,  including  investments and any cash held. 
Concerning the valuation  here  the approach to be taken is set out in step 2.
Ms F took TFC in 2010. She mayve  made  other withdrawals and/or made other  
contributions to her SIPP. After confirming the detailed position, then the value Portafina 
obtains or the calculations Portafina makes  can assume these adjustments would still have 
occurred and on the same dates.
The adjusted, as appropriate,  like for like difference between the notional  value of Ms Fs 
former occupational and personal pensions and the current value of her SIPP  will be her 
basic financial loss that Portafina needs to redress.
As I understand it, Ms F paid all her fees via her SIPP fund. If thats the case, the 
methodology above will ensure she is restored to the position she should  been in. However, 
if she paid any of fees directly using  other  sources  of money and she can evidence this, then 
Portafina will need to reimburse her for this. If any fees were  paid in this way then it will need  
to add 8% simple interest  per annum, from the date she paid the charges until it settles.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Portafina considers that its required by 
HM Revenue & Customs  (HMRC) to deduct income  tax, it should tell Ms F how much has 
been taken off. It should also give her a tax deduction certificate  if she asks for one, so she 
can reclaim the tax from HMRC if appropriate.
2. Pay a commercial  value to buy any investments which cannot currently  be redeemed
To close Ms Fs SIPP and avoid ongoing  fees, the investments need to be crystallised. To 
do this Portafina  should ask the SIPP provider to determine an amount its willing to accept 
as a commercial value for the investments and Portafina can then pay this to take ownership  
of them.
If Portafina is unwilling  or unable to purchase  the investments, the value should be assumed 
to be nil for the purposes of the loss calculation. In this instance, where Portafina has 
compensated Ms F fully in line with my assessment, then it may ask her to provide an 
undertaking to account to it for the net amount of any payment the SIPP may receive from 
the investment.  That undertaking  should  allow for the effect of any tax and charges on the 
amount she may receive from the investment  and any eventual sums she would be able to 
access from the SIPP.
Portafina will need to meet  any costs in drawing up this undertaking.
3. Pay an amount into Ms Fs SIPP so that the transfer value is increased by the loss 
calculated (resulting from 1 and 2) or pay her an equivalent cash sum notionally adjusted  for 
tax 
If compensation is paid into Ms Fs SIPP, payment should allow  for the effect of charges and 
any available tax relief,  so that she is in the same  position as if shed stayed in her original 
occupational and personal  pension  schemes.
Ref: DRN428615010If paying compensation into Ms Fs SIPP would conflict  with any existing protection  or 
allowance and / or the plan is closed and Portafina takes on her investments, then it should 
pay her compensation  as a cash sum. In doing so it should  make a notional  deduction  to 
allow for income tax that would otherwise have been  paid. 
If Ms F is a basic rate taxpayer, the notional  allowance would reduce the amount payable  
(after any allowance  for tax-free cash),  equivalent  to the current basic rate of tax.
4. SIPP  fees
If the investments arent removed from Ms Fs SIPP, and it remains open after compensation 
has been paid,  Portafina should pay her an amount equivalent to five years of future fees.  
This should allow enough time for the issues with the investments to be dealt with, and for 
them to be removed from the SIPP.
If, after five years, Portafina  wants to keep the SIPP open, and to maintain an undertaking 
for any future payments under the investment, it must agree  to pay any further future  SIPP 
fees. If Portafina fails to pay the SIPP fees, Ms F should then have the option of trying  to 
cancel the investments to allow the plan to be closed.
5. Distress  and inconvenience
I also think Ms F has been caused  upset as a result  of Portafinas actions. The sudden loss 
of a substantial  element  of her pension fund would have come as a shock  to her and has 
clearly had a significant  impact.  In recognition of this it should pay her £300 for the trouble 
and upset shes experienced.  
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive already set out, Im upholding Ms Fs complaint. 
I require Portafina  LLP to pay compensation to Ms F as Ive indicated  above. It should pay 
the compensation within 28 days of Ms Fs acceptance of my final decision. And it should 
provide the details of the redress  calculations to her in a clear  and simple  format.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 January 2021.
Kevin Williamson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4286150