K822xcomplaint
Mrs C complains that the charges Vauxhall  Finance plc, trading as GMAC, applied  when  she 
voluntarily terminated  (VT) her conditional sale agreement, are unfair. 
background 
In August  2015  Mrs C acquired a brand new car through a conditional  sale agreement with 
GMAC. In October 2017 Mrs C decided to terminate her agreement and return the car. For 
medical reasons  she had to stop work and could no longer afford the payments. 
Mrs C said she wrote to GMAC  sometime in early September, six weeks before she 
intended to terminate the agreement, in order to arrange to return the car. She said she 
didnt receive a reply. She said she tried calling GMAC as well. She arranged  to return the 
car to the dealer,  S, on 13 October. Mrs C said she had the car valeted on the day and 
returned the car along with paperwork, including the V5 document  and the key. She said the 
car was inspected by S who agreed  it was in good  condition. 
Shortly after this Mrs C said GMAC began to call. She felt harassed so she asked it to write 
to her. She said she was suffering further health problems related to disability and was 
finding the situation stressful. 
GMAC inspected the car in December and found the V5 to be missing, damage to the car 
inside and out and an incomplete service history. In total it intended to charge Mrs C 
£814.10. Mrs C complained. After investigation GMAC agreed she had returned the V5 to S. 
In addition S confirmed  condensation had caused  damp in the car due to having been left 
standing. So GMAC waived the valeting costs. 
Unhappy with this response Mrs C complained to this service.  She said she had made every 
effort to ensure the car was returned  when she knew  her disability meant  she couldnt work 
any more. She said GMAC and S had miscommunicated with both herself  and each other. 
She said S had repeatedly told GMAC she had returned the car. She said she would 
struggle to pay the outstanding charges. 
Our investigator thought the damage to the car fell outside of the definition of fair wear and 
tear and likely  happened  when the car was with Mrs C so didnt think  it was unfair for GMAC 
to charge for the repairs.  Mrs C didnt agree. She said she did everything in accordance with 
her contract. She maintained GMAC and S did not communicate and errors had been made. 
She said this continued  to cause her stress on top of having to stop working due to ill health. 
After considering all of the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mrs 
C and GMAC on 4 March  2019. I said: 
Mrs C has said the reason she wanted  to VT the contract was because  she had been forced 
to retire due to ill health. Im very sorry  to hear this. I can imagine this situation  with the car 
has been difficult for her on top of her other  worries. 
Ive looked at the inspection report carried out on behalf of GMAC. It lists a number of 
damages and other chargeable items. GMAC has waived charges for valeting the car, the 
missing V5 and, following  the investigators initial view, the incomplete  service history.  So its 
left to me to decide whether the charges for damage are fair and reasonable. The damage 
reported includes multiple scratches  to paintwork on the body of the car, a scuffed alloy 
wheel and a gouge to the fog lamp  surround. 
Ref: DRN46634672Ive also looked  at the conditional sale agreement Mrs C signed and Im satisfied  she agreed 
to be bound by the terms and conditions  which included  a requirement to compensate  
GMAC and pay reasonable costs  incurred as a result of failing to keep the car in good repair  
and condition.
GMAC has told this service  that the normal process  for VT is the customer  contacts GMAC 
and it sends a VT pack  to them. It then sends the account to a third party, M, to make 
contact with the customer to collect and inspect  the car. It said sometimes  the customer can 
deliver their car to the dealership but only if that dealership takes  part in assisting with 
handbacks. GMAC said S was a supplying dealership and is not part of the handback  
scheme. 
Mrs C said she called  GMAC six weeks prior to 13 October to VT the contract. Its not clear  
to me when exactly this call was made but GMAC said it issued a VT document pack  on 26 
September so Im satisfied Mrs C did initiate the termination prior to when she dropped off 
the car. She also said she rang GMAC again and arranged to return  the car to S. Mrs C took 
the car to S and left it there. She said S inspected  the car and did not report  any damage  or 
problems. She also said she didnt receive any paperwork but S agreed the car was in good 
condition. 
GMAC went on to say Mrs C had made contact to say she was moving away  and was going 
to take the car to the local dealership,  in this case S. It said Mrs C did not tell S the reason 
why she left the car with it. GMAC also said Mrs C hadnt received  the pack so it issued 
another but this wasnt returned  signed  until two weeks later. Ive seen a copy of the 
document. It was signed by Mrs C on 26 October and she clearly  says the car has been  
returned to S. It seems likely  that Mrs C wouldve posted this immediately. But if I assume  it 
did arrive  two weeks after this date, then it was received by GMAC on or before 9 
November. So its likely  GMAC knew where the car was from 9 November.
Once that pack was received back GMAC then sent the account  to M to make arrangements 
to collect the car. GMAC said M contacted Mrs C who told it she had left the car with the 
dealership. M contacted GMAC to ask if it knew  where the car was and GMAC told M the car 
was with S. GMAC said it contacted S and it was arranged for the car to be collected five 
days later.  But the car wasnt inspected until 19 December, more  than five weeks after 
GMAC had received the VT forms, assuming  it received them  at the latest 9 November and 
more than nine weeks after Mrs C left the car with S.
Mrs C has said GMAC and S have miscommunicated with both herself and each other.  I 
havent seen any contact notes or detail of communication between  GMAC and S, despite a 
request from this service.  So its not clear to me what was decided and by whom.  GMAC 
said it was aware Mrs C would be taking the car to S so it either knew  Mrs C intended to 
return the car to S or agreed this should be done, despite S not being a participant of the 
handback scheme. She said GMAC were repeatedly told where the car was. I assume Mrs 
C meant GMAC were told by S.
Although Mrs C said S agreed the car was in good condition she wasnt  given  any 
paperwork in receipt of the car. While this means  there is no paperwork confirming the car 
was in good condition it also means  there  is no paperwork from S confirming there was 
damage to the car, specifically visible damage to the body of the car. 
Ref: DRN46634673While the car was with S it appeared to suffer water  ingress resulting in mould appearing on 
the seats. GMAC has accepted this happened  while the car was with S. It also accepted Mrs 
C did give the V5 to S, which at first it said S did not have. This indicates to me the car was 
not well taken care of after Mrs C left it with S.
GMAC said Mrs C didnt tell S why she left the car with them. As I havent seen any contact 
notes I dont know what was communicated but it seems unlikely S wouldve accepted  a car 
for an indefinite period  with no reason at all. Mrs S wasnt to know  that S was not part of the 
handback scheme and if the car was accepted  by S, irrespective of the lack of paperwork, it 
seems reasonable  that Mrs S should assume she had handed the car back  in good faith.
GMAC has accepted  it knew  Mrs C wanted  to voluntarily terminate the agreement  and that 
she was going  to take the car to S. I havent seen any evidence  to suggest GMAC told Mrs C 
not to do anything or not to take the car to S until she had received  the pack. When  she did 
take the car to S, S accepted it and, according to Mrs C did a visual inspection.  
So while I dont know how or when the scratches  and other damage occurred, nor have  I 
decided if they are due to wear and tear or not, subject to any further information I may 
receive, I dont believe  I can fairly  hold Mrs C responsible  for any of the damage.  She told 
GMAC she intended to voluntarily terminate, she handed the car back in good  faith,  to the 
dealer she acquired  it from, who accepted it, including any visible  defects. S subsequently  
did not take care of it enough for there  to be water ingress damage and then allowed GMAC 
to believe Mrs C had not returned the V5. So I dont believe Mrs C should  be liable for any 
damage that was present on the car at the time M inspected it some  two months later.
I understand this situation has caused  Mrs C additional worry on top of an already 
challenging time so, again subject  to any further  submission from either party,  I believe 
GMAC should pay Mrs C £100  in compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Both Mrs C and GMAC agreed with my provisional findings.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My provisional decision was sent to Mrs C and GMAC and both parties accepted  it. So I see 
no reason to depart from its conclusions. 
my final decision
My final decision is to instruct  Vauxhall  Finance plc, trading as GMAC, to 
cancel the outstanding charges relating to damage to the car. For the avoidance  of 
doubt this is in addition to the removal of the charges for valeting,  the V5 
documentation and for the incomplete  service  history, that GMAC already agreed to 
waive.
remove any adverse information  from Mrs Cs credit file in relation to these  charges. 
pay Mrs C £100 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 May 2019.
Ref: DRN46634674Maxine Sutton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4663467