K821x#15complaint
Mr E complains that Nextcredit Limited did not carry out proper affordability checks  and 
approved loans for him irresponsibly. 
background
Using information Nextcredit has provided  I have created a table  with some details of the 
approved loans. 
Loan Approved Amount Agreed term Repaid Other info
1 31 May 2013 £100 21 days21 June 
2013Paid on time
222 June 
2013£200 28 days9 October 
2014Paid late
gap
319 February 
2018£200 12 days4 March  
2018Paid late
412 March 
2018£150 49 days 30 April 2018Repaid on 
time
5 8 May 2018 £300 130 days 21 May 2018Repaid  early 
in 13 days
6 29 May 2018 £1,000 360 days 23 July 2018Repaid  early 
in under two 
months
Nextcredit sent to us details Mr E gave it when applying for Loans  3 to 6 plus some credit  
check results  it carried out. We have received a telephone call recording of Mr E with a 
Nextcredit representative before Loan 6 was approved. 
One of our adjudicators looked  at the complaint and thought that Next credit should  put 
things right for Mr E in relation to Loans  3 to 6. 
Nextcredit did not agree and gave many  reasons why it did not. Our adjudicator looked at 
the complaint  again and did not alter her view. 
Mr Es representative has acknowledged  the adjudicators view and has added  nothing and 
so I take it that Mr E agrees with the non-uphold view for Loans  1 and 2. So I have not 
reviewed these as they do not seem to be in dispute. 
The complaint remains unresolved in relation to Loans 3 to 6 and has been  passed to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Nextcredit needed to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr E 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  
Ref: DRN43324082These checks could take into account  a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early  stages  of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might  be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Nextcredit should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Nextcredit was required to establish  
whether Mr E could  sustainably repay  his loans   not just whether the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to 
make repayments on time,  while meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without 
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.  
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Es complaint.
In relation the period  where Mr E was not a customer of Nextcredit then it was a substantial  
gap and normally I would say that this was a break in the chain. 
However the checks Nextcredit  carried out just before  Loan  3 included extensive  credit 
searches. We have been sent those results. They show that Mr E had been a regular  user of 
short term loans and as such Nextcredit was fully on notice that Mr E had been  using high-
cost short-term credit loans for a long time. So he would  be unlikely to be able to sustainably  
make the repayments  to the Nextcredit loans because of his existing commitments.  
Ref: DRN43324083So having  undertaken  a high level of checks then I cannot say it was reasonable for it to 
ignore the record  clearly  shown by this. I agree with our adjudicator and its appropriate  that 
Loan 3 is upheld and I do the same.
It follows that the same logic can be applied to Loans 4 to 6 and its clear the Mr E was 
reapplying for loans  very soon  after they were repaid.  And in May 2018 Mr E applied for a 
total of £1,300 in a very short  time.  
I have listened  to the telephone call made  just before Loan 6 was approved  and still I think  
that the loan should  be upheld.
I uphold Loans  3 to 6. 
putting things right  what Nextcredit needs  to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr E paid on Loans 3 to 6;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement ;
remove any negative payment information about Loans 3 to 6 from Mr Es credit  file;
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Nextcredit  to take off tax from this interest. It must give 
Mr E a certificate  showing  how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mr Es complaint. Nextcredit Limited 
should pay Mr E compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 September 2019.
Rachael Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4332408