K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that a finance  agreement was misrepresented by Everest Limited.
background
In May 2018  Mr M placed an order and entered into a finance agreement with Everest. A 
survey was carried out in June 2018  and installation was completed in September 2018.
Following installation, Mr M contacted  Everest to settle the agreement. Hes unhappy  
because he was charged interest.
Mr M says he was told by the salesperson that there  was a 14 day period following 
completion when  the loan could be paid off in full without incurring interest charges.
In its final response,  Everest said the terms and conditions  of the loan stated  that it was an 
interest bearing loan.  It also said that the salesperson had explained to Mr M that there 
would be an early settlement charge if the loan was settled early.
Mr M wasnt happy with the response. He said hed been encouraged to pay a deposit and 
enter into the finance agreement on the basis that he could pay the outstanding balance free 
of interest when the work had been competed. He said hed been  told that he would have 14 
days after completion to pay without incurring any interest or charges. 
To resolve  his complaint,  Mr M wants a refund of the interest hes paid (£333.64) together 
with compensation.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She said there  was no evidence  to support that 
Mr M was told the finance would  be interest  free or that interest would only be applied 14 
days after completion.
Mr M didnt  agree. He said he hadnt been  provided  with the terms and conditions before 
signing the agreement. He also wanted  the salesperson to provide a statement about the 
discussion which took place.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M says the agreement was misrepresented. A misrepresentation is an untrue statement 
of fact which induces the customer to enter  into the agreement.
Everest has emphasised  that the documentation  it gave  to Mr M makes  it clear that hed be 
paying interest and/or early settlement charges and that it doesnt say anything about a 14 
days interest free period  following completion.
Everest has obtained information  from a salesperson who was present at the time.  He says 
that Mr M was told that there was a monthly interest  rate that was charged  on the 
outstanding balance but that he could make over payments which would shorten the period  
of the loan and the total amount of interest  paid. The salesman also says that Mr M was told 
Ref: DRN44699472that he could pay off the agreement at any point by giving 30 days notice and that in those 
circumstances there  would be a further 30 days interest charged.
Mr M doesnt agree with this. He says the salesperson told him he could settle  the 
agreement within 14 days of completion  with no interest to pay. 
Because I wasnt present when these discussions took place,  I cant  be certain of exactly 
what was said. In this situation, I have to look at the documents  which  came  into existence at 
the time the agreement was entered into as the best evidence  of what was agreed.
The Purchase Agreement sets out the terms of the purchase and the price. It says that an 
additional discount has been given  because the order  is placed  on finance and that the 
discount will be withdrawn if the agreement is settled on installation.
Based on this, Im satisfied that the agreement made it clear  that the price would revert  to a 
higher amount if the agreement was settled on installation.
Other than Mr Ms testimony, theres  no evidence  to suggest that interest  would only be 
applied 14 days after installation. The only point at which a 14 day period becomes relevant 
is in relation to the cooling off period which applies after the agreement has been entered  
into. Theres no evidence  to suggest that Mr M cancelled the agreement  during the cooling 
off period.
Based on the available documentary evidence, Im satisfied that Mr M was aware (or should 
have been aware)  of the terms relating to interest and early settlement. I appreciate that Mr 
M says he didnt see the terms and conditions before he signed the agreement but Im 
satisfied that these were  available  for him to look at and he had the opportunity  to cancel the 
agreement during the cooling  off period if he didnt agree with the terms.
Ive taken into account Mr Ms comments that he had sufficient funds to pay for the goods 
and didnt need to enter  into the agreement. But as Ive said above, Mr M received  an 
additional discount for taking finance  which he wouldnt  otherwise  have  got. As a result of 
entering into the agreement, Mr M also benefitted from protection under Section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974  and kept his money  available for other uses.  On balance, I think  
its likely  that Mr M took the finance to access one or more of these benefits.
I appreciate that Mr M has asked  for a statement  from a particular salesperson. I dont  think 
this is necessary because  one of the salesmen who was present has already  provided  a 
statement. Everest has confirmed that the other  salesperson has since left the company, so 
it wont be possible to obtain  a statement.
On the balance of probabilities, and taking all of the available information into account, Im 
not persuaded that the agreement was misrepresented  to Mr M. Because of this, I cant  fairly 
ask Everest to refund the interest or pay compensation.
Ref: DRN44699473my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 June  2019.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4469947