K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains about the adverse credit information Barclays  Bank  UK PLC (Barclays) 
recorded on his credit file.
background
In March 2016 Mr D was given a £20,000 loan over five years from Barclays.  The interest 
rate was fixed for the term of the loan. In July 2017  Mr D stopped making  his loan payments. 
He was issued  with a default  notice in January 2018. In February  2018  Mr D was granted a 
new interest free loan over 54 months in order to repay the original loan. 
Mr D has previously complained about the interest  rate that was payable on the first loan. He 
said he was promised it would be reduced at some  point  during the repayment  term. That 
complaint has been investigated under a separate reference number and is now closed.
However, Mr D has become aware  that as a result of missing the loan repayments adverse 
information has been recorded  on his credit file. He thinks thats unfair  and wants  it removed. 
Barclays doesnt agree and says its acted correctly in applying the default marker when 
Mr D had missed  a number of repayments.  One of our adjudicators investigated the 
complaint and said it shouldnt be upheld. She didnt think Barclays  had made any errors and 
said it had a duty to record  an accurate reflection of the accounts activity.
Mr D didnt agree and wanted the complaint referred  to an ombudsman,  so its been passed 
to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr D has previously raised  a complaint with us about whether the original loan was mis-sold 
to him and whether the interest rate on the loan should have been reduced at some point. 
So I wont  be looking at that event. Ill be considering whether Barclays acted correctly  in 
recording adverse  credit information  on Mr Ds credit  file.  
I can see Mr D feels strongly about the events  that have now led to the adverse  marker and I 
can assure Mr D Ive carefully considered his reasons for not making loan repayments and I 
have some sympathy with his position. But I dont think Barclays has made an error here in 
recording the default. I know this outcome will disappoint Mr D so Ill explain why.
Mr D says he was given  an interest free loan to pay off his original loan when he was unable 
to make repayments. He says that this lower  (nil) interest rate should  have been available to 
him when  he took out the original loan and therefore  he wouldnt have missed  repayments 
and have adverse  information recorded  against  him on his credit file. 
But the new loan Barclays gave Mr D in March 2018 was designed to help him repay the 
original loan because  of the financial difficulty he was suffering at that time. It wasnt  a 
commercially available loan to customers but one option open  to Barclays to help Mr D to 
make repayments without getting  into further debt during a time of financial difficulty. So, I 
Ref: DRN40093742dont think Barclays acted  unfairly  by not giving Mr D the second, interest free loan in the 
beginning. 
I can see that Mr D stopped making  repayments to his original loan around  July 2017. And 
Ive seen how Barclays contacted him about  the arrears leading  to a default notice being 
issued in January  2018. Barclays contact notes suggest that Mr D was experiencing some 
financial difficulties at that time. So I would expect Barclays to take a positive  and 
sympathetic approach to Mr Ds situation. And Im satisfied that it did. It gave  Mr D details of 
who he could contact  for help and the options that might be open  to him if he contacted  
Barclays to discuss the matter. Ultimately Barclays agreed the interest free loan to repay the 
first loan. So I think Barclays  has acted  fairly  in how it treated and helped Mr D over the 
matter of his missed payments given his financial circumstances at that time.
But Barclays  has a duty to accurately record the activity on any credit accounts Mr D holds 
with it. And Im satisfied  it did that. Its not in dispute  that Mr D missed his repayments  
leading to Barclays recording  a default when he didnt respond  to the notice.  The terms of 
the original loan stated If you miss payments well contact  you about it. We also have to 
report missed  payments to credit  reference agencies, which may affect your credit record . 
So I dont  Barclays did anything wrong  here and I wont  be asking it to make  any 
adjustments to Mr Ds credit file.
I note Mr D has missed  some payments on his second loan. If there  are still arrears on that 
account I would urge Mr D to discuss the matter with Barclays to come to a resolution. 
Barclays may have to record more adverse credit on his credit file if he doesnt  make 
repayments.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint against Barclays Bank UK PLC.
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 February  2019.
Keith Lawrence
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4009374