K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains about the lending  decisions  made by Bank of Scotland  Plc.
background
In 2013 Mr M agreed with Bank of Scotland to consolidate his credit card and loan debt into 
one loan. He says this was too expensive and was of no benefit to him. Hes also upset that 
when, in 2014, the bank  suggested he could refinance the loan and reduce his monthly  
repayment, they later declined  the new loan arrangement. He thinks this was because  the 
2013 arrangement  was much more profitable for them.
The bank didnt  think the first loan had been  mis-sold to Mr M. They explained that their 
advisors offered  a non-advisory service and they were satisfied that Mr M had been 
provided with the necessary information  to make an informed choice on whether to accept 
the credit. They said the loan was provided  at a lower interest  rate than the credit card was 
offering and there was a distinct end date to the debt which  wasnt there  before.
But Mr M was disappointed with their response  and he therefore referred his complaint to 
this service. Our adjudicator didnt think Bank of Scotland had done  anything wrong. She 
thought the bank had assessed the loan application correctly and she thought  it was 
reasonable to suggest Mr M should  have  done  his own due diligence to gain an 
understanding as to whether the loan was suitable.  She noted  he hadnt missed  any 
payments on the loan and was persuaded that it was likely it was affordable. 
She went on to consider  the second loan application which,  she explained, hadnt been mis-
sold as it hadnt  been offered. She considered  whether it was likely the loan had been 
rejected because the 2013 loan was so profitable  for the bank. But she didnt think this was 
likely to be the case as she noted  that, whilst  in the 2013 application,  Mr M had told them he 
had an income, in the second application  hed told the bank he didnt. So she thought  it was 
clear the bank had different information upon  which to make  a lending decision  and this was 
most likely to be why Mr Ms application was rejected. So she didnt think  Bank  of Scotland 
needed to take any further action. 
But Mr M was still dissatisfied and he asked for a final decision by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicators view and for similar reasons. Please let me explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Ref: DRN45944872The loans provided by Bank  of Scotland were what they would call non-advice products. 
The personal loan checklist signed  by Mr M explained this and said explanations  are 
intended to help you assess whether the loan is suitable.The  borrowing decision  was 
entirely Mr Ms but Bank  of Scotland had an obligation to assess  any application correctly 
and not to lend irresponsibly.
Im persuaded that the 2013 consolidation wasnt mis-sold. I can see it was to consolidate a 
bank loan at an APR of 20.4% and a credit card debt with an APR of 23.9%. It was also 
used to provide  some  money for a holiday. So it was clear there was some benefit for Mr M.
Ive reviewed the information Mr M provided to the bank, about his income  and expenditure, 
and its clear the repayments were affordable to him. His excellent payment record  supports 
this  he didnt  miss a payment.
I can see that Mr M was provided with the correct details. He was told about  the APR rate; 
the overall repayment and the monthly instalments on his loan. The bank agreed  to provide 
a loan at an APR of 23.7% and I dont  feel that did anything wrong when  doing  so. It was for 
Mr M to decide whether  the new financing worked  for him.
I can understand Mr Ms frustration that his second loan application was rejected, especially 
as the bank had called  him in to discuss refinancing.  But the bank is under no obligation  to 
lend and, as Mr Ms circumstances had changed, I can understand that, any product they felt 
he may have benefitted from,  may have proven to no longer be affordable.
So overall, I dont  think Bank of Scotland has done anything wrong here and I wont  be 
asking them to take any further action.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 June 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4594487