K821x#15complaint
Miss W complains that Advanced Payment Solutions Limited  (trading as Cashplus) was 
irresponsible to lend to her.
background
Miss W had 189 loans from Cashplus between June 2011  and December 2016.
Miss W says she had multiple short-term loans  and her poor repayment history  would have  
been evident on her credit  file. She says her debts snowballed out of control and that she 
should not have been allowed  to add to it.
Cashplus said it verified the income  Miss W declared and there was nothing  in the credit 
checks that indicated  the loans were  unaffordable. It adds that Miss W did not tell it she was 
in financial hardship  and her transaction history  showed no signs  of difficulties.
Our adjudicator recommended  that loans 7 onwards should  be upheld.  He said the pattern of 
lending itself indicated  that further  loans were unsustainable. He recommended  that interest 
and charges (plus  8% statutory interest) should  be refunded  on the loans and that they 
should be removed  from Miss Ws credit file.
Cashplus responded to say, in summary,  that none  of its checks  indicated  Miss W could not 
afford the loans.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Cashplus needed to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure 
Miss W could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into 
account a number of different things, such as how much  was being lent, the repayment 
amounts and Miss Ws income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a 
lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Cashplus should  fairly and reasonably  have 
done more to establish any lending  was sustainable  for the consumer. These factors  include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ref: DRN47410492There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Cashplus was required to establish 
whether Miss W could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments 
were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.  
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  
repayments on time, while meeting other  reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont  be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Ws complaint.
Ive also looked  at the overall pattern of Cashpluss lending history with Miss W, with a view 
to seeing if there was a point at which Cashplus should reasonably have seen that further 
lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so Cashplus should have realised that 
it shouldnt have provided any further loans.  
Given the particular  circumstances of Miss Ws case, I think  that this point was reached  by 
loan 7. I say this because:
Loan 7 was the second time in a row where Miss W had applied  for a new loan the 
day after shed repaid her previous  one;
Miss W had been borrowing from Cashplus for over three months when  she applied 
for loan 7. As the purpose of such loans is to address short-term cash flow issues, I 
consider Cashplus  should have questioned whether  Miss W was using the loans for 
their intended purpose;
I consider Cashplus  should  have been  carrying out better checks by the time Miss W 
applied for loan 7. I think its likely that such  checks would  have indicated Miss W 
was struggling to manage her money;
From  loan 7 onwards  Miss W was provided with a new loan within days/weeks of 
settling a previous  one. So Cashplus ought to have realised  it was more likely than 
not Miss W was having to borrow further  to cover the hole repaying her previous loan 
was leaving in her finances and that Miss Ws indebtedness was increasing 
unsustainably.
Miss W wasnt making any real inroads to the amount she owed Cashplus. Loan  189 
was taken out five-and-a-half years after Miss Ws first. And it was for a larger 
amount. Miss W had paid large amounts of interest to, in effect, service a debt to 
Cashplus over an extended  period.
Ref: DRN47410493I think that Miss W lost out because  Cashplus continued to provide borrowing  from loan 7 
onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Miss Ws indebtedness by allowing 
her to take expensive  credit intended for short-term  use over an extended period of 
time;
the sheer number  of loans was likely to have had negative  implications on Miss Ws 
ability to access mainstream credit and so kept her in the market for these high-cost 
loans.
So Im upholding  the complaint about  loans 7 onwards and Cashplus should put things right.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. Advanced Payment Solutions Limited (trading as 
Cashplus) should:
Refund all interest  and charges that Miss W paid on loans 7 to 189;
Pay interest of 8% simple a year on all refunds from the date of payment to the date 
of settlement*;
The number of loans  taken from loan 7 onwards means any information recorded  
about them  is adverse. So all entries  about  loans 7 to 189 should be removed from 
Miss Ws credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Cashplus to take off tax from this interest. Cashplus must 
give Miss W a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 March  2020.
Amanda Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4741049