K820x#14complaint
Mr T says Uncle Buck  Finance LLP lent to him irresponsibly.
background
I sent Mr T and Uncle Buck a copy of my provisional  decision on 4 October 2019. A copy  is 
attached and it forms part of this final decision.  I explained why I wasnt planning to uphold  
Mr Ts complaint and asked both parties to let me know if they had anything to add.
Uncle Buck  accepted my provisional findings. Mr T didnt, he said:
Uncle Buck didnt carry out enough  checks  especially  for the second  loan
He had other payday loans and a credit  check wouldve revealed  this
He doesnt  agree Uncle Bucks credit check wouldnt  have shown a payday loan hed 
taken out on 20 May 2015
Ive considered Mr Ts response  and set out my findings below.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I continue to think the checks Uncle Buck carried out were proportionate for each  loan. 
Neither loan was large compared to Mr Ts declared income. Ive noted that the second loan 
was slightly larger than the first but the repayments  were lower and looked affordable based 
on the income and expenditure information Mr T provided. Ive not seen evidence 
Uncle Buck  was aware of any other information which would  substantially  undermine what  
Mr T had told it. So I still think it was reasonable for Uncle Buck  to rely on what  Mr T told it 
as part of its affordability assessment.
Mr T has said he thinks Uncle Buck wouldve known about £400 loan he took out with 
another lender on 20 May 2015. I havent  seen the results of Uncle  Bucks credit  search  
results but am not persuaded its more likely than not Uncle Buck  wouldve been  aware  of 
this other  loan from that check given that it was taken out just 12 days  before the second 
Uncle Buck  loan.
However, even if Uncle  Buck had seen this loan on its credit  check,  I note the £400 loan was 
repayable as follows:
Ref: DRN48654572£38.40 due on 1 June  2015
£96 due on 1 July 2015
£496 due on 31 July 2015
For the second Uncle Buck loan, Mr T declared  income of £1,400  per month  and 
expenditure of £901, leaving disposable  income of about £500 per month. So taking  into 
account that Mr T would  have two or three paydays  in the relevant period, the second 
Uncle Buck  loan still looks affordable even after taking into account the other payday loan he 
had. Having said all this, I reiterate  that for the second loan,  I still think  it was reasonable for 
Uncle Buck  to rely on the expenditure information provided by Mr T.
I realise this is a disappointing outcome for Mr T. But for the reasons given above and in my 
provisional decision, Im not upholding his complaint.
my final decision
I do not uphold  Mr Ts complaint against  Uncle Buck Finance LLP.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 November  2019.
Matthew Bradford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN48654573COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr T says Uncle Buck  Finance LLP lent to him irresponsibly.
background
Mr T had two loans from Uncle Buck:
a loan for £150 on 14 May 2015 repayable  in one payment of £170.40
a loan for £175 on 1 June 2015 repayable in three payments of £88.04
Our adjudicator recommended  the complaint be partly upheld.  They thought  the second loan was 
likely to be unaffordable. Uncle Buck didnt agree with the adjudicator,  so the complaint  was passed to 
me to decide.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  
lending on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ts case. 
Uncle Buck needed to take reasonable  steps  to ensure  that it didnt lend irresponsibly.  In practice  this 
means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make  sure Mr T could repay his loans in 
a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account a number of different things,  such as how much  was being lent, 
the repayment amounts  and Mr Ts income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a 
lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
Before lending  to Mr T Ive seen that Uncle Buck asked him to provide some information about his 
income and expenditure.  Mr T declared  the same  monthly income of £1,400 for both loans. He 
declared expenditure totalling £800 for the first loan and £901 for the second.
I think  obtaining  this level of information was proportionate for both loans. The repayments were not 
large in comparison to Mr Ts income  and appeared to be affordable based on the income and 
expenditure information he provided.
Ive seen (from information provided  by Mr T) that he had a payday loan with another provider which 
commenced on 20 May 2015. Taking this into account, its possible the second loan was 
unaffordable. But Ive not seen that Mr T told Uncle Buck about this other payday loan. And Im not 
persuaded its more  likely  that not Uncle Buck wouldve been aware of it from the credit check it 
carried out given that Mr T only applied for the loan with the other provider 12 days before his second 
loan with Uncle Buck. So I dont think its reasonable to say Uncle Buck likely had information 
suggesting the second  loan wasnt affordable.
Ive noted that Mr T applied for loans with Uncle  Buck  on four further occasions. One of these was 
withdrawn by Mr T and three were declined  by Uncle  Buck. So overall  there were  only two loans and 
I dont have any concerns about the pattern of lending  here. I dont think  
Uncle Buck allowed Mr T to enter  into a cycle  of debt, as he has suggested.
In summary, Im not currently persuaded that Uncle Buck lent to Mr T irresponsibly.
Ref: DRN4865457