K820x#14complaint
Mr L complains  that Barclays Bank  UK PLC (Barclays ) closed a chargeback  for a disputed 
transaction, when  he had asked them to just hold it whilst he discussed  the transaction with 
the merchant. When  he then asked them some time later to open the transaction he was told 
he was out of time.
background
Mr L made a payment  of £2,950 on his debit card to the merchant on the 15 June 2018. This 
was in respect of some  building  work  he was having done. Mr L subsequently contacted 
Barclays to dispute  this transaction as damage  had been caused to his property and that of 
his neighbour  by the builder. 
Barclays then lodged  a chargeback for the disputed transaction  and provisionally  refunded  
him. Mr L received advice  that he should  place a hold on the chargeback as the damages to 
his house exceeded the value of the transaction, so he contacted Barclays  and asked  them 
to do that whilst he attempted  to investigate matters further. Barclays said they told Mr L that 
the chargeback  could  be cancelled and reopened at any time within 120 days  of the original 
transaction. 
Sometime later Mr L re-contacted Barclays to request the chargeback be reopened, but they 
told him that VISA had declined  to do so, saying it had already been  closed. As a result Mr L 
had to dispute the transaction  directly with the merchant but was unable  to resolve it.
Mr L was unhappy  with Barclays response  and so an adjudicator from this service looked  
into the complaint.  Barclays told him that they accepted they had given incorrect advice and 
in recognition made a payment to Mr L of £150 to reflect that. However,  they also said that 
the chargeback  wouldnt  have been  successful in any event since  it had obtained  a 
statement from the builder  concerned  who had advised that the disputed  repair  work  was not 
related to the original transaction. In the light of this our adjudicator found that it was unlikely 
the chargeback  would have been  successful in any event, given the builders statement, and 
he didnt think Barclays had done  anything wrong.
Mr L disagreed with that view and so the matter  has been passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I will not repeat the adjudicators 
summary of the background  to this complaint because it is accurate  and full and I want to 
avoid repetition.  But, if it appears that I havent mentioned something it is not because I have 
ignored it, but because  I dont think  its relevant  to the issues I have to decide.  
When Mr L contacted  Barclays  they raised a chargeback. This is a process  by which  some  
disputes are resolved between card issuers and merchants  under the relevant card scheme  
rules. Barclays arent required to ask the scheme provider for a transaction  to be reversed,  
but they can do so if they think its likely  to succeed. We generally say its good  practice  for a 
card provider to try one if theres a reasonable prospect  of success. Equally,  if they think the 
chargeback is likely to be rejected  by the scheme  provider then they dont have to raise  it. 
Ref: DRN43480442In Mr Ls case Barclays  had evidence  from the builder disputing  the chargeback claim, and it 
was therefore  entitled to take the view that it did, that being that raising a chargeback claim 
was unlikely to succeed. I recognise that they initially raised the chargeback  and then it was 
cancelled because of poor advice. But if the original chargeback had gone  ahead then the 
builder would still have  disputed it, and on the same grounds. Barclays would have been  
entitled to reverse  the chargeback on the basis  of that dispute,  irrespective of whether Mr L 
thought it was the correct decision or not. So, the outcome  would have been the same  
regardless of the wrong  advice  initially given.
I know Mr L will be disappointed with my decision but I have come to the same  conclusion as 
the adjudicator  and for similar  reasons.  Ive also thought about the £150 offer of 
compensation Barclays made to Mr L and I think that this is reasonable. It is in line with the 
awards this service would  make  for distress  and inconvenience in circumstances like this, 
and I think it is fair.
So, Im not satisfied that Barclays have treated Mr L unfairly, and so Im not going to ask it to 
do anything further,  and Im not upholding Mr Ls complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I do not uphold the complaint against Barclays Bank UK PLC.
Barclays Bank UK PLC has already  made an offer to pay £150 to settle  the complaint and I 
think this offer is fair in all the circumstances. 
So my decision is that unless Barclays Bank  UK PLC has already paid Mr L £150  in respect 
of this complaint,  then they should  pay that sum to him.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 September 2019.  
Jonathan Willis
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4348044