K820x#14complaint
Mr C complained because  Barclays Bank  UK PLC didnt keep him informed about  other  
savings products with better interest  rates.  This led to him earning less interest on his ISA 
than what otherwise might have  been the case.
background
Mr C held an ISA with Barclays  for a number  of years. Over those years Barclays  had 
different products with different interest  rates. Mr C wasnt aware of those products or 
interest rates so he kept the same account. This led to his ISA paying a lower rate of interest 
in comparison to other accounts  he could have had.
Barclays agreed there were products with better  interest rates  that had been introduced. But 
it said it didnt contact  customers about them. Instead, it provided details on its website of all 
accounts and rates  essentially leaving it to the customer  to look for themselves what might  
be available.  It also said there was a marker  on Mr Cs account which prevented  it from 
approaching him in branch regarding  suggested offers.
Our investigator didnt  think the complaint should be upheld. She said Barclays wasnt  
required to actively tell customers about alternative  accounts or higher interest rates.  She 
said it was for customers to ask Barclays for more information in the first instance. She also 
referred to the marker on Mr Cs account.  Mr C disagreed with our investigator. He felt the 
account terms and conditions, and the marker,  had been  set up to favour  Barclays.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In general, I dont expect  banks to tell consumers, either when  an account is opened or after, 
if higher rate accounts are available. Its essentially a consumers responsibility to keep  an 
eye on the rate theyre getting  and what rate they could get on another  account or with 
another bank.  So I conclude  that Barclays didnt treat Mr C unfairly  by not specifically telling 
him about other accounts.
I dont think the issue  regarding the marker on the account  has any bearing one way or 
another on this complaint. On the one hand,  its true that the marker is on the account and it 
says that Mr C would prefer not to be contacted  about other  products and services  by fax or 
when hes in branch.  But on the other  hand  the marker doesnt say that Mr C would  prefer 
not to be contacted about other products  and services by other means  eg telephone, post, 
email. In any event, this doesnt  in my opinion over-ride the fact that Barclays was under no 
obligation to contact Mr C at all about  other products.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN40384792Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 July 2019.
Paul Daniel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4038479