K820x#14complaint
Mr Hs complaint is about an income withdrawal he made from his pension arrangement with 
Scottish Widows.  
background
The facts  arent in dispute. Mr H had a Money4Life Flexible Income Plan with Scottish 
Widows. Hed taken  his PCLS  (Pension Commencement Lump Sum) in 2017.  Hed given 
Scottish Widows  details  of the bank  account he wanted the money to be paid into. 
In May 2018  Mr H wanted to take an income payment. He contacted Scottish Widows on 10 
May 2018 to request a one-off payment form.  The forms were emailed and Mr H requested  
a payment of £28,000 (before tax). As that was more than hed initially indicated Scottish 
Widows reissued the illustration based on the new amount and confirmed it would proceed 
with the payment within the next five working  days if it didnt hear from Mr H. He responded 
on 23 May 2018 and the disinvestment  of funds was actioned the next day. The payment 
was completed on 29 May 2018 - £18,689.65 reached Mr Hs bank account on 4 June 2018.
Unfortunately, the money wasnt paid in accordance with Mr Hs instructions.  Scottish 
Widows paid it into the bank account  it held on its system  the account the PCLS had been  
paid into. But Mr H had given specific instructions for the payment to be made into his 
account with another  bank.  
Mr H complained to Scottish  Widows.  As well has having a (private) bank account  with the 
bank the payment had gone to, Mr H had a business  account,  a rent account for a buy to let 
property and a mortgage on his home. His fixed rate mortgage was coming  to an end (in 
April 2019) and he was particularly concerned that the payment could adversely affect his 
ability to secure a new mortgage.  
Scottish Widows  accepted it had made an error.  It apologised and sent Mr H a cheque  for 
£100 as compensation. 
Mr H banked it but he didnt accept it as a settlement of his complaint. He said thered been 
a data breach  by Scottish Widows. He remained concerned that his application for a new 
mortgage could  be prejudiced. Essentially, he didnt want his lender to know that, although 
he was still working (he has his own business) he was also drawing on his pension.  
Our investigator looked into what had happened. He wrote  to the parties on 17 September 
2019 setting out his findings. In summary he said:
As Mr H had already  authorised a payment  (his PCLS) to the bank that the income 
payment was sent to, there wouldnt  be much  new information   just that Mr H had 
begun drawing from his pension.  If Mr H remained unhappy  he could contact the 
Information Commissioners Office  (ICO). 
Mr Hs new mortgage rate (his fixed rate arrangement had by then come to an end, 
but hed secured a new mortgage with the same lender) was slightly  higher than his 
previous rate. But that would have  been a decision for the lender based  on Mr Hs 
financial position. Scottish Widows wasnt responsible for the lenders decision. 
There was no dispute that Scottish Widows had made an error.  It had caused  Mr H 
confusion, inconvenience and some  distress. He was also unhappy with the time 
taken to respond to the complaint. But overall the sum offered was fair. 
Ref: DRN48084292In response Mr H said the investigators  view was perverse, hed erred in law and made a 
presumption of fact that was wrong. Amongst other things, Mr H said that Scottish Widows 
had disclosed commercially  sensitive  personal  information, contrary to its duty of care and 
the instruction  hed given. Scottish  Widows had transmitted his name,  an account reference 
and cash amount. Scottish Widows  had no right to tell the bank  anything  without Mr Hs 
authority. And the bank had no right to the information. The amount was significant  as was 
the source. And the timing  was sensitive. The lender wouldnt have had to consider his 
pension drawdown  if it hadnt been made  aware  of it by Scottish Widows. The £100 offered 
didnt compensate him for the distress and anger hed suffered or for the work involved in 
referring the complaint to us. 
Mr H told us that his mortgage review  was due in April 2019 and he received a range of 
offers, all at a higher rate and despite the general market  lower rates  than hed been paying.  
Hed been paying 2.45%  pa. He was offered 2.65%  pa. But he was able to negotiate a rate 
of 2.48% which means hell be paying £98 a year more (£294 over three years). But thats 
based on the difference between his old rate and the new rate. Market rates  are around 2% 
pa. If hed been offered that rate then hell be paying  an extra  £1,565 pa, so in total £4,695 
over the three year term. Mr H suggested  we ask Lloyds Bank plc (of which Scottish Widows 
is part) what its best rate is for a mortgage of £326,000  based  on a loan to value of 50%.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusion  that Scottish Widows doesnt  
need to do anything more. I dont expect  Mr H to agree. But Ive set out my reasoning  below.  
Theres no dispute that Scottish  Widows  made a mistake. So primarily what  I need to 
consider is how that impacted on Mr H  specifically whether it caused him any financial 
loss, distress or inconvenience and, if it did, if the compensation thats been offered is 
enough.  
Ive also considered what Mr H has said about there being a breach of the data protection  
laws. But, even if there was, that would probably  come down to more  or less the same thing 
 the impact of any breach on Mr H. As the investigator has explained, we dont fine 
businesses for data breaches. The ICO can but, unlike  this service, it doesnt  have  the 
power to award  compensation to consumers whove suffered financial loss or distress and 
inconvenience because  of the way a business has handled their personal  information.
Sometimes we see data breach complaints where  personal information has been  lost or 
disclosed to a completely  unknown  third party - perhaps where a customers  data has been 
sold by an employee  or where a business computer systems have been hacked. In that sort 
of situation we might suggest that the consumer refers the matter to the ICO as well. 
Here any breach was personal to Mr H. Scottish Widows put it down to human error.   Mr H 
may not regard that as acceptable,  but I dont think any breach was systemic or of more 
general effect. So, Im not sure that Mr H would have  much to gain by referring it to the ICO. 
But he may still wish to do that. 
Ref: DRN48084293Scottish Widows  was required  to keep Mr Hs information safe. It legitimately held details of 
one of his bank accounts with a third party (because  it had earlier and on Mr Hs instructions) 
paid his PCLS into that account.  But that didnt mean that if, going forwards, further  
information was, in error, disclosed  to that bank,  that wouldnt be a data breach. 
I think what happened was a data breach. And, looking  at the notes about the complaint on 
its system, it seems that Scottish Widows initially agreed that it was. 
But that doesnt mean that the outcome  will be different if the complaint is treated as a data 
breach or a failure  to follow  Mr Hs instructions. As Ive said, in either case, well look at the 
impact on Mr H and what compensation, if any, is due.
I note here Mr Hs reference to a data breach where individuals personal  information was 
published on a website. As Mr H recognises,  thats  a very serious breach with potentially 
wide-ranging consequences. Thats reflected in the financial penalty. Here the breach was 
more limited. The disclosure was made to another business that Mr H had dealings with. 
And some of the information  would already have been known  to that other  business because  
of the payment that had been made  earlier. 
That said,  I recognise thats Mr Hs point  that the disclosure compromised his relationship 
with the business and, in particular, his position as a mortgage borrower. I can understand 
Mr Hs worry given that, in a worst-case scenario, that could result  in the loss of his home   if 
he couldnt secure affordable replacement borrowing hed be forced to sell and downsize. 
Fortunately, he was able to secure a new mortgage  deal with his lender. But he says the 
new borrowing is more expensive  both compared to his previous mortgage and market 
rates generally. 
Id only be able to make an award for that sort of financial  loss if I was satisfied that it was a 
direct result of what Scottish Widows  did  disclose  information that it shouldnt  have  done  to 
Mr Hs lender (and business  bank).  That is, but for the disclosure, Mr H would have been 
offered a lower mortgage rate.  
I dont think theres any evidence to show that the higher  rate was a direct result of the 
lender knowing  that Mr H had taken the payment (and so had supplemented his income  from 
his business) and taking  it into account. As Mr H himself has said, well never know what 
rate would have  been offered if the lender hadnt known about the payment. 
The rate that a lender  is prepared to offer a borrower at any particular  time is based on that 
lenders lending criteria at that time. We simply dont know if the lender took the income 
payment into account and, if it did, what impact,  if any, that had on the rate that Mr H was 
offered (and which he was able to negotiate down). Or what part other  factors played in the 
lenders decision to offer the rate it did. Mr H has made it clear  that he doesnt want  us to 
seek any information from the lender. So, we cant ask it directly what  it thought  about  the 
payment and to what extent, if any, it impacted on is lending decisions.  
I note what Mr H says about market rates generally. But I dont think thats  enough for me to 
say the higher rate offered must be related to the income payment. Most  lenders will want  to 
be competitive. But that doesnt mean  that they will always match  rates that are available 
elsewhere in the market.  It may have been possible for Mr H to have secured a lower rate 
from a different lender. That might have been  less convenient for him  some  borrowers  will 
choose to stay with an existing  lender rather than renegotiate a new mortgage with a new 
and different lender (even if that might have  been cheaper). 
Ref: DRN48084294Im not sure what the lenders process  was for existing borrowers looking to arrange  a new 
fixed rate or other mortgage deal and exactly what details of Mr Hs income and other  
financial circumstances were required.  Id have thought  hed at least have needed to confirm  
that his financial  situation hadnt  changed  or, if it had, to provide details. The fact of the 
matter was that hed taken an income  payment from his pension. I think  hed have needed  to 
disclose that if asked. If the payment  should  have been disclosed anyway, the fact that the 
lender already knew about it anyway just meant  the lender already had information which it 
would have asked  for anyway.   
Furthermore, Im not sure that an extra source of income would have jeopardised Mr Hs 
application anyway.  It isnt unusual for someone to be drawing pension benefits while still 
working. I recognise that Mr Hs situation  (taking  income from a drawdown  plan)  isnt the 
same as, say, someone drawing benefits  from a final salary  pension plan. But I dont 
immediately see that the information was prejudicial.
All in all I cant say Mr H has suffered  a financial loss in terms of paying  more for his new 
mortgage than hed otherwise have done  and but for Scottish Widows error. So Im not 
going to make any award. 
I know that Mr H thinks  the sum offered as compensation  for distress and inconvenience 
isnt nearly enough.  Ive considered all hes said about the impact of the disclosure on him 
and the distress (including financial  embarrassment)  and inconvenience  he suffered. But its 
difficult when, for the reasons Ive explained,  I wasnt able to agree with him that the subject 
of much of his worry  securing a replacement  mortgage  was jeopardised by the 
disclosure. Fortunately,  for the reasons  Ive explained, I think  the damage was limited.
I also recognise that Mr H has spent time dealing with the complaint and Ive also borne in 
mind what  hes said about the time taken by Scottish Widows to deal with the matter. I would 
point out though that financial businesses usually have eight weeks  to deal with complaints. 
Scottish Widows  final response letter was sent just outside that window (from  the date of Mr 
Hs telephone  call to Scottish Widows on 4 June 2018 rather  than his letter dated 11 June 
2018 which Scottish Widows received on 14 June 2018).  
Im sorry  that there also some delay after Mr H asked us to look into what  had happened. He 
referred his complaint to us by letter dated 11 January 2019 which  we received the next day. 
We asked Scottish Widows for its file on 31 January 2019. Unfortunately,  it didnt go to the 
right department and that only came to light when  we chased it up on 14 May 2019. I think  
we could have  done that earlier.  
Lastly, Ive noted  what  Mr H says about what happened in March  2019. Hed requested 
another income payment.  It seems it was only by chance that he spoke to Scottish  Widows 
as the payment was being processed and which would otherwise have been  sent to the 
wrong bank again.  I can see that wont have increased Mr Hs confidence in Scottish 
Widows. But (albeit somewhat  luckily) a further error (and complaint) was avoided. 
Overall I think  the sum offered (and paid to Mr H) is within the range  of what  Id expect to 
see for an error such as this. So Im not going to ask Scottish  Widows  to do any more. 
Ref: DRN48084295my final decision
Scottish Widows  Limited has already offered and paid Mr H £100. I conclude thats fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 January 2020.
Lesley Stead
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4808429