K822xcomplaint
Ms T complains about the car she acquired  with finance from Volkswagen Financial Services  
(UK) Limited (VFS).
background 
Ms T says she acquired the car new in March 2017. She says in March 2018 it broke down 
due to clutch failure when the car had been  driven just over 8,000 miles. And she says she 
was told the repair wasnt covered under warranty as it was a wear  and tear item.
Ms T also says shes unhappy with the service shes  received from VFS in dealing  with this 
matter. 
So, Ms T says she wants to be reimbursed her repair costs, to reject the car and terminate 
her finance  agreement and she wants compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
shes experienced.
VFS says the supplying  dealership investigated the issue  and found  the clutch  to be fully 
burnt out. And it says the dealership confirmed  the repair wouldnt be covered under 
warranty as it wasnt a result of a manufacturing  defect. 
VFS also says it was responsible for providing  Ms T with a car of satisfactory quality when 
she acquired it. And it says, taking  into consideration that the issue  occurred a year after 
purchase on a wear and tear item, it isnt able to uphold her complaint.   
Our adjudicator thought Ms Ts complaint should  be partly upheld  and VFS should pay her 
£100 compensation for its poor handling of the matter.
Ms T disagreed with the investigators conclusions. She said she wanted the compensation 
to be reconsidered.
So, the matters  been referred  to me to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to partly uphold Ms Ts complaint and to require VFS to pay her £100 
compensation. Ill explain why.
Ms Ts given us a great deal of information  about  the background to her complaint and also 
about issues she previously raised with the supplying dealership. But I see Ms T accepted  
an offer from the supplying dealership  in full and final settlement of these issues  in July 
2018. So it wouldnt appropriate for me to look at these matters here. And in any event, in 
this decision I can only consider whether VFS has done anything wrong, as Ms Ts finance 
provider.
VFS supplied Ms Ts car under a finance agreement, so it was responsible for ensuring  that 
the car was of satisfactory  quality  when she acquired it.
Ref: DRN47414252I see the car was supplied  new in March 2017 and the clutch  failed in March  2018 when the 
car was one year old and it had covered around  8,000 miles. I also see the supplying 
dealership inspected the car and concluded  the clutch had worn out due to the way the car 
had been driven.
I note Ms T thinks the issue was caused by a manufacturing fault. But the clutch  is an item 
thats affected by wear  and tear and I wouldve expected a fault that was present when the 
car was supplied to have  become apparent sooner. And in the absence of an independent 
inspection report confirming the cause of this problem, I dont have enough information to 
conclude it was the result of a defect that was present when the car was supplied to Ms T.
I see there were delays on the part of VFS in dealing  with Ms Ts complaint and I think  this 
will have prolonged  the distress  and inconvenience shes experienced as a result  of this 
situation. But Im satisfied the £100  compensation VFS has now agreed to pay Ms T 
adequately reflects  the poor service shes experienced in the handling of this matter. And I 
dont think it would be reasonable for me to require it to pay her any more  compensation, in 
the circumstances.   
So, I partly  uphold Ms Ts complaint on this basis.
my final decision
I partly  uphold  Ms Ts complaint against  Volkswagen  Financial Services (UK) Limited.  It must 
pay Ms T £100 compensation for its poor handling of her complaint about this matter.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 April 2019.
Robert Collinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4741425