K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy taken out in 
connection with a store card account.  Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL)  didnt 
actually sell the PPI, but its accepted responsibility for this complaint. So Ill refer to FICL as 
the seller to keep  things  simple. 
background
Ms C opened a store card account in a shop  in 2003. At the same  time, she took out a PPI 
policy.
The policy would have paid part of the outstanding monthly balance  on Ms Cs card each 
month if shed been unable  to work  because  of injury or sickness, or if she lost her job. It 
also included purchase and price protection insurance and life cover.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Ms C disagreed with the adjudicators view, so 
the complaints been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Ms Cs complaint. Ill explain why.
Ive seen a copy  of Ms Cs application form for the store card.  It includes a section  
headed Protecting  your Account . It says Yes, I would like to protect my Account with 
Account Cover (a form of PPI), and it continues  Please debit my Account with the 
relevant monthly  premiums until further  notice.  Theres  a space to sign,  with instructions 
only to sign if the applicant required Account Cover. Ms C signed specifically to indicate  
that she wished  to take the cover.
Taking everything into account,  Im satisfied that Ms C would have realised that the PPI 
wasnt compulsory. And I think she decided to take the cover, knowing that she had a 
choice  although I can understand why she may no longer remember  this, so many  
years later.
Ms Cs told us she cant  remember  whether  FICL gave  her advice, or recommended  that 
she take out the insurance. FICL says it didnt. And based on what  we know about  the 
way these policies  were sold at the time,  I think thats likely to be right.  This means FICL 
didnt have to check if it was suitable for her. But it did need  to make sure it gave Ms C 
clear enough information  to enable  her to decide for herself if she wanted PPI, knowing 
what alternative means shed have  had of making her monthly  repayments if she was 
unable to work.
Ref: DRN44466152I accept that its possible the information  FICL  gave Ms C about the PPI wasnt  as clear 
as it should have been. But I think she chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks  as if she 
wanted this type of cover, even if shes understandably forgotten that now.  Based on 
what shes told us about her circumstances at the time, Ms C was eligible for the policy. 
And Ive seen nothing  to suggest that it was unaffordable for her.
I acknowledge that Ms Cs told us that shed have been entitled to 12 months full pay 
from her employer at the time if shed been  off sick. Based on our experience, that would 
be unusually generous for the line of work that Ms C was in. We asked her to provide 
evidence of her sick pay entitlement. But shes not been able to provide strong enough 
evidence to allow me to conclude fairly that she was entitled to this unusually  high level 
of sick pay.
If Ms C had made a successful claim on the policy  for accident, sickness or 
unemployment, it would  have  paid a monthly  benefit 15% of what  she owed on her store  
card. And it would have done  this each month  until her credit agreement  ended,  or she 
returned to work, or the outstanding balance at the time of her claim had been repaid - 
whichever happened first. Whats more,  the PPI would have paid out in addition to 
Ms Cs sick pay, allowing her to use any payments from her employer to meet other  day-
to-day expenses.  And she wouldnt have had to use the limited savings shes  told us 
about to meet her monthly store  card repayments.  So I think  the PPI could have been  
useful to Ms C.
Based  on what shes told us about her circumstances at the time, Ms C doesnt appear  
to have been affected by any of the main things the policy didnt cover (for example,  
existing medical conditions or unusual employment arrangements). So taking everything 
into account, Im not convinced that better information about  the PPI would have put 
Ms C off taking it out. This means  I dont think shes lost out as a result  of anything  that 
FICL may have  done wrong.
Ive taken into account all Ms Cs comments,  including what  shes said about having 
received refunds for PPI taken out on other accounts in the same circumstances. But we 
consider each complaint on its individual facts and evidence.  Im sorry to disappoint Ms C, 
but for the reasons Ive set out, I cant fairly  uphold this complaint.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 November 2019.
Juliet Collins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4446615