K820x#14complaint
Mrs C complained about being mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy with a 
1995 mortgage. She took out the mortgage  with Bank of Scotland  plc, trading at the time as 
Halifax. Mrs C says she didnt need this type of cover.
For consistency, Ill refer mainly to Halifax in this decision.
background
Our adjudicator in this case said the complaint shouldnt be upheld.   Mrs  C disagreed with 
this and asked  for an ombudsmans  final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Having done this, Im afraid Im not going to uphold this complaint.
Theres no dispute that Mrs C discussed this PPI cover with Halifax  or that she agreed  to 
buy it at the time. She remembers talking about mortgage protection with an adviser  but 
Mrs C now believes  she didnt need the policy because  of the type of job she had and the 
means she had available to her.
 
Halifax conceded it would have recommended this policy, so it needed to ensure it was 
suitable for Mrs C. I looked  at her age, job, health  and circumstances  of the time to help me 
decide about this. 
I think Mrs C would have been eligible for the PPI and I dont think  shed have been caught 
by any of the major exclusions we tend to see in these  policies.  I also think  the cost of the 
cover was similar to other, similar policies Ive seen from that time period  and I dont have 
any evidence it was unaffordable for her.
Mrs C told us she had some  sickness  protection  available  through  her job and therefore 
didnt need this type of cover. She also says she had some savings and that her parents 
would have always helped out if necessary.
I can completely understand why shes told us about  these  things and I agree her sickness 
protection at work would have probably been  quite  generous. But it doesnt  necessarily  
mean she didnt have a use for this cover. The mortgage would have been a significant and 
long-term financial commitment for Mrs C and secured against her home. So I think  the 
consequences of her not being able to keep  up the mortgage repayments, if something 
unexpected had happened, would have been  serious. 
Policies like the one she bought are there to remove the added  pressure of meeting 
mortgage payments  in financially difficult times and in the event of a successful claim for 
example, it could have  paid her a monthly benefit  of £400 for up to 12 months.  This financial  
support would have  been  in addition to anything  else she already had in place. And whilst I 
Ref: DRN43280192have no doubt  Mrs Cs parents would have  wanted  to help as much as possible, this would 
depend on their ability  to do so over an extended and unspecified time period.
So I dont  think the recommendation  Mrs C received from Halifax  was unreasonable or that 
the policy was unsuitable for her.
Halifax also needed to provide information  that was clear, fair and not misleading so Mrs C 
could make an informed  choice as to whether she should buy the policy.  After almost  24 
years, we no longer have access to all the paperwork and we wouldnt  expect  Halifax to 
retain documentation indefinitely. I cant therefore say she was told everything she should 
have been, but I think  shed have  known about  the cost as well as what the policy  offered.
Ive looked at her case with great  care. But I think its more likely that the PPI was something 
Mrs C wanted to have  at the time.  I also think it was suitable for her and I therefore  dont 
think it was mis-sold.
Im sorry  to disappoint Mrs C.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Cs complaint. And I dont direct Bank of 
Scotland plc to do anything to put matters right. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs C to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 February  2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4328019