K821x#15Complaint
Mrs Ms unhappy with the way Ageas  Insurance  Limited has dealt with her home insurance 
claim. 
Background
In January 2018, Mrs M had a fire in her home that caused damage.  So she made a claim 
on her home insurance policy with Ageas.  It instructed a third party agent to manage and 
settle the claim. 
Mrs M complained to Ageas about  delays and that some  of her household items  taken for 
cleaning werent  returned and she hadnt been  reimbursed for them. Mrs M said most of 
these were in a cupboard and put in a miscellaneous  box. Mrs M also said an antique solid 
silver letter opener was missing. She explained it had sentimental value and she was 
intending to pass  it on to a family member.
Mrs M said her three-piece suite was bleached  during  the agents cleaning  process to 
remove smoke  damage and the leather  had become  discoloured.  Mrs M said she paid to 
have the suite  dyed, but it didnt work,  so she wanted Ageas to re-dye  it. And Mrs M said 
there were still soot patches on the edges  of her upstairs carpets, so shed like a new one. 
In response, Ageas  acknowledged there  had been some delays and paid Mrs M £100  in 
compensation for any distress and inconvenience this caused her. She has said she is 
happy with this. Ageas also said the suite had faded  due to light and its age. It said photos 
taken before it was cleaned show  discolouration and wear patches.  And it was restored to its 
pre-fire condition. Ageas also said the upstairs  carpet was seven years  old with signs  of 
wear and tear. It said this was re-inspected after cleaning and no soot marks were found. 
And Mrs M was happy with the results. The agent that inspected the carpet a third time said 
it didnt find any soot marks.  It said the edging in some areas had discoloured,  but it couldnt 
identify if this was due to the fire. And that - in its opinion - the marks may be down to age 
and caused by filtration soiling. So, Ageas  said it wouldnt  replace the carpet, but would  
review this if Mrs M provided a report  to support what shes  said.  It never really addressed 
Mrs Ms concerns about the missing items. 
Mrs M bought her complaint to us and our investigator looked into it. She was persuaded 
Ageas hadnt  returned or reimbursed Mrs M for some household items. So she initially  asked  
it to pay Mrs M £50 for this. In response, Mrs M said shed paid more  than this to replace 
them and she provided evidence of the costs. Mrs M also said the silver letter opener had a 
picture of a cathedral  on it and was worth £50-£1000, based on her research. So our 
investigator reconsidered and said Ageas should pay Mrs M £125 in total for the missing 
items; £50 of which was to make up for the letter opener. But she didnt think  Ageas should 
pay for new carpets or for the suite to be re-dyed. She thought the marks and discolouration 
on both were most likely  down to aging  and wear and tear.
Ageas accepted the investigators  recommendation to pay £125. The investigator  later 
suggested Ageas should  pay Mrs M a further £100  in compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience she experienced as a result of its agents not returning  the letter opener. 
Ageas has said it doesnt think it should have to pay Mrs M further compensation for the 
upset caused  to her in no longer having the letter opener. And  even if it thought  it was 
appropriate to pay something - it would think £100  is too much. 
Ref: DRN45856022Mrs M says the letter opener  was worth more than £50. And that her suite  hasnt faded  due 
to light.  
So the complaints  been passed  to me for a decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
I dont think Mrs M would have gone to the expense of having her suite dyed, if she didnt 
think the colours changed. And the seats seem  lighter than the backs.  But the pictures     
Mrs M has provided of her suite from before the fire arent entirely clear. Seats often 
experience wear and tear, as theyre  exposed to the most movement and soiling. It isnt 
unusual for time and use, as well as light, to cause changes in colour. And, as well as 
removing smoke damage, the cleaning process  is likely to have removed soiling that had 
built up over time from use of the suite, causing it to look lighter than Mrs Ms used to.  
Theres no convincing evidence the suite was bleached or discoloured during Ageas 
cleaning process,  so I dont think it needs to do anything in relation to the suite.    
 
Ive next thought about the edges of the upstairs carpet.  Considering Ageass agent said 
sooty deposits were  still present after its first clean.  And it cleaned  these again as a result.  I 
think it would  have  done the same  if smoke related marks were still present during  its third 
visit. The agent is an expert. And its said the marks are likely to be due to filtration  soiling 
and wear and tear. I think this opinion is reasonable based on the age of the carpet and the 
photos, from which its difficult  to make out any marks around the edges. So, Im not going to 
tell Ageas to do anything  with the carpet either.    
Turning to the household  items. Mrs Ms been specific about which  items  shes  referring to 
as missing out of all those  taken  away. They  arent high value and Mrs M isnt seeking 
unrealistic amounts. So Im satisfied  they havent been returned  to her. And given the 
volume taken away, its plausible these were missed  off what  Ageas has compensated     
Mrs M for. And it hasnt  shown me otherwise. So I think  its reasonable for Ageas to pay Mrs 
M £75 to make  up for these items, excluding the letter opener.. 
Mrs M hasnt  shown  me why she thinks the letter opener is worth  a lot more  than £50. And 
the buy it now price on the usual websites  for selling items for a solid silver letter opener 
with a design tends to be around £75 - with some costing more  and some less. For this 
reason, I think £75 is a fair and reasonable amount for Ageas to pay Mrs M, on top of what  
Ive recommended for the other items  above.  
 
While Mrs M can purchase  a new letter  opener,  hers had sentimental  value. So its loss has 
caused her more upset  than it would have otherwise. And a new one wont  have  the same  
sentimental value. So I think Ageas should  also pay Mrs M £100 compensation to make up 
for this. I recognise this is more than Ive awarded for the cost of the item itself. But when the 
value of the item itself isnt high, as in this case,  its reasonable to think the impact  of losing it 
due to the sentimental value it had may exceed  what it was actually worth. 
My final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Ive decided to uphold Mrs Ms complaint and Ageas 
Insurance Limited must  pay Mrs M the following amounts:
Ref: DRN45856023£150 in total for the cost of the missing household items.
£100 compensation to make up for the distress  and inconvenience caused to Mrs M 
by the loss of the letter opener.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 November  2019.
Robert Short
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN4585602