K821x#15complaint
Miss Ws complained that Europaische Reiseversicherung  AG (ERV) refused to pay all of 
her travel insurance claim  after her bag was stolen while  on holiday. 
background
Miss Ws bag was stolen from next to her sun lounger while  she was sunbathing on the 
beach. ERV paid most of her claim but refused to pay her claim for her money or driving  
licence as it said these  werent covered as they werent on her person. It also refused to 
pay for her speaker as it said her gadget cover was provided by a different insurer.  
Miss W didnt think this was fair and brought her complaint to us. She said her bag was as 
close to her as possible  given that she was sunbathing in a bikini. She said the other  insurer  
said her speaker wasnt a gadget so ERV should  cover it instead.
Our investigator recommended that Miss Ws complaint should  be partly upheld.  He thought 
it would  be fair and reasonable for ERV to cover  the claim  for the money and driving licence 
as it wasnt possible for her to have  them on her person. He also thought the speaker should  
be considered  a valuable under the terms of the policy  but noted that ERV seemed  to have 
already paid the maximum  amount  available  under  the policy for valuables. He said if the 
limit hadnt  been  reached ERV should pay Miss Ws claim for the speaker under that part of 
the policy. He also thought ERV should  add 8% interest to the settlement amount.
As ERV didnt respond Miss Ws complaint has been passed to me for a decision.  Before  
coming to a final decision I let ERV know  that I thought Miss Ws claim for her speaker  
should be considered under the personal  baggage section of the policy. Thats because 
speakers werent  included  in the insurers specified list of covered  gadgets.  ERV agreed to 
pay this part of her claim (minus a deduction  for wear and tear) plus 8% simple interest but 
still didnt think it should cover the money  or driving  licence, as they werent covered under 
the terms of the policy. Miss W accepted ERVs offer in relation to her speaker  but still 
thought it should cover her money  and driving licence. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided to uphold  it. 
As ERV has agreed to pay Miss Ws claim for the speaker, its only left for me to decide 
whether it should  pay her claim for the stolen money  and driving  licence.
The terms and conditions  of Miss Ws policy say shes not covered for the loss or theft of 
money or documents  that arent  on your person or in a locked safe. ERV said as the bag 
was next to the sun lounger it wasnt on her person. However I also need to consider whats 
fair and reasonable in all Miss Ws particular circumstances.
Miss W was sunbathing on the beach  wearing a bikini. So I think  it would have been difficult 
for her to keep the bag attached to her body. She kept the bag close  to her on the sun 
lounger and didnt leave it unattended. Miss W said she had the money  with her as it was the 
last day of her holiday and she was intending to go shopping with the remaining money, as 
well as needing to fill the hire car with fuel and pay for lunch.
Ref: DRN43410952Given that Miss W kept the bag as close to her as was reasonable in these particular 
circumstances, I dont  think  it would  produce  a fair and reasonable outcome to this particular 
complaint if I allowed  ERV to rely on the policy term that says the money  and driving licence 
needed to be on her person to be covered. That means ERV should pay Miss Ws claim for 
the money and driving licence in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy.  
Due to the time shes been without the money ERV should add interest to the settlement 
amount at a rate of 8% simple per year from the date she lost the money and driving licence  
to the date it makes  payment. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Europaische Reiseversicherung 
AG to pay Miss Ws claim for her money,  driving  licence and speaker in line with the 
remaining terms and conditions of the policy. It should add interest to that amount at 8% 
simple per year from the date of the theft to the date it makes  payment.1 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 July 2019.
Sarann Taylor
ombudsman
 
1 If ERV considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from that 
interest, it should tell Miss W how much its taken off. It should also give Miss W a certificate showing 
this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate. 
Ref: DRN4341095