K820x#14complaint
The representative of Mr Rs estate  claim that The Royal London Mutual  Insurance Society 
Limited promised to pay out a total of £100,000  on two life assurance policies Mr R took out 
in 1984 and 1997 respectively.
background
An investigator did not feel there was sufficient evidence to uphold  the complaint.
She said it was difficult if not impossible  to know what had been said during the sales 
meetings but noted that the policy documents made no reference to £100,000  or any other 
figure beyond the minimum sums assured, which totalled around £1,500. She also felt the 
evidence indicated Mr R was looking for policies to help to pay for his funeral so it seemed 
very unlikely  he expected  these to pay £100,000 or that he was told this.
Mr Rs son did not accept  this view, saying that he was present during the 1984  meeting and 
clearly recalls his dad saying hed get £100,000 when  he died.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this case I think it is important to explain that my role is to decide  if there  is sufficient, 
persuasive evidence  to safely conclude that a business clearly  did something wrong. While I 
dont dispute Mr Rs sons recollections,  these relate to a conversation  more  than 35 years  
ago. And in the absence of other supporting  evidence, I cannot agree that there is sufficient 
to uphold this complaint.
These policies were not designed, let alone guaranteed, to pay out anything close to this 
sum. So I could only uphold this complaint if I was satisfied there was enough evidence  to 
safely conclude that the advisor misled Mr R about  this issue.  
Even if I did feel there was powerful evidence of this, it would not mean  that I could instruct 
Royal London to pay out such a sum as Mr R only paid a very small fraction of the amount, 
in premiums, which would have necessary to guarantee such  a pay-out on his death.  I could  
only, in principle, award Mr Rs son a modest  figure  in lieu of his disappointment at not 
receiving a sum which he was never entitled to but assumed he would receive.
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask the representative 
of Mr Rs estate  to accept or reject  my decision before 4 March 2020.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5212896