K821x#15complaint
This is a complaint  that Market Harborough  Building Society  mis-sold  Mr N and Mrs O 
payment protection insurance (PPI).
background
This complaint is about a monthly  premium PPI policy taken out to cover a mortgage  which  
started in 1996.  Mr N thinks the policy covered  just him, not Mrs O too.
Our adjudicators at first said the complaint  should  be upheld, but then, on receiving  more  
information, said it shouldnt be upheld. Mr N and Mrs O disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion that it shouldnt be upheld, and so the complaint has been passed  to me.
I decided to send  out a provisional decision,  setting  out my view on the facts gathered so far. 
I invited Mr N, Mrs O and Market Harborough to comment and send me new evidence. I said 
the following:
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our 
website and Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
There is a disagreement  about when the PPI started. At first both Market Harborough 
and Mr N and Mrs O said the PPI started  at the same time as the mortgage  in 
1996. Market  Harborough  later said it started in November 2003. But Mr N and Mrs O 
gave us a copy  of a statement dated July 2003 showing that PPI was already being  
paid for. Mr N and Mrs O are clear that they agreed  to take out PPI in 1996, and I 
think this is the most likely date. 
The adjudicator originally said the PPI had been mis-sold because Mr N had a long 
term medical condition,  which meant  it would  be difficult to make PPI claims if related 
to that illness. Ive thought carefully  about  that. I think its likely Market Harborough 
didnt make Mr N and Mrs O properly aware of the restrictions on claiming for a pre-
existing medical conditions  such as Mr N had. But Mr N has told us the condition  
was being managed with regular medication and hed not had to take any time off 
work because of it. So, even if theyd been  given the full details  of the PPI restriction,  
I dont think it would  have  affected whether Mr N and Mrs O took the PPI. I dont think  
theyd have thought it likely theyd need  to make a claim related to that medical 
condition, and theyd  still have had the other  sickness, accident and unemployment 
cover the PPI offered. 
Ive thought about other reasons the PPI might have been  mis-sold, but based  on the 
information Ive seen so far I dont think it was because:
Mr N and Mrs O had initially said they werent  told the PPI was optional,  or at 
least were given  the impression they had to have it. But recently theyve 
made clear they took the PPI voluntarily, as in their circumstances then it 
seemed a sensible course of action.  So, although  none of the paperwork 
from that time is now available after so many  years,  I think  they decided to 
have it, knowing they had a choice.
Ref: DRN58460072I dont think Market  Harborough recommended the PPI to Mr N and Mrs O as 
being particularly  suited to their individual  needs.  This means  it didnt have to 
check if the PPI fitted their circumstances. It would  have been  for Mr N and 
Mrs O to decide whether  it was suitable. But even  if it had made a 
recommendation, I think it would probably  have been an appropriate one in 
their circumstances at the time. Not being able to pay a mortgage  can cause 
significant difficulties,  and the PPI would have paid out in addition to any 
employer sickness and redundancy  benefits,  and possibly  for longer, and left 
intact any savings  they might  have had. So it would have  been  potentially 
useful. 
I think its likely Mr N and Mrs O would  have been told something  about what  
the costs and benefits were  and even  if they didnt get full information  
clearly enough,  I dont think better information  would  have affected  their 
decision. Ive not been told anything to suggest they couldnt afford the PPI 
when they took it out. And as they were  paying  for it monthly  they could 
cancel it at any time without further  cost if their situation  changed,  or they no 
longer wanted  it.
Market Harborough  may not have clearly told Mr N and Mrs O about the other 
limitations in the policy. But I dont have  evidence that these were likely to 
have affected  Mr N and Mrs O.
I know Mr N and Mrs O feel strongly about their complaint and Ive thought  carefully 
about everything theyve told us. But on balance,  looking at all the information Ive 
got at present, I dont think I can fairly and reasonably say the PPI was mis-sold. This 
means Market Harborough wont have to repay  everything Mr N and Mrs O paid for 
it. But Market Harborough will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr N and 
Mrs O because: 
Market Harborough  got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 
50% of the PPI premium)  - so it should have  told Mr N and Mrs O about  that. 
Because Market  Harborough didnt tell Mr N and Mrs O, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Market Harborough  has basically offered to pay back the 
amount of commission and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - 
and I think that offer is fair in this case.
Mr N said he accepted  my provisional  decision.  Mrs O and Market Harborough didnt make  
any further comments. 
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For the reasons  set out above, I dont think the PPI was mis-sold, but Market Harborough 
does have to does have to pay back some  of the cost of the PPI
Ref: DRN58460073what the business must  now do
If it hasnt  already done so, Market Harborough  must pay back  to Mr N and Mrs O any extra  
they paid each month because the commission and profit  share it got was more  than 50% of 
the cost of PPI. And Market Harborough  should also pay Mr N and Mrs O 8%* simple 
interest on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr N and Mrs O can claim back  the tax if they dont pay 
tax.
my final decision
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N and Mrs O to 
accept or reject my decision  before  11 July 2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5846007