K822xcomplaint
Mr P complains on behalf of Mrs K about damage charges and excess mileage  charges  at 
the end of an agreement with Vauxhall  Finance plc.
background 
In 2015 Mrs K was supplied with a car and entered into a conditional sale agreement with 
Vauxhall. At the end of the agreement Vauxhall inspected the car and asked Mrs K to pay 
damage charges  and excess  mileage charges.
Mrs K disputes the excess  mileage  charges.  She says she agreed a mileage allowance  of 
12,000 miles per year with the salesman, whereas the agreement  only provided for 5000 
miles per year.
Mrs K feels  that the agreement was mis-sold. She says that when  she complained to the 
dealership it acknowledged that it had made an error. She wants  the excess mileage 
charges waived.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. He said that based on the information available, 
he was unable to find that the agreement had been mis-sold.
Mrs K didnt agree so Ive been asked  to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the conditional sale agreement. This clearly states that there  is a mileage limit 
of 5000 miles per year and that an excess mileage charge of 9p per mile will apply if the 
return mileage of 15000 miles is exceeded. I wouldve expected Mrs K to have read the 
agreement before shes signed  it so I think she wouldve seen the mileage allowance.
Mr P has said that he was involved in all of the negotiations with the salesperson. He says 
he verbally agreed a mileage limit of 12,000 miles per year.  He also says that when Mrs K 
received the excess  mileage charges  he contacted the salesman ad asked him about this. 
He says the salesman also thought that the mileage had been agreed at 12,000  per year.
This service has spoken to the same  salesman.  Hes said that he doesnt remember  any 
details from 2015,  but he remembers Mr P questioning him about this more recently. He 
says he didnt say to Mr P that he remembers agreeing the mileage at 12,000  per year.
This service asked Mrs K to provide a copy of her insurance documents  to show the annual 
intended mileage. She hasnt provided  these.
Because I wasnt present at the discussions with the salesman, I cant  be certain of exactly 
what was said. In the circumstances, I have to look at the available  documents  as the best 
evidence of what was agreed between the parties.  Based on the information Ive seen, Im 
not persuaded that the agreement was mis-sold. I think the excess  mileage charges have 
been charged fairly.
Ref: DRN50702612I can see that there were  100 miles on the car at the point of supply. These should be taken 
into account before calculating  excess mileage  charges. Vauxhall has agreed  to do this so 
the excess mileage charges should  reduce to £2024.37.
Mrs K hasnt disputed the damage charges so I havent focussed on these.  However, its 
worth me saying that Vauxhall has agreed to reduce these  from £730  to £515 because  it 
found an error in the calculations.
Taking everything into account,  I wont be asking Vauxhall to do anything further. Im 
satisfied that the excess mileage charges  are fair and that the agreement wasnt  mis-sold.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 March 2020.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5070261