K821x#15Complaint
Mr L has complained  through his representative  that Ageas  Insurance Limited have refused
to pay a claim under his car insurance policy after he lost his car in a part-exchange  deal 
with a fraudulent  dealer. 
Background
Mr L told us that in September 2015  he handed over his car to a dealer and transferred
ownership to him. This is not disputed.  He also paid £43,500 up front for another
car. But the dealer never paid Mr L for his car and Mr L didnt get the new car hed ordered 
either. As soon as Mr L discovered  the car dealership had gone bankrupt,  he
contacted the police and was given a crime reference number. He later discovered his car
had been sold on. And it wasnt recovered. The dealer was later convicted of 22 counts of
fraud and one count  of fraudulent trading. These counts included the fraud against Mr L.
Mr L says Ageas turned down his claim because they told him the person he handed his car
to was only pretending to be a car dealer. But when  he established  that this person was a
legitimate dealer, he says Ageas then told him that what had happened wasnt theft.  And it
said that because  of this it wasnt covered under the terms of his policy. Mr L says the
wording in his policy  does cover his circumstances and he wants Ageas to pay out for his 
loss.
Ageas have told us that Mr L had reported  the claim to them  in February  2019.  And that they
told Mr Ls representative that it was a civil matter  and not a theft, so Mr L wasnt covered.
Mr L complained and, in February and March 2019, Ageas sent Mr L final response  letters.
They rejected his complaint on the grounds  that thered  been  no theft, which  was what his
policy had covered. Mr Ls representative  then complained to us on his behalf.  
When we enquired, Ageas also told us that there  hadnt been a theft. And they said Mr L
had no crime reference number. Specifically, Ageas said that because Mr L had handed
over his car and keys,  signed the required documents and walked  away, the incident wasnt
insured. They said that  in any event - hed carelessly or recklessly allowed a buyer to
defraud or deceive him. And this was excluded by the terms of his policy.
Our investigator sent out her view and said that although Mr L was covered for theft under 
the terms of his policy, she couldnt see that this or any other insured event had taken place.  
This was because she didnt think the circumstances  amounted  to a theft and the policy 
didnt cover situations where someone  had been  the victim of fraud. So, she said it wasnt 
appropriate to ask Ageas to cover Mr L under the theft section of his policy.
Mr Ls representative responded, saying  Mr L disagreed. He said Mr Ls policy didnt define
Theft and Ageas hadnt provided a definition either. The representative argued that fraud
was covered by the Theft Act 1968  and said the exclusion that Ageas  cited  couldnt apply
because it stated: by a person pretending etc" whereas Mr Ls dealer was a legitimate car
dealer. And if Ageas excluded  cover  for deception  by someone pretending to be a legitimate
dealer, then they were, by implication, including  cover for deception by a legitimate dealer.
Mr Ls representative also said that Mr L hadnt been careless or reckless in his interactions
with the car dealer so, again by implication, non-careless  or non-reckless fraud should be
covered. He also said that Ageas  hadnt  adequately clarified the policy exclusions under
Ref: DRN59257212which they said Mr Ls loss was excluded. So, he asked us to reconsider Mr Ls complaint.
Our investigator explained further why she didnt  think the definition of theft applied.  And that
she was satisfied that there hadnt  been  a theft. And while  Mr L had been a victim  of fraud,
his policy  didnt cover  fraud. So, she said she still couldnt ask Ageas to cover his claim.
Mr L, through his representative, continued  to disagree and asked for an ombudsman  to look
at his case again. So, the matter came to one of my colleagues for a decision.
In October  2019, Mr Ls representative pointed out that Ageass repudiation of the claim had
relied on the wording  from two different  policy booklets.
My colleague issued a provisional decision on 30 November 2020 and in the findings  section 
he said the following:
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ageas has told us that thered been  no theft, which was what  Mr Ls policy had covered, so
Ive considered this. I note that as soon  as circumstances  began  to become clear,  Mr L
reported the matter  to the police and was provided with a crime reference number. And the
dealer was subsequently prosecuted for his actions.  So certainly, in colloquial terms, I think
that most  people would have no doubt that Mr Ls car was stolen.
And I think that although Mr Ls car dealer was prosecuted and convicted of offences  under
fraud legislation,  this doesnt necessarily  mean  that his car wasnt  stolen. Prosecutors often
use the pieces  of legislation under which they think theyre most  likely to secure a conviction.
So, on balance, I think its arguable as to whether or not a theft occurred and I certainly dont
believe its as simple  as Ageas  just stating there wasnt  one. And rather than depending on
the technicalities  and semantics of legislation, I think that as part of the most fair and
reasonable outcome here, the transaction should be treated as if it was a theft.
That said,  I see from the relevant section of the policy that there  are exclusions for theft. And
in deciding a fair and reasonable outcome,  I need  to decide whether it would be fair and
reasonable for Ageas to rely on the exclusion it has mentioned to reject Mr Ls claim.
Ageas relied  on an exclusion that appeared in the 2015 policy.  And Ive looked at Mr Ls
policy document, which is dated March  2015,  in the file sent to us by Ageas. But thats not
the wording that applies.
Because, as Ageas  has confirmed, Mr Ls policy was taken out in February 2014 and the
policy booklet that was in force at the time of his loss was dated October 2013. Indeed,       
Mr Ls renewal  notice  from Ageas  the following year includes a notice to policyholders  which
confirms that the 2013 policy wording remains applicable. And Ive not seen any document
which suggests Ageas altered this. And, I think its only fair and reasonable of Ageas to rely
on a clause that was included in Mr Ls policy document that applied  at the time of his loss.
And having looked at the 2013 booklet, what does appear, at Section C, under: What  is not
covered, is:
Loss of or damage to the car resulting from deception by a person pretending to be a buyer
or acting on behalf of a buyer.
Ref: DRN59257213But I dont think its fair for Ageas to rely on this exclusion either because,  factoring in the
sale, the dealer  was essentially a seller, so the exclusion  Ageas cited doesnt really  apply.
So, in the particular circumstances of this case, I dont think  its fair or reasonable for Ageas
to rely on this argument or to repudiate  the claim.  So, I think  they should consider Mr Ls
claim in accordance with the remaining policy terms.
That said,  I think Mr L should only be compensated for the loss of his own car and not for the
money handed over in part payment  for the new car because that was a separate
transaction.
And the ombudsmans  provisional decision was that Ageas  should  reconsider Mr Ls claim in 
line with the remaining policy  terms and conditions. 
The ombudsman gave  both parties  four weeks to provide further comments  and/or evidence.  
Mr Ls representative responded to say Mr L didnt have anything  further  to add. 
Ageas responded saying it wished to challenge the ombudsmans provisional decision as it 
doesnt feel the loss of Mr Ls car is something  that should be covered by his policy, on the 
basis he willingly  signed  his vehicle over to a dealer and cancelled his policy  following the 
transaction. Ageas argued  that most people would consider the deal Mr L agreed to 
questionable in view of the large  sum of money he paid up front to the dealer.  It feels that Mr 
L, while  not reckless, did not take steps  you would reasonably expect someone to take to 
protect themselves  from fraud. And Ageas doesnt  feel that as the insurer it should  have to 
provide a safety net when adequate  precautions  were not taken. 
The ombudsman who issued the provisional  decision  has now left the service, so Mr Ls 
complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive noted what  Ageas has said in response to the ombudsmans provisional  decision and 
previously, but I agree  with the outcome suggested by the ombudsman for the reasons hes 
set out. 
I think it produces a fair and reasonable outcome to consider what took place at the point Mr 
L handed over his car to the dealer, as a theft.  I say this because  I think  its most likely  the 
dealer never intended to give Mr L any credit for his car towards a new vehicle. This is on 
the basis he was prosecuted  for what he did as fraud, as opposed to it being accepted that 
he intended to provide  a new vehicle but things  went wrong  for him financially. And at the 
point Mr L handed  his car over it was insured under his policy with Ageas. I appreciate 
Ageas doesnt  want to be providing a safety net, but I think  this is really  a case of someone 
who thought theyd made a genuine deal instead having their car taken from them  under 
false pretences and  therefore  in effect  stolen.  
I appreciate Mr L could have been  a little more suspicious  about handing over so much 
money and a car up front, but Im satisfied he thought he had a valid contract. And  in any 
event  the policy exclusion relating to loss or damage by deception (as set out above) only 
Ref: DRN59257214applies if the deception was by someone  pretending to be a buyer.  But the dealer wasnt 
pretending to be a buyer. As the ombudsman  explained in his provisional decision, he was 
essentially a seller. So I dont think it would produce a fair and reasonable outcome if Ageas 
was allowed to rely on the abovementioned exclusion to reject Mr Ls claim. 
In summary,  I think the fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint is for Ageas to 
consider Mr Ls claim under his policy on the basis he lost his car as a result of a theft, 
without relying on the abovementioned  exclusion, but in line with the other  terms and 
conditions of his policy. I should make it clear that I dont think  Mr Ls policy  with Ageas 
provides any cover  for the additional  money  he gave the dealer  towards  the new vehicle  he 
was promised. It only covers the loss of the car that was insured under it. 
My final decision
For the reasons  set out above and in the ombudsmans provisional decision, my final 
decision is that I uphold  Mr Ls complaint  and order Ageas Insurance  Limited to consider Mr 
Ls claim as a theft claim under his policy  without  relying on the abovementioned  exclusion,  
but in line with the other terms and conditions of the policy. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 February  2021.
Robert Short
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN5925721