K821x#15Complaint
Mr W complains that FCE Bank Plc refused  to cover the cost of replacing a faulty  engine.
Background
In 2013 Mr W bought a new car funded in part by a hire purchase agreement. In March  2018 
a warning light came on and the car was taken  to a local garage which identified the coolant 
was very low. It was topped up, but after driving  a further 200 miles the engine  began to 
smoke. It was examined again and the garage  found  that the coolant pipe had failed leading 
to the cylinder  head cracking. A new engine was required. The car had done 33,139 miles at 
this point.
Mr W says the dealer refused to assist  and he had a new engine  fitted by his local garage at 
a cost of £5,540. Mr W pursued the dealer and manufacturer  for a contribution,  but without 
success. In August 2018 he became aware  that the manufacturer had issued  recall  notice 
for cars with engines  which  were subject to local overheating causing the cylinder head  to 
crack. He says he spoke  to the dealer which said his particular model wasnt  affected which 
is why it hadnt  been recalled. 
His complaint to FCE was rejected. It said the car had been serviced by a garage which 
wasnt part of the manufacturers network, but it did say that the car had been  the subject of 
a recall. 
Mr W brought his complaint to this service  where it was considered by one of our 
adjudicators who didnt recommend it be upheld. She noted the car hadnt been serviced in 
line with the manufacturers recommendations and so she didnt think FCE was responsible 
for paying for the repair.  The adjudicator left our service and the complaint was considered 
by another adjudicator who reached a different conclusion. 
He was satisfied  that the car had an inherent fault and so wasnt of a satisfactory quality. He 
believed this had been accepted by the manufacturer and the failure  was major, especially 
given the relatively  low mileage of the car and its age. He suggested FCE should cover the 
cost of the repairs, but not the MOT  or the work  done on the turbo.
Mr W agreed, but said the turbo  repair was related to the inherent  fault and the mechanic 
who carried out the repair confirmed this in writing. FCE didnt agree and said that a 
comment by a mechanic  wasnt sufficient  to demonstrate the fault was present at the point of 
sale some  five years previously. It noted the warranty had expired some two years before 
and the car hadnt been serviced in line with the manufacturers guidelines.
The adjudicator responded to say that under normal circumstances he might agree with 
FCE, but theses werent normal circumstances.  The car had a known defect  which was 
present at the point of sale and when  the failure materialised was irrelevant. He also said the 
servicing had no bearing on the original fault. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN51049772In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators  rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what  I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.  
The finance  agreement, that is the hire purchase  agreement, in this case is a regulated  
consumer credit agreement. As such this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. 
FCE is also the supplier of the goods  under this type of agreement, and responsible  for a 
complaint about  their quality.
The relevant  law says that under a contract to supply goods,  there  is an implied  term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory .
The relevant  law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person  would consider satisfactory taking into account  any description of 
the goods, price  and all other relevant circumstances. So it seems likely that in a case  
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might  
include things like the age and the mileage  at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods  includes their general state and condition and 
other things  like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects  of the quality of the goods.
I appreciate the arguments made  by FCE, but they do not undermine  the clear reasoning  put 
forward by our adjudicator. I gather the manufacturer has accepted  there are faults with this 
particular engine and has issued a recall. Mr W says he wasnt made aware  of this and so 
the car wasnt repaired. I cannot see that FCE has provided any evidence  of the recall being  
sent to Mr W.
So he was driving a car which  was inherently faulty  and in due course  that fault led to major 
damage to the engine.  The fact he didnt have it serviced by a manufacturers  approved  
dealer or that he missed  one service doesnt  mean the fault wasnt  present at the point of 
sale. It is possible a main  dealer may have picked up the car was one which had been  
recalled, but given it told Mr W that the car wasnt subject  to a recall  then I doubt  if it would 
have done so.
Under consumer law Mr W was entitled  to have bought a car which was fit for purpose and 
was of satisfactory quality. I dont  consider  it was. Therefore it is only right that Mr Ws costs 
be covered by FCE. I believe this should  include the work  done on the turbo as it has been 
made clear that this was connected  with the inherent fault.
Ref: DRN51049773My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct FCE Bank Plc to pay Mr W 
£5,485.21 for the engine replacement plus 8% simple interest from the date he paid this sum 
until it is repaid. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask 
Mr W to accept or reject my decision before 21 November 2019.
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN5104977