K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs F complain  about the wording  of their Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc 
(RSA) home insurance policy particularly the confusing definitions  in the documentation for 
un-occupancy. 
background
Mr and Mrs F have  insured their home  with RSA for a number of years. At the 2017 renewal 
they noticed that some of the policy documentation stated that they needed to notify  RSA 
when the home was un-occupied  for a total of 60 days in any one policy year whereas 
elsewhere it was stated that they only needed  to notify RSA if they were  due to be away for 
more than 60 consecutive  days.
 
Confused as to what the un-occupancy condition actually was, Mr F telephoned  and wrote to 
RSA to clarify exactly what was expected of them in terms of notifying any un-occupancy. He 
was concerned as their absence from home  in any policy year could  easily exceed a total of 
60 days (but not 60 consecutive days).
RSA assured Mr and Mrs F that their policy meant to define un-occupied as being  60 
consecutive days despite the policy documentation being at odds with that assurance. Mr 
and Mrs F remained unhappy that the published  policy wording wasnt  amended to reflect 
the assurance RSA had given them about the applicable definition  of un-occupied. They felt 
the policy wording  should be changed  so it wasnt inaccurate and misleading. They  thought it 
was unacceptable  that an insurer should  provide  inaccurate information in its documentation 
because to do so made  it unreliable. 
RSA said again  in correspondence that the un-occupancy  condition  required policyholders  
to notify it only of absences of 60 consecutive days or more.  RSA accepted that there was a 
discrepancy between  this statement and the policy booklet, so it added an endorsement to 
Mr and Mrs Fs policy. That said:
Annual Unoccupancy of the home
We accept unoccupancy of the home  exceeding  60 days  in a policy year as long as it 
doesnt exceed 60 consecutive days.
This endorsement replaces any policy wording reference to 60 days unoccupancy.
RSA said the policy  endorsement took precedence over any standard  printed terms. 
Unhappy with RSAs  failure to amend  the policy wording Mr and Mrs F complained to this 
service. Our adjudicator investigated their complaint  but didnt recommend that it was 
upheld.
The complaint was passed  to me for a decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Although  I appreciate it will come as a 
disappointment to Mr and Mrs F I dont think their complaint should be upheld. Ill explain 
why. 
Ref: DRN50915142Its not in dispute  that the definition of un-occupancy across the policy  documentation  is 
inconsistent. At times RSA says it wants to know if the house is going to be un-occupied for 
60 days in total in any policy year (this appears  in the policy booklet and policy summary) 
whilst elsewhere it says notification is only required if the home is going to be un-occupied 
for 60 consecutive days or more  (I understand this appears specifically  in the policy  
schedule). 
RSA has written to Mr and Mrs F to reassure them that the definition of un-occupancy that 
applies to the type of policy they have means that they only need notify it if the house is 
going to be empty for 60 consecutive days or more. Its also added  an endorsement to their 
policy clarifying what annual un-occupancy means.
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs F want  RSA to amend the policy booklet and summary to reflect  
the definition as stated but thats not something Im able to make it do. How the policy  is 
worded is a matter  for the insurer.  I can only reassure Mr and Mrs F that if they needed  to 
make a claim and the un-occupancy  definition  became central  to whether it would be settled, 
then this service would expect RSA to stand by the assurances and endorsement it has 
provided to them. If it didnt, they could complain to us. The law is clear that if policy terms 
are unclear  then they are to be interpreted more favourably towards the party  that didnt draft 
them. In this case, as consumers, thats Mr and Mrs F. That said,  the endorsement clarifies 
any confusion that existed.
Fortunately, as matters stand at present,  there is no claim against  the policy and no financial 
loss has been  suffered.
my final decision
My final definition is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision  before  10 June  2019.
Claire Woollerson 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5091514