K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains that HSBC Bank  Plc lost some papers from his safety deposit  box.
background
Mr D says he was told to collect his belongings from a safety  deposit box held by HSBC. 
When he did so he noticed  that some legal papers,  including Power  of Attorney documents,  
were missing.
HSBC said in its final response that itd established  that two Power of Attorney documents 
werent present  when  it gave Mr D the documents in its safekeeping. Despite its best efforts  
it hasnt been  able to locate them or evidence  theyd been given to Mr D earlier.  As a result  
itd paid £1,468 into Mr Ds account  for the additional solicitors  costs he incurred getting  
replacement documents.  Itd also offered him £600  compensation  for the distress and 
inconvenience caused. But Mr D hadnt accepted  this offer.
our investigators view
Our investigator issued a number of views in which he felt this complaint should be upheld. 
In summary he said:
    HSBC has paid Mr D £1,468 to cover the costs of replacing the missing  Power of
Attorney documents.
    HSBC should also meet the cost of replacing  two lost wills which would be 
between £120  and £175 plus VAT each and the cost of getting a copy of a third will. It 
should also cover  the cost of getting some copy property documents from the Land 
Registry at between £2.50 and £7 each. And if Mr D still owns one particular property 
a copy of the NHBC guarantee  which will cost no more than £50. And also the cost of 
getting a copy  of a share loan agreement  if it still binds  Mr D.
    It should also pay Mr D £600  for the distress  and inconvenience hes been  
caused. 
Mr D remained  unhappy. He said he wanted his out of pocket expenses  covered and that he
hadnt received  an apology  from HSBC.  The lost sealed envelopes contained  personal  items 
which have a sentimental value. This matter has affected his health. He wants  more and
substantial compensation for the time this has taken and the distress caused.  He wants  a
written apology and said HSBC has been  negligent.
HSBC accepted the investigators recommendation to pay Mr D £600  compensation and at 
one point said it reluctantly agreed  to cover  the cost of replacing some  of the other 
documents if Mr D could provide legitimate estimates.
But HSBC more recently said that Mr D is attempting to claim for the replacement  of 
documents theres no evidence it ever held. Its records  show it held two sealed  envelopes  
with unknown contents. Some of the documents Mr D now says he wants replacing  were 
duplicates, obsolete or werent  separately identified as being received by the bank. It cant  
bear the cost of replacing documents  that he cannot  prove it lost. It has no record  of holding  
the wills the investigator mentions and the other  documents  referred to by Mr D in a 
schedule are marked in its records as Given Up by the branch. Thats  apart from the powers  
Ref: DRN59287702of attorney for which  its already  provided  compensation for Mr Ds replacement  costs. Its 
also said that Mr D has caused much of the delay himself. It still thinks the £600  
compensation offered is fair.
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision in this complaint on 17 July 2019. In summary,  subject  to any 
further evidence  and submissions from the parties,  I was minded to uphold  the complaint. 
But I didnt think I could  fairly or reasonably  ask HSBC  to now do anything differently or to 
pay Mr D more than £600 compensation.
Each party has confirmed  it received my provisional decision but neither has made any 
further submissions or provided any additional  evidence. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Some of the evidence in this case is incomplete,  inconclusive or contradictory. So, Ive made 
my decision  based  on what I think is more likely to have  happened than not.
Mr D has provided extensive and detailed submissions to support his complaint. Ive read 
and considered them all. But my findings  are expressed in considerably less detail and will 
focus on the matters  that are still in dispute,  on what I think are the main  issues and what, if 
anything, I think HSBC should now do to put things right.
HSBC acknowledged  early on that itd lost the powers of attorney documents.  It agreed to 
reimburse £1,468  to cover Mr Ds solicitors costs  of replacing them.  And its already credited 
this amount to him. I think that was fair and reasonable.
Mr D has submitted a schedule listing around 17 other documents  he says HSBC  lost. But 
he subsequently agreed some  of them were duplicates or had become obsolete.  HSBC  has 
recently checked its records and says only some  of the documents were held but they are 
marked as having  been returned  or Given Up to Mr D. And the remainder were never held 
by it in the first place.
Taking all the available evidence into account I dont think on balance that I can fairly or 
reasonably conclude HSBC has lost any of these documents as Mr D suggests.  Some  dont 
appear to have been held by it and the remainder it did hold appear to have most likely been  
returned to Mr D.
Furthermore the investigator  has already  given  Mr D sufficient opportunity  to provide  HSBC 
with reasonable  figures, on solicitors headed  notepaper,  for the cost of replacing the 
documents he says were  lost. And subject  to that HSBC, albeit reluctantly, agreed at one 
point to consider  and meet any such costs. But the schedule and costs  Mr D subsequently 
submitted werent  supported by a solicitor and didnt  give anything more  than what  appears 
to be his general estimates of the costs of replacing the items totalling £5,000.
Taking everything into account  I dont think that was sufficient or adequate proof of any
potential document  replacement  costs.  And Ive seen nothing to suggest these estimates  are 
fair or reasonable.  Consequently I dont think I can ask HSBC to now pay all or any of these 
Ref: DRN59287703estimated costs even  if the documents could be shown to have been lost, which doesnt 
appear to be the case as Ive set out above.
Our investigator specifically referred  in his views  to some individual documents  from Mr Ds 
schedule that he thought, on the information  available to him at the relevant times, mightve  
been lost. And he suggested HSBC may have  to pay for their replacement. But for the sake  
of completeness I will explain below, based on the up to date evidence I have, why I dont 
now think this would  be fair.
The investigator said HSBC should meet the cost of replacing two wills and getting a copy  of 
a third.  But since  the investigators views  HSBC  has re-examined its branch  records.  It says 
they show that it never held them. Taking  everything  into account I accept this and I dont 
think its been shown  on balance that these wills were ever likely held by HSBC or 
subsequently lost by them. As a result I dont think I can reasonably require HSBC to meet 
the costs of replacing the two wills and getting  a copy  of a third as the investigator  
suggested.
The other possible replacement costs mentioned by the investigator were conditional and 
related to property  documents  and a share loan agreement. But I have seen nothing to 
suggest Mr D is still the owner  of the relevant  properties and so I dont think HSBC should 
have to bear the costs  of getting  copy Land Registry documents  or a replacement  NHBC 
certificate on one particular property. Theres also nothing to show Mr D is still bound by the 
share loan agreement made some 40 years ago. And again  I dont think on balance that I 
can fairly or reasonably ask HSBC  to bear any costs relating to that.
Mr D also says lost sealed envelopes contained  personal items of a sentimental value. 
Regrettably that may well be the case. But HSBC wouldnt have been aware of the contents 
of those sealed envelopes. In addition  its terms and conditions of deposit clearly  say it 
doesnt accept  any liability for their loss. Its also impossible to put a monetary value on 
these items.  So, I dont think I can fairly or reasonably ask HSBC  to pay Mr D any 
compensation for these two lost envelopes  or their contents.
Overall I have carefully considered everything that Mr D has said and submitted. But on the 
available evidence I dont  think hes shown on balance that HSBC  should be required  to 
meet any of the document replacement costs  identified  by the investigator in his views as 
being potentially  payable.
Even so its clear Mr D has been caused some distress sand inconvenience by the loss of 
the Powers of Attorney  and whats happened as a result. HSBC  has pointed  out that Mr D 
has likely  contributed at times to some  delay in matters being resolved. And I also think that 
by putting forward  claims  for some duplicate  and obsolete  document replacement costs,  he 
has likely  contributed to the length  of time the complaint has been going  on for and the 
stress  hes been caused. Mr D says his health  has suffered but Ive seen nothing  from any 
medical expert supporting this or relating it directly to the loss and replacement  of the power 
of attorney  documents.
Taking everything into account,  including the level of awards  we make,  I think  a payment  of
£600 compensation is a fair and reasonable award  to cover the distress and inconvenience
Mr D has experienced  particularly from the loss of the powers of attorney and taking steps  to
replace them. Thats in addition to the £1,468 HSBC has already paid to cover the costs of 
replacing the missing  Power of Attorney documents.
Ref: DRN59287704Mr D also says he wants compensation for his out of pocket expenses. But I think this award  
reasonably covers any incidental and out of pocket expenses he mightve incurred in putting  
things right. Mr D mentioned at one stage in his submissions expenses  incurred by his family 
members. But as they arent parties  to this complaint I cannot consider their suggested
losses or require HSBC to reimburse them.
Mr D wants a written  apology. But thats  not something I can require  HSBC  to give him. Mr D 
also says HSBC was negligent. But thats not something this service  can consider.
Thats something only a court  can decide.
I recognise Mr Ds strength of feeling and frustration. But for the reasons Ive outlined above 
I dont think I can fairly or reasonably ask HSBC to now do anything  differently or to pay him 
any more than £600 compensation.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint. To put things right HSBC Bank  Plc should, if it hasnt done so 
already, pay Mr D £600 compensation.
If it hasnt  already done so, HSBC must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on 
which we tell it Mr D accepts my final decision.  If it pays later than this it must  also pay 
interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% 
a year simple.
If HSBC considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income  tax from 
that interest,  it should tell Mr D how much its taken off. It should also give him a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 October  2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5928770