K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 1999 
alongside a store card.
Its been agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL),  as the 
insurer, should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to 
FICL as the seller  in my decision.
Mr G says FICL mis-sold  him the PPI. Our adjudicator  didnt uphold  this complaint. Mr G 
disagreed so the complaint has been  passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Gs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Ive seen a copy  of the store  card application form Mr G saw and signed which included 
a section for PPI. In this section Mr G signed  to agree to the cover - but there  is nothing  
here to indicate  that he had to sign in this section so I think  Mr G wouldve  known  he 
couldve left this section  blank  if he didnt want the PPI. This signature is also separate 
and additional  to his signature  to agree to the store card..
So based  on this evidence I think FICL  made it clear that Mr G didnt have to take out the 
PPI and that he chose to take it out  although  I can understand if he cant  remember  
this.
FICL  didnt recommend the PPI to Mr G so it didnt have to check if the policy  was right 
for him. But it did have  to make  sure Mr G got the information  he needed to decide  if the 
PPI was right for him.
Its possible the information FICL gave Mr G about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But he chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like he wanted  this type of cover. 
Based on what Ive seen  of his circumstances at the time it doesnt  look like he was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it would have been 
useful for him if something went wrong.  It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I 
dont think better  information  about  the policy would have put him off taking out the 
cover.
Mr G says the PPI was of no use to him because he had sufficient employee sick pay 
and also had some  savings at the time.  However,  for £1.00 per £100  of the outstanding 
monthly balance  the PPI wouldve  paid out up to 15% of Mr Gs outstanding  monthly  
balance, until he returned to work  or the outstanding balance  had been paid off. This 
wouldve paid out in addition to the PPI and for longer than Mr Gs full sick pay wouldve  
lasted him. It also wouldve paid out in addition to his savings  so these funds couldve 
been used for other expenses in the event he was suddenly unable to work.
Ref: DRN59505312So overall I still think the PPI wouldve been useful for Mr G and I dont think  better 
information about the cost and benefit of the policy wouldve  changed his decision to 
take out the cover.
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above I dont think the PPI was mis-sold.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 September  2019.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5950531