K821x#15complaint
Miss O complains  that Callcredit Limited (CCL) failed to remove  inaccurate information  
from her credit file.
background 
Miss O says CCL was asked in July 2018  to remove any entries on her credit file about  a 
loan that had been fraudulently taken out in her name by a third party. She says information 
about the fraudulent loan was still showing on her CCL credit file in November 2018. She 
says this had adverse  financial consequences for her, including resulting in mortgage 
applications shed  made being  declined. And she says she was caused considerable 
distress and inconvenience as a result  of the situation. 
During our investigation CCL offered to pay Miss O £400 compensation, which  the 
investigator thought  was reasonable, in the circumstances.    
Miss O disagreed with the investigators conclusions. She thought  the compensation she 
received should  be higher. She said she hadnt received an apology from CCL for what  
happened. But she said she acknowledged it couldnt be proved that she was declined  for a 
mortgage solely due to the entries  CCL hadnt removed from her credit file.
So, the matters  been referred  to me to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to partly uphold Miss Os complaint  and to require CCL to pay her £400  
compensation. Ill explain why.
I see CCL initially  rejected  Miss Os complaint, but its now acknowledged  it failed to remove  
all information about the fraudulent loan from her credit  file when requested  to do so in July 
2018. And I see some information about  the loan remained on Miss Os credit  file until 
November 2018.
I also see during this period Miss O made mortgage  applications jointly with another  member  
of her family that were declined. And I see she says shes had to take a mortgage  with a 
higher rate of interest than she would otherwise have been able to obtain,  as a result  of 
CCLs failure to remove the information.
Ive reviewed the information Miss Os given us about her unsuccessful mortgage  
applications and I havent seen anything  confirming the information CCL failed to remove 
was the sole reason  for these decisions by the mortgage lenders. I see a further application 
was declined after the relevant information  was removed in November 2018. And I note  
Miss O has acknowledged it cant be proved her mortgage applications were declined  solely  
due to the entries CCL hadnt removed from her credit file.
I also dont have enough information  to conclude Miss O was declined  for a mortgage  as a 
result of the record of searches of her credit file by other potential lenders.
Ref: DRN55725872I acknowledge Miss Os unhappy she hasnt received an apology from CCL for what 
happened. But its now acknowledged its error and agreed to pay her £400  compensation for 
the distress and inconvenience  shes been caused.  So, Im not sure it would be helpful for 
me to require it to apologise to Miss O at this stage.
Im also satisfied the compensation CCLs now agreed to pay Miss O is reasonable  and 
reflects the guidelines this service  has for the award of compensation in circumstances of 
this nature. 
So, I partly  uphold Miss Os complaint on this basis.
my final decision
I partly  uphold  Miss Os complaint against Callcredit  Limited. It must pay her £400  
compensation for the distress  and inconvenience  she experienced as a result of this matter. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 June 2019.
Robert Collinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5572587