K821x#15complaint
Mrs F complains that a new car she acquired from Volkswagen  Financial Services (UK) 
Limited (VWFS) was of unsatisfactory quality contrary  to the Consumer Rights Act 2015  
(CRA), and under  CRA  she is entitled  to reject it.
background
In August  2018,  Mrs F entered into a hire purchase agreement with VWFS for a new car. 
Towards the end of September 2018 the car cut out while Mrs F was driving  it. She 
contacted the recovery  service  associated with VWFS who recovered  the car to the dealer 
who supplied the car.
From the dealers records it seems there  was no fault stored  on the cars system, but it 
couldnt start the car either. It removed the spark plugs and found a lack of spark, excessive 
fuel, and slight  misfire. It replaced  all the spark plugs and said the car then tested OK. The 
car was returned to Mrs F. She says she was told the fault had been  100% rectified  and it 
was a faulty spark plug.
One week later the car again cut out while being  used.  VWFSs  system  note made at the 
time says:
Last night the vehicle broke  down  again. Customer contacted the [VW recovery service]. 
She was advised  that they are going  to pick up the vehicle today to try to fix the issue.  
Customer not happy to keep the car, it makes her anxious and nervous  using  it in motorway. 
Customer wanted to reject the vehicle. The thought  of driving  the vehicle makes her feel 
sick.
A further  VWFS system note made the next day says:
.Customer does  not want vehicle as it makes her anxious.
A few days  later a further note says:
Customer feels  vehicle  is unsafe and wants to reject.
In November 2018, the dealer told VWFS  that it had found the fault  a loose connection  
with some wiring from fuse box to spark plugs. It had repaired the wiring and road tested the 
car, which was performing  as intended.  However the car was still with the dealer  as Mrs F 
was refusing to collect it.
On 13 November 2018, VWFS wrote  to Mrs F. It said that only on the second occasion had 
the dealer been able to identify a fault.  This had now been repaired, so it wouldnt accept 
Mrs Fs rejection of the car. It offered her a refund of £416.28, being two monthly 
instalments, as compensation for the distress  and inconvenience she had suffered. Mrs F 
didnt accept this offer and complained to us.
Our investigator recommended that this complaint should be upheld. VWFS said that on the 
first occasion, the dealer couldnt find any fault. So for the purposes  of CRA there wasnt  an 
attempt to repair which had failed. On the second  occasion a fault was found and repaired.  
So under CRA Mrs F wasnt entitled to reject  the car.
Ref: DRN53513152The investigator said that while on the first occasion the dealer didnt diagnose  a fault,  there 
was clearly something wrong  with the car. The dealer replaced the spark plugs which  the 
investigator considered  to be a repair.
A week later the car broke down again. This time the dealer diagnosed a fault with the wiring  
to the spark  plugs. The investigator thought it highly likely this was linked  to the first 
breakdown  it was very close in time and related to the original repair.  So he thought the 
dealers actions on the first occasion should  be considered  a failed repair.
CRA allowed for one attempted repair,  if appropriate, before rejection was allowed. As this 
had happened, he thought Mrs F should  be allowed to reject  the car. He recommended  that 
VWFS:
cancel the hire purchase agreement;
take back the car;
refund  the £6,000 deposit  Mrs F had paid, plus 8% interest  for the time she was 
without the money; and
refund  anything paid towards the agreement  for the time that Mrs F had not had the 
car (between 26 and 29 September  2018 and from 4 October 2018 onwards), plus 
8% interest till payment.
Mrs F accepted the investigators recommendation. VWFS responded to say, in summary 
that:
it thought rejection  was disproportionate  in the circumstances;
under  CRA a consumer who agreed  to a trader repairing goods had to give the trader  
a reasonable time to repair them; and
Mrs F had agreed to a second  attempt at repair which had been successful.
VWFS said when  the car broke down  a second  time, Mrs F was aware the breakdown  
service was going to collect the car and try to fix the issue.  She allowed the car to be taken 
to be looked at by the dealer, who had fixed the issue. So it didnt think  Mrs F was entitled to 
reject the car.
The investigator said the notes from VWFSs  system, set out above, made it clear that Mrs F 
wanted to reject the car, not repair it. She couldnt leave the car broken at the side of the 
road. So he didnt  blame her for having it recovered  to the dealer.
If the dealer/VWFS  chose to repair the car, that was their choice. Whether  the car was now 
working or not wasnt really relevant as the repairs werent authorised by Mrs F. She had 
chosen to reject the car and informed  VWFS of this, as the notes clearly  showed.
In response VWFS said:
Mrs F would have  to have told the breakdown  service where  to take the car. She 
could have had it delivered to her home  address;
the dealer  wouldnt  have  started  repairs without the permission of Mrs F as registered 
keeper; 
Mrs F would have  to have left her keys with the dealer; and
when Mrs F first complained to VWFS after the second breakdown, she said the car 
was being picked up and they will try to fix the issue.  This indicated that she 
consented to this.
Ref: DRN53513153my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When the car broke down the first time,  it was taken to the dealer. It wasnt  working,  so the 
dealer investigated to find out what was wrong. There  was clearly some  fault with the spark  
being generated in the cylinders  lack of spark, excessive  fuel, and slight misfire. After the 
dealer replaced  the spark  plugs, the car seemed  to be working and so was handed back  to 
Mrs F.
I think the fact that a car which was less than two months old cut out while  it was being 
driven was a serious fault, and a breach of the term implied by CRA  that goods  should be of 
a satisfactory standard when supplied. 
Under CRA,  Mrs F was entitled to require  VWFS as the legal supplier of the car to repair  the 
fault. The dealer acted  as VWFSs  agent  when the car was initially provided,  and also,  in my 
view, when it was taken there for repair. So Im satisfied that VWFS was given the 
opportunity to repair the fault evident in the car  that it cut out while  being  driven.
Unfortunately, the same  fault  that the car cut out while being driven  reappeared  within  a 
week. I conclude that under  CRA  this meant Mrs F had a final right to reject the car because:
the fault was a breach  of the term implied in her hire purchase agreement  that the car 
should be of satisfactory quality;  and
after one repair or one replacement the goods  did not conform to the contract.
I dont accept VWFSs suggestion  that what the dealer  did after the first breakdown didnt 
amount to a repair for the purposes of CRA just because the dealer didnt correctly  identify  
at that time what was causing the problem.
Nor do I agree that Mrs Fs actions at the time of the second breakdown amounted to her 
consenting to VWFS/the dealer having a second  chance to repair the car.
Mrs Fs principal legal relationship was with VWFS under  the hire purchase agreement.  As 
soon as she reported the second breakdown to VWFS she made it clear that she wanted to 
reject the car. This is clear from VWFSs  own system notes which Ive quoted above. This 
being so, there would have been  no reason for her to ask for the broken car to be delivered  
to her home address rather than the address from which VWFS supplied the car to her.
Im not persuaded that anything Mrs F did amounted to instructing the dealer to repair  the 
car, so as to override  the clear message  she gave  to VWFS that she wanted to exercise  her 
right to reject the car.
That being  so, I agree that with the adjudicator that Mrs F should be allowed to reject the car 
as set out more  fully below.
Ref: DRN53513154my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint, and order Volkswagen  Financial Services (UK) 
Limited to:
1.cancel Mrs Fs hire purchase agreement and ensure that no adverse information 
about it is on her credit file;
2.take back the car at a time and place convenient  to Mrs F, if it hasnt already done  
so;
3.refund  the £6,000 advance payment Mrs F made under the hire purchase 
agreement; 
4.refund  all monthly payments Mrs F has paid under the agreement in respect of the 
time she hasnt had possession of the car, that is between 26 and 29 September 
2018 and from 4 October 2018  onwards, to be calculated for any relevant month  on a 
time apportionment  basis; and
5.pay Mrs F interest on the sums mentioned in 3 and 4 above at the yearly rate of 8% 
simple from the date of each payment  until settlement. (1)
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 November 2019.
Lennox Towers
ombudsman
(1) If VWFS considers  that its required by HM Revenue and Customs to withhold 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs F how much its taken off. It should 
also give Mrs F a tax deduction certificate  if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the 
tax from HM Revenue and Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN5351315