K820x#14complaint
Miss S complaint is about the compensation offered by Financial Insurance Company 
Limited (FICL) for a mis-sold payment  protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out alongside 
a store  credit card.
background
In November 2001 Ms S took out a PPI policy alongside a store card with the number ending  
6404. The policy was active until July 2002.
Miss S complained in 2018  that the PPI was mis-sold and FICL  agreed to uphold  her 
complaint. But it said no compensation  was due to Miss S as she had made claims on the 
policy which  came  to more than what she had paid for the PPI.
Miss S didnt agree as she felt she paid far more  for the PPI than FICL had said and she 
brought her complaint  to this service.
Our adjudicator said what FICL had done was fair. Miss S remained unhappy and asked for 
an ombudsman to review  her complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
In this complaint  FICL isnt the business  that operated the store card, it was the insurer for 
the policy and it has accepted responsibility  for the sale of the PPI. FICL  has considered 
Miss Ss complaint and agreed to uphold that the PPI was mis-sold. So in this decision Im 
not looking at how the PPI came  to be mis-sold, Im only looking at if what FICL  has done to 
resolve the mis-sale complaint is fair.
Miss S took out the PPI in November 2001 when she opened  her store  card account.  As this 
was some years ago FICL  doesnt  have full records of the account. But it does have some 
computer summary records which show the total amount spent on the account,  the total 
interest and the total amount charged  for the PPI premiums.
The card and PPI was active from November 2001 until July 2002. During this time Miss S 
paid £62.70 in premiums  for the PPI and FICL has worked out that she would have paid 
around £37.81  in interest on these premiums.  This made a total cost for the PPI of £100.51.
But during  the time the card was active Miss S also made some claims on the PPI policy. 
These totalled £263.90. So she was paid more for her claims than she paid in total for the 
costs of the PPI.
As the PPI was mis-sold,  I would  expect FICL to put Miss S as far as possible in the position 
she wouldve been in if she had never  bought the policy. If she hadnt had the policy  she 
wouldnt have been able to make the claims.  So its fair that FICL deducts  the amount paid 
for the claims against the total cost of the PPI. In the circumstances  with Miss S complaint, 
Ref: DRN55371112she got more  for her claims than she paid for the PPI, so FICL doesnt have to pay her 
anything to refund the cost of the PPI.
 
I note Miss S has said she paid more  for the PPI than FICLs records  have  shown. But I 
havent seen anything to show that more was actually paid than indicated in FICLs  records.  
So I think what FICL has done is fair and Im not telling it to pay anything to Miss S.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above  Im satisfied  that what Financial Insurance Company 
Limited has worked out as the compensation for the mis-sold PPI and what it has done in 
deducting the claims from the compensation is fair. So Im not telling it to do anything  more.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 July 2019.  
Christine Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5537111