K820x#14complaint
Miss L says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold her a payment  protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Miss L bought the policy in 2002  at the same  time as taking a credit card. She was employed 
at the time as a retail  assistant and had been  there one year.  From what  she has told us, 
she was entitled  at the time to no more  than statutory sick pay, didnt have any other  means 
with which  to pay her card if she couldnt work  and was in good health.
The PPI policy provided cover for accident,  sickness, and unemployment, and also had life 
cover, subject to its exclusions and limitations.  For a successful unemployment  or disability 
claim, it offered to repay 5% of Miss Ls card balance each month for 11 months and clear 
the outstanding balance  if the claim lasted 12 months. The life cover would, subject to its 
terms, clear the card balance on death.  Lloyds has told us the policy  at the time cost no 
more than 79p per £100 of the monthly  outstanding balance. The premium still had to be 
paid during a successful  claim and did attract interest.
Lloyds has sent us evidence to show the credit card account was closed in 2004. Miss L has 
told us she applied by post and Lloyds  says the sale was made  in a bank branch. Based on 
the seller information  on the credit card application form and with the above in mind, I think 
the sale was most  likely a branch sale.
Miss Ls representative has made lengthy  and substantial representations on her behalf. Ill 
not restate  them all here,  but Ive read and considered them all carefully. In summary her 
representative says:
Lloyds failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time.  In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on handling 
PPI complaints under DISP App 3, it should be presumed Miss L wouldnt have taken the 
policy and the complaint  should  be upheld. Miss Ls representative believes there to be 
no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a successful 
claim meant  the policy was of inherently poor value  as shown by the low claims ratio. 
The common law duty of utmost  good faith means  Lloyds  should  have told Miss L about  
the poor value;
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Lloyds should have explained the 
significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Miss L and the impact they 
would have had on her chances of making a claim;  and
The information Miss L received was misleading.  These  policies were  promoted as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and had a chance to 
give their responses to the adjudicators  opinion.  Miss L disagreed with the adjudicators 
Ref: DRN54023122opinion for several  reasons, including that she recalls throughout her banking history always 
refusing or opting out of any PPI options Lloyds  offered or tried to persuade  her to take. As 
the complaint  couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations 
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account: relevant 
law and regulations;  relevant  regulators  rules,  guidance and standards; relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Miss Ls. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss Ls complaint.
This sale took place  in 2002 before the sale of general insurance products like this became 
regulated by the FSA in January 2005.  So the FSAs and the FCAs overarching principles 
for businesses and insurance  conduct rules (ICOB and ICOBS) are not applicable to this 
complaint; nor is the FCAs Perimeter Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2004. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgement in Plevin about 
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgement, arent 
applicable. If Miss L wants to know exactly how much the commission  was in her case, 
which is something shes asked, shed need  to approach the lender about that.
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance 
Code for private  customers   the GISC Code. 
This sale was made during a period  of industry  self-regulation by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC).  It published the GISC Code, which  set out minimum standards  of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling  insurance, including  PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
Lloyds, selling insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for all 
intermediaries (Including Employees of Insurance Companies)  other  than Registered 
Insurance Brokers   The ABI Code.  
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
Ref: DRN54023123The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct Marketing/ 
Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
While not all intermediaries  who sold PPI at the time were a member of the ABI or GISC, I 
consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Lloyds  at the time. So Im satisfied I should take these codes into account 
when deciding what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable  in the circumstances  of Miss Ls 
case.
I have also taken account of relevant law in reaching  my decision, including: the law relating 
to negligence, misrepresentation and contract (including the express and implied  duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.
I am also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first 
issued by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating to the 
sale of PPI. This sale took place before insurance mediation became a regulated  activity,  so 
Lloyds was required to take into account the provisions in DISP  App 3 as if they were 
guidance when  considering Miss Ls complaint.
key questions  
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me the key questions  I need to 
consider in deciding what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this 
complaint, are:
-If Lloyds gave advice,  whether  it advised Miss L with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for her, given her needs and 
circumstances. 
-Whether Lloyds gave Miss L sufficient, appropriate and timely information  to enable her 
to make an informed choice about  whether  to take the policy,  including  drawing to her 
attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions 
of the policy  and significant limitations  and exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Miss L, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent she suffered loss or damage  
and what I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or damage.
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Miss L and 
Lloyds, Ive decided  not to uphold  Miss Ls complaint.  Ive set out my reasoning  below. 
did Miss L know  she had a choice?
Lloyds had to make it clear the PPI was optional.  Miss L has said it was just included as part 
of the package with her card. But her credit card application listed the PPI under the heading  
Optional features. Also it had boxes to tick to say either Yes or No to the PPI. The form 
says one box should be ticked.  On Miss Ls form, which  she signed to take the card, the 
Yes box is ticked. So it looks  like she was given a choice and said yes to the cover.  And I 
Ref: DRN54023124think she wouldve known the No box should  be ticked  instead if she didnt want  the cover  
the form says: If you do not wish to protect your payments, tick No.
Ive no reason to doubt that Miss L recalls turning down PPI on occasion over the course of 
time. But what I have about  her credit card application in this instance makes me think  she 
did opt for the PPI on this occasion.  Given how long ago she applied for the card, its not 
surprising if Miss L doesnt  now recall  all the details of this credit card application. 
Taking everything into account,  I think it more likely Miss L knew  the policy was optional and 
agreed to take it without  undue pressure.
did Lloyds provide  advice?
Miss L says Lloyds didnt  give advice. Lloyds  says it did. If Lloyds did give advice, Lloyds 
had to do more  so, with all this in mind,  I think its fair to proceed on the basis  that Lloyds 
gave advice. This means Lloyds had to advise  Miss L with reasonable care and skill, in 
particular whether the PPI was appropriate or suitable  given her needs and circumstances.
the advice
I dont know what steps Lloyds took to establish whether the policy  was a suitable 
recommendation for Miss L. Theres no record of what  it discussed in relation to the policy. 
This is unsurprising in respect  of a sale during a meeting.  Lloyds had some  limited 
information about Miss Ls financial  circumstances,  but there is no specific evidence  to show  
Lloyds took steps to establish whether Miss L would  have been caught  by the significant 
exclusions and limitations which  might have meant the policy  did not fully meet her needs. 
For example, theres nothing to suggest it considered  whether Miss L had any pre-existing 
medical conditions.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities, Im not persuaded Lloyds did all it should have done 
to determine whether  the policy was suitable  for Miss L given her circumstances. So Im not 
persuaded Lloyds advised  with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded Lloyds did all it should  have done  to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Miss L, I do think its more likely than not the policy  was ultimately suitable for 
her. In reaching  that conclusion  Ive taken into consideration:
-Miss L had a need for the policy  she says she was financially stretched and it seems  
likely her ability to continue to meet her card repayments wouldve been put under strain 
if she wasnt working for an extended period  of time  even allowing for the statutory sick 
pay she wouldve been entitled  to if she were sick.
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Miss L. There  was 
nothing about  her employment  or occupation which wouldve made it difficult for her to 
claim. And she hasnt  told us about  any pre-existing medical conditions that couldve 
affected her ability to claim. There were also no additional restrictions on cover  for 
mental health or back problems.
-Miss L met the eligibility criteria for the policy.
-Although Miss L says she was financially stretched at the time, Ive seen nothing else to 
suggest the monthly cost of the PPI wasnt affordable.
Ref: DRN54023125-While  the policy would  only pay benefits  for a maximum of 12 months for each claim for 
disability or unemployment, it still provided useful cover given Miss Ls circumstances 
and the fact the policy couldve  cleared her outstanding card balance.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Lloyds  gave Miss L sufficient  
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable her to understand what  Lloyds 
was recommending to her and make an informed decision  about  whether to follow that 
advice and take the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not Miss L was given a very broad description of what the 
policy was intended  to cover (namely cover  for her card payments if she couldnt work due to 
disability or unemployment). Ive reached  this conclusion because I think  Miss L would have 
been told this  at the very least  during  the discussion with Lloyds. I think  it unlikely she 
wouldve taken the policy without any sense of what it was. Also,  her credit card application 
said the PPI was cover for the additional peace of mind of knowing that you can continue to 
meet your minimum  card payments even  if you cant work due to accident, sickness or 
unemployment, which  wouldve  given her some  idea of what  the PPI was. I also think it 
unlikely Miss L wouldve  thought the policy was free and likely she wouldve had some  
understanding of how much  it cost before agreeing to take it.
But the evidence  from the time of the sale doesnt  tell us whether Lloyds gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost (the fact that the premiums  
would be added to the account balance, attracting interest if unpaid  at the end of the month, 
and were payable  during  a claim) or about  the exclusions  and limitations, before Miss L 
agreed to take the policy. Even  if that information  were in a leaflet or policy summary Miss L 
might have been given, I think it more  likely  than not she based her decision on the things 
she was told, rather  than on anything she was given.
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Miss L, Im not persuaded Lloyds did 
enough to present information about the policy it was recommending in a way that was fair 
and reasonable to Miss L. Im not persuaded Lloyds gave Miss L all the information she 
needed about the policy to make an informed decision  about  whether to follow the 
recommendation and take the policy.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And, for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded there were significant failings in this case.  
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Miss Ls representative  has raised a number 
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Miss Ls. Ive considered 
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have explained 
the low claims  ratio  what Miss Ls representative considers to be poor value  and the 
fact much of the premium went to the business rather than the insurer.  
Ref: DRN54023126-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just told 
Miss L about the limitations and exclusions, it should  have gone further and explained 
the significance  of them to her. 
Im not persuaded by Miss Ls representatives views on this. The duty of utmost good faith 
in insurance law imposed  a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose material facts and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think it unlikely a court would find this extended to the insurer  having to disclose the claims 
ratio information or explaining the significance of the limitations and exclusions  in the way 
Miss L has suggested. And taking into account the law, industry codes and standards  of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that Lloyds ought  to have done either.
what effect did Lloyds  shortcomings have  on Miss L? To what extent did Miss  L 
suffer loss or damage  as a result?
Ive found that Lloyds  didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy to Miss L. So I 
have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Miss L 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not Miss L 
would still have taken  the policy, had Lloyds  done things properly. 
While Im not persuaded Lloyds took the steps it shouldve to establish whether the policy  it 
recommended was suitable  for Miss L, Ive found the policy was ultimately suitable for her. In 
those circumstances  it seems to me that whether or not Miss L has suffered loss or damage 
in this case primarily depends on whether, if Lloyds had explained things properly, Miss L 
wouldve acted differently or whether  she wouldve taken the policy in any event.
Miss L says she wouldnt have taken it and believes I should presume this to be the case  
given the significant failings identified  above.  Ive considered  the representations of both 
sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take insurance  requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they dont have  insurance,  should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests Miss L had some interest in taking payment protection 
insurance. By this I mean when Lloyds offered  the PPI or advised her there was a suitable 
product she could buy that would protect  her credit card payments in the event she were 
unable to work because of accident, sickness or unemployment, she concluded she wanted  
that product.  But she made that decision based  on incomplete information,  meaning what 
she thought she was getting  is not exactly what she got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Miss Ls circumstances at the 
time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. In relation 
to the costs, Im satisfied  Miss L ought  reasonably to have  known she would have to pay 
something for the PPI and that it would cover a portion of her outstanding  balance (the credit 
agreement refers to covering  the minimum card payments). But I accept Lloyds  didnt make  
clear the on-going cost information.  So, while Miss L didnt  know  some things, the ultimate 
position in the event  of a successful claim was not dissimilar to what she would  reasonably 
Ref: DRN54023127have thought from the information she based  her decision  to take the policy on and found  
acceptable.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Miss L thought she had bought and 
what she actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded illness or injury occurring within 12 months  of the policy start if 
related to any health issue  Miss L knew or shouldve known about at the start or for 
which shed seen  or arranged to see a medical practitioner in the 12 months  before  the 
start;
The policy limited, and in some situations  excluded, unemployment  cover  if Miss L 
wasnt a permanent employee; and
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim Miss L be unable  to do 
her own job or any work which  in the insurers view she was or might reasonably become 
qualified for in view of her education,  training and ability.
I do accept theres a possibility the limitations or exclusions above might  well have caused 
Miss L pause for thought   and may well have  caused her to conclude the policy  wasnt  as 
good as she thought and she might have decided not to proceed. The limitations on the 
cover, when  coupled  with the other shortcomings in this sale, might  have  dissuaded some  
consumers in slightly different circumstances from Miss L from taking the policy. 
But the evidence  about Miss Ls circumstances at the time of sale shows the policy wasnt  
fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. She was eligible for its benefits and it provided 
cover that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable  to her should  the 
insured risks have  become a reality. I also havent  seen any evidence to suggest Miss L 
wouldve been caught by any of the significant exclusions  she didnt have any pre-existing 
medical conditions  and was in permanent  employment. So, I think she still had some good 
reasons to take the policy.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
wouldve applied to any other disability claim. And I think it unlikely Miss L wouldve expected 
to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some evidence to support that 
claim.
If Miss L had known she could only claim for disability if she were  not only unable to do her 
own job but also unable  to do any job which in the insurers view she was or might become 
qualified for in view of her training, education  and ability, it might have played  into her 
thinking about what to do. And I accept  it may have given her pause for thought  but given 
her circumstances, on balance I think she wouldve still been interested in taking the cover.
Having considered all the evidence and arguments in this case,  I consider  it more likely than 
not Miss L wouldve still taken the PPI. It was sufficiently close to what she thought she was 
getting and, aside from statutory pay, she didnt have any other means of meeting her card 
repayments if she were unable to work due to accident, sickness  or redundancy. In those  
circumstances, I consider it more likely than not she wouldve taken the policy in any event.
Miss Ls representatives say the rules  about  how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken PPI, unless there is evidence to outweigh  the presumption. 
They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
Ref: DRN54023128That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
I have thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, I have found  it would be reasonable to conclude  there  
were substantial flaws  in the sales  process.  In those  circumstances, DISP App 3 says it 
should be presumed Miss L would not have bought the PPI she bought unless, in the 
particular circumstances  of the complaint, there is evidence to rebut the presumption. 
I am satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude  the presumption  is rebutted  
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Miss Ls 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  she found  
herself in as a result  of the sale was the same  position she wouldve been in had the breach 
or significant failings  not occurred. 
Miss L believes  the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  process  
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including her own comments  that she would not have taken 
the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments.  
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Miss L in the position she would have  been  in if she had 
not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept its possible she wouldnt have taken the policy,  Im satisfied 
that, of the two possibilities,  its more likely  than not she would still have taken the PPI had 
she been given  clear, fair and not misleading information about  the policy she was buying. 
So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable, in those circumstances, to conclude 
Lloyds should  pay Miss L compensation, as that would put her in a better  position  than she 
would have been in if everything  had happened as it should have done.  
Im also aware Miss L thinks  Lloyds misrepresented the terms of the policy in how it 
described the PPI. While I accept theres a possibility a court  might  conclude some of Lloyds 
statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why Lloyds failed to act 
fairly and reasonably was not because  of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  Lloyds gave Miss L, in the way it did, was 
insufficient to meet  the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to have met in 
2002 when providing information  about an insurance  policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Miss Ls representative says a court  might  take if it 
were to find Lloyds negligently misrepresented the contract to Miss L and about  the remedy 
a court  might award if it were to find that Lloyds had been in breach of its duty of utmost 
good faith. But this doesnt persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint   including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out, I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Miss L in a better position than if everything had 
happened as it should have done.
Ref: DRN54023129my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 October  2020.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5402312