K820x#14Complaint
Mr K complains that Bank  of Ireland (UK) Plc (trading as the AA) lent irresponsibly when it 
increased his credit  card limit. 
Background
Mr K had an AA credit  card with a £1,000 credit limit. In March 2017  the AA says Mr K asked 
to increase his credit  limit. The AA looked at his request and increased it to £2,000. The AA 
says Mr K asked to increase his credit  limit again  in July and September 2018  as well as 
January 2019  but it declined those requests. 
Last year Mr K complained to the AA about its decision to increase his credit limit. Mr K said 
his credit file would have shown  an increased  dependence on credit in the months leading 
up to the increase. Mr K says the AAs decision to proceed was irresponsible.  The AA 
responded on 16 April 2019 but didnt agree it had lent irresponsibly. The AA said Mr Ks 
request had been assessed in line with its lending  criteria and approved. 
Mr K referred his complaint to our service and it was passed  to an investigator. He thought 
the AA had dealt with Mr Ks complaint fairly  and didnt ask it to do anything  else.  Mr K didnt 
accept so his complaint  has been  passed to me to make a decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before a business agrees to lend it needs to assess whether the debt is affordable.  There  
are lots of ways businesses approach checking  affordability. Lenders need  to complete 
proportionate checks to ensure the borrowing is sustainable. In this case, the AA says it 
looked at Mr Ks credit file, the information he submitted in his original application as well as 
how hed handled  his credit card. It considered various factors  and decided  to proceed.  
Ive looked at the information the AA used. It shows Mr K gave an income  of £50,000 when  he 
originally applied for the credit card and that he had never missed a payment. The AA 
completed a credit check which showed no other  missed payments, defaults or adverse credit. 
The AA found  unsecured  borrowing of around  £37,000 at the time, but compared that against 
the income Mr K had given. I can also see that the AA used its own credit scoring systems to 
verify whether the limit increase request was in line with its lending criteria. The AA also 
looked at the payments Mr K had made  and found he had often paid more  than the minimum. 
As Ive said above,  businesses have to complete proportionate checks to ensure borrowing 
is sustainable for the consumer. Taking  everything  Ive seen into account,  Im satisfied that 
the AA did complete proportionate checks and its decision to approve the credit limit 
increase in March  2017 was reasonable. 
I understand Mr Ks debts  have increased and that hes concerned about  maintaining  his 
repayments. I can see the AA gave Mr K details of several organisations that can offer advice 
and information.  And our website also gives details of services  that may be able to assist.  
Ref: DRN55325552Im very sorry to disappoint Mr K but I havent been persuaded that the AA lent irresponsibly 
when it approved his credit card limit increase in March 2017. As Im satisfied the AA didnt 
lend irresponsibly and has dealt with Mr Ks complaint fairly Im not telling it to take any 
further action. 
My final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 March  2020.
Marco Manente
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN5532555