K820x#14complaint
Miss R complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) wont  refund a payment she made 
as part of a scam and about the customer service she received. 
background
Miss R is the director of a company and has brought  her complaint here in this capacity.  
On 24 May 2017, Miss R transferred  just over £5,000 to what  she believed was an Air BNB 
account for a villa she wanted  to rent. Two days after making the transfer, she became 
aware that the account shed paid the monies  to was fraudulent and set up by someone 
impersonating Air BNB.  On the same  day, Miss R contacted Barclays to alert it so that it 
could attempt to retrieve the payment. 
Miss R complains that Barclays took five days to alert the receiving bank of the fraud and 
because it didnt act quickly enough, the receiving bank was unable to stop the withdrawal of 
the funds by the fraudster. When the receiving  bank contacted Barclays in August 2017, it 
confirmed that most of the money  had been withdrawn with only a few pounds  remaining. 
We asked Barclays to provide the receiving bank with an indemnity so it could return  the 
money; it confirmed that this was done  in August  2020.
Miss R says that she contacted Barclays on several occasions to ascertain  progress  on 
stopping the withdrawal of the funds by the fraudster but each time, she was told that the 
receiving bank hadnt responded to the indemnity (attempt to reclaim the funds) which  
Barclays had raised with it and she feels that Barclays  should have done more to escalate 
matters with that bank.  
Barclays says that it did everything it could  to attempt  to reclaim the funds and that once the 
indemnity was raised, the receiving bank  had 30 days  in which  to respond after which  it 
would chase a response again,  allowing a further 30 days  for an answer.  Barclays says that 
there was nothing more  it could  have done and so it wouldnt be offering Miss R a refund. So 
Miss R asked us to investigate.
Our investigator didnt  uphold Miss Rs complaint. She accepted Miss R had been the victim  
of a scam  but said she couldnt reasonably conclude that Barclays  could have prevented it. 
This was because shed  seen  confidential  information obtained from the receiving bank to 
say that the transferred money  was not available by the time the scam had been  reported 
and the records  show that the majority  of the funds were spent  on the day of the transfer 
with the remaining amount  withdrawn two days later (the day it was reported to Barclays).  
Miss R didnt accept what the investigator said and said shed suffered financially because of 
the fraud.  She asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint, so its been passed to me 
to consider.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of a complaint, Im required to
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules,  guidance  and standards;
Ref: DRN53883302codes of practice; and, where appropriate,  what I consider to be good industry practice  at the
time.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank  is expected  to process  payments
and withdrawals that a customer  authorises  it to make, in accordance  with the Payment
Services Regulations and the terms and conditions  of the customers  account.
However, taking into account  the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of
practice and what I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time,  I consider
Barclays should fairly and reasonably:
-Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made  or received  to counter
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism,
and preventing fraud and scams;
-Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other  signs that
might indicate that its customers were  at risk of fraud (among other things). This is
particularly so given  the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years,
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer;
-In some circumstances,  irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken
additional steps, or make additional checks,  before processing a payment, or in some
cases declined to make  a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the
possibility of financial harm from fraud.
In this case, I need to decide  whether Barclays acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings
with Miss R when she authorised a payment from her account or whether it could and
should have done more  before processing it. That is a question of fact and degree
depending on the circumstances of each  individual case.
I consider Barclays should have been on the lookout  for unusual and out of character 
transactions so Ive looked at Miss Rs statements to see if this payment to Air BNB ought to 
have stood out. From the range of statements Ive seen, there  was frequent activity  on 
Miss Rs account which is perhaps unsurprising as it was a business  account; the balance 
was regularly high,  at times over £400,000 and there were frequent transactions in the 
thousands. The limit on payments  from the account  was £20,000  well above  the c.£5,000 
payment to the fraudster. Looking at other transactions taking place the days before and 
after the disputed  transaction, the value of those payments and the frequency, I can see why 
this disputed payment  wouldnt have flagged. Some examples of the larger payments from 
the statements  - before  the disputed transaction - are:
15.3.17: £5,169 to a hotel
17.3.17: £3,600 to a company
31.3.17: £4,500 to a company
24.4.17: £2,866 to a hotel 
28.4.17: £4,500 to a company
2.5.17: £27,000 to a company 
10.5.17: £8,333 to a logistics company
15.5.17: £2,156 to a company 
23.5.17: £2,234 to a company 
22.5.17: £1,209 to a hotel 
Ref: DRN53883303And amongst the above, there were frequent  transactions  of smaller amounts showing that 
overall, there  was regularly a high level of activity  on the account.  
Ive seen evidence  detailing when new payees were  set up on Miss Rs account  and there 
are frequently new payees created. Ive also seen Miss Rs online banking  records  which 
show that she actively used online banking including on and around  the date of the payment 
to the fraudulent Air BNB account.  Barclays has confirmed that the payment wouldnt have 
flagged on its systems because it wouldnt be deemed as out of character  and I can 
understand from the evidence cited above, why this would  be the case. 
Barclays actions
So Ive gone  on to consider whether Barclays  took the steps it should have once it was 
made aware  that the payment Miss R made was to a fraudulent  account. Miss R says that 
she reported the fraud to Barclays on 26 May 2017.  Ive seen notes from Barclays  systems 
which suggest that internally, the request for an indemnity to be raised, was made on 26 
May 2017. It then appears that the actual indemnity was raised with the receiving bank on 31 
May 2017. I say this because Barclays has confirmed  that Miss R reported the scam on a 
Friday before the May bank  holiday weekend.  It said that its process at the time was to 
report the scam to the receiving bank within one working day and taking the bank holiday 
weekend into account, Barclays  feels this timescale  had been met. 
Its possible there was a delay here caused  by Barclays not contacting the receiving bank 
the same  day it was put on notice of the scam.  So Ive gone  on to consider  whether  that 
delay would have  made a difference in the circumstances of this particular case. On 
balance, Im not persuaded that it did. I say this because the investigator in this case  said 
that shed seen confidential  information  from the receiving bank showing that the majority of 
the funds were withdrawn  by the fraudster on 24 May 2017 with the remaining amount  
withdrawn by 26 May 2017, the same day Miss R reported the fraud  to Barclays.  This 
confidential information isnt in our case files and the investigator no longer works  here so I 
cannot approach  her for it. So I contacted the receiving bank in an attempt to extract  any 
further evidence  about the time the funds were withdrawn by the fraudster to ascertain  if its 
possible to have halted this. Unfortunately, the account  to which  the monies were paid has 
been closed and the receiving bank confirmed it has been unable  to locate any further data 
about it. So, Ive needed to focus my decision on the evidence  which  is available to me 
together with what we know at the service  about how such scams tend to operate.  
Having done so, Im not satisfied that Barclays should be held liable to refund Miss R the 
money which shed  transferred  to the fraudster.  Whilst the investigator in this case  was clear 
shed seen evidence  that the monies  had left the fraudsters account  by the time Miss R 
reported the fraud to Barclays  in which case Id be satisfied that Barclays couldnt  have 
done anything  more to retrieve it - neither  Barclays not the receiving bank has been able to 
show me evidence  of this. Without  this information to confirm the position either way, I dont 
think the fair answer  here is simply to hold Barclays responsible by default and ask it to 
repay Miss R the amount  she transferred to the fraudster. Barclays  has told us that the 
receiving bank didnt  respond to the indemnity request until 8 August 2017 which doesnt 
seem to me to be a reasonable timeframe  however, this was a matter which was out of 
Barclays control once  it had reported  the transaction  to the receiving  bank and I cant  hold 
Barclays liable for any losses incurred by Miss R because of this delay. 
But more  importantly from what we know about  scams, based on the cases which  weve 
seen here,  its often the case  that money is swiftly moved on once it reaches the fraudsters 
Ref: DRN53883304account. This is to avoid  the payment being recalled  or blocked by the banks. In this case, 
the fraud was reported two days after the money had been transferred, so on balance, I think  
its unlikely that all, or the majority of the funds, would have remained in the fraudsters 
account by the time Miss R reported  it. To put it into context, from the cases  weve seen, 
generally speaking  monies are debited from the fraudsters account quickly  and usually 
within an hour or two of the transfer. And I think on balance thats also likely  to have been 
the case here. In light of this, Im not persuaded that any delay by Barclays caused or 
contributed to Miss Rs losses  here. 
In summary,  Im not upholding this complaint. Im satisfied that the payment wasnt one that 
Barclays ought to have been  concerned about because  it was an amount  not out of 
character given the monies coming in and going  out of the account,  there  were  new payees 
regularly set up, payments were often made via online  banking  and a significant balance  
remained in the account after the payment  had been made. Further,  Barclays  raised  an 
indemnity with the receiving bank and on balance Im persuaded the money had likely 
already debited the receiving account.  So I cannot see that there is anything more  that 
Barclays could have  done to mitigate  Miss Rs losses. Because  of this, I cant  say that 
Barclays position not to refund the payment  to Miss R is unreasonable.  
I can fully appreciate the stress and anxiety  Miss R must have felt when each time she 
contacted Barclays,  she was told that the receiving bank had not responded to the indemnity  
it had raised. But I can see that Barclays chased  the receiving bank for its response  on at 
least two occasions  and beyond this, I cannot see that there is anything more  it could have 
done. I know this decision will be disappointing for Miss R but I hope that my explanation 
shows her how Ive reached it and reassures  her that Ive given this case  a lot of thought.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 October  2020.
Reena Anand
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5388330