K820x#14complaint
The estate  of the late Mrs I complains that Barclays  Bank  UK PLC mis-sold Mrs I and her 
late husband a shared  appreciation  mortgage in 1998. 
background
Whilst both the executors  of the estate  have consented this service considering this 
complaint, as the majority  of the representations  made have been provided  by Mr W, for the 
sake of simplicity  I will refer to him alone in terms of these representations.  The estate is 
also that of Mrs I only; however, as the sale of the mortgage in question  involved the late 
Mr I as well, I have also referred to him where  appropriate. 
Mr W has raised a number of different complaint points and has provided detailed 
correspondence outlining  these. Whilst I intend to focus only on what I consider  to be the 
main issues,  I have  made note of the comments Mr W has made  throughout this case.
This complaint has also been with this service  for some time. I would firstly like to apologise  
for the time taken for us to deal with it. And secondly, I will just confirm  that I have only 
briefly set out the course of events below - both in terms of the circumstances of the 
complaint and the events since it was referred to this service.
I do though feel it is worthwhile giving some  explanation of and background to the product in 
question  the shared appreciation mortgage (SAM).
SAMs
In 1998 Barclays  Bank  launched a new lending product; the SAM. Barclays  Bank was not 
the actual lender for this product though. Barclays Bank established a wholly owned 
subsidiary company, Barclays SAMS Limited,  which acted as lender. Mr and Mrs Is contract  
was with Barclays SAMS  Limited.
A SAM is an equity release product, which provided  customers with a loan that could  last the 
lifetime of the borrower. The loan was secured via a mortgage on their property. These  
SAMs didnt  require any monthly payments  from customers and no interest was added  to the 
loan. Instead,  at the time of repayment, the customer  would have to repay the loan and a 
percentage of the appreciation in the value of the mortgaged  property.  This percentage was 
three times the loan to value  ratio (LTV) of the mortgage at the time of borrowing.
The maximum a customer could borrow was 25% LTV, which would lead to a repayment  of 
the loan and 75% of any appreciation. However, if the property  did not increase in value, the 
customer would only have  to repay  the amount of the initial  loan - with no appreciation. 
As mentioned, Barclays Bank was not the actual  lender for these mortgages. It has told us 
that it acted as the lenders agent, arranging  and then administering the mortgages on behalf 
of Barclays SAMS Limited. Barclays Bank has said that all activities involved in the sale 
were carried  out by Barclays Bank staff, but as agent of Barclays  SAMS Limited.
As a result of the sales of SAMs having  taken  place more than 20 years ago, not all of the 
evidence from the time is still available. However,  in addition to some case  specific  
evidence, Barclays Bank has been  able to provide  some standard  documents  as well as an 
explanation of both the product  launch  and the standard sales  process.
Ref: DRN50394492I will now set out the key documents and explain what they showed, as far as is relevant to 
this complaint. Where  available, I will also make reference to the documents  that have been  
provided which relate to Mr and Mrs Is sale.
Product Launch
In early 1998, Barclays Bank sent circulars to branch managers letting them  know about the 
product that was to be launched. They referred to more detailed information  that was 
contained in its Mortgage Information  Manual  (the Manual) and a training  support booklet. 
As well as providing details of the repayment formula,  in several places the Manual  made  it 
clear that the lender of the loan was a separate company to Barclays  Bank. There were  not 
though any directions that customers should be specifically informed of this separation.  
The Manual  did direct staff to establish  what level of service a customer  wanted. These 
levels are set out in the Mortgage  Code  as being the levels  of service  that can be provided 
under the code by lenders  and intermediaries.
These were  for Barclays Bank to provide:
advice and recommendation as to which mortgage is most suitable  for the customer
(Level A service),
information on the different types  of mortgage product available  (Level B service),  or
information on a single mortgage  product only (Level C service).
Sale Process
Various promotional materials were  used to advertise the SAMs. Unfortunately,  Barclays  
Bank hasnt  been  able to provide this service with an example of the advert and it isnt know 
if Mr and Mrs I saw it. Mr W has suggested that they might  have learnt  about  the product 
through a friend. 
The advert apparently  directed interested parties to request a free 'Guide  to Unlocking the 
Capital in Your Home' (Guide) written  by the Daily Telegraphs Personal Finance Editor  and 
sponsored by Barclays Mortgages. A copy of this Guide has been provided to us. But it isnt 
known if Mr and Mrs I saw a copy of this themselves.
The Guide explained some of the potential risks with SAMs as well as the potential benefits  
of the product. But it did not refer to any separation  of the lender from Barclays Bank. The 
front page  of the Guide  says that it has been  sponsored by Barclays  Mortgages.
The Guide also set out the mechanics for calculating the repayment, repeatedly saying that 
the repayment amount was the loan plus three  times the increase in the proportion  of value 
borrowed which occurs after the loan is advanced. It included several worked examples 
demonstrating this.
Ref: DRN50394493The final section of the Guide included the following:
in return for not having  to pay any interest on the capital unlocked  from the home by the 
SAM, the owner must currently  repay three times  the proportion of the original valuation 
borrowed from any increase in the house price by the time it is sold or transferred. So 
the risk with a SAM is that house  prices rise substantially and the homebuyer finds they 
have given up their right to receive up to 75 percent of that uplift.
Parties interested in a SAM could also obtain  a copy of SAM product brochure (Brochure) 
from branches of Barclays Bank  and from Barclays Direct Mortgages.  Again, we dont know 
if Mr and Mrs I received  a copy of this Brochure. 
The Brochure referred  only to Barclays Bank  and Barclays Mortgages, and did not mention 
that a separate company  was the lender.  The Brochure  gave the following explanation of 
how the SAM worked:
You simply borrow a percentage of your property's current  value for as long as you 
want without making  any monthly  payments, until you come  to part with your property 
(or die or wish to repay the loan).  
When you repay the loan,  you also pay a percentage of any increase in the value of 
the property at that time. It really  is that straightforward
Basically, if you come to sell your home  (or if you should die) you must pay the 
original amount borrowed plus a share of the increase in the value of your property at 
that time  The share will be calculated by multiplying the percentage borrowed by 
three and then multiplying  that by how much the property has gained  in value.
It included an example of how some typical Shared Appreciation Mortgages work:
Original Valuation  (£) 100,000
Final Valuation (£) 150,000
Appreciation (£) 50,000
Amount Borrowed  (£) 15,000 20,000 25,000
Percentage  of Property 
Value  Borrowed (%)15 20 25
Lenders Share of 
Appreciation (£)(3x15%)x£50,000  
= 22,500(3x20%)x£50,000  
= 30,000(3x25%)x£50,000 
= 37,500
Total amount repayable (£)22,500 + 15,000 
= 37,50030,000 + 20,000 = 
50,00037,500 + 25,000 
= 62,500
Remaining equity (£) 112,500 100,000 87,500
Attached to the Brochure was an Important  Information You Must Read leaflet (Leaflet). 
This included a further example of a SAM:
Ref: DRN50394494The Leaflet  referred to the obligation to pay the Shared Appreciation to Barclays...  and that 
Barclays is a responsible  lender.
The Brochure and the Leaflet also referred  to Barclays  Bank  being  a member of the Banking  
Ombudsman Scheme.  And said that:
Barclays is committed  to The Mortgage Code and The Banking  Code,  both of which  
set out the commitments  and standards of banks in dealing  with their customers. As 
such, we ensure that our products and services comply with the terms of both Codes. 
The Mortgage Code  relates specifically to the service we provide, the provision of 
information regarding  our mortgage  products and services  and how they operate. 
This booklet therefore contains details regarding the following areas:
marketing of mortgages.
It should be noted here that the Mortgage  Code related  to loans that were  not governed by 
the Consumer  Credit Act 1974 (CCA).  And Mr and Mrs Is loan was a regulated  agreement  
under the CCA. However, the Banking  Code did not contain this limitation and, as far as is 
relevant to this decision, contains  similar  provisions to the Mortgage Code.
Consumers like Mr and Mrs I who chose to pursue the mortgage submitted an application  
form. This application was on a Barclays  Mortgages headed form.
Mr and Mrs Is application form set out their personal details,  noting  that they were  both 
retired and that their combined  annual income was around £16,500. It also confirmed the 
property details and the loan sum required. 
The estimated value of Mr and Mrs Is property was £78,000 and the requested  loan amount 
was £19,500 (25% of the value). This was the maximum amount they could  borrow  via this 
product, given the value of their property.  A different amount to borrow was seemingly 
entered onto the form, but then crossed  out. This amount  isnt fully legible, but appears to be 
in excess of the £19,500 figure. 
The form did not include details  of the purpose of the loan and Mr W hasnt been able to 
provide further  details  of why it was taken  out other than to provide additional spending 
money. Mr and Mrs I apparently  didnt have any other large assets, savings or investments. 
But it appears that on Mrs I passing, she had around  £30,000 savings in her account and it 
is possible some  of this was a residual  of the SAM lending.
Attached to the application  was a declaration form that consumers were  required to sign.  Mr 
and Mrs I signed this on 16 June 1998.  The first point  on this form stated:
I apply for a Shared Appreciation  Mortgage  from Barclays SAMS Limited a 
subsidiary of Barclays Bank PLC
No further information on this was given though. There were also references to the 
consumer agreeing to their information  being  used by the Barclays Group, without this 
group being  defined.
It seems  that in many cases  the sales process also involved  a conversation in branch. And 
this is what apparently happened in Mr and Mrs Is case. Potentially it was during this 
Ref: DRN50394495meeting that the figures on the application  form were amended,  although there is nothing to 
confirm this.
Barclays Bank has said that these conversations would, usually, have been on the basis of a 
Level C service being provided  - i.e. that the conversation would relate to Barclays Bank 
providing information on the SAM only. A confirmation of discussion form was completed at 
the time of such discussions, confirming the level of service. The form is effectively a 
checklist of topics that might need  to be discussed with the ability to confirm Y or N 
depending on the conversation that took place.
The confirmation of discussion form completed  in Mr and Mrs Is sale is also dated 16 June 
1998, and is completed on the basis of them being  provided with information about a single 
product - a Level  C service. It is unclear whether Mr and Mrs I would have seen  this form, 
but the indication is that it was for internal  use only.
The application was considered and, if approved,  an offer was sent to consumers. Barclays  
process was to send  an initial Advance Copy and then a week  after this an actual Agreement  
was sent, asking customers to sign and return if they wanted to take out the mortgage.  The 
form and content  of the Advance  Copy and the actual Agreement were the same. 
In Mr and Mrs Is case, this process  was slightly complicated by a change  in their solicitor  
only being noted after an initial Advance Copy and Agreement were sent out. As such, this 
process was repeated  with new versions  being  sent on 6 July 1998 and 13 July 1998 
respectively. 
Mr and Mrs Is Advance  Copy, dated  6 July 1998,  listed the lender as Barclays SAMS 
Limited. After providing details of the loan,  it included  the following statement:
For the purposes of the Mortgage Code, we have provided you with information  on a 
mortgage product. 
The Advance Copy confirmed the amount of credit being provided (A) as £19,500,  and that a 
valuation fee (B) of £170 was payable on redemption. The legal fee (C) was £305.  The offer 
stated the applicable APR as 2.5%,  but clarified  this by saying:
The APR is based on the total charge for credit which includes fees. In calculating  
the APR we have not taken into account the Shared Appreciation Amount  (if any) 
since this will not be known at the date of the Agreement,  or any variation of fees B 
and C. The rate of interest under this Agreement is zero.
The Advance Copy then explained the shared appreciation amount, as follows:
And later gave the following,  generic  example:
Mr and Mrs Is Advance  Copy stated that the loan needed to be drawn down by 31 July 
1998. And set out Mr and Mrs Is right to withdraw  from the proposed credit agreement. This 
gave Mr and Mrs I a week to consider the terms of the agreement  and explained that if they 
Ref: DRN50394496did not wish to enter it, they should  not sign the actual agreement  and should merely inform 
the lender or broker of their decision.  
The Advance Copy also stated:
You should read [the proposed agreement] carefully. If you do not understand it, you 
may need to seek professional advice.
A week after the offer letter, an Agreement was sent, for customers to sign and return  if they 
wanted to take out the mortgage. Mr and Mrs Is Agreement  was sent to them on 
13 July 1998 and they signed this on 14 July 1998.The  Agreement included the same terms 
and explanations as the Advance  Copy. This included the following:
You confirm that you have read and understood this Agreement (including  the 
Conditions and any special conditions). In particular,  you confirm that we have 
recommended that you obtain independent legal  advice  on the meaning and effect of 
this Agreement  and the Mortgage .
A copy of the Advance Copy was also sent to Mr and Mrs Is solicitor, along with a request 
for a report  on the title of the property  and Instructions to Solicitors. These Instructions 
directed, in part, solicitors  to confirm that their clients  understood the terms and conditions  of 
the mortgage. 
Mr and Mrs Is solicitors wrote to Barclays Bank  on 21 July 1998 with the completed Report 
on Title. The points  that Mr and Mrs Is solicitor agreed to in completing  this included that 
they had complied with the Instructions, including that the terms and conditions  of the 
mortgage had been explained to Mr and Mrs I. They requested the loan amount  be released 
on 30 July 1998,  which it seems is what happened.
The complaint
Mr W, on behalf of the estate, has raised a number of concerns relating, either directly or 
indirectly, to the SAM. 
The main  complaint point  is that the estate  considers the SAM was mis-sold on the basis  
that the illustration  of repayment costs provided  at the point of sale were  misleading and that 
the size of the repayment required to redeem the mortgage is excessive. Mr W has also 
stated Mr and Mrs I had no particular need  for the loan and that they did not receive 
appropriate advice  at the point of sale.
Mr W has also raised concerns over the annual statements sent to Mr and Mrs I in the years 
after the sale. He has said that these did not contain  clear  information and as such Mr and 
Mrs I were unable  to exit the agreement  before it was too late.
The estate  was also unhappy with the service experienced  when  it contacted Barclays  Bank  
in 2018. Barclays  Bank  apologised for this and made a compensation payment of £200. As 
this point was resolved,  it did not form part of the complaint referred  to this service.
Barclays Banks position
As mentioned, Barclays Bank apologised for the customer  service  provided after Mrs I had 
passed away and offered  £200 in compensation for this. 
Ref: DRN50394497In relation to the sale though, Barclays Bank  has said that the information  provided clearly 
set out the terms  of the SAM. And that no advice was given by the bank. Barclays  Bank  has 
said that customers, including Mr and Mrs I, were instructed to seek  their own financial and 
legal advice. And that Mr and Mrs Is solicitor  had confirmed that the details of the SAM, etc. 
were understood by Mr and Mrs I prior to the loan being drawn down.
Barclays Bank has said that it does not have control over house prices and could not have 
predicted the changes in the market since the sale of this SAM.  It said it was also unable to 
vary the terms and conditions of the mortgage,  lower the amount repayable,  or recalculate 
this based on an APR of 6% being applied to the original loan amount. 
Barclays Bank did raise a number of objections to this service considering complaints about 
SAMs, including this one. Largely, these issues have now been resolved, but I will provide a 
summary of this services  jurisdiction in relation to this complaint below.
Our investigators opinion
Our investigator considered that parts  of this complaint about Barclays Banks actions  in the 
sale of the SAM do fall within  our jurisdiction. He explained that a predecessor to this 
service, the Office of the Banking  Ombudsman (OBO), would have considered  such 
complaints. And that this service has the power to consider these complaints  as well.
However, the investigator did also find that whilst this service  was able to consider  the 
banks actions in relation  to the sale, we are unable to consider any issues connected to the 
fairness of the product or the terms of the SAM itself. Such concerns would need to be 
raised with Barclays SAMS Limited  and the investigator explained  that this service  does not 
have the jurisdiction to consider such a complaint against this entity.
In relation to the sale of the SAM  by Barclays Bank,  the investigators opinion was that no 
advice had been provided to Mr and Mrs I by the bank. And the information they had been 
given at the time was clear on the terms of the SAM.  
Ultimately, the investigator  did not uphold the complaint about the sale of the SAM.
Mr W responded, disagreeing with this outcome. He made a number of comments,  which 
included that he felt that:
Mr and Mrs I should have been provided with proper financial  advice, 
there was likely to have been some pressure from Barclays Bank that led them  to take 
out the SAM, 
the repayment examples used in the sales process were misleading, 
the use of an APR of 2.5% on the Agreement was misleading, and 
the annual statements provided by Barclays Bank  in subsequent years were  misleading.
Our investigator responded to these concerns, but did not change his view regarding the 
sales process. 
In terms of the annual  statements sent after the SAM had been taken out, the investigator 
confirmed that Barclays  Bank had accepted  that between  2008  and 2015, following a 
change in the relevant rules, the annual statements provided to Mr and Mrs I had not fully 
complied with the relevant requirements.  Largely, these failings were the lack of either a 
Ref: DRN50394498stated cost of redemption or details of how a customer might calculate this redemption 
amount. However,  the investigator  did not consider this has caused Mr and Mrs I any 
material detriment, as he did not think their actions in this period would have been 
substantially different had they been  provided  with the required information at that time. 
Mr W remained unsatisfied. He set out that Barclays Bank  was an international company 
with large resources, whereas Mr and Mrs I were elderly and financially unsophisticated.  And 
that he remained of the view that the SAM was an unfair product and that the sales  
documents were  misleading. 
As such,  this complaint has been passed  to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive taken into account, amongst other 
things, the relevant law, regulations and industry  practice.
Before I can consider the merits of this complaint, I need to confirm whether it is a complaint  
that falls within the jurisdiction of this service. Based on the evidence available  on this case, 
as well as the other  information I have been  provided with, I consider that there are aspects 
to this complaint  that do fall within the jurisdiction of this service.  But that there are also parts 
of the complaint that I am unable to consider.
Are the relevant sale activities of Barclays Bank  within  the scope of this service?  
Barclays Bank has now largely accepted that this service has jurisdiction  to consider 
complaints about  its activities during the sale of Mr and Mrs Is SAM. However, for the sake 
of clarity, I will just confirm my findings in this regard.
The ability of this service  to consider complaints stems from the Financial  Services  and 
Markets Act 2000. The relevant provisions and associated  rules have been incorporated into 
the Financial Conduct Authority  (FCA)  Handbook, particularly the Dispute Resolution: 
Complaints (DISP)  section  of this Handbook.  DISP  sets out the extent of this services 
jurisdiction. We are bound  to follow these rules  and so can only look at a complaint if allowed 
by the rules.
This part of this complaint concerns events in 1998; before the start of the Financial 
Ombudsman Services compulsory jurisdiction on 1 December 2001.  But, as DISP 2.3.2G 
explains, we can consider  complaints  about  acts and omissions that took place before this 
date, if that complaint could have been  considered  by one of our predecessor  schemes.
If such a complaint does  fall within the jurisdiction of this service, article  7 of the Financial 
Services and Markets  Act 2000 (Transitional Provisions) (Ombudsman Scheme and 
Complaints Scheme) Order 2001 (the Ombudsman Transitional Order) requires, in part, that 
when considering such a complaint, we need to do so on the same basis  as the former 
scheme would  have.
Effectively, this means that although  Mr and Mrs Is SAM was sold to them prior to the 
creation of this service,  and the rules  that govern our jurisdiction, we are able to consider a 
complaint about  this sale if such a complaint would have been considered by a previous 
Ref: DRN50394499scheme. But that, if we are able to consider the complaint, we need to do so on the same 
basis as the former scheme would have.
At the time Mr and Mrs Is SAM  was sold, the OBO would have considered complaints about 
the actions of members,  or designated associates, of that scheme where  they were 
providing a banking service.
Barclays Bank was a member of the scheme. And I consider the OBO would have 
considered Barclays  Bank  to have been  providing  a banking service  in certain circumstances 
where it was providing information about a credit agreement secured on land by a first 
charge mortgage.  And that, as Barclays Bank  provided such  a service  to Mr and Mrs I during 
the sale of their SAM,  the OBO would have considered  a complaint about this.
As such,  I consider that (subject to the jurisdiction questions considered  below) this service  
can consider a complaint about  the sale of Mr and Mrs Is SAM by Barclays Bank. 
However, this ability is limited to considering the information and any advice provided about  
the product.  And it would not extend  to considering  the terms of the SAM itself.  
Jurisdiction over the terms and fairness  of the loan
A complaint about whether the terms and conditions of a SAM  were unfair would  need  to be 
considered against the lender itself. The terms of a loan are set by the lender, not the 
intermediary.
As has been previously  explained, the lender of Mr and Mrs Is SAM was Barclays SAMS 
Limited. It is Barclays  SAMS Limited  that is responsible for the terms of the SAM. 
I appreciate that Barclays SAMS Limited is a subsidiary of Barclays  Bank and that it was 
Barclays Bank that decided to launch this product. But Barclays SAMS  Limited is 
nevertheless a separate company and Barclays Bank cannot be held liable for the actions of 
this separate company. These actions include setting the terms of the credit  agreement.  And 
this applies also to the relationship between the borrower and the lender.
Are the relevant post-sale  activities of Barclays Bank within the scope of this service?
The final part of this complaint relates to the administration  of the SAM, and whether suitable 
information has been provided  after the sale, specifically in relation to the annual mortgage 
statements. 
The SAM that Mr and Mrs I entered was a credit  agreement  secured on land. Mr and Mrs Is 
SAM was for £19,500, which fell below the relevant financial limit that existed at the time. 
And, as such, their agreement was a consumer  credit  agreement. 
As well as being a member of this Compulsory Jurisdiction relevant to this service, Barclays  
Bank was a member  of the Consumer Credit  Jurisdiction between 8 April 2007 and 31 
March 2014. This jurisdiction covered  certain  complaints about consumer credit activities.  
And, in administering the SAM, Barclays Bank were carrying  out either the consumer credit 
activity and, after March  2014, the regulated  activity  of debt administration - whether or not 
this was carried out for a separate legal entity.  
Ref: DRN503944910Whilst the specific regulations changed  over time, and slightly  different considerations need 
to be taken into account, this does not alter the jurisdiction of this service  to consider these 
activities. Providing annual statements on the mortgage was part of such administration.  So, 
I considered that this service could consider this part of this complaint.
Mr W has included,  in the estates complaint, concerns with the level of information  provided 
to Mr and Mrs I in the years following the sale. And I consider this element of the complaint 
falls within  the jurisdiction of this service, as far as it relates to such  activity after April 2007.
Having established  the parts of Mr and Mrs Is complaint I consider fall within the jurisdiction 
of this service, I shall now outline  my findings  in relation to the merits of their complaint.
Did Barclays Bank advise  or pressure Mr and Mrs I to take out the SAM?
As has been noted, the Manual does envisage a situation where a Level A mortgage 
intermediary service might be provided.  And there was no guidance,  that I have seen, that 
Barclays Bank branch  staff should not carry out an advised sale of the SAM. They would  
have, in other situations, carried  out advised sales  in relation to Barclays Banks  own 
mortgage products.  So, I consider that some SAMs may have been  sold by Barclays  Bank 
during an advised sale.
The question here though, is whether Mr and Mrs Is SAM  was taken out following such 
advice from Barclays Bank. Having considered the circumstances  of the complaint, there is 
no persuasive evidence  that any advice was given to Mr and Mrs I by Barclays  Bank.
Barclays Bank has referred to the confirmation of discussion form that was completed  during 
the sale process. This indicates that a Level C service was provided, which would not have  
included advice. I do note that Mr and Mrs I may not have seen this form - they certainly 
were not required  to sign it. 
I am also conscious that, regardless  of the intentions of the Barclays Bank branch staff, Mr 
and Mrs I might have  been led to believe they were receiving advice. But none  of the 
evidence Mr W has been able to provide  indicates Mr and Mrs I believed  they had been 
provided with advice from the bank.
And, having considered all of the circumstances  of this case, I do not consider  it is more  
likely than not that Barclays Bank provided, or acted so as to lead Mr and Mrs I to believe  
they were providing,  advice in relation to the sale of this SAM.
Mr W has also said that if Barclays Bank did not provide advice, and nor did Mr and Mrs Is 
solicitor(s), then they had not received  proper  financial advice prior to entering the mortgage. 
This may be true. However, it was not Barclays  Banks  responsibility  to ensure Mr and Mrs I 
did receive such advice.  
I am persuaded that the sale was more likely than not conducted  on a non-advised basis.  
This means  all Barclays Bank  was required to do was provide appropriate information to 
allow Mr and Mrs I to make their own decision.  And it wouldve been for Mr and Mrs I to also 
decide whether  they were happy  to proceed  on this basis or whether they wanted to take 
advice from another  party.  It would also have  been  up to them to decide whether  this was 
lending that they needed or not.
Ref: DRN503944911Mr W has indicated  that Mr and Mrs I may have been pressurised into the mortgage. But he 
has been unable  to provide any evidence to actually support this assertion. He has also 
indicated that Mr and Mrs I seemingly  approached  Barclays Bank  themselves,  having learnt 
of the product through  a friend. So, it seems the initial interest came from them.  And once 
this interest had been established, they were provided with what  I consider appropriate 
opportunities not to proceed. Due to changes in their solicitor, it seems Mr and Mrs I were  
provided with a period of several weeks between receiving an initial offer and then signing 
the mortgage agreement.  It was also not until several  weeks after this that the loan was 
drawn down. Overall, I am not persuaded that Mr and Mrs I were pressurised into taking  out 
the SAM  by Barclays Bank.
Barclays Bank did recommend that Mr and Mrs I obtain independent  legal advice on the 
meaning and effect of this Agreement and the Mortgage. This was contained in the 
Advance Copy and the Agreement. Mr and Mrs I did use a solicitor who were  sent the 
Instructions, and who also confirmed that Mr and Mrs I understood the terms of the SAM. 
Any issue  Mr and Mrs I have about  the actions of their solicitor(s) would not be the 
responsibility of Barclays  Bank. 
But I am mindful that Barclays  Bank  still had a responsibility to provide clear  information.
Did the information  provided allow Mr and Mrs W to understand the SAM?
In terms of the activity  in relation to the sale, I am required to take into account the approach  
OBO would have taken  had a complaint about  this activity been referred to them. This would 
have included taking  into account the content of the Banking Code.
One of the key commitments in the Banking Code was for members  to give information on 
services and products  in plain language. And to offer help if there was any aspect the 
consumer didnt understand. Help should  also have been provided to make sure customers  
understood the financial implications of mortgages  and other lending. The Banking Code 
also required  members to ensure all advertising  and promotional material  was clear, fair, 
reasonable and not misleading.
So, I have taken approach into account  when considering this complaint.
The main  concern that Mr W has about  the information in the sale process is that the 
examples used were  not clear enough for Mr and Mrs I to understand the real financial 
implications of the agreement. As above, providing  information what was clear  and not 
misleading was one of the specific key commitments banks, including Barclays Bank,  
promised to meet.
As Barclays Bank has said, it was not possible to accurately predict what  would happen to 
the value of Mr and Mrs Is property, nor how long it would  be until the loan was redeemed. 
This meant that all that could reasonably be provided was the formula  for the calculation  and 
some examples of possible outcomes.
As set out above, the Brochure set out the mechanism for how the shared appreciation 
amount payable on redemption was calculated  as follows:
The share  will be calculated by multiplying the percentage borrowed by three and 
then multiplying that by how much  the property has gained in value.
Ref: DRN503944912It then provided several examples of how this might work in practice. In my view, this 
information provided a reader  with a reasonable level of information  to allow them  to 
understand the basic mechanism behind the mortgage. And I dont consider that the 
language used was unclear or misleading.
Further written examples of how the SAM  worked  were likely provided to Mr and Mrs I in the 
Leaflet and the Agreement (both the Advance  Copy and the signed  Agreement).
I do note that the examples in these  documents used  different figures  and different lengths  
of time before repayment.  But I dont think this in itself made the arrangements  less clear.  If 
anything, these differences gave the reader more opportunity  to see possible outcomes.
I also note that the figures used in these  examples  are significantly different from the 
ultimate appreciation that accrued on the value of Mr and Mrs Is property. But as mentioned, 
Barclays Bank was not able to predict  how the housing market would develop  in the years 
following the sale. And whilst I agree they might have been in a position to better understand 
this than some customers these mortgages were sold to, I havent  seen anything to 
persuade me that the figures provided were a false representation of their understanding  at 
the time.  The examples used showed  a range of possible  outcomes and the information  
provided made it clear  that the ultimate  appreciation would depend on how long the 
mortgage was held and what might or might not happen in the future. 
I have also considered the wording used in the explanations. I have taken into account 
Barclays Banks comments  that customers were directed  to clarify anything they didnt 
understand through independent legal advice, and that Mr and Mrs I did use a solicitor who 
was sent the Instructions. But I am also mindful that Barclays Bank still had a responsibility 
to provide clear  information.
The Agreement that Mr and Mrs I signed said that:
The Total  Loan  shown at A is to be repaid in one lump sum and the Shared 
Appreciation Amount  will be payable where the Property value  before  redemption of 
the Mortgage is greater than the Original Property Valuation
This uses a number of terms  which have  specific  definitions.  But I consider that these 
definitions were clearly provided  within the Agreement. So, whilst a customer would be 
required to consider the document  carefully,  I dont consider  the language used to have 
been inappropriate.
There were some unknowns, but these  were highlighted  by additional wording. For example, 
the Agreement referred to the APR, and Mr W has said that the references to the APR being 
2.5% is misleading. Mr W accepts that it would  have been challenging to quote the actual 
APR that would apply, but feels quoting the figure of 2.5% was falsely  reassuring. However, 
this figure  is then clarified as above,  explaining  that the shared appreciation could not be 
known at the time the agreement was entered. And that the true cost of the loan would 
largely be determined  by the change  in house value.  I also note that where a worked 
example was provided in the Brochure, an APR of 8.5% was given  taking into account the 
appreciation that formed part of that example. I think this further highlighted  that the APR 
would vary depending on what happened  to the value of the property. 
The Brochure also stated that branch staff could help if customers didnt understand any 
aspect of the SAM. It isnt possible for us to know what  information  Mr and Mrs I were 
Ref: DRN503944913provided with verbally. I do think that the examples and explanations provided to Barclays  
Bank branch staff, in the Manual and training  material, would most likely have made them  
aware of the mechanism  involved in the SAM. And given  this, I dont think it is more  likely 
than not that Mr and Mrs I were given  incorrect information about  this verbally.
Ultimately, because of the nature of the loan, definitive figures could not be provided. But I 
do not consider  that this in itself mean  the information provided in the promotional  material 
was not clear, fair, reasonable and not misleading.  And the written information  provided  with 
the loan agreement would, in my view, have allowed Mr and Mrs I to understand the financial 
implications of the SAM. 
Has Barclays Bank  provided appropriate  information in annual  statements?
As administrator of the SAM, Barclays Bank  needed  to provide Mr and Mrs W with certain 
information in the time following the sale. As set out above, this service is only able to 
consider the actions of Barclays Bank  in this regard since  2007  at the earliest. 
Different requirements applied at particular points in time. But, for the sake  of simplicity, I will 
just say that an annual statement should  have been provided which set out, in part, the cost 
of redeeming the loan. And that where  this cost could not be quantified, a warning  to that 
effect, or the basis on which  the calculation would be made,  should  have been included.
I dont think the reference  to the interest rate being 0% is misleading.  The SAM was not 
subject to any rate of interest. And the rate of interest applicable to a mortgage product like 
this is different to the APR. 
However, the annual  statements likely sent to Mr and Mrs I merely say that the outstanding 
balance as shown  was not likely to be the full cost of redeeming the loan. And I dont 
consider that this short statement gave  the reader enough information. It is also included as 
part of a sentence referring  to the statement  not showing recent  mortgage  payments, which  I 
think might  have been misleading.
The statement  did not include details of the method of calculating  the repayment  amount. 
Later statements Barclays Bank has sent on other  customers accounts have included  this 
calculation. And I think that its inclusion is necessary to provide the required level of clarity.
As such,  I dont consider Barclays  Bank gave Mr and Mrs I the appropriate level of 
information in relation  to their debt.
However, I need to take into account what the detriment of this was on Mr and Mrs I.
Whilst I consider that the information provided at the time the SAM was sold was clear, fair, 
reasonable and not misleading, it is possible that Mr and Mrs I nevertheless  did not 
appreciate, in the period  since  2007,  how much the cost of redeeming their SAM would be.
However, when considering detriment, I need  to consider the detriment  on the complainant.  I 
have not been provided with evidence to persuade me that a different course of action would 
have been taken had Mr and Mrs I been  provided  with clearer information  in the years since 
2007. I would add that the largest changes to the housing market during  the term of this 
mortgage occurred  prior to this date. And that, to paraphrase Mr W, it would already have 
been too late for Mr and Mrs I to exit the loan at this point without being required to pay a 
relatively similar level of appreciation. 
Ref: DRN503944914There is no evidence that Mr and Mrs I were  in a position to repay the SAM  without selling  
their property. And as this was their home, I dont consider it more likely  than not that they 
would have been inclined to this course.
Summary
In summary,  whilst I consider the information Barclays Bank provided Mr and Mrs I in the 
annual statements wasnt as clear  as it should  have  been, I dont consider this has caused  a 
detriment to Mr and Mrs I or her estate.
I do not consider  it more  likely than not that Barclays Bank  advised  Mr and Mrs I in relation 
to the sale, but the bank was not required to provide such advice or to ensure that Mr and 
Mrs I took such  advice  elsewhere. I also do not consider that the information  provided to Mr 
and Mrs I at the time of the sale was not clear, fair, reasonable and not misleading. So I do 
not consider Barclays  Bank mis-sold this product to Mr and Mrs I. 
Whilst I note Mr Ws concerns over the fairness of this product, this service is unable  to 
consider a complaint about this point in the circumstances. Such a complaint would need to 
be made against an entity which  does  not fall within the jurisdiction  of this service. 
my final decision
My final decision is I dont  uphold this complaint from the estate of Mrs I about the sale of 
this SAM by Barclays Bank UK PLC. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W, on behalf of 
the estate, to accept  or reject my decision before  27 April 2021.
Sam Thomas
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN5039449