K820x#14complaint
Its been agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL),  as the 
insurer should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple Ill refer to FICL 
as the seller in my decision.
Miss D says FICL mis-sold her a payment  protection  insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out alongside a store  card in 2002.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Miss D disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Ds case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
FICL had to make Miss D aware  the PPI was optional and gain her consent  before adding 
the policy to her card. Miss D says the policy was added to her card without her knowledge 
or consent. I cant know for certain  what was said at the time Miss D applied for her card and 
PPI but FICL has sent us a copy  of the available paperwork. Miss Ds application form had a 
separate section  for PPI that Miss D has signed to accept the PPI.
Miss D has also signed  the form separately in agreement with the selections made on it.
With this in mind I think FICL  made  it clear that the PPI was optional and that
Miss D chose to have it.
FICL didnt  recommend the PPI to Miss D so it didnt  have to check if it was right for her. But 
it did have to make sure Miss D got the information she needed to decide if it was right for 
her.
Its possible the information FICL gave Miss D about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But she chose  to take out the PPI knowing the other means  she had of making her 
repayments which included sick pay. But the PPI would have paid out in addition  to Miss Ds 
sick pay.
Based on what Ive seen  of Miss Ds circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover   so it would have been useful 
for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  So I dont think 
better information about the PPI would  have put her off taking  out the cover.  Which  means 
FICL doesnt have  to pay back  the cost of the PPI to Miss D.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN54147622Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss D to accept
or reject my decision before 25 August 2019.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5414762