K820x#14complaint
Ms P has complained about  the way Gefion Insurance A/S dealt with a claim against her 
motor insurance policy.  
For ease of reading, reference  to Gefion includes its agent. 
background
In July 2018 another drivers insurer contacted  Gefion to say Ms P had been  involved in an 
accident. The other driver said Ms P had hit their car in the rear and wanted  to claim against 
her. Gefion said it tried to contact Ms P but didnt receive a reply  until it wrote to her in 
October 2018.
Ms P said she hadnt been contacted by Gefion until that point and got in touch  straight 
away. She said the other driver had reversed, touching  her car slightly  as she did so, but this 
was so minor she didnt  consider it to be an accident. Ms P said shed  taken photos  at the 
scene of the incident and there was no damage to either car.
In December 2018 Ms P received a letter from the other drivers insurer  asking her to repay 
the money as it hadnt been  able to recover it from Gefion. Ms P let Gefion know  and it 
settled the claim against her on a without prejudice basis.
Ms P didnt think the incident was her fault. Gefion  instructed an engineer who inspected    
Ms Ps car and said there wasnt any damage. As a result, Gefion contacted  the other 
insurer to try to recover the money it had paid. The other drivers insurer  still thought  Ms P 
was to blame. It said the engineers report was from some  months later and shed 
exchanged details with the other  driver at the scene. Gefion asked Ms P about this. Ms P 
said she hadnt provided her details and the other driver could have got them  from her 
number plate. 
Ms P complained to Gefion about how it had dealt with the claim.  She was unhappy it was 
holding her at fault and the time it had taken to deal with things. She said her premiums  were 
affected because  the claim was still open. 
Gefion said it had tried to hold the other  driver at fault but didnt think it could prove  it was 
most likely Ms P wasnt to blame if the case went to court. Ms P remained unhappy  and 
brought her complaint  to us.
Our investigator thought Gefion had carried out a reasonable investigation into the claim.    
Ms P disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision. She said the engineers  report 
showed there was no damage to her car so there couldnt be any damage  to the other  car. 
She said Gefion hadnt tried to contact her in August and she hadnt exchanged  details  at 
the scene. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms P has made a number of detailed  points, however Ive focused on what  I consider to be 
the central issues to this complaint. 
Ref: DRN58646482Its not my role to decide whos at fault for an incident, as thats the role of the courts.  Instead 
I look to see if Gefion  has made a fair and reasonable decision to settle the other  drivers  
claim, in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. 
The terms of Ms Ps policy give Gefion the right to take over and settle or defend a claim as 
it sees fit. This might mean it makes a decision Ms P doesnt  agree with, but the terms of the 
policy allow  it to do so. Again, I look to see that its done so fairly and reasonably. 
Ultimately, Gefion didnt think it could prove it was most likely that Ms P wasnt to blame  if 
the case went to court.  While I recognise how strongly Ms P feels about this, Im satisfied it 
came to this decision fairly  and reasonably.  Ill now explain why. 
There doesnt seem to be any dispute that there was a coming together of the cars. I say this 
because Ms P confirmed  in an email that the other drivers car touched hers.  Shes also said 
that she got out at the scene and took photos.  I think shes  unlikely to have got out of her car 
and taken photos if nothing at all had happened. 
I can see that Gefion tried to support Ms Ps version of what  happened by holding the other  
driver at fault. It also appointed an engineer who confirmed that there wasnt any damage to 
Ms Ps car. However, the other  drivers insurer refused to accept this. The other drivers 
insurer said the engineers report was from some  months later and Ms P had exchanged  
details at the scene.
Its not uncommon for two cars involved  in an incident to have different levels of damage. 
So, just because Ms Ps car wasnt damaged it doesnt follow  that the other car wouldnt 
have any damage.  I accept Ms Ps point that the other drivers insurer might  have got her 
details from taking her number plate. But Im still persuaded by Gefions  view that it didnt 
have enough evidence to show it was most likely Ms P wasnt  to blame.  And I think  if Gefion 
thought it had a reasonable chance of showing the other driver was at fault it would  have 
done so. I say this because  if it had a reasonable chance of recovering the money, I think its 
most likely it would have  tried to do so.
I appreciate this has taken longer than Ms P would  have liked, but its not unusual  for claims 
to take some  time to resolve  where  both parties hold each other  to blame. I can understand 
its frustrating that the claim  remained open  and that had an impact on Ms Ps premium.  But 
Gefion had to keep the claim  open while it was trying to recover  the money. I can see Gefion  
also said Ms Ps broker would re-rate her premium once the claim had closed. Which I think  
is fair in the circumstances. 
I dont think I need  to make a finding about whether  Gefion tried to contact Ms P in          
August 2018 or not. I say that because  I dont think Gefion contacting Ms P earlier  would 
have changed  whether  its most likely she would be held at fault for the incident.
I can understand why Ms P was frustrated to receive a letter  from the other  drivers  insurer  
asking her to pay the money for the claim. From looking at the timeline  provided  by Gefion it 
seems that this was because Gefion didnt respond to the other insurers  request for 
payment. However,  Im not going  to ask it to do anything  further  to put things right because 
Gefion responded  to the other insurer as soon as Ms P made  it aware of the letter. 
In summary,  Im satisfied  Gefion came to its decision fairly and reasonably and in line with 
the terms and conditions of the policy. So, Im not going to ask it to do anything else.  
Ref: DRN58646483my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 February  2020.
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN5864648