K821x#15complaint
Mr B says that a used  car he acquired via a hire purchase agreement  with Volkswagen 
Financial Services (UK) Limited (VWFS) wasnt of satisfactory quality. He wants to reject 
the car and end the agreement.
background
In October  2017 Mr B entered into a four year hire purchase agreement for a used car with 
VWFS. The car was around 18 months  old and had a mileage of 17,000.
Mr B says that shortly  after taking  the car he began to have issues with it. In particular with 
the electrical back doors which  wouldnt  open  or close properly and on at least two 
occasions theyd  opened while driving along.  He also complained about the electric windows 
which wouldnt stay up; with the brakes  that were worn; with the Sat Nav that seemed to be 
out of date and with an interior  light that didnt work.
In early January  the car was recalled for a software update by the manufacturer.  
By mid-January Mr B complained to the dealership about the issues  with the car. It asked 
him to send  an email  detailing the faults with the car which Mr B did.
 
The issues  with the car continued and in February 2018 Mr B attended the dealership  and 
spoke with them about the problems  with the cars doors and electric windows. He told them  
again about the car doors opening while driving making him fear for his and his familys 
safety. The dealership said it would investigate  the car for him.
The car was taken in for inspection but no fault could be found  with the rear doors or with the 
windows. The brakes were found to be worn and as a gesture of goodwill were replaced.    
Mr B took the car back.
Mr B says that the issues with the doors and windows continued. He borrowed cars from 
family members to avoid  using his car though  a family member  was prepared  to use his at 
times. Mr B booked the car in for a further inspection in June 2018.
Shortly before the car went in to the dealership Mr B contacted VWFS  and complained about 
the quality of the car. He told VWFS  that he didnt  feel safe driving it as the rear doors had 
on occasions opened when driving. He also said there was burning smell in the car and the 
electric windows wouldnt stay up. He asked  to be allowed to reject the car.
When the car was at the dealership although  no fault could  be found with the rear passenger  
side door an issue was found with the drivers side rear door and window. Repairs  were  
undertaken and basic  settings for the door were  carried out. Mr B also complained  about  the 
handbrake but fault could  be found. However repairs were  carried out to an interior  light and 
the adblue supply line. The dealership contacted  Mr B and said the car was repaired.
Mr B declined to collect the car and told VWFS  that he had rejected it due to its condition. 
VWFS disagreed that Mr B was entitled  to do so. It said that the cars brakes had been the 
only item that required repairs during the investigation in February 2018. And it wasnt until 
the second investigation in June 2018,  which was eight months after Mr B, had acquired the 
car that faults  had been found with the rear door and window. These had been repaired 
Ref: DRN54801862under the warranty.  And as this had been the first time these faults  had been found  the 
dealership had exercised its rights under the Consumer  Rights Act 2015  to repair.
VWFS said that taking into consideration the distress and inconvenience  caused to Mr B by 
not being able to use his car while it awaited the repairs  it would offer to pay him £500 
compensation. 
Mr B was unhappy at VWFSs response  and complained to this service. He provided  videos  
of the faults with the rear doors and window including  one showing the rear door opening as 
the car was being driven. Our investigator  recommended that his complaint should  be 
upheld and that Mr B be entitled to reject the car. 
She said that the Mr B had complained about the cars rear doors  not locking and opening 
by themselves when  he was driving, both in an email in January  2018 and during a 
conversation with the dealership (which  he had recorded) in February  2018.  The car had 
gone into the dealership  for this to be investigated.
The problems with the doors  had continued and the car had gone back  for investigations  in 
June 2018. A fault with the rear window and door had been found and repaired.  The 
investigator said this finding  supported what Mr B had been saying and she was persuaded 
that there  was an issue with the doors. The investigator said she wouldnt  expect something  
like the doors to fail through wear  and tear on a car of that age. She thought that this was 
likely to be a manufacturing fault and so wouldve been  present  or developing at the point of 
sale. 
The investigator said that VWFS had had an opportunity to fix the fault with the doors  in 
February 2018 but hadnt been able to do so. The fault had continued  and given the 
seriousness of the doors opening when  the car was in motion she thought  that Mr B was 
entitled to reject it. The investigator  said that she had also taken into account  Mr Bs own 
personal circumstances as he has children with additional needs. His concern about the 
safety of the car was an additional  stress  that he didnt need and it was reasonable for him 
not to have felt confident in putting  the children  into the back  seats for journeys.
The investigator recommended  that VWFS took the car back and cancelled the agreement  
at no cost to Mr B, refund his deposit with interest, refund all his payments after June 2018  
with interest and pay £500  compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
VWFS disagreed with our investigators  opinion. It said that the investigators opinion was 
disproportionate and unfair. It said that no fault was found with the doors when the car was 
inspected in February 2018 and a fault had been found and repaired in June 2018.  Under  
the Consumer  Rights Act 2015 if a repair has been  completed  on a confirmed fault the 
consumer didnt have  a right to reject the goods.
VWFS said it was happy for the car to now be independently inspected  as no fault with the 
doors had been  confirmed.
As the parties were unable to agree  the complaint has been passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN54801863Ive seen the video evidence, listened  to the recording  of the conversation  between  Mr B and 
the dealership  that took place in February 2018 and read the email  correspondence provided 
by Mr B. Ive also looked at the case notes and job sheets provided by VWFS.
Mr B raised a number  of concerns  about  the car which included about  the brakes, doors, Sat 
Nav system and electric  windows. By far the most serious fault was that the rear car doors 
(that opened  electronically)  had opened while the car was in motion. Mr B said this had even  
happened on the motorway. I dont think a reasonable person would say a car that had that 
fault from the point  the car was supplied, even if intermittent as seems  to be the case here,  
was safe to use or of satisfactory quality.
VWFS has queried whether there  is evidence  the car had this particular fault. It has 
suggested the car should now be independently  inspected to see whether the rear doors are 
faulty. VWFS has pointed out that when the car was investigated in February 2018 nothing  
was found to be wrong with the rear doors.
Im satisfied that the software update in January 2018 was unconnected  to the dealership 
investigating any issues with the car. Ive seen this action  predated  the email sent by Mr B 
setting out the problems  he was having  with the car that he sent to the dealership.  So the 
investigation in February 2018 was the first time the car had gone back to the dealership for 
the issues being experienced by Mr B to be looked at. Ive seen  that no fault was found with 
the any of the doors.
But I dont think because  no fault was identified in February  2018  means  it didnt exist.  Ive 
seen that Mr B has consistently raised his concerns about the cars  doors  opening since 
January 2018.  Firstly hed raised  it in an email the dealership had asked him to send listing 
the problems he was having with the car and then subsequently at the meeting with the 
dealership in February 2018. 
Ive listened to the recorded conversation and during the course of that conversation Mr B 
explains that the doors have opened on at least four occasions. He also raised it later when 
making his complaint to VWFS in May 2018 when he says he wants  to reject  the car for 
safety reasons.  Finally  Mr B has provided  a video of the car doors opening when the car is 
being driven along.
Taking this all into account I think that the fault existed  when  the car went  into the dealership 
for investigation in February 2018.  Whether it was due to its intermittent  nature,  or whether 
there was another reason the dealership didnt find the problem with the doors the car was 
returned to Mr B with this problem unfixed.
I appreciate there is little information available as to what  happened between February and 
June 2018 when the car went back for further investigation. Mr B says the dealership  told 
him to talk to it rather than email meaning there  isnt a correspondence trail that can be 
provided. Mr B also says he didnt really  drive the car and relied on borrowing other family 
members cars. However, when the car had further  investigations in June 2018 a fault with 
the rear drivers side passenger door was then discovered and repaired.
Where evidence is missing or contradictory  I have to consider what  the most likely thing to 
have happened  is. And I think  that most  people  would  find there was a connection  between    
Mr Bs complaint about the doors and the fault that was subsequently identified.
Ref: DRN54801864I appreciate VWFS has offered to have  the car inspected  but I dont think  that would be very 
helpful as to whether the fault had existed back in January 2018  or not. Firstly because  the 
car has now been repaired and secondly  because of the intermittent nature of the problem 
which means faults can be difficult to identify. I also have to consider  that this car has been  
unused since June  2018.
So Im satisfied on the evidence that is available that the car doors  were  opening of their 
own volition while the car was in motion.  And that this was an intermittent fault that occurred 
sporadically from January  2018.  This particular  fault is so serious  due to the safety 
implications for passengers and the driver that I think  it would be difficult  to reasonably 
consider the car was of satisfactory quality. 
Under the Consumer  Rights Act 2015  goods  must  be of a satisfactory quality.  Whether or 
not the quality of the goods  is satisfactory  is determined by what  a reasonable person would 
consider satisfactory  in the circumstances, taking  into account all relevant circumstances. 
Here I think the relevant  circumstances  include the age and mileage and the description of 
the car. And while I accept the components  of car wont  last forever and will be affected  by 
fair wear and tear over time this car was not yet two years old with a mileage of 17000.  I 
dont think a reasonable person would  expect a car of this age and mileage matching its 
description to develop faults with the doors so soon. So I dont think  it would be reasonable 
to consider the fault with the doors as fair wear and tear.
VWFS says that it repaired the fault in June  2018 and that this was its only opportunity  to do 
so. But I disagree  as I think it had a chance  to repair the fault in February 2018 but wasnt 
able to do so at that time. I dont think the failure at that time to find the fault means it wasnt  
present especially when looking at when Mr B first raised the problem. So when the fault 
with the doors continued after that investigation  in February 2018 Mr B was entitled to reject 
the car for being of an unsatisfactory  condition. And although there  was a subsequent repair 
carried out in June 2018, as this wasnt the first chance VWFS had to put the fault right, Mr B 
wasnt obliged to collect the car after it had been  carried out.
And looking at Mr Bs personal circumstances Im not surprised  hed lost all confidence in the 
car and didnt want to drive it anymore. I think this was a reasonable reaction to the 
circumstances hed found himself in. Im satisfied its fair and reasonable for Mr B to reject 
the car and for the agreement to be cancelled with nothing further to pay. 
Ive seen that the annual  mileage under the agreement was set at 5,000  miles. And Ive seen 
from the evidence  that the car was driven for around  5,800  miles from October 2017 until 
June 2018 which is in excess of the terms and conditions. While I appreciate that Mr B didnt 
always use the car and other family members did (despite the safety issue) I think  its 
reasonable to take account  that there  was usage  of the car.
But, Im not going  to make a deduction for the excess  miles due to the risk and the concern 
that driving must have caused. I think in the circumstances  its reasonable for VWFS to 
repay all monthly payments made  from July 2018 to date.
Im also asking VWFS to pay the £500 compensation it had offered Mr B for the distress and 
inconvenience caused to him over this matter.
my final decision 
Ref: DRN54801865For the reasons  given  above Im upholding  Mr Bs complaint. Im asking Volkswagen 
Financial Services (UK) Limited to do the following:
Collect the car at no cost to Mr B,
Cancel the agreement with nothing further  to pay,
Ensure there is no adverse information  recorded  on Mr Bs credit file relating to this 
agreement,
Reimburse Mr Bs deposit of £3,096.44 together with interest at the yearly rate of 8% 
simple from the date of payment  until the date of settlement,
Reimburse all monthly payments made by Mr B under the agreement from July 2018  
together with interest at the yearly rate of 8% simple  from the date of payment  until 
the date of settlement,
Pay Mr B £500 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused to him.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 July 2019.
Jocelyn Griffith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5480186