K820x#14complaint
Mr C1 on behalf of the estate  of Mr C2 complains that The Royal Bank  of Scotland Plc 
(RBS) gave him incorrect information that resulted in a delay to the distribution  of the estate.
background
Mr C1 says his brother  (Mr C2) passed  away in September 2018 and that he told RBS that. 
He says he was told by RBS that it held an item in safekeeping in a branch  some distance 
from his home. Mr C1 says he asked RBS to transfer the item closer  to him but it refused. 
He says he was told he didnt need an appointment to view the item and so attended the 
branch. Mr C1 says he was told when  he attended the branch that he did need an 
appointment and discovered during the meeting that the items  didnt belong to his late 
brother. But belonged to someone else sharing  his name.
Mr C1 says as a result  the legal process to distribute the estate was delayed  and he was 
caused stress and extra  legal fees were charged.
RBS accepts it made a mistake and has apologised and has also acknowledged it didnt 
deal with Mr C1s complaint as it should. It has paid the extra  legal fees of £226.80 that the 
estate incurred and has offered  compensation to the estate of £250 and offered to pay £120 
for Mr C1s time in attending  the branch and £74.70 for his travel  costs.
Mr C1 had brought  the complaint to us and our investigator agreed  RBS had made mistakes 
which would have caused the estate  inconvenience  and expense. The investigator thought  
RBS had fairly apologised for what took place  and had made a fair and reasonable offer of 
compensation. The investigator thought  a complaint  about a data protection  breach involving 
someone elses data would have to be dealt  with by the Information Commissioners Office 
(ICO).
Mr C1 doesnt accept  that view and says RBSs  actions  were appalling and the 
compensation doesnt go far enough.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall view as the investigator for the same reasons.
There is no doubt here that RBS made  a number of mistakes which  I have no doubt resulted 
in extra  costs to the estate. But Im satisfied that RBS has fairly apologised for what  took 
place and I cant comment on any potential  data protection  breaches as they do not relate to 
the estate of Mr C2. And as the investigator has explained that would have to be dealt with 
by the ICO.
I accept that Mr C1 attended  a branch  some  distance from his home  and I accept that he 
was given incorrect information about  needing an appointment.  I also accept that the 
estates legal fees increased as a result of what took place. But I make it clear  to Mr C1 that 
we can only consider the impact this has had on the estate and not for example any distress 
caused to those whom  administer  the estate.
I can see that RBS has fairly  paid the cost of the estates legal fees caused  by its mistake. 
Im satisfied that its total offer of compensation which includes the travel  costs is fair and 
Ref: DRN54612242reasonable and fairly reflects what has happened here and the extra costs its mistakes  
resulted in.
I appreciate that Mr C1 says that offer is not enough  and so I will leave  it to him to decide  if 
he wishes to accept  that offer of £447.70  on the estates behalf, which is the original offer of 
£671.50 less the legal  fees that have  been  paid of £226.80.
my final decision
My final decision is that The Royal Bank  of Scotland Plc has made a fair and reasonable 
offer of compensation and Mr C1s acceptance  of that offer on behalf  of the estate of Mr C2 
would be in full and final settlement of this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C1 to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 December  2019.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5461224