K820x#14complaint
Mrs H complains that Bank of Scotland  plc, trading as Halifax, provided poor service when 
she visited one of its branches to ask it to record her change  her name. She also complains 
about the way her complaint was handled.
background
Mrs H visited a Halifax branch with her marriage  certificate to arrange for the bank to update 
its records with her change of name. She complains, in summary, that:
 The process was onerous and she was asked  for irrelevant information, such as her 
salary and job title.
 The branch  staff were aggressive when she queried the process and couldnt explain 
why they needed  the information. Their behaviour left her in tears.
 She didnt receive a final response  to her complaint  and she didnt receive  a promised 
call back.
The bank didnt  uphold  her complaint, but apologised for some of the service  issues that 
shed raised.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She concluded that 
Halifax had followed its procedures and that it didnt need to take any further action.
Mrs H didnt agree. She said, in summary,  that:
She didnt  receive an explanation for why the bank needed the information  it asked  for. 
She asked  for clarification but was told she had to provide the information because  
thats what the form said.
When she phoned  Halifax, because she hadnt received a final response to her 
complaint, she was promised a call back but never received one. The bank is in breach 
of the rules because she didnt receive  a final response letter.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs H is clearly upset  by her experience at the Halifax  branch and I do understand her 
strength of feeling  on this matter. And I can understand why she was frustrated when she 
was asked for information,  such as her job title, without explanation, when all she wanted  to 
do was to tell the bank  about her change  of name.  But I cant  say for sure exactly what was 
discussed when  Mrs H was at the branch. And her recollection of what happened  differs  
from that recalled by the branch staff.  So Ive considered the banks internal procedure  for 
when a customer changes their name and the online form that was completed.
Ref: DRN50758752I can see that Mrs H wouldve been  asked to provide some additional information such as 
her job title and what other  accounts  she held. It seems this information is asked for so that 
the bank can be sure the customer is who they say they are, so that they can be sure the 
information they hold in their records about  the customer  is accurate and up to date, and so 
that they can update all of the customers records. So, for example, if Mrs H used a 
cheque book, to make sure a new one was issued in her new name.  
I find that the bank  followed its required process,  and that this wasnt unreasonable in the 
circumstances. 
The bank has explained why its service on that day may have fallen short of what  Mrs H 
shouldve expected  there was a shortage of staff and the senior  manager  who failed to 
introduce herself and wasnt  wearing  any identification  wasnt expecting to be customer 
facing that day. And it has apologised if some aspects of its service, such  as referring to 
Mrs H by her first name, caused any upset. In the circumstances,  I dont find I can 
reasonably ask the bank to do any more.
Mrs H also complains about  the service she received when she complained. In this case,  
because the complaint about the service shes received is in relation to a complaint Im 
looking at, I can consider how the complaint  was handled. From the banks records, I can 
see that it received  her complaint  on 7 August 2018. It acknowledged it on 17 August. After  
eight weeks had passed, it was still investigating  her complaint, but it sent her a letter on 
1 October  so within eight weeks  giving her details of how to refer her complaint to this 
service, which  she did. So I find the bank acted in line with the required  complaint  handling  
rules. Its not clear why Halifax  didnt  return Mrs Hs call when she phoned it to ask about  the 
final response letter. But this doesnt  seem to have stopped her being able to bring  her 
complaint to this service,  so this doesnt change my conclusion.
Halifax sent its final response letter on 4 October 2018. Unfortunately  Mrs H didnt  receive 
this. But Ive seen  enough evidence for me to say that it was sent on 4 October to her correct 
address.
I know Mrs H will be disappointed by my decision. Ive considered  the individual 
circumstances or her complaint. If Mrs H has wider concerns about the banks procedures in 
regard to customer due diligence (previously known as know  your client) or the 
General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), she is free to raise those concerns with the 
Financial Conduct  Authority or the Information Commissioners  Office, as appropriate.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 August 2019.
Elizabeth Dawes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5075875