K820x#14complaint
Mr J complains that Uncle Buck  Finance LLP, trading as Uncle  Buck, (UBF), gave him
loans that he couldnt afford to repay.
background
Mr J took out four loans with UBF and details  of these are shown below. Loans 1 and 2 were 
repayable by three monthly instalments and Loans  3 and 4 were  repayable  by four monthly 
instalments. All loans  have been  repaid.
Loan number
Date Loan amount
Number of repayments  
and repayment  amountRepayment date
1. 13/7/2016 £150 2 monthly payments of 
£67.59 and one 
payment of £65.7619/7/2017
2. 24/7/2017 £400 2 monthly payments of 
£197.61 and one 
monthly payment  of 
£192.379/8/2017
3. 3/11/2018 £100 3 monthly payments of 
£40.13 and one monthly  
payment of £38.778/11/2018
4. 16/11/2018 £200 3 monthly payments of 
£73.38 and one monthly  
payment of £70.666/1/2019
Mr J said that UBFs lending  was irresponsible. He said that hed repaid the loan repayments
from money meant for his rent and other things to prevent  the debt spiralling. He also said
that his credit report would have  shown other  debt repayments and problems and default
payments. Mr J also said that a family member had to make a loan repayment for Loan 2 as
he couldnt.
UBFs final response letter said that it had looked  at Mr Js income  and regular expenditure
which showed that he had enough  money  to pay the loans back. UBF had also done a credit 
check. Even though the credit check before Loan 2 had contained certain adverse
information (one incident of credit overdue), it would still have considered Mr Js application.
UBF said that Mr Js disposable income  of £1,250  before  Loans  1 and 2 was sufficient to
service his other active loans. And when Mr J had applied for Loans 3 and 4, he had no
active payday loans  and no short term loans had been opened  in the previous three  months.
UBF said that there was nothing on Mr Js credit  file which would have given it reason to
decline the loans.  UBF had also listened  to the call in which Mr Js family member  had made
a repayment.  But it said that there was nothing to indicate  that Mr J couldnt afford the loan
and in fact Mr J had repaid the loan the next day.
our adjudicators view
The adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld.  She noted that UBF
had checked Mr Js income and regular expenditure and made credit checks. She said that
the checks were sufficient for all the loans. She had also taken  into account the gap of over
a year between Loans  2 and 3. She hadnt noted any county court  judgements or recent
defaults. The adjudicator didnt think that UBF should have done any more.
Ref: DRN55974382Mr J disagreed. He said that Loan 2 had been  repaid by a family  member as he was unable
to pay it. He said that UBF knew that a family  member was paying the loan repayment and it
had said that it wouldnt lend to him again, but it then lent him Loan 3. Mr J also said that he
had other  frequent lending and missed  payments  from multiple  credit  cards and loans on his
credit file which UBF should have seen and refused his applications.  Mr J also said that
other complaints with other lenders had been upheld.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr J 
and to UBF on 15 April 2019.  I summarise my findings:
Id noted that Mr J said that he had other  complaints which had been upheld. But I explained 
that we look at each complaint on a case by case basis.  So I wouldnt be taking the other 
complaints into account and would only consider  what happened in this complaint.
I said that UBF was required to lend responsibly. It should have made checks to make sure
Mr J could afford to repay each of the loans before it lent to him. Those checks needed to be
proportionate to things such as the amount Mr J was borrowing, the length of the agreement
and his lending  history. But there was no set list of checks  UBF had to do.
The Financial Conduct Authority was the regulator at the time Mr J borrowed from
UBF. Its regulations require lenders to take reasonable steps to assess  the customers
ability to meet repayments  under  a regulated  credit  agreement in a sustainable manner
without the customer  incurring financial difficulties or experiencing significant adverse
consequences. The regulations define sustainable  as being able to make  repayments
without undue difficulty, and say that this meant borrowers should be able to make their
repayments on time and out of their income and savings without having to borrow to meet
these repayments.
So, the fact that the amounts borrowed and the interest paid might  have been low when
compared to Mr Js declared income, or that he was able to repay all the loans, didnt 
necessarily mean the loans were affordable and that he was able to repay them  in a
sustainable manner.  So, I couldnt assume that because Mr J was able to repay  the loans, 
that he was able to do so out of his normal  income  without having  to borrow further.
UBF told us that before  lending to Mr J, it had asked him about his normal income and
expenditure. And it had carried out a credit check which I referred  to in my decision.
Loan 1
Id thought about whether  UBFs  checks were  proportionate for the loans. I noted that for
Loan 1, Mr J needed to make  three  monthly repayments of varying  amounts  up to around
£67 to repay it. I could  see that the repayments were relatively modest compared to the
income of £2,150 that Mr J declared  to UBF. Mr J had declared regular expenditure of £900
to UBF so it appeared that his disposable  income  was £1,250.  On the face of it, I could also
see that the loan repayment amounts for Loan  1 appeared to be relatively modest  compared
to Mr Js declared disposable income.
I noted that the outgoings amounts provided by Mr J included rent, utilities, travel, food, store
or credit card repayments and other commitments. I asked the adjudicator  to ask Mr J what
Ref: DRN55974383type of expenditure hed declared as other  commitments. He said that these were  payday
loan repayments.
Mr J had declared his payday  loan repayments  before Loan 1 to be £150, with no
expenditure on store or credit cards and £750 spent on normal  living  costs.  But I could see
that UBF was aware that Mr J had other active  credit. UBF had provided us with a copy  of
its credit  checks  before  Loan 1. I could see from these that Mr J appeared to have loan
repayments of around £848 to repay around  the same time as his Loan  1 repayments. I also
noted that his current  account balance was £10 under its overdraft limit, two credit card
accounts were near their respective credit limits and one credit card account  was over its
credit limit. I thought all of this might have suggested  that Mr Js finances were  under 
pressure.
And Id also thought UBF might have been  concerned about  Mr J omitting most of his credit
commitments in his declaration to it of his outgoings.
Id also thought that UBF would have been  aware that when a lender carries out a credit  
check, the information it saw didnt usually provide the same level of detail that a consumers 
credit report  would and it wasnt necessarily up to date. A lender might only see a small 
portion of a borrowers credit file, or some data might be missing  or anonymised. I was also 
aware that not all payday and short term lenders reported to the same  credit reference 
agencies. So, it was possible  that not all of Mr Js loans might have been identified  by UBFs 
credit checks.
UBF had told us that it had performed a number  of assessment checks including two credit  
checks, of which one was for short term lending. I thought it was reasonable for UBF to rely 
on the information Mr J had declared  to it about his income and normal  living costs before 
Loan 1.
But Id thought UBF should have  been concerned about the results of its credit  checks  
before Loan 1 especially  as Mr J had declared a substantially  smaller total amount of credit
commitments to it than revealed by its own credit checks. And in view of the total amount of
Mr Js credit commitments shown  in UBFs credit checks, I thought  UBF should have been  
on notice that it was unlikely Mr Js financial situation was as good as he was declaring. So I
thought it needed to do more here.  I thought UBF should have additionally asked Mr J some  
very specific questions about  what its credit  checks showed before Loan 1. I couldnt see 
that it did this.
Loan 2
Mr J repaid Loan 1 six days after taking it out. Mr J then took out Loan 2 five days  later. 
Loan 2 was for the substantially higher amount of £400 repayable by three monthly 
repayments of up to £197.61.  The highest repayment for Loan 2 was £197.61.  Mr J told UBF 
that his monthly  income was still £2,150 and his regular expenditure was still £900 with £150
spent on payday  loans. So his declared  disposable  income was £1,250.  Again I could see 
that UBF was aware that Mr J had other active  credit. UBF had provided us with a copy  of its
credit searches before Loan 2. I could see from these that Mr J appeared to have loan
repayments of over £3,400 to repay around the same time as his Loan 2 repayments.  Again
I thought this might have  suggested to UBF that Mr Js finances were under pressure. And I
again thought UBF might have been  concerned about Mr J omitting most of his credit
commitments in his declaration to it of his outgoings.
Ref: DRN55974384So in view of the total amount of Mr Js credit commitments shown in UBFs credit checks,
I thought UBF should  have  again been  on notice  that it was unlikely Mr Js financial situation
was as good as he was declaring. So I thought it needed to do more  here.  I thought UBF 
should have additionally asked Mr J some very specific  questions about what  its credit 
checks showed before Loan 2. I couldnt  see that it did this.
Id noted that one of Mr Js family  members made a loan repayment for Mr J on 
8 August 2017.  Mr J said that he was told by UBF that it wouldnt lend to him again. UBF 
said that it had listened to the call and there was nothing to indicate  that Mr J couldnt afford 
the loan and in fact hed repaid  the loan the next day. I asked the adjudicator  to ask UBF for 
a copy of the call recording but this hadnt  been received. But I noted  that UBFs contact 
notes of the conversation on 8 August 2017 said that after the loan repayment was made, 
UBFs agent had rescheduled the other two repayments starting from 28 August 2017.  Mr J 
told UBF that he wanted to repay the loan on that date. UBF told Mr J that it would attempt  
the payment that was due on 28 August 2017 and if Mr J wanted to pay the rest it would be 
£108.90. So even though  a repayment  was made by a third party,  the other part of the call 
didnt appear to suggest that Mr J had financial difficulties. And I could  see that Loan 2 was 
repaid on 9 August 2017.
I also thought  that if Mr J had believed that UBF wouldnt have  lent to him again,  he wouldnt
have applied  to it for further loans in the following months. But I noted that hed applied to 
UBF for a loan of £600 in November 2017,  less than three months  after his family member  
had made  the repayment. But his loan application was declined.
Loan 3
I could see that Mr J took out Loan  3 over 14 months after Loan 2 was repaid. I thought it 
was reasonable  for UBF to have seen  this gap as an indication that Mr Js finances had 
moved on from whatever  situation had required both his previous loan and his loan 
repayment to be made  by a family  member.  Id thought the gap was sufficient for UBF to 
look at Mr Js application afresh and effectively treat him as a new customer.
Loan 3 was for £100 to be repaid by four monthly payments of up to £40.13. Id noted  that
Mr Js declared  income had reduced  to £1,875 and his declared expenditure had reduced to
£810. Mr J had declared his payday  loan repayments to be £200, with no expenditure on
store or credit cards  and £610 spent on normal living costs. So his declared  disposable
income appeared to have reduced to £1,065. But I could  see that UBF was aware that Mr J
had other  active credit.  UBF had provided us with a copy  of its credit searches before
Loan 3. Id noted from these that Mr J appeared to have loan repayments of around £415  to
repay around the same time as his Loan 3 repayments, which  was more than the amount 
hed declared  for his payday loan repayments. Id again thought  UBF might  have been 
concerned about  Mr J omitting most  of his credit commitments in his declaration to it of his 
outgoings.
So in view of the total amount of Mr Js credit commitments shown in UBFs credit checks,
I thought UBF should  have  again been  on notice  that it was unlikely Mr Js financial situation
was as good as he was declaring. So I thought it needed to do more  here.  I thought UBF 
should have additionally asked Mr J some very specific  questions about what  its credit 
checks showed before Loan 3. I couldnt  see that it did this.
Loan 4
Ref: DRN55974385Mr J repaid Loan 3 five days after taking  it out and he took out Loan  4 eight days later. The
loan amount had doubled  to £200  and he was required to make  four monthly repayments of
up to £73.38. Mr Js declared  income was still £1,875 and his declared  expenditure had
increased to £825  as his spending  on utilities had increased by £15. He again declared  his
payday loan repayments to be £200  in his other commitments. So his disposable income
appeared to have reduced to £1,050. Unfortunately it didnt appear that we had received
a copy of UBFs credit check before Loan  4. I asked  the adjudicator to ask for a copy  of this
but this hadnt been  received.  But as Loan 4 was so soon after Loan  3, I thought it was likely 
that the active credit shown would have been  more  than declared by Mr J. And UBF again  
should have additionally asked Mr J some very specific  questions about what  its credit 
checks showed before Loan 4. I couldnt  see that it had done this.
Although I didnt think the checks UBF had made  before the loans were sufficient, that in 
itself didnt mean that Mr Js complaint should  have succeeded. I also needed to see 
whether what I considered to be proportionate checks  would have shown  UBF that Mr J 
couldnt sustainably  afford the loans.
Loan 1
As Id said above,  I would have expected UBF to ask Mr J some questions  about what  its
credit check  showed, whilst  taking  account  of Mr Js declared disposable  income of £1,250
including payday  loan repayments of £150.  So Id tried to find out more  about this by
looking at Mr Js credit report and bank  statements for the month  prior to the loan,  to see
what better checks would  have suggested  to UBF. Id noted from Mr Js credit report that he
was due to make monthly repayments of around  £848 on four loans. Id also noted from
Mr Js bank statements that he was paying  regular financial commitments  totalling around 
£157. Taking account of the repayments  of £150 which Mr J had declared and the credit 
repayments shown  on his credit report and bank  statements,  I didnt think that carrying out 
better checks wouldve  uncovered anything that wouldve stopped UBF from giving the loan 
to Mr J. So, I said that I didnt intend to uphold Mr Js complaint about  Loan 1.
Loan 2
Id again looked at Mr Js credit  report and his bank statements for the month before Loan 2
to see what better checks would have suggested to UBF, whilst  taking account of Mr Js
declared disposable income of £1,250 including payday loan repayments  of £150. Id noted
from Mr Js credit report that Mr J was due to make monthly  repayments  of around £1,136
on three loans. Id also noted from Mr Js bank statements that he was paying  regular 
financial commitments  totalling  around £227. The short term loan repayments of £150 which 
Mr J had declared and the other credit repayments  shown  on his credit  report  and bank 
statements suggested that any new borrowing was unlikely to be repaid sustainably. So if 
UBF had carried out what I considered  to be proportionate checks  before Loan 2, I thought it 
was likely that it would have concluded that Loan 2 wasnt sustainable.
Loan 3
Id again looked at Mr Js credit  report and his bank statements for the month before Loan 3
to see what better checks would have suggested to UBF, whilst  taking account of Mr Js
declared disposable income of £1,065 including payday loan repayments  of £200. Id noted
from Mr Js credit report that Mr J was due to make monthly  repayments  of around £948  on
three loans.  I could see that one of the loans on UBFs credit report  with monthly repayments
of £282 had been repaid  by the time of Loan 3. But hed taken  out another loan for £800 in
Ref: DRN55974386the meantime.  I could see that Mr J had repaid  the loan of £800  and interest of £73.20  on 
the date hed taken out Loan 3. If Mr J had been  asked about  his other credit commitments, I 
didnt think hed have  mentioned this loan as it was likely that hed have  already  paid it off or 
was about to pay it off. So I thought Mr J would have said his monthly loan repayments were  
£148.
I also noted from Mr Js bank statements that he was paying regular financial commitments
totalling around £171. Taking account  of the repayments of £200  which  Mr J declared and
the credit  repayments  shown on his credit report and bank statements, I didnt think that
carrying out better checks wouldve uncovered anything  that wouldve stopped UBF from
giving the loan to Mr J. So, I said that I wasnt intending to uphold Mr Js complaint about 
Loan 3.
Loan 4
Id again looked at Mr Js credit  report and his bank statements for the month before Loan 4
to see what better checks would have suggested to UBF, whilst  taking account of Mr Js
declared disposable income of £1,050 including payday loan repayments  of £200. Id noted
from Mr Js credit report that Mr J was due to make monthly  repayments  of around £1,086
on six loans. Id also noted from Mr Js bank statements that he was paying regular financial
commitments totalling around £171. Taking account of the repayments of £200 which Mr J 
declared and the credit  repayments shown on his credit  report and bank statements 
suggested that any new borrowing was unlikely to be repaid sustainably. So if UBF had 
carried out what Id considered to be proportionate checks before Loan  4, I thought it was 
likely that it would have  concluded that Loan  4 wasnt sustainable.
So, I thought if UBF had done  what I considered to be proportionate checks, it would have 
seen the problems with Mr Js financial situation. And so, as a responsible  lender, I didnt 
think it would  have  agreed to lend Loans 2 and 4 to him. So, I thought  that UBF needed to 
pay Mr J some compensation relating to Loans 2 and 4.
Subject to any further representations by Mr J or UBF my provisional decision was that 
I intended to uphold this complaint in part. I intended  to order  Uncle  Buck Finance LLP, 
trading as Uncle Buck, to:
1. Refund all interest and charges that Mr J paid on Loans 2 and 4;
2. Pay interest of 8% simple* a year on all refunds  from the date of payment to the date
    of settlement;
3. Remove any adverse  information about Loans  2 and 4 from Mr Js credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires UBF to take off tax from this interest. UBF must give Mr J
a certificate showing how much tax it had taken off if he asks for one.
Mr J responded to say that he accepted my provisional decision.
UBF responded to my provisional decision by sending us the information  Id requested 
before preparing my provisional decision, but hadnt yet received.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN55974387I listened to the recording  of the call between Mr J and UBF on 8 August  2017  which  UBF 
had sent us. In this call a third party had made a loan repayment for Mr J. I didnt find that  
UBF had said in the call that it wouldnt lend to Mr J again. Otherwise  I didnt think  there  was 
anything within the call which would have  changed my provisional decision on the case.
UBF had also sent us the credit checks it considered before Loan 4 but these appeared to 
be those it had obtained before Loan  3 which I had already seen. So these also didnt affect 
my previous  view.
So as Mr J has accepted  my provisional  decision  and the new information which UBF had 
sent to us hasnt  changed  my view, I see no reason to depart from the conclusions I reached 
in my provisional decision.  It follows that I uphold part of the complaint and require UBF to 
pay Mr J some compensation as set out below.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part. In full and final settlement of this 
complaint, I order Uncle Buck Finance  LLP, trading as Uncle  Buck, to:
1. Refund all interest and charges that Mr J paid on Loans 2 and 4;
2. Pay interest of 8% simple* a year on all refunds  from the date of payment to the date
    of settlement;
3. Remove any adverse  information about Loans  2 and 4 from Mr Js credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires UBF to take off tax from this interest. UBF must give Mr J
a certificate showing how much tax it has taken  off if he asks for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 June  2019.
Roslyn Rawson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5597438