K822xcomplaint
Mrs O has complained that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) is asking her to pay a 
shortfall of £60,000  following the sale of a property upon which RBS had a mortgage. She is 
also unhappy about the way RBS has dealt with her subject access request (SAR).
Mrs O wants RBS to acknowledge that she isnt responsible for the shortfall debt and 
remove any information about this from her credit file. She also wants RBS to pay 
compensation for the stress shes been caused. Mrs O is also asking RBS to disclose 
documents which she says were  withheld when she made her SAR.
background 
This complaint arises out of unhappy  circumstances. Mrs O and her former husband, Mr O, 
jointly owned a property which was mortgaged to RBS. In 2006  Mr and Mrs O were divorced. 
A consent order was made by the court that the property was to be sold. Pending  that event, 
Mr O was to pay the mortgage and indemnify  Mrs O in relation to this. 
Mr O later applied to the court to have the property transferred into his sole name and that 
Mr O would ask RBS to approve this and release Mrs O from her covenants under the 
mortgage.
Mrs O says that a court  order made  in 2008  releases Mrs O from her liability  towards the 
mortgage. She says that RBS confirmed this, but RBS has no record  of this. RBSs position  
is that Mrs O remained  on the mortgage and was jointly and severally  liable for the debt.
The property was repossessed by RBS and sold in July 2015.  In November 2017 RBS 
contacted Mrs O about the shortfall debt, which is about £60,000.  
Mrs O complained about RBS considering her liable  for the debt,  which she disputes. Mrs O 
is also unhappy about the way RBS handled her request for a SAR. She thought  RBS had 
failed to provide  a full response. Mrs O also says that, although shed  given RBS her email 
address in 2014, it didnt contact her about the property at all.
Mrs O noted that RBSs solicitors had carried out a search on her credit  file, which showed 
as a credit application. Mrs O was unhappy  about the implications of this on her credit file.
RBS didnt uphold  the complaint about the shortfall debt. It explained that she had never 
been released from the mortgage and so remained  liable for it. With regard to the SAR, RBS 
agreed to pay Mrs Os out-of-pocket expenses incurred  as a result  of the SAR. On 
30 August 2018  RBS paid Mrs O £286.60.  This was for legal fees of £240 plus interest of 
£19.80, a refund of postage costs totalling  £14.80  and the £10 SAR fee. RBS also agreed to 
liaise with its solicitors  to have the search on Mrs Os credit file removed.
Mrs O brought her complaint to us where it was considered by an adjudicator.  She didnt 
think that the complaint about  the shortfall debt should be upheld.  She was satisfied the 
compensation paid for the banks  handling  of the SAR was fair. The adjudicator also thought 
RBS was acting  reasonably  in getting its solicitors  to remove the credit search. But she didnt 
think the debt should be removed from Mrs Os credit file.
Mrs O disagreed with her findings and asked for an ombudsman to review  the complaint. 
Ref: DRN52983002Mrs O has also raised  additional issues concerning  the sale of the property, which  she 
considers was mis-handled by RBS.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
preliminary points;   I trust Mrs O wont take it as a discourtesy that Ive condensed her 
complaint in the way that I have.  Ours  is an informal dispute resolution service, and Ive 
concentrated on what I consider to be the crux of the complaint  which is that Mrs O is 
being held liable for the shortfall  debt when she doesnt think  she is responsible for it.
I have no doubt  that this is very important for Mrs O but although Ive read and considered 
the whole  file Ill keep my comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont comment  on any 
specific point its not because Ive not considered  it but because I dont think I need to 
comment on it in order to reach the right outcome. 
This service is impartial between, and independent  from,  consumers and businesses. What  
this means is that we dont represent  either party. So although Mrs O has set out what she 
wants us to tell the bank  to do, we dont take instructions  from either party about how we 
investigate a complaint.  
I also wont be commenting on any issues relating to Mr O and his current wife. I understand 
Mrs O has raised  concerns about RBSs dealings with those parties, But I dont have 
permission from Mr O or his current wife to access their personal data. This means that I 
cant look at any information about  their contact  with RBS, even where it affects Mrs O.
Mrs O has confirmed to us that she has now referred her complaint about the SAR to the 
Information Commissioners Office  (ICO), and has provided us with the reference number. In 
the circumstances, its not appropriate for me to comment  any further on this part of the 
complaint. Our rules provide that, where a complaint has been referred to another  body to 
investigate, we can decline to consider it further.  
I will also explain that, prior to joining the ombudsman service, I was a solicitor specialising 
in family  law. So Im experienced  in the issues Mrs O has raised, and Im familiar  with the 
terms of the court order shes  provided to us.
I see that Mrs O has raised some new issues about  the way RBS dealt with the sale of the 
property. I cant include new issues in the complaint. Mrs O will need to refer her concerns 
about the sale of the property to RBS first so it has an opportunity to respond  to the 
complaint. If it cant be resolved, then Mrs O will be able to bring a new complaint to us.
the shortfall debt:   The main issue in this complaint is whether or not Mrs O should be held 
liable for the shortfall debt.
The court order  from 2006  provided that the property was to be sold but, in the interim Mr O 
would be responsible for the mortgage repayments  and would indemnify Mrs O for this. Later 
on I am told the order was varied.  Ive seen a copy of an order for directions from 2008  that 
Mr O was to approach RBS to seek consent  to a transfer of the mortgage into his sole name  
and a release  of Mrs O from the mortgage.
Ref: DRN52983003RBS has confirmed that it didnt consent  to transfer the mortgage  into Mr Os sole name or 
release Mrs O from her covenants under the mortgage. Ive seen nothing in the available 
documentation to show that RBS ever agreed to this, or that it led Mrs O to believe it had 
done so. In fact, the correspondence  from RBS reinforces  its position that Mrs O was still on 
the mortgage and liable  for the debt.
The implications of this for Mrs O are that she has remained liable for the debt throughout 
the existence of the mortgage   and she is also now liable for the shortfall debt. I fully 
understand and appreciate how unfair this seems to her, particularly as Mr O agreed to 
indemnify her. But RBS was under no obligation  to release Mrs O from the mortgage. 
I acknowledge Mrs Os argument that Mr O agreed  to indemnify her. The indemnity simply 
means that if Mrs O is required to pay the debt, she can ask Mr O to indemnify her, and can 
pursue this in court  if he doesnt do so. But thats  a matter between them and doesnt involve 
RBS at all.
I know this will be unwelcome news for Mrs O, but Im satisfied that she has never been 
released by RBS from liability for this debt. This means that Im satisfied RBS is entitled to 
pursue her for the shortfall. If Mrs O considers Mr O should reimburse  her pursuant  to the 
indemnity given in 2006, thats  something  shell need to take up with him.
contact from RBS:  Mrs O says that the court order from 2006 shows  the address outside  
the UK to which she had moved, and so RBS knew where  she was. But RBS is only 
required to contact customers on the addresses  they have registered with the bank. Mrs O 
did not change  her address with RBS to the address abroad. Im also satisfied that RBS was 
under no obligation to write to Mrs O by email,  which is not a secure method of 
communication. So Im satisfied the bank has done nothing wrong in this respect.
Mrs Os credit file: RBS has confirmed that its asked its solicitors to remove  the credit 
search against Mrs Os name.  I dont  require RBS to do anything  further  in relation to 
Mrs Os credit file. Thats because  Im satisfied the shortfall debt is legitimately due to RBS 
and so the bank is entitled to show this on Mrs Os credit file.
I note RBS paid Mrs O £286.60 for its handling  of her SAR.  As I said above, Im not going to 
comment further on that issue, as Mrs O has referred it to the ICO. But in relation to the 
other issues in this complaint, as Im satisfied RBS hasnt done  anything wrong, I wont  be 
ordering the bank  to pay anything further.
I dont underestimate  the shock it must have been for Mrs O to find she was still liable for 
this debt, many years  after her marriage  to Mr O had ended. I am sorry if my decision adds 
to her distress. But the unfortunate fact is that Mrs O was never  removed from the mortgage. 
This means  that, legally, RBS is entitled to pursue her for the shortfall debt.
Ref: DRN52983004my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 July 2019.
Jan OLeary
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5298300