K820x#14complaint
Mrs M says Bank of Scotland  plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold her a payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy. Ill refer to the business  as Bank of Scotland in my decision.  
background and summary to complaint
Mrs M bought the policy in 2002 at the same time as taking out a credit card. She applied   
for the credit card and PPI policy in branch.
At the time,  Mrs M has told us that she was employed as a health  care assistant. She has 
told us that she was entitled to at least six months  full sick pay if she was unwell and unable  
to work. Mrs M has also told us that she was entitled to redundancy pay. Mrs M has told us 
about a number of health conditions that she had after the PPI was taken out, but not about 
any issues with her health at the time of, or before, taking out the PPI. 
Based on the nearest relevant policy document, this policy  provided  cover for accident, 
sickness, unemployment, critical  illness and life  subject to its exclusions and limitations.     
It offered  to repay 10% of Mrs Ms credit card balance in the event of a successful accident,  
sickness or unemployment claim. At the time,  it cost 78p per £100  of the monthly  
outstanding balance. The premium would continue to have to be paid during a successful 
claim and it did attract  interest.  
For a critical illness  or life claim, the policy would clear the outstanding balance - up to a 
maximum of £25,000.
Bank of Scotland has sent us screenshots to show that the credit card account closed in late 
2002.
Mrs Ms representative has made  lengthy  and substantial representations on her behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully.                  
In summary,  Mrs Ms representative says:
Bank of Scotland failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time.           
In those circumstances, applying the regulators rules and guidance  for businesses 
on handling  PPI complaints under DISP  App 3, it should  be presumed Mrs M 
wouldnt have taken  out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mrs Ms 
representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Bank of Scotland 
should have told Mrs M about  the poor value;
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Bank of Scotland should have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mrs M and the 
impact they would have had on her chances of making a claim; and 
Ref: DRN51379232The information Mrs M receive was misleading.  These policies were  promoted as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mrs M disagreed  with the adjudicators  opinion  for 
several reasons.  
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is,       
in my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations 
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account: relevant 
law and regulations;  relevant  regulators  rules,  guidance and standards; relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs Ms. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ms complaint.
This sale took place  in August 2002, before the sale of general insurance products like this 
became regulated by the FSA in January 2005.  So the FSAs and the FCAs overarching 
principles for businesses and insurance  conduct rules (ICOB and ICOBS) are not applicable 
to this complaint;  nor is the FCAs Perimeter Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in October  2002. That means the unfair  relationship 
provisions set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit  Act, the Supreme Court judgement in 
Plevin about s.140  of that Act and the rules and guidance made  by the FCA about the 
handling of complaints about the non-disclosure of commission in light of the Plevin 
judgement, arent applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance 
Code for private  customers   the GISC Code. 
This sale was made during a period  of industry  self-regulation by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC).  It published the GISC Code, which  set out minimum standards  of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling  insurance, including  PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries,        
like Bank  of Scotland, selling insurance at this time:
Ref: DRN51379233The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales,                        
Direct Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
While not all intermediaries  who sold PPI at the time were a member of the ABI or GISC,      
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Bank  of Scotland at the time. So Im satisfied  I should  take these codes 
into account when  deciding, what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable in the circumstances 
of Mrs Ms case.
I have also taken account of relevant law in reaching  my decision, including: the law relating 
to negligence, contract (including the express and implied duty on professional  advisers to 
give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence; the law relating to the utmost duty of 
good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness).  
I am also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first 
issued by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating to the 
sale of PPI. This sale took place before insurance mediation became a regulated  activity,  so 
Bank of Scotland was required to take into account the provisions  in DISP App 3 as if they 
were guidance  when considering Mrs Ms complaint. 
key questions  
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all circumstances of this 
complaint, are:
-If Bank  of Scotland gave advice, whether it advised Mrs M with reasonable care and 
skill  in particular,  whether  the policy was appropriate or suitable for her, given her 
needs and circumstances. 
-Whether Bank of Scotland gave Mrs M sufficient, appropriate and timely information  
to enable her to make an informed choice about  whether  to take out the policy,  
including drawing  to her attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading 
way  the main  provisions  of the policy and significant limitations and exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mrs M,   
I must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mrs M suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mrs M and    
Bank of Scotland, Ive decided  not to uphold Mrs Ms complaint. Ive set out my reasoning  
below. 
Ref: DRN51379234did Mrs M know she had a choice?
Bank of Scotland had to make it clear that the PPI policy was optional.  
Ive seen a copy  of Mrs Ms credit card application  form. On this form theres a statement 
that says If you would like to take advantage  of these services please  mark the relevant  
boxes. Below this there are two options   for PPI and a different product. Next to the option  
for PPI, an X has been typed.
As this sale took place  in a meeting, I think that its more likely than not that a discussion 
took place about PPI and the X was added by the adviser to reflect what  Mrs M had 
decided  before she signed the overall form. Some of Mrs Ms other personal details have 
also been typed  on the form. 
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely than not that Mrs M knew  the policy  
was optional and she agreed to take it out without undue  pressure.  
did Bank of Scotland provide advice?
Bank of Scotland has said that it did provide advice about the PPI during this sale.             
Mrs M has said that no advice was provided. Based  on everything I've seen,  I think that      
its more likely than not that Bank of Scotland did provide Mrs M with advice during this sale.  
This means  Bank of Scotland had to advise Mrs M with reasonable care and skill, in 
particular whether the policy was appropriate  or suitable given her needs and 
circumstances.
the advice
I dont know what steps Bank of Scotland took to establish  whether the policy was a suitable 
recommendation for Mrs M. It seems Mrs M cant remember clearly  what happened  and 
there is no record of what the adviser discussed  in relation to the policy.  This is unsurprising  
in respect of a sale during a meeting. The adviser had some limited  information about 
Mrs Ms financial circumstances, but there  is no specific evidence to show the adviser took 
steps to establish whether Mrs M would have  been caught by the significant  exclusions and 
limitations which might have meant the policy did not fully meet her needs. For example, 
there is nothing to suggest  Bank  of Scotland  considered whether Mrs M had any pre-existing 
medical conditions.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities, Im not persuaded that Bank of Scotland did all it 
should have done to determine whether the policy was suitable for Mrs M given her 
circumstances. So Im not persuaded Bank of Scotland  advised  with reasonable care and 
skill.
While Im not persuaded Bank of Scotland did all it should have done to make sure the policy 
was suitable for Mrs M, I do think  its more  likely  than not that the policy  was ultimately  
suitable for her. 
In reaching that conclusion  Ive taken into consideration:
-Mrs M met the eligibility criteria for the policy.
Ref: DRN51379235-Mrs M had a need for the policy  it seems  likely that Mrs Ms ability to continue  to 
meet her credit card repayments would  have been put under strain if she was not 
working for an extended period  of time  even allowing for the sick pay and 
redundancy benefits she says she would have been  entitled to.
-Although Mrs M says she was financially stretched  at the time,  Ive seen nothing else 
to suggest the monthly cost of the PPI wasnt affordable.
 
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mrs M. There  
was nothing about Mrs Ms employment or occupation which  would have made it 
difficult for her to claim. 
-Regarding pre-existing medical  conditions, Mrs M has told us about health conditions  
shes had, but these seem to have affected her a few years after the sale.  I havent 
seen evidence that she had the conditions described at the time of taking out the PPI 
in 2002.
-While  the policy would  only pay benefits  for a maximum of 12 months for each claim 
for disability or unemployment, it still provided  useful cover  given  Mrs Ms 
circumstances and the fact the policy could have cleared her outstanding card 
balance.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Bank  of Scotland  gave Mrs M sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable her to understand what         
Bank of Scotland was recommending to her and make an informed decision about whether 
to follow  that advice and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not Mrs M was given  a very broad description of what  the 
policy was intended  to cover (that is, that the policy would protect her card payments in the 
event she was unable  to work through disability or unemployment). Ive reached this 
conclusion because I think  Mrs M would  have been told this  at the very least   during the 
discussion with the adviser. I think its unlikely Mrs M would have taken out the policy  without 
any sense of what the policy was. The application  form she signed also described the policy  
as Credit Card Repayments  Cover , which would have given her some idea of what the 
policy was for.
Im also satisfied Mrs M would have realised the policy wasnt free and its likely she would 
have had some understanding of how much the policy cost before  agreeing  to take it out.
But the evidence  from the time of the sale doesnt  tell us whether Bank of Scotland gave 
sufficient information  about the actual monthly  benefit, the actual cost (the fact that the 
premiums would be added to the account  balance, attracting interest if unpaid at the end of 
the month,  and were  payable during a claim) or about the exclusions and limitations,      
before Mrs M agreed to take out the policy. Even if that information  was in a leaflet or policy  
summary Mrs M might  have been given, I think its more likely than not that she based her 
decision on the things  she was told, rather than on anything she was given.
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mrs M Im not persuaded Bank of 
Ref: DRN51379236Scotland did enough to present information  about  the policy it was recommending in a way 
that was fair and reasonable to Mrs M. Im not persuaded  that Bank of Scotland  gave Mrs M 
all of the information she needed about the policy to make an informed  decision about  
whether to follow the recommendation  and take out the policy.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in              
its guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded that there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mrs Ms representative has raised a number 
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mrs Ms. Ive considered  
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mrs Ms representative considers to be       
poor value   and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business rather than 
the insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mrs M about the limitations  and exclusions, it should have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to her. 
Im not persuaded by Mrs Ms representatives views  on this. The duty of utmost  good  faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say        
 I think its unlikely a court  would find that this extended to the insurer having to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mrs M has suggested. And taking  into account  the law, industry  codes and standards  of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that Bank  of Scotland  ought to have  done  either. 
what effect did Bank of Scotlands shortcomings have on Mrs M? To what extent did 
Mrs M suffer loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that Bank of Scotland didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy  to 
Mrs M. 
So I have  gone  on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mrs M 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not Mrs M 
would have still taken  out the policy, had Bank  of Scotland done things properly. 
While Im not persuaded that Bank of Scotland took the steps it should have done  to 
establish whether  the policy it recommended was suitable for Mrs M, I have found  that the 
policy was ultimately suitable for her.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mrs M has suffered loss or 
damage in this case primarily depends  on whether, if Bank of Scotland had explained things 
properly, Mrs M would have acted differently, or whether she would have taken out the policy 
in any event.
Ref: DRN51379237Mrs M says she would not have taken  it out and believes  that I should presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. I have considered  the representations of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up   
a number of factors  before  deciding whether  to proceed.  Effectively  the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mrs M had some interest in taking out payment 
protection insurance. By this I mean  when Bank of Scotland  advised  her that there  was a 
suitable product  she could  buy that would protect  her credit card payments in the event she 
was unable to work  because  of accident,  sickness and unemployment, she concluded she 
wanted that product. But she made  that decision based on incomplete  information, meaning 
what she thought  she was getting is not exactly what  she got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mrs Ms circumstances at the 
time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. 
In relation to the costs, Im satisfied Mrs M ought  reasonably to have known she would  have 
to pay something for the PPI and that it would cover  a portion of her outstanding balance.  
But, I accept that Bank  of Scotland  didnt make clear  the on-going cost information. So while  
Mrs M didnt  know  some  things, the ultimate  position in the event of a successful claim was 
not dissimilar to what she would reasonably  have  thought from the information she based 
her decision  to take out the policy on and found acceptable. 
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mrs M thought  she had bought  and 
what she actually bought were the following:
Broadly speaking, the policy excluded claims relating:
oto medical conditions that have been  diagnosed or treatment or advice has 
been suggested by a registered medical practitioner during the 12 month 
period prior to the start date of the policy which recur within  12 months of the 
start date; 
oa condition whether  diagnosed or not, for which significant and substantive  
symptoms were  experienced  or for which investigations have been  
commenced by a medical practitioner during the 12 months before the PPI 
start date which recurs during the 12 months after the PPI start date;
ochronic or continuing conditions that were  known at the start date and recur 
within 12 months of the start date;
The policy also contained  limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions placing more onerous evidential requirements to support a claim  on those 
grounds;
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if             
Mrs M wasnt a permanent employee; and
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mrs M be unable  to 
do her own job, or other  work that her experience or training would allow  her to do. 
I do accept that there is a possibility that the limitations and exclusions above might  well 
have caused Mrs M pause for thought  and may well have caused her to conclude  that the 
policy wasnt as good as she thought and she might have decided not to proceed.  The 
limitations on the cover, when coupled with the other shortcomings in this sale, might  have 
Ref: DRN51379238dissuaded some  consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mrs M from taking out 
the policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mrs Ms circumstances at the time of sale shows that the policy 
wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. She was eligible for its benefits and it 
provided cover that, despite its limitations  and exclusions, couldve proved  valuable to her 
should the insured risks have become a reality. I also havent seen any evidence to suggest 
she wouldve been caught by any of the significant  exclusions   Mrs M didnt have any     
pre-existing medical conditions at the time of taking  out the PPI and was in permanent  
employment. So, I still think  she had some good  reasons  to take the policy out.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were  more onerous than Mrs M might 
reasonably have expected. But its unlikely she would have expected to be able to make a 
disability claim without  having to provide some evidence to support that claim.  And while this 
limitation might have dissuaded  some consumers in slightly different circumstances to      
Mrs M from taking out the policy,  Mrs M, in her circumstances,  still had some  good reasons 
to take it out.
If Mrs M had known  she could only claim for disability if she was unable to do both her job or 
other work that, in the insurers  opinion,  her experience or training would allow  her to do, it 
might have played into her thinking  about what she would have done. And I accept  it may 
have given her pause  for thought  although  its possible she may not have been overly 
concerned given that if Mrs M was unable (through  disability) to carry on her own occupation 
the chances that she would be able to take up a similar occupation would also,  in all 
probability, be limited.
 
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not that Mrs M would still have taken out the PPI. The policy  was sufficiently close to 
what she thought  she was getting and I think the policy  could provide a useful benefit in a 
difficult time, notwithstanding her employment  benefits. And in those circumstances I 
consider it more likely  than not that she would have taken out the policy  in any event.  
Mrs Ms representatives say the rules about  how to handle PPI complaints (DISP  App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable.    
Considering the purpose of the guidance,  I dont think it was ever intended  to be at odds  with 
the approach  I have  taken. 
I have thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, I have found  it would be reasonable to conclude  there  
were substantial flaws  in the sales  process.  In those  circumstances, DISP App 3 says it 
should be presumed Mrs M would not have bought the PPI she bought unless, in the 
particular circumstances  of the complaint, there is evidence to rebut the presumption. 
I am satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude  the presumption  is rebutted 
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Mrs Ms 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mrs M 
Ref: DRN51379239found herself in as result of the sale was the same  position she would have been in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Mrs M believes the presumption may only be rebutted  when the flaws in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including her own comments  that she would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which      
I dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it 
would represent  fair compensation  to put Mrs M in the position she would have been in if she 
had not bought the policy. 
That is because,  while I accept its possible she wouldnt have taken out the policy, Im 
satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not that she would  still have taken 
out the PPI had she been given clear,  fair and not misleading information about the policy 
she was buying.  So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude Bank  of Scotland should  pay Mrs M compensation, as that would 
put her in a better position than she would have been in if everything had happened as it 
should have done. 
Im also aware that Mrs M thinks Bank  of Scotland  misrepresented  the terms of the policy  in 
how it described the PPI. While I accept there is a possibility a court might conclude some  of 
Bank of Scotlands statements misrepresented the contract,  in my opinion the reason why 
Bank of Scotland failed to act fairly  and reasonably  was not because of what it did or didnt 
say in the information it provided  but because the overall information Bank of Scotland 
gave Mrs M, in the way it did, was insufficient to meet the standards I consider it fair and 
reasonable to expect  it to have met in 2002  when  providing information  about an insurance  
policy. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mrs Ms representative says a court might take if it 
were to find Bank of Scotland  negligently  misrepresented the contract to Mrs M and about 
the remedy a court  might award if it were to find that Bank of Scotland had been in breach of 
its duty of utmost  good faith.  But this doesnt persuade  me to alter my conclusions  about 
what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of the complaint  including  what  I think 
is fair compensation in the circumstances  of this case. For the reasons Ive already set out     
I dont think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mrs M in a better position than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done. 
Ref: DRN513792310my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 April 2019.
Daniel OShea
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5137923