K821x#15Complaint
Mrs R is unhappy with the service she received from Union Reiseversicherung AG when she 
became unwell abroad.
Background
Mrs R was on holiday with her husband, Mr R, when she experienced a severe shortage  of 
breath. Mr R told us he took her to the nearest  hospital on the island and contacted  URVs 
emergency assistance team. 
The adviser told Mr R that he was at a private  hospital which  didnt like to work with URV so 
he needed to move Mrs R. URV  told Mr R there was a public hospital  about eight minutes  
away by car. A representative from the private  hospital came onto the line and explained that 
the nearby public hospital didnt do in-patient  treatment. Mr R pointed  out to URV that this 
would be a problem  as his wife needed  to be admitted. 
Mrs R remained  in the private hospital and was admitted to intensive  care.  When  Mr R 
contacted URV a few days later they said theyd need a medical report. When Mrs R came 
out of intensive care URV told Mr R hed need to move her to a different public hospital. 
Mr R explained the hospital they were referring to was around two hours  away and he wasnt 
well himself. 
URV did request  a medical report by fax and then by email.  It then transpired  that URV  had 
taken the email address down incorrectly. The hospital also told URV  that Mrs R had been 
offered a move to a public hospital  but Mr R had refused it. Mr R says this didnt happen. 
Ultimately, Mr R made his own arrangements for Mrs R to be repatriated by air ambulance  
back to the UK where she spent further  time in hospital. Mrs R made a claim for the 
expenses totalling  around €53,000  for the medical  bills and the cost of repatriation. Mrs R 
also made a complaint about the service theyd received from URV.
In their final response letter URV acknowledged  there had been some  failings in the service 
they provided. However, they said they made  significant efforts  to get the medical report  and 
made it clear  they didnt  pay for private cover. URV  also said they wouldnt have taken  the 
risk of flying  Mrs R home at that point in time. They also set out some of their experiences  
and the challenges theyve faced  with private  hospitals. URV offered Mrs R a total of 
£11,000 towards her medical expenses which included £300 compensation for the trouble 
and upset caused. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened and upheld Mrs Rs complaint. She didnt 
think URV had offered  Mr R enough support. She thought  they could have been more  
proactive about  assisting  Mrs R and obtaining  the medical report. The investigator  also 
concluded that Mr R had lost faith in URV and the relationship had broken down. So she 
thought URV  should cover the cost of the medical  bills and the air ambulance. 
URV didnt  agree. They said they had met their obligations under the contract of insurance 
and acted in Mrs Rs best interests at all times.  In summary  they said:  
oThe policy made it clear that private  care wasnt covered
 
Ref: DRN51274582oPublic facilities were available within a reasonable distance
oThey had concerns about the practices of the private hospital group concerned
 
oThere was no need to repatriate  Mrs R by air ambulance as adequate  care was 
available locally
oThey made a number of attempts to obtain  the medical report  from the private 
hospital
oThey had shared their concerns about the private hospital with Mr R as it was in his 
best interests to do so
oThey were prepared  to pay the costs of the private medical care,  outside  the terms of 
the contract, but not the air ambulance. 
Mr R also made some  further comments on Mrs Rs behalf. In summary he said:  
oHis wife couldnt  be moved to a public hospital because her condition deteriorated 
rapidly when she left intensive care
oHe received little support from the insurer which left him in absolute distress
oThe air ambulance  company was reputable and carried out a detailed medical 
assessment before  agreeing to repatriate  Mrs R.
oAt no time was he given the option  by the private  hospital  to move Mrs R.
oHe is not a person who makes rash decisions  and had to make a decision based on 
the information from the doctor  this was in the context  of a severe lack of 
communication and support from the insurer. 
So I now need to make a decision.   
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
DISP 3.7R says that where  a complaint is determined  in favour of a complainant the 
ombudsmans determination may include a direction to the respondent, which  in this case  is 
URV. 
DISP 3.7.11R provides  that a direction may require the respondent, URV, to take such  steps 
in relation to the complainant as the ombudsman  considers just and appropriate whether or 
not a court  could order those steps  to be taken. 
The relevant  rules and industry guidance  say URV  have a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly.  And they shouldnt decline a claim unreasonably. URV also has a wider 
responsibility to pay due regard to the interests  of their customers  and treat them fairly. 
The policy terms exclude: 
Ref: DRN51274583Costs of private treatment unless our 24 hour Emergency Assistance Facilities 
service has agreed and adequate public facilities are not available; and 
Any costs where you are an inpatient  or it is a repatriation claim and our 24 hours 
assistance service, Emergency Assistance  Facilities, have not been notified or has 
not agreed the costs, we reserve the right to decline associated costs
The policy terms say that Mrs R should:
Take all possible care to safeguard against accident, injury,  loss or damage as if you 
had no insurance
There is also a note on the policy which states:  
BE AWARE! Your policy  is intended to cover immediate treatment in an emergency 
situation. We reserve the right to repatriate  you immediately for treatment in your 
home country where  this is deemed  to be preferable regardless of your original travel 
plans. All medical  decisions are at the discretion of our medical director. It is 
essential for you to contact the Emergency Assistance Facilities service  prior to being  
admitted anywhere.  In this instance  we may arrange for a local transfer to a hospital 
better equipped for your immediate  needs. 
Ive taken into account all the detailed points  raised by both parties. However, Ill only refer to 
those which  I think are relevant to my decision. 
Im upholding this complaint for the reasons Ill go on to explain. 
Was it reasonable for Mr R to take Mrs R to the private hospital?
Mr R told us hed gone to the nearest hospital he was aware of that had an emergency 
department. Mr R said he had to carry her to the car and she was virtually unconscious on 
arrival at the A&E. 
I bear in mind that Mrs R was struggling  to breathe and she had pre-existing  conditions 
including asthma  and Chronic  Obstructive  Pulmonary Disease  (COPD). Mr R told us he 
couldnt wait for an ambulance, and thats  supported by his testimony to URV during the first 
call to the emergency number. 
Ive found Mr Rs testimony to be credible  and persuasive on this point. And I think  its 
supported by the medical evidence that Ive been provided with which  confirms  Mrs R was 
extremely unwell when  she attended  the hospital.  So I dont think Mr R acted unreasonably 
by taking Mrs R to the nearest hospital  he was aware of. 
Mr Rs initial  contact with URV
When Mr R contacted URV he said hed tried to call but theyd been  extremely  busy. There 
was no apology when  he mentioned this to the adviser.  
I dont think the call was handled very well. Mr R had to repeat information and there were 
long periods where he was on hold or there  was protracted  silence.  The adviser had to ask 
for help from his team leader a number of times  and didnt seem very confident. 
Ref: DRN51274584During the call Mr R was told the private  hospital didnt like to work with URV and URV dont 
work with this hospital. Mr R was told to move Mrs R when it was medically safe as there 
was a public  hospital eight minutes  away by car. The adviser didnt ask any questions about 
Mrs Rs condition to establish  whether  that was a viable option. 
Given that a term within  the policy says, It is essential for you to contact the Emergency  
Assistance Facilities service prior to being  admitted anywhere. In this instance we may 
arrange for a local transfer to a hospital better  equipped for your immediate needs, I would 
have expected URV to take a more active part in making arrangements  for any transfer. But, 
based on the information Ive seen, that didnt  happen.
I dont think the adviser was taking account  of what Mr R was saying  namely that his wife 
was in accident and emergency, she needed  to be admitted  and shed been too unwell to 
even wait for an ambulance.  
Mr R also wasnt  told during the first call that URV  may be able to help if a medical report 
confirmed Mrs R wasnt fit to be moved.  This was only discussed during a later call, a few 
days later.  The advisers actions meant  the case was effectively  closed until Mr R contacted 
URV again. 
 
I can understand why Mr R was reluctant to move  Mrs R when he was being told that the 
hospital URV wanted Mrs R to move to didnt take in-patients and the other public  hospital  
was a two hour drive  away.  The hospital  translator also spoke to URV and confirmed the 
hospital nearby  didnt  take in-patients. So I dont think  Mr Rs reluctance to move Mrs R was 
unreasonable taking into account that she had been  treated as an emergency  and needed  to 
be admitted. 
I can also appreciate why Mr R would place more weight on the information given by people  
with local knowledge  rather than an adviser  in a call centre with whom  hed had quite a 
frustrating and unhelpful conversation. And URV hasnt provided any clear or compelling 
evidence that Mrs R could  have been admitted at the public hospital a few minutes away or 
that it was better equipped to deal with Mrs Rs immediate needs.  
I note that the medical reports, which our service had translated,  say Mrs R was admitted 
urgently and appeared extremely ill. The reports go on to say that she had severe breathing 
difficulties and received a range of treatments in intensive care over a period of days.  As Ive 
outlined above  she also had a relevant medical history,  including respiratory  issues. 
I dont think it was unreasonable  for Mrs R to stay at the private hospital during this period of 
time particularly as URV hadnt taken any steps to establish whether the nearby  public  
hospital was a viable option.  
In such circumstances  I think  URV could have  been  much more proactive and offered Mr R 
more support, rather than just saying he had to move his wife who was very unwell. For 
example, they could  have taken steps to contact the nearby hospital  they were  suggesting  to 
check whether in patient treatment was an option  and provide that reassurance to Mr R. 
They also could have  offered more practical assistance  for example explaining to Mr R the 
process for moving Mrs R, contacting  the private  hospital directly to ask them  to initiate  the 
transfer or asking for a medical report at that time to confirm  Mrs Rs condition.  
Ref: DRN51274585I also note the adviser didnt take Mr Rs contact details. This appears to have been queried 
when the case  was reviewed by the inpatient team who, the notes suggest, couldnt find 
contact details on the file. The note says:  
No contact  number on the case. Will close case until we get UD. We need  hospital 
details/CF/MR
I can see the name of the hospital Mrs R was in had been recorded  by the adviser  who took 
the first call. So URV were aware  which hospital  Mrs R was in at the point Mr R called for 
assistance. 
Theres then a further note on the case,  which I think is most  likely to be an explanation from 
the adviser who took the call. It says:
There are no contacts in the case and no PVq done because pax was(sic) wanted to 
get treatment in private hospital and I advised pax that he could get better treatment 
in a public  hospital and that we can assist him with further expenses.
There was no mention in these notes, or the initial call note, that Mr R had been  told the 
nearby public hospital didnt take in-patients and that Mrs R was two hours away  from the 
next closest public facility on the island.  And I also note that Mr R had provided a contact  
number during the call. 
So I dont  think the above note, or initial call notes, present an accurate picture of the overall 
situation or the conversation the adviser had with Mr R. It wasnt that Mr R had said he 
wanted to get treatment  in a private  hospital, rather that he was worried the public hospital  
being recommended  didnt have  the facilities to treat Mrs R because  she needed to be 
admitted, because that was what hed been  told by the hospital treating his wife.
URVs criticism of the private hospital  
URV has explained why they shared their concerns about the hospitals general practices 
during calls with Mr R. Theyve told us theyve  had experience of patients being held against 
their will and extorted. 
I entirely appreciate  why URV wanted to share their concerns about the hospital with Mr R 
and I accept it was well-intentioned.  The adviser  did reassure Mr R that their concerns didnt 
apply to the standard of care Mrs R would  receive  which I think is important.
However, I dont think some of the comments were appropriate - for example saying:
they get quite  nasty towards  when she would need to be discharged and can be, 
can take a lot off of money of people  that are insured so this is why we avoid at all 
costs to go to [redacted name of hospital]  They generally are liars usually where 
theres a [redacted name of hospital] within a few kilometres  theres  a public 
hospital.  
Ref: DRN51274586She went on to explain  they needed  a detailed medical record to support the fact Mrs R 
couldnt be moved before saying:
What they are going to ask for is some sort of guarantee of payment. What it is is its 
billing instructions. We wont  send  someone  like that or that dont or dont erm a 
complete guarantee because of we dont know what were guaranteeing  but we will 
once weve  got a medical report and were satisfied that they are not being  corrupt or 
taking advantage in any way we would send them our billing instructions so that they 
could send in the bills and we could  revise them and pay for any treatment that was 
necessary treatment .
I think this information  could have been positioned in a less emotive way which was more 
sensitive to Mr Is circumstances. 
Was it reasonable for Mrs R to stay in the private  hospital when  she was released  from 
intensive care?
When Mrs R came out of intensive care there  was a further discussion about  moving  her to a 
hospital about two hours  away from where Mr and Mrs R were staying. Mr R explained it 
was two hours away from their apartment,  he wasnt well and he understood the hospital 
URV were suggesting didnt allow  visitors. 
I dont think this means he had decided to keep Mrs R in private  care. Bearing in mind  
Mrs Rs state  of health, their age and the distance from their accommodation, which they 
owned, I dont  think those were unreasonable concerns  given the wider circumstances. 
URV didnt  acknowledge or seek to address those concerns. In that call its clear  to me that 
Mr R was struggling. There  is a marked change in his demeanour compared to the first call. 
During this call he sounds very tired and stressed. There  was no discussion about how URV  
could best support Mr R with arranging the transfer  or about how they might  be able to allay 
some of the concerns Mr R had raised   for example  arranging  accommodation for Mr R in a 
location near to the public hospital  or establishing whether he would be able to visit Mrs R 
there. 
So I dont  think the level of service and support provided was adequate,  especially bearing in 
mind Mrs R had just come out of intensive care and was still unwell   so she was in a 
vulnerable situation. I dont  think  that was fair or reasonable  in the circumstances. 
Were there delays in obtaining the medical  report?
As Ive outlined above URV didnt ask the hospital  for a medical report  when Mr R first 
contacted the emergency  line. 
Mr R contacted URV again  to try and get help whilst Mrs R was in intensive care. He was 
again told URV didnt work with the hospital.  He asked the adviser to express  that Mrs R 
couldnt have  gone to the state  hospital  because it was two hours.  During this further call the 
first adviser was initially quite dismissive  of what Mr R was saying  about  the availability  of in-
patient care at the nearby  public hospital. She said, in summary, the private hospital was 
saying the public hospital didnt take in-patients  in order to keep Mrs R there, paying for 
treatment. 
Ref: DRN51274587Then Mr R was transferred to the case handler  who accepted that it sounded as if Mrs R 
wasnt safe enough to be moved  if she was in intensive care. She then indicated  theyd 
consider a medical report and asked Mr R to try and get one. I can understand why URV did 
this but it is disappointing to see they didnt take any action themselves to contact the 
hospital directly to ask for this information at this stage. I think that placed an unfair  burden  
on Mr R in the circumstances. 
It wasnt until a few days later that URV contacted the hospital and asked for a report. By 
then Mrs R had been in hospital  for around  six days.  I dont think  that was a reasonable 
timescale particularly  given that I think  this was the first meaningful action they took in 
handling the claim despite knowing the situation from the day she was admitted and which  
hospital she was being treated at. 
It was a further three days before the report was chased. URV took an email address down 
and chased the report. They chased  again  a few days later and it then transpired that theyd 
taken the email address down incorrectly which is why the hospital hadnt  received the 
request for a medical report. This was followed up again by URV but by this time Mr R had 
arranged an air ambulance  in one of the calls he explained to URV that things werent 
happening quickly enough. 
Should URV  cover the cost of the repatriation?
I appreciate that URV werent involved  in the decision to repatriate Mrs R back to the UK by 
air ambulance and they dont think it was medically necessary. However, I dont think thats 
the key issue  in this complaint for the reasons Ill go on to explain 
By the time Mr R arranged the air ambulance I think the relationship with URV had broken 
down because of the poor service provided  during  the early  stages of the claims procedure. 
Mr R told us: 
The truth is that from the beginning  on arrival at the A&E department  of the hospital  I 
felt I was discarded by the insurer. The lack of support by the insurer  in such 
distressing and serious circumstances  was outstanding, even more so to me now in 
retrospect I just wish to highlight that I am not a person who makes rash decisions 
even in difficult situations and I sincerely  believe that I did not do that in this case.  In 
fact, based on the information provided  by the treating doctor  at the time,  in 
conjunction with the severe  lack of communication and support from the insurer, I 
strongly believe if I had continued  to wait for the insurer my wifes  life would have 
been at extreme  risk.
In a further email  he said: 
I did not choose to ignore  advice  from the insurer, in fact I received very little support 
from them which left me in absolute distress  having to make  decisions on my own in 
the best interests of my wifes health based on the medical information available to 
me. 
As Ive outlined above URV were saying  Mrs R had to move two hours away but had offered 
limited practical support  to achieve this, beyond asking for a medical report.  Alternatively,  
Mr R would have to carry on paying  the private hospital bills, knowing URV  likely wouldnt 
cover them. 
Ref: DRN51274588Hes also explained that he was told by the private  hospital there  was nothing more  they 
could do for Mrs R as her oxygen levels were reducing and she was deteriorating. He says 
he was also told by the doctor from intensive care that she might need to be placed back into 
intensive care so it was best to get her home. 
This is supported by the medical  report,  translated by our service,  from the treating doctor  
which says: 
Female patient, 64, ex-smoker with a background of COPD and Crohns disease 
(colostomy) who was admitted from ICU for a respiratory infection with associated  
bronchospasm, with saturation  upon admission  of 82% and 13,500  leukocytes  with 
chest radiology with an increase in the left base section.
The patient  has progressed favourably from a clinical point of view, experiencing less 
coughing and phlegm  every day, no fever or chest pain but maintaining 
breathlessness in rest, with pulmonary auscultation  showing  a reduction in the 
vesicular murmur. Afebrile, hemodynamically stable (BP 130/70).  Cardiac  
auscultation shows rhythmic cardiac  sounds  at 90x, but persistently  low saturations, 
despite adding  bronchodilators  in full doses and theophylline/acetazolamide to her 
treatment, which required Pneumology to be consulted  [redacted]), which  concluded 
in the treatment plan (as reflected in the medical report) that the patient must travel  
with oxygen therapy and an assessment with Pneumology in their own country  is 
recommended in order to initiate  oxygen therapy in their country of origin, if 
necessary.
Due to all of this, I believe that the patient  may be repatriated  in the appropriate 
sanitary conditions  and with oxygen  support and all the conditions  must be met in 
order for her repatriation to be as safe as possible. 
The emphasis on the words  persistently  low saturations was added by the hospital. I also 
note that Mrs R was immediately taken to hospital on her return  to the UK and spent  a 
further eight days  in hospital receiving  treatment. URV says that this further supports that the 
private hospital wasnt acting in Mrs Rs best interests as she was discharged despite still 
needing hospitalisation.  
However, I think its important to take into account the wider picture when deciding whats  
fair and reasonable in this case.  Mr Rs wife was seriously ill, hed had little or no meaningful  
support from the insurer, his contact with them had been poor and they had taken few 
proactive steps  to understand the situation. 
As far as he was aware, the hospital  URV had suggested might  be able to treat his wife was 
a two hour drive  away. And URV hadnt  taken any meaningful  steps to arrange a transfer, 
clarify the details of the care Mrs R needed  or looked into whether the hospital  theyd 
suggested was able to treat her. He was also being told by his wifes doctor, that her 
condition wasnt improving and it would be better  for her to return  home for care.
Because of the poor claims handling and service  I dont think Mr R had confidence in URV 
and he was understandably  worried about the medical bills increasing at the private facility. 
So I can appreciate  why Mr R thought  it was best to get Mrs R home and I dont think that 
was an unreasonable decision taking into account the overall circumstances.  
Ref: DRN51274589On that basis, in the circumstances  of this case, I think  its just and appropriate for URV to 
pay the costs of the air ambulance. 
Putting things  right
Im not satisfied Mrs Rs case was handled promptly  or fairly.  And I think  Mrs R has lost out 
as a result. She is out of pocket for the medical  expenses and has paid for the air 
ambulance. 
I think this could have  been avoided had URV  offered  a better service and more support 
during the claims  handling process,  particularly  in relation to the proposed  transfer to the 
public hospital.  I think that if Mrs R had received a better service from URV  it is unlikely  
shed have incurred  these costs. 
Overall taking into account the circumstances Ive outlined above  I think its fair and 
reasonable for URV  to pay the total cost of the medical bills Mrs R incurred whilst receiving 
treatment at the private hospital and the cost of the air ambulance in full. URV should add 
8% simple  interest from the date that the claim was made  to the date the claim is settled.*
My final decision
Im upholding Mrs Rs complaint against  Union Reiseversicherung  AG and direct it to put 
things right in the way Ive outlined above. Under  the rules  of the Financial  Ombudsman  
Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or reject my decision before 2 September 2019.
Anna Wilshaw
ombudsman
*If Union Reiseversicherung AG considers  that its required by HM Revenue  & Customs to 
take off income  tax from that interest  it should tell Mrs R how much  its taken off. It should 
also give her a certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN5127458