K821x#15complaint
Mr P complains FirstRand Bank  Limited  unfairly  recorded a CIFAS marker against  his name. 
CIFAS is the UKs  fraud alert service. FirstRand Bank operates  in this case  under its 
Motonovo Finance brand.   
background 
In June 2015 Motonovo Finance agreed  to provide a car under a hire purchase arrangement 
in Mr Ps name.  As is common, Motonovo Finance didnt deal direct,  but through a 
dealership acting as its agent. 
Shortly afterwards, Motonovo Finance received a direct debit with account details in the 
name of a Mr M. Mr M was known to Mr P, but in August 2015 the holder of the account from 
which the direct debit payments were to be made disputed setting up the direct debit. At 
around the same time, the car was seized  by the police, for reasons unconnected with the 
finance agreement; Mr P wasnt driving it at the time. In September 2015 Motonovo Finance 
demanded repayment under the hire purchase  from Mr P  on the grounds that hed 
abandoned the car. 
Mr P said that he hadnt taken out the hire purchase  agreement and hadnt set up the direct 
debit instruction. He said that Mr M was a former tenant of his, who had been  responsible  for 
this and other fraudulent activity using his name,  address and other details.  
Motonovo Finance didnt believe that Mr P wasnt involved  and placed  a CIFAS marker 
against his name. Mr P complained about the marker. Motonovo Finance said that the 
dealership had checked photographic identification  documents and made credit checks and 
was satisfied that Mr P had himself applied for the finance. It believed that Mr P had 
changed the direct debit  details and that the details he had provided  were fraudulent.  It felt 
the CIFAS marker had been  recorded  correctly. 
Mr P complained to this service, and one of our investigators considered his complaint. The 
investigator didnt  consider however  that Motonovo Finance had treated  Mr P fairly; in short,  
he didnt think that it had done enough  to show that Mr P  rather than being a victim of fraud  
 had been a perpetrator.  He recommended  that Motonovo Finance  arrange for the removal 
of the CIFAS marker and that it pay Mr P £300  in compensation. 
Mr P was broadly in agreement with the investigators recommendations, although he felt the 
level of compensation  was too low. Motonovo Finance, however, didnt accept what  the 
investigator had said and asked that an ombudsman review the case.  
    
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, however, Ive reached 
broadly the same conclusions as the investigator, and for similar reasons. 
Theres no real dispute  here that there  was a fraud (or attempted  fraud)  in connection  with 
the finance application. Either  someone  took out the finance using Mr Ps details and without 
his knowledge  or consent, or he took it out and then set up a direct debit using someone 
elses account details  without their knowledge  or consent. 
Ref: DRN55112542As the investigator  noted, CIFAS rules say its for Motonovo Finance to show  that it was 
justified in arranging  for the fraud  marker  to be placed against Mr Ps name.  In effect,  then, it 
must show Mr P took out the finance and then arranged for the payments to be made from 
the account of someone who hadnt  agreed  to that. That doesnt mean that Motonovo  
Finance has to demonstrate that Mr P has committed fraud, still less that it must do so to the 
standard of proof required in criminal proceedings. It does need to show  however that it has 
more than a suspicion  that he was involved.  
I agree  with the investigator that Motonovo Finance hasnt  done that. All its really said is that 
the checks carried out when the finance  agreement was taken out were enough to lead the 
dealership to think it was dealing  with Mr P. But the information that appears to have been 
supplied to the dealership  was information that would have been  readily  available to 
someone in Mr Ms position;  its likely too that they could  have  provided  documentation to 
support the application in Mr Ps name. 
Mr P has provided information showing that he was the victim of impersonation involving 
other providers at around the same time.  Other providers have accepted  that. Whilst that 
doesnt mean that he was a victim here of course,  its relevant background in my view. Mr P 
has provided evidence  too to show that he wasnt living at the address on the finance  
agreement at the time  although he did still own that property. And I note too that he wasnt  
driving the car when it was stopped by the police, and has shown that he had a different car 
on a different finance arrangement. 
It is of course possible that Mr P used his former address and that he had more  than one car 
at the time. But I dont  believe  I need to decide  whether or not he took out the finance  
agreement with Motonovo Finance.  Rather, I need  to decide whether Motonovo Finance has 
done enough to show that it was justified in placing the CIFAS marker against  his name. In 
my view, it hasnt done that. 
As Ive indicated, the investigator thought that a payment of £300 was appropriate,  to 
recognise the inconvenience  to which Mr P has been put and the distress hes suffered. Mr 
P thought this was too low. However,  whilst I note that the CIFAS marker has been in place 
for some time and that Mr P has gone to some effort to explain  why he thinks its unfair that it 
was ever placed, I agree with the investigator  that a payment of £300 is reasonable here.   
Ref: DRN55112543my final decision
My final decision is that, in order to resolve Mr Ps complaint, FirstRand Bank Limited should 
arrange for the removal of the CIFAS marker against Mr Ps name and pay him £300 in 
recognition of the distress hes suffered and the inconvenience  to which  hes been put.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 June  2020.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5511254