K820x#14complaint
Mrs C complains about IGO4 Limiteds delays  in cancelling her motor insurance policy and 
about its cancellation charges. She wants a refund  and compensation for her trouble and 
upset. 
background
Mrs C cancelled her telematics policy with IGO4 after three months.  There was a delay  in 
applying this, but IGO4  agreed to backdate the cancellation to the date it was requested. It 
then sent Mrs C a breakdown of its cancellation  charges.  But Mrs C was unhappy with 
these.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought  IGO4 
had reasonably brought its cancellation  charges  to Mrs Cs attention  when she took out the 
policy. These included  a cancellation charge of £75 and a non-refundable telematics fee of 
£150. So he thought it was reasonable for IGO4 to apply them. But he thought  Mrs C should 
complain to the underwriters and the provider of the breakdown cover about  not getting  a 
refund for unused  policy.  
Mrs C replied that she thought IGO4s  documentation was unclear  and she wasnt  made 
aware of the links containing its terms and conditions. She said she wasnt made aware 
when she took out the policy that on cancellation she would have  to pay the full years  
breakdown cover and telematics charge. Mrs C asked for her complaint to be reviewed  by 
an ombudsman, so its come to me for a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Mrs Cs complaint about  the delay in applying the cancellation was responded 
to by IGO4 which  I think put things  right.  So Ill not consider that further here. I can see that 
Mrs C has also raised complaints about  the cancellation charges applied  by the underwriters 
and the breakdown cover providers. But I cant consider these  here as these  are separate  
businesses to IGO4. 
I can understand that Mrs C feels that shes paid a lot for three months cover.  Our approach  
in cases like this is to consider whether the brokers acted in line with its terms and 
conditions and fairly and reasonably.
IGO4 said its cancelation  charges  were set out on page 4 of its terms and conditions. I can 
see that these  explain  that a cancellation fee of £75 would apply and all fees, such  as the 
telematics charge,  were non-refundable. 
I think £75 is a reasonable  charge  for the administration costs  of cancelling  a policy.  Its also 
in keeping with other  charges Ive seen.  I also think its explained that the telematics charge 
is non-refundable in the case  of cancellation.  So I think the charges are explained  in the 
terms and conditions and I cant say IGO4 was unfair  or unreasonable  to apply  them.
Ref: DRN56587262Mrs C said she wasnt made aware  of these charges. IGO4 said that when Mrs C took out 
her policy,  a link to the terms and conditions had been sent to her in the welcome email.  Ive 
seen this email and I can see that on the right hand side is a link to the policy details and 
documents. These included IGO4s terms and conditions. I think  it was for Mrs C to check 
her policy documents.  If Mrs C was unable  to access these  via the link, then she could have 
alerted IGO4  to this at the time.  But I cant see that she did this. 
The policys  Key Facts  also directs  Mrs C to the policy terms and conditions for the 
cancellation charges. 
So I think IGO4 made  Mrs C reasonably  aware of the cancellation charges when she took 
out her policy  and I cant say it was unfair  or unreasonable for IGO4  to apply them.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 April 2020.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5658726