K821x#15complaint
Mr C complains that MYJAR Limited (Myjar)  irresponsibly  gave him loans  which he couldnt  
afford to pay back.
background
This complaint is about four loans Myjar provided to Mr C between  February  2017  and June 
2018. 
Heres a table setting out details of those loans:
LoanDate
TakenDate
RepaidInstalments AmountHighest
Repayment
1 24/02/2017 31/05/2017 3 £150.00 £76.34
2 02/06/2017 07/11/2017 6 £600.00 £178.67
3 09/11/2017 12/04/2018 6 £600.00 £174.47
4 06/06/2018 Outstanding 6 £350.00 £101.60
Mr C said that Myjar  lent to him when he was in financial hardship and stuck  in a payday  
loan cycle and struggling to find a way out. He told us he was borrowing to pay back  other 
money borrowed.
In its final response letter,  Myjar said its lending was fair based on all the income and 
expenditure information Mr C had provided so it didnt uphold  Mr Cs complaint. Myjar put his 
account on hold and capped the amount  of interest and charges to allow Mr C time to come 
to an arrangement to pay.
Our adjudicator considered the complaint and said it wasnt unfair for Myjar to have provided  
loans 1 to 3 - but loan 4 shouldnt have been  lent to Mr C. He said Myjars checks showed  
that for loan 4, Mr Cs income and expenditure left him with a deficit.  So there was a 
significant risk that Mr C wouldnt have been  able to make the repayment on loan 4 without 
having to borrow  again  making the loan unsustainable for him.
Myjar responded by asking  our adjudicator to explain how hed worked out the figures he 
was relying on. Our adjudicator replied with the requested information  but we havent 
heard anything further from Myjar. So the complaint comes to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  lending - including  all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Myjar needed to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Mr C could  
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure.
Ref: DRN53834702With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think  less thorough checks  
might be reasonable  and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that Myjar 
should fairly and reasonably have done more to establish that any lending  was sustainable 
for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers  income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult  to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number  and frequency of loans,  and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer  has been  given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing  
may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Myjar was required to establish whether Mr C could  sustainably repay his loans  not just 
whether the loan payments were  affordable on a strict pounds  and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments. 
So it follows  that a lender  should realise, or it ought  fairly and reasonably  to realise,  that a 
consumer wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Cs complaint.  
Myjar has told us about the checks it did before lending to Mr C. It asked Mr C for details  of 
his income and normal expenditure. And Myjar carried out checks  on Mr Cs credit file.
I agree  with the adjudicator that it wasnt wrong  for Myjar to give Mr C loans 1 to 3 on the 
basis of the information it had recorded about  his income and outgoings. It was early  in the 
lending relationship and so I think the checks were enough for Myjar to agree to lend. 
As Mr C hasnt  raised any objection to the adjudicators recommendation in relation to 
loans 1 - 3, I dont think that I need to say more about them.
So I will focus on the loan which  remains  in dispute  loan 4.
Ref: DRN53834703As our adjudicator said,  looking at the income  and expenditure information  that Myjar 
recorded for Mr C when assessing his application  for loan 4, it appears that its own figures 
show that his income was £1300 and his expenditure would be £1559. In other  words,  even 
before taking loan 4, Mr C was already  likely to spend more than he would bring  in that 
month. 
So it follows  that it was unlikely that Mr C would be able to make the monthly repayments on 
loan 4 without  taking out another loan to pay this. As described above, this means that 
loan 4 wasnt sustainable  and Myjar shouldnt have provided it to Mr C given what  it could 
see about his financial circumstances. 
Our adjudicator explained how wed arrived at these figures and where wed obtained the 
information that supported this view. Having  looked  at everything myself, I agree with our 
adjudicator. Myjar hasnt commented further,  so I've seen nothing  to contradict what our 
adjudicator said.  
For these reasons, Im upholding  Mr Cs complaint about loan 4.
putting things right  what Myjar needs to do
If Myjar has sold the debt to a third party it should  buy this back so it can carry out these  
directions  or otherwise  tell the third party that it needs to carry out these steps  to put things  
right.
A.Remove all interest, fees and charges  from the balance on loan 4, and treat any 
repayments made by Mr C as though they had been repayments of the principal. 
B.If this results in Mr C having  made overpayments then these should be refunded 
with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date the 
overpayments would  have arisen, to the date the complaint  is settled.  
C.If there  is still an outstanding  balance then I remind  Myjar that it should  take a 
sympathetic view when seeking  to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr C.
D.Remove any adverse  information it has recorded  on Mr Cs credit  file in relation to 
loan 4 when it is paid. If it sold any of the loans Myjar should ask the debt purchaser  
to remove any adverse information it recorded about this loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Myjar to take off tax from this interest. Myjar must give 
Mr C a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Ref: DRN53834704my final decision
I uphold Mr Cs complaint  about  loan 4 and direct MYJAR Limited to put things right as set 
out above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 February  2020.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5383470