K821x#15Complaint
Mr J complains that TSB Bank plc declined his chargeback claim for a refund of a deposit he 
says was paid when renting a property. 
Background
Mr J booked a holiday rental online via a third party and paid using his credit card. During  
the booking process,  Mr J says he was led to believe  that the final price he was quoted  
included a refundable deposit of €350.  Mr J paid around €1,763 (£1,557) to book the 
property but after he returned the expected  deposit  refund wasnt received. 
Mr J asked TSB to retrieve the deposit  and it initially refunded the full price he paid on 
1 October 2018. TSB debited Mr Js account for £1,226 on 6 December 2018  and a further 
£1,557 on 29 January  2019. On 20 February  2019 TSB credited Mr Js credit card with 
£1,226. Ultimately, TSB declined Mr Js chargeback  claim as the merchant said it had acted 
in line with the terms hed agreed to when making the booking. Mr J complained  but TSB 
didnt agree to refund  the disputed deposit. 
Mr J referred his complaint to our service and it was passed to an investigator.  He thought 
TSB should have  made a claim for Mr J under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 
(Section 75). The investigator thought  the way the deposit worked had been misrepresented 
when the booking was made. The investigator asked TSB to refund the disputed  deposit but 
it didnt agree and asked  to appeal. As a result, the case has been  passed to me to make a 
decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this case, TSB attempted a chargeback but as Mr J paid with his credit  card it could have 
also tried to reclaim the funds by making a Section 75 claim. And Section 75 says TSB, as 
the creditor, is jointly and severally liable if the retailer  has performed a misrepresentation or 
breach of contract.  Im satisfied that TSB could have  raised  a Section 75 claim for Mr J. 
I note that TSB says the merchant  made it clear that the Deferred Damage Deposit 
wouldnt be charged unless the property owner raised a claim and that Mr J hadnt  been 
charged. But I dont  agree  that the information  given to Mr J when  he made the booking  was 
clear. I agree  with the investigator  and Mr J that details of how the deposit  worked  made it 
appear as if part of the total price he was charged  would be refunded.  
Mr J has sent in screenshots  of the online booking journey and I can see the property 
owners sent a message saying The  quote  includes  a refundable deposit for damages.  
Next to this message, on the screenshot Ive seen, the Damage Deposit  is quoted as being  
€350. I also note that under the Frequently  Asked Questions screenshot for the property 
information about the deposit was given. Whilst the quality of the text Ive seen isnt 
completely clear, I can see is says For this property well collect,  hold and return your 
damage deposit  I can understand why Mr J thought  part of the price he was quoted 
included a €350 damage deposit that would  be collected and held before being returned 
after the stay.  
Ref: DRN56949952I have to balance  that against  some of the other  information the merchant gave about 
deposits. On the same  screenshot Mr J sent in it says Your  payment method wont  be 
charged or authorized (for a hold on funds) unless the owner makes a valid claim within 10 
days of your checkout.  I take TSBs point that there is information  that indicates  the deposit  
wouldnt be charged unless the property owner made a claim. But I think  the other 
information Mr J receive  gave a clear  indication that the deposit formed  part of the total 
booking price and would  be refunded after his visit. And Im satisfied, from what  Ive seen, 
that Mr J made the booking on the basis that the €350 damage deposit would be refunded  
on his return.  
I agree  with the investigator that the deposit was misrepresented which induced Mr J into 
making a booking. I think Mr J would most likely  have booked elsewhere if hed been  aware  
of the true price for renting  the property. I agree with the investigator that TSB should refund  
the damage deposit Mr J thought he paid. 
The investigator also asked TSB to pay £100  for the trouble it caused  by unfairly declining 
Mr Js claim.  I agree  TSBs decision to decline Mr Js claim was upsetting. I can also see 
TSB made various mistakes when processing its chargeback claim and applying  refunds to 
Mr Js account. In December 2018  it debited £1,226 from Mr Js credit card account but in 
January 2019  it debited  a further £1,557 without first refunding the previous months  
payment. That meant Mr J had to contact TSB and ask it to correct its mistake  which  was 
inconvenient. Im satisfied  from what Ive seen that TSB has caused Mr J unnecessary 
trouble and upset.  I agree  £100 fairly  reflects the impact of TSBs  errors on Mr J. 
My final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint and direct  TSB Bank plc to refund the disputed 
€350 Mr J was charged. I also direct TSB Bank  plc to pay Mr J £100.  
 Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 November  2019.
Marco Manente
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN5694995