K821x#15complaint
Mr D says Financial  Insurance  Company Limited (FICL) mis-sold him a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy. 
background
Mr D took out a regular premium PPI policy with a store card in 2003. He paid a monthly 
amount for the policy. Its been agreed in this case that FICL, as the insurer, should take 
responsibility for the complaint.  To keep things  simple,  Ill refer to FICL as the seller in my 
decision.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. FICL disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so the 
complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Ds case. 
Having done this, Ive decided to uphold Mr Ds complaint. Ill explain why. 
FICL didnt  recommend the policy to Mr D so it didnt  have to make sure the PPI was right for 
him. But it did have  to make sure he had enough  information so he could make  a choice 
about whether  he wanted the policy or not. 
Looking at everything Ive been given, I dont think FICL gave Mr D clear enough information 
about the policy. In particular  I dont  think it gave Mr D enough  information  about the costs 
and benefits of the policy. I think  this would have mattered to Mr D because  he says he had 
six months full sick pay benefits from his employer plus some savings, which  means he 
could have met his card repayments for a while without the policy. So I think Mr D probably 
wouldnt have wanted the policy if hed properly understood  the cost and benefits. 
This means  I dont  think Mr D wouldve bought the policy if FICL had given him enough  
information about it. And I think Mr D has lost out because of what  FICL did wrong. 
putting things right
FICL should put Mr D in the financial position hed be in now if he hadnt taken out PPI.
A.FICL should find out how much  Mr D would  have  owed  when he closed his store card 
account if the policy hadnt  been  added.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges. 
FICL should then refund  the difference between what  Mr D owed when he closed his 
account and what  he would have owed if he hadnt  had PPI.
Ref: DRN58068912If Mr D made a successful claim under the PPI policy, FICL can take off what  he got for 
the claim from the amount it owes him.  
B.FICL should add simple interest on the difference between what Mr D would have owed 
when he closed his account  from when he closed it until he gets the refund. The interest 
rate should be 8% a year.
C.If  when  FICL works out what Mr D would have owed each month  without PPI  Mr D 
paid more than enough  to clear  his balance, FICL should  also pay simple interest on the 
extra Mr D paid. And it should  carry on paying  interest  until the point when Mr D wouldve 
owed FICL something on his store card.  The interest rate should be 8% a year.
D.FICL should tell Mr D what its done to work  out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires  FICL to take off tax from this interest. FICL must give   Mr D a certificate 
showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mr D complaint.
Financial Insurance  Company Limited should  put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 July 2019.
Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5806891