K822xcomplaint
Mr D complains about the service received under his British  Gas Services  Limited  
HomeCare insurance  policy.  
background 
Mr R says British Gass  engineer carried out a smoke test on the flue. The engineer said it 
was leaking but the repairs wouldnt be covered under Mr Rs agreement.  The engineer 
taped the flue so the fire couldnt be used. Mr R then arranged for his own engineer to 
inspect the fire, who said there wasnt a problem with the flue. Mr R complained  to 
British Gas, saying  he wouldnt have had to pay £65 for his own engineer  to inspect the fire if 
British Gass engineer  hadnt said there  was a problem with the fire. 
British Gas sent out a second engineer, who couldnt find a problem with the flue. And 
British Gas couldnt say why the first engineer found a problem,  but its second engineer 
didnt. But British Gas wouldnt pay for Mr Rs independent inspection.  British Gas said its 
first engineer  has a great record for safety  and customer service. The first engineer failed the 
fire flue flow test as smoke was leaking from the flue outside.  As there was a leak, he 
followed the correct  process by disconnecting  the flue. Mr Ds own engineer said he warmed 
the flue  but the first engineers test wouldnt have been affected by temperature. 
Mr R referred  his complaint to our service. One of our investigators upheld  it. He said that 
whilst the first engineer  may be experienced, two subsequent  engineers said there  was no 
problem with the flue. He thought British  Gas should reimburse  Mr R £65 for the 
independent inspection, plus interest  at 8% simple from the date the invoice was paid until 
the date of settlement.
British Gas disagreed,  saying there  was no evidence its first engineer did anything  wrong.  
The engineer said that the spillage was from the chimney itself rather  than from the flue 
terminal, so potentially fumes coming  through the brickwork or through the concrete of the 
structure of the chimney or flue, and thats possibly why he didnt do a second test. 
British Gas said it was industry known that you can get different results  from such  a test 
during different weather  conditions. Our investigator said he would have expected the first 
engineer to have  been  aware of this and done  more in the situation to avoid capping the 
appliance.
In response, British  Gas said it would be wrong to assume there were contributing factors,  
such as weather, on the day of taking the reading as it could have indicated a completely 
different fault.  British  Gas said it is worth bearing  in mind that an assumption that the 
weather may have  affected the result of the test could have resulted in a potentially 
dangerous situation if the cause of the failed test was something other than the weather. So 
this has come to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
outcome as our investigator, and for the same reasons.
Ref: DRN55696522British Gas says its first engineer was very experienced and has a good record. But this 
doesnt mean the engineer didnt  make a mistake  and I dont think  its enough  for British  Gas 
to rely primarily on the first engineers experience.  Here, I have one engineer who said there  
was a problem  and two subsequent ones, one of whom  is also employed by British Gas, 
who said there was no problem. On balance, I think its more likely the first engineer  made a 
mistake because the two subsequent engineers say there wasnt a problem.
British Gas hasnt  been  able to give a clear explanation about why the first engineer  reached  
such a different outcome to its second  engineer and Mr Rs own engineer. The notes of the 
first engineers inspection  arent detailed either. 
British Gas say it would be wrong to assume  the weather affected the test outcome   but its 
possible it did and if the weather was the cause, the engineer was still right to shut down the 
fire because  he couldnt  have been  sure the flue wasnt leaking. But I dont think  this is 
enough to show  the first engineer didnt  make a mistake. I cant  see why the flue would  show 
no issues for the second and third engineers and not the first if there had been a problem. 
After all, the flue wasnt repaired in the meantime  and neither the second nor the third 
engineers could find a problem with it.
If the first British Gas engineer hadnt made  a mistake  in diagnosing a problem with the flue, 
Mr R wouldnt  have incurred the cost of an independent inspection.  I agree with our 
investigator that British  Gas should reimburse  Mr R £65 for the cost of the inspection, plus 
interest at 8% simple  from the date the inspection was paid for until the date of settlement.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, I uphold this complaint. British Gas Services  Limited 
should put things right by doing what Ive set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 April 2019.
Vicki Blackwood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5569652