K821x#15complaint
Mr B says Financial Insurance Company Limited  mis-sold  him a payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy in 1999.
Although the policy was sold by another business, FICL has accepted  responsibility for the 
sale and this complaint.  So Ive referred  to FICL during this decision.
background
Mr B applied for a store card in 1999.  He completed a leaflet most likely while shopping and 
was sold the PPI. From what  Ive seen Mr B paid premiums  totalling £15.89 for the PPI.
Our adjudicator didnt  think Mr Bs complaint should  be upheld. Mr B disagreed with the 
adjudicators findings,  so the complaint was passed  to me.
In March 2019 I issued my provisional findings on this complaint and invited both parties to 
comment and send  me any additional evidence  they wanted me to think  about.  
My provisional findings were that I was intending  to uphold Mr Bs complaint. In my 
provisional findings I said:
Mr B told us he was self-employed at the time of the sale.  We asked for more detail and 
hes told us he was a self-employed contractor.
Ive decided to uphold Mr Bs complaint because I dont think FICL gave him clear enough 
information about the policy. I say this because from what  Ive seen of the application form 
Mr B completed at the time I think its unlikely  FICL  made the terms relating to the            
self-employed and contractors clear. I think these terms wouldve made it very difficult  for    
Mr B to make a successful  unemployment  claim.
Firstly, for the self employed to make an unemployment the policy  states that Mr B would 
have to, have  stopped  trading and/or be in the process of being wound up; or be put into the 
hands of on insolvency  practitioner; or be a partnership which  has been or is in the process  
of being dissolved.
Although this means Mr B would have had to stop trading, and not temporarily, to make a 
claim, I dont  think itd necessarily make  it overly difficult for Mr B to claim.  From  what Ive 
seen he didnt run a business  with assets  or property to be wound up.
But I note the policy had exclusions for contractors  and unemployment  claims were  
excluded, 
If you work on a fixed term contract which ends.  However if you have been  in continuous 
work with the same  employer  for at least 24 months  and your contract has been  renewed  
at least twice and you had no reason to believe that it would not be renewed  again. This 
exclusion will not apply.
Given Mr Bs particular  employment circumstances I think  this exclusion wouldve made it 
difficult for Mr B to make  a successful unemployment claim. And I dont think hed have 
bought the policy if hed been given clear information about it.
Ref: DRN55719402I also set out what FICL needed to do to put things right.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Neither FICL  nor Mr B have replied with any new evidence  or points for me to consider. 
Therefore I see no reason  to depart from the findings I set out in my provisional decision in 
March 2019.
what FICL must do to put things right 
FICL should put Mr B in the financial position  hed be in now if he hadnt taken out PPI.
A.FICL should find out how much  Mr B wouldve owed when the account was closed if the 
policy hadnt been  added.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges. 
FICL should then refund  the difference between what  Mr B owed when he closed the 
account and what  he wouldve  owed if he hadnt had PPI.
If Mr B made a successful  claim under  the PPI policy, FICL  can take off what  he got for 
the claim from the amount it owes him.  
B.FICL should add simple interest on the difference between what Mr B would have owed 
when he closed the account from when  he closed it until he gets the refund. The interest  
rate should 8% a year.
C.If  when  FICL works out what Mr B would  have owed each month without  PPI  Mr B 
paid more than enough  to clear  the balance, FICL should also pay simple  interest  on the 
extra Mr B paid. And it should  carry on paying  interest  until the point when Mr B 
wouldve owed FICL  something on the credit card. The interest rate should  be 8% a 
year.
D.FICL should tell Mr B what  its done to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires FICL to take off tax from this interest. FICL must give    
Mr B a certificate  showing  how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I uphold Mr Bs complaint  and direct  Financial Insurance 
Company Limited  to pay Mr B compensation as set out in this decision.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 June 2019.
Ref: DRN55719403Steve Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5571940