K821x#15complaint
Mr M complains that CashEuroNet UK LLC, trading as QuickQuid  and Pounds  to Pocket, 
lent to him irresponsibly.  I will refer to the respondent business  as CEU.
background
Mr M describes having to take further  loans to repay others.  The loans were easy  to get with 
no restrictions and the lender kept increasing  the amount he could borrow. It has had 
negative impacts on his credit file. He says that there  was never any type of review  done to 
discover why he was using the loans so frequently. 
Using the information I have received from CEU here is a brief summary of the approved 
loans. Additional notes appear  just underneath the table. 
loan approved amountrepaid  
figure 
(rounded)instalment 
schedules 
(rounded)repay date
payday 1 5 April 2013 £400 £440 n/a 15 May 2013
payday 2 15 May 2013 £400 £560n/a 19 August 
2013
instalment 
loan30 May 2013 £900 £1,629 Initially  £136 x 
12 from 14 June 
2013  until 
15 May 201427 May 2014
payday 321 August 
2013£400 £620n/a 15 November 
2013
FlexCredit19 November 
2013Limit of 
£550-Starting
13 December 
2013 ranging 
from £189 to 
£68.   Payments to 
third parties 
made
For the instalment  loan,  late payment  fees were charged in July, August and 
September 2013 and again in February 2014. 
 
The instalment loan was refinanced with £90 additional funds  on 25 July 2013 with new 
repayments of £138  (rounded) scheduled until 15 July 2014.
It was refinanced again on 15 September 2013 with £105 additional  funds with new 
repayments of £148  (rounded) scheduled until 15 August 2014.
It was refinanced again on 28 November 2013  with £50 additional  funds and new 
repayments of £184  (rounded) scheduled until 13 June 2014.
For the FlexCredit account, late payment fees were  charged monthly from October 2014 to 
December 2014.
CEU has explained that it carried out credit checks in April 2013 and they gave it no cause 
for concern. We have  not received results of those checks. 
When Mr M complained to CEU, its final response letter  in December 2017 to Mr M said that 
it did not uphold  his complaint in relation to any aspect. Mr M brought his complaint to this 
Ref: DRN57556692service. When  CEU sent to us the details of the loans as part of the complaint investigation 
in March 2018 then it said:
were able to see that more questions could have  been asked at the request  of 
loans **955 and **934 [payday loan 3 and the FlexCredit]. These agreements ran 
concurrent with the instalment loan and the business should  have  asked more  
questions, as these loans  should not have  been funded. To that end, the business 
has prepared an offer
So CEU offered  in relation  to payday loan 3 and the FlexCredit account.  
Mr M did not accept this offer and wanted  this service to investigate all the loans. One of our 
adjudicators looked at the complaint and she thought that CEU should put things right for 
Mr M in relation to all of the payday loans,  the instalment  loan and the FlexCredit  account. 
CEU did not agree but it did repeat its offer in relation to payday loan 3 (approved 
August 2013) and the FlexCredit  account.  So as these two loan approvals have been 
conceded by CEU  then they are not in dispute  anymore  and so I do not plan to review  them.  
An issue  surrounding an outstanding balance seems to be resolved and I refer to it later in 
the decision. 
So the disputed  loans seem to be payday loans 1 and 2 and the instalment loan. 
It is common ground that CEU does have information about its customers  whether  they take 
Pounds to Pocket loans or QuickQuid loans and this is cross-referenced  at the time. CEU  is 
content that I review  the complaint with this aspect in mind. 
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I have taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice  at the time the loans were  offered.
Before lending money to a consumer a lender should take proportionate steps to understand 
whether the consumer will be able to repay what they are borrowing in a sustainable manner 
without it adversely impacting on their financial situation. 
A lender should gather enough  information  for it to be able to make an informed decision on 
the lending. Although the guidance  and rules themselves did not set out compulsory checks, 
they did list a number of things a lender could take into account  before agreeing  to lend. The 
key element was that any checks needed  to be proportionate and had to take into account a 
number of different  things,  including how much was being lent and when  the sum being  
borrowed was due to be repaid. 
payday loan 1
Mr M applied  for a £400 loan repayable within a short time and his declared income was 
£1,200. He was not asked for information  about  his expenditure.
I would have expected CEU to have information about his income,  his regular expenditure 
and financial  commitments  and details of other short term loan (STL) commitments. I say 
Ref: DRN57556693this because the repayment figures  of £40 and then £440 meant  that Mr M was using up a 
large proportion  of his net monthly  income for it and as such  the proportionate checks ought  
to have been as Ive outlined above. I dont think that this was done.
Ive reviewed the details  our adjudicator  has looked  at in relation to Mr Ms financial situation  
and with his STL commitments  of around £610 plus his regular expenditure and financial 
commitments then Mr M was not able to afford this loan. So I dont think  CEU was right to 
approve this loan and I uphold  Mr Ms complaint  about it..
payday loan 2
I would have expected that proportionate  checks included a full financial review of Mr Ms 
situation as payday loan 2 was taken on the day he repaid the first and for the same amount.  
And so the same  points made in relation to payday loan 1 are repeated here as the 
outstanding STL was enough  to be higher than his net salary and so Mr M was not in a 
position to afford this loan. So I dont think CEU was right to approve this loan and I uphold  
Mr Ms complaint about it..
instalment loan 
While payday loan 2 remained  outstanding  Mr M applied for a £900  instalment loan with 
CEU. So although in theory an instalment loan with lower repayments would have seemed 
more manageable, in Mr Ms circumstances  this was not the case. And had CEU carried  out 
the full financial  review I would have expected it to have done it likely  would  have recognised 
that. A responsible lender was not likely  to have lent to Mr M in his situation.
So I dont  think CEU was right to approve  this loan and I uphold Mr Ms complaint  about  it..
offer for payday loan 3 and FlexCredit account
Some correspondence has passed  between the parties about  an alleged  outstanding 
balance on the FlexCredit account.  In view of the fact that CEU has already agreed to put 
things right for Mr M in relation to that account,  and it has agreed to adjust  its figures in 
relation to the offer upon receipt  of information  about  that debt having been  paid down, then 
I say no more about these details. The correspondence relating to these  earlier repayments 
to the third party needs to be incorporated by CEU into its calculations. Mr Ms 
representative can forward to CEU  the details. 
putting things right
I have incorporated  into this redress section the offers already made by CEU  for payday 
loan 3 and the FlexCredit account.
Because CEU should not have given Mr M the lines of credit  or the loans he took, its not 
right that Mr M should have to pay interest or charges  on these, or have them  affect his 
credit file in a negative  way. Then  I think it should  do as follows:
refund  any interest and charges  already  paid by Mr M in respect of each of the sets 
of lending  payday  loans  1 to 3, the instalment loan and the FlexCredit account;       
apply 8% simple interest  per year to any interest  and charges refunded from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement*;
Ref: DRN57556694remove any adverse payment information  about  the loans and credit  account from Mr 
Ms credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires CEU to take off tax from this interest and it must give 
Mr M a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ms complaint and direct that CashEuroNet UK LLC put 
things right in the way I have said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 July 2019.
Rachael Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5755669