K820x#14complaint
Mrs P complains that her Nationwide Building  Society credit card account was compromised 
because a payment  for £1,697.59 was credited to her account  and then debited  again and 
Nationwide didnt notify her about  this. Mrs P is represented in this complaint by her 
husband, Mr P.
To settle  matters Mrs P would like an explanation,  compensation and an apology.
background
On 28 February  2019 Mrs Ps Nationwide credit  card was credited with £1,697.59. This 
amount was debited  again on 5 March 2019.  Mrs P feels her account  was compromised 
and Nationwide  didnt  notify her about  this.
She also says that when  she complained  to Nationwide, they were told Customer  
Services would be in touch in three  working days.  This didnt happen and when they 
chased Nationwide it said they would receive  a written response by 11 April 2019. They  
received a phone  call just before this date and they were told it was an administrative 
error.
Nationwide said it had written to Mrs P about  the error but when they asked Nationwide  
to provide a copy  it wasnt able to do so  and it said it hadnt kept a copy. Mrs P thinks 
Nationwide is changing its story  to suit itself. Theyre upset that Nationwide refuses to 
accept liability and it hasnt apologised for what happened.  They also complain that 
when they asked Nationwide to provide a copy of its final response letter, they were sent 
a further copy of a supplementary final response letter  instead.
Nationwide explained  in its final response  letter that it had incorrectly  credited Mrs Ps 
account by £1,697.59 on 28 February 2019 due to a known processing  problem.  Her 
account was rectified  on 5 March 2019,  when her account was debited  by £1,697.59. At the 
same time it credited her account with the correct  payment of £110.It apologised and said 
the error  had affected a small number of customers.  It said its Customer Services wrote to 
affected customers and it apologised  that Mrs P hadnt received a copy  of this letter.
Nationwide awarded  £100 compensation for incorrectly telling them  they would be contacted 
within three business days and it also awarded  £10 to cover the cost of their calls.
Unhappy with Nationwides response, Mrs P referred her complaint to our service.  Our 
investigator didnt  recommend that Mrs Ps complaint should be upheld.
Our investigator didnt  agree that Mrs Ps account had been compromised. In Mrs Ps case a 
payment by cheque  for £110  was meant  to credit her account  but due to an error Nationwide 
credited the wrong amount. He understood why they were concerned about this as they 
didnt receive any notification but he thought Nationwide was entitled to administer credits 
and debits to the account.
He thought a phone call to notify them of the error  would have been courteous  but he didnt 
think theyd been  treated  unfairly when this didnt happen.
Ref: DRN50159622He thought it was reasonable  for Mr and Mrs P to ask for a copy of notification letter. He 
explained that Nationwide wasnt able to provide  this because  the error  had only affected a 
small number of customers, so he didnt  think  Nationwides position was unreasonable  
either.
Although Nationwide wasnt able to provide a copy of the notification letter he thought it was 
more likely than not that Nationwide had sent a letter to them notifying them of the error and 
he didnt think itd lied to them  about this.
Nationwide agreed  it made a mistake when it said they would be contacted  in three  working 
days. Our investigator  thought the £100 compensation awarded by Nationwide was fair.
Dealing with their concerns that the final response letter was never written or sent to them, 
our investigator thought  it was a mistake  on Nationwides  part that it failed to send them  a 
copy of the original final response letter  in April 2019  and instead  sent them two copies of 
its December 2019 supplementary letter. However, he said he wouldnt look to award  any 
further compensation for this error.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand why Mrs P might have thought her account had been compromised when 
she found out a large payment had been credited to her account and then debited again. 
And its understandable  that she was worried about this as she told us Nationwide  never  
notified her about  the error.  However,  based on the information available  to me Im satisfied 
her account  wasnt compromised.
Nationwide confirmed this was due to a known processing error which caused it to credit her 
account by £1,697.59 - instead of crediting  her account with the correct payment of £100.
I cant say Nationwide  treated her unfairly  because I think  it was entitled to make  credits and 
debits to her account  to ensure her credit card account was accurate. When  it discovered  
the mistake it then debited her account by £1,697.59 and credited the correct  payment of 
£100. Im satisfied this was an internal  mistake  and I havent  seen anything to suggest  
Mrs Ps account was at risk or compromised.
I agree  it would have  been preferable had Nationwide phoned to notify her of the error. 
Nationwide explained  that its policy is not to do so. Our service cant require 
Nationwide to change  its policies and procedures but I have looked at whether Mrs P 
was impacted by this.
Mrs P is concerned that Nationwide  hasnt been  able to provide a copy  of the letter it sent 
to those customers affected by the error.  Nationwide  explained to us that as this error only 
affected a small number of customers it didnt  keep a copy  of the letter on file. I agree its 
disappointing that the letter cant be provided,  but I think this explanation is reasonable in 
the circumstances and I havent seen  anything to suggest Nationwide  lied about sending 
this.
I dont think Mrs P suffered any financial loss as a result of Nationwide not telephoning her 
about the error or as a result of not being provided with a copy  of the letter Nationwide  
said it had sent to those customers affected by the error. I say this because  Mrs P was 
Ref: DRN50159623never entitled to the £1,697.59 and the entries  made by Nationwide were only made to 
ensure the transactions  on her credit card account were accurate.
I cant say Nationwide  acted unfairly by not telephoning Mrs P about the error. I say this 
because Nationwide  is required to ensure  its customers credit card accounts  are accurate 
and if it had to notify affected customers about the error before being able to correct  their 
account it would have delayed this from happening. And in Mrs Ps case, had it not 
corrected her account, she would have been in a worse financial position because  she 
might have thought  she had more available credit than was actually the case.
I appreciate Mrs P says she never received a copy of the final response letter.  Based on 
the information available to me it appears this was sent in April 2019 to the same address 
as our service has for her. I therefore  think its more likely than not that Nationwide  sent 
this.
Its unfortunate that when Mr and Mrs P requested a further copy  of the final response letter  
from Nationwide, they were instead sent a further  copy of Nationwides  December 2019. I 
realise this might have  been frustrating but I think it was a genuine error and our role isnt to 
punish financial businesses when things go wrong.  I havent seen anything to suggest 
Mrs P suffered  any financial loss as a result of this, so I dont consider it appropriate to 
make a compensatory  award for this.
For the reasons  given  above, I dont think Nationwide treated Mrs P unfairly  when it 
credited and debited her credit card account.  Nationwide agrees it made a mistake  when  it 
said she would be contacted in three working days and it agreed to pay £100  compensation 
which I think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
I understand Mrs P has further concerns about  the way she was treated by Nationwide but 
my understanding is that these issues are being dealt with separately  to this complaint so I 
wont discuss them further here.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 April 2020.
Michelle Hayward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5015962