K820x#14complaint
Mr S is unhappy with the customer service hes received from Barclays  Bank  UK PLC.  In 
particular hes concerned with the telephone  calls which took place with Barclays, his 
account closure and also an incident that happened in a branch which Mr S believes was 
racially motivated. 
background
Barclays didnt uphold  Mr Ss concerns. They  felt theyd  acted  fairly,  reasonably  and in line 
with the account terms and conditions.
 Unhappy with this outcome,  Mr S referred  the matter to our service.
An investigator has already looked  at this complaint. He didnt uphold the case either and 
overall felt Barclays had acted reasonably. As Mr S remains dissatisfied  with the situation, 
this complaint has now been referred  to me to look at. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Whilst Ive reviewed all the evidence, this 
decision will focus on what I think are the key issues in dispute.  
I note Mr S had previously stated he wanted the incident in the branch investigated 
separately. However I agree  with the investigator  on why he decided to address Mr Ss 
concerns about  telephone calls, account closure and the incident  in the branch under the 
same case  reference number. I too feel the telephone calls and incident in the branch are 
related to the account closure. So it makes sense to look at these issues  together.  
telephone calls
Mr S doesnt  feel hes behaved in a threatening manner towards staff at Barclays. 
Having considered all the evidence and listened to the available  calls I dont think Barclays 
has acted unreasonably for warning Mr S about  his behaviour towards  their staff. I cant  see 
that Barclays acted  unprofessionally during any calls to Mr S. And ultimately it is for Barclays 
to decide what  they think constitutes  unreasonable behaviour towards  their staff. Barclays 
decided that Mr Ss behaviour wasnt acceptable. And I can see that Barclays  did warn  Mr S 
about his behaviour before taking  any further  steps.
account closure 
Account terms by Barclays state  they can close a customers account  by giving them  2 
months notice. Barclays wrote to Mr S in February  2019 regarding his conduct during calls 
with members of their staff.  They  warned him of speaking to staff in a condescending  or 
derogatory manner and further warned him of possible  account closure or to restrict his 
access. Barclays had previously issued a letter of a similar nature to Mr S in June 2018. 
Ref: DRN55790842Barclays wrote to Mr S on 19 March 2019  to advise him that his account would close  on 20 
May 2019. However Barclays  can close an account  immediately, or by giving less than 2 
months notice, for a number of reasons. One such reason is if Barclays has reasonable 
grounds to think Mr S has behaved in a threatening manner or been abusive  to their staff.  As 
I understand an incident in one of their branches led to Barclays deciding  to close  Mr Ss 
account early.
Having looked  at all the evidence, I cant say Barclays has acted unfairly  or unreasonably by 
closing Mr Ss account when they did.
incident in the branch 
Mr S says he was refused  entry into a branch of Barclays  in April 2019 and he believes this 
was racially motivated.  Barclays  disagrees  and claims  their staff member was simply 
attempting to advise  Mr S that the branch was closing. Barclays say, due to this incident and 
Mr S acting in an unacceptable manner towards  staff, they took the decision to close  his 
account early. 
I appreciate Mr S is very concerned that Barclays havent been able to provide our service 
with CCTV footage of what happened in the branch. Barclays sent our service a CD but this 
file was unfortunately corrupted. Im afraid on occasion this does happen  and I cant see 
anything to suggest Barclays has done  this deliberately to conceal evidence. 
Ive not seen anything to suggest the actions  of the staff member were  racially motivated. 
Theres nothing to support  Mr Ss claim that he was treated unfairly in the branch. And I think  
Barclays was able to end the banking  relationship  early if they felt Mr S had breached his 
account terms and conditions by his behaviour. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 June  2020.
Robyn McNamee
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5579084