K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs O have complained that they were unable to access  an airport  lounge on two 
separate occasions. They believe Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) should pay them  
compensation for not being able to access the airport lounges  when it was a benefit of their 
Travel Plus pack.    
background
Mr and Mrs O held a Premier Life account.  Barclays withdrew the Premier Life account in 
2015 and transferred all account  holders, including Mr and Mrs Os account,  on to a fee-free 
account with Travel Plus, Tech and Home packs added.
One of the benefits of the Travel Plus pack was that it provided  access  to airport lounges.  Mr 
and Mrs O say they tried to use an airport lounge in two different countries and were told that 
they couldnt enter one as Barclays had not met its financial obligations, and were told the 
other one was too full.
I understand Mr and Mrs O complained to the provider of the airport  lounge  access benefit 
and it offered to pay Mr and Mrs O £50. Mr O have also complained  to Barclays and have 
asked for further  compensation.
One of our adjudicators assessed  the complaint and concluded that Barclays  didnt have to 
pay Mr and Mrs O any compensation. As they disagreed with the adjudicators  assessment, 
the complaint  has been referred  to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And having  done so, I dont uphold  the 
complaint. Ill explain  why.
Firstly I need to make it clear that this complaint is against Barclays  and not the provider of 
the product.  And as Barclays  is the seller of the product, as part of a Travel  Plus pack, it is 
responsible for giving Mr and Mrs O clear  information about  the product so that they know  
how to use it.
Barclays say that when Mr and Mrs Os Premier  Life account  was changed to a fee-free 
account with the Travel  Plus pack added, it gave Mr and Mrs O a welcome  pack which  
contained a summary  of the account  benefits as well as the terms and conditions.  Barclays 
says that it regularly sent Mr and Mrs O information about the account and how to use the 
benefits. And I see no reason to doubt  that this was sent to Mr and Mrs O.
Having seen the welcome pack  and associated documents, I can see it explains  that to 
access the benefits the account holder(s) should  access the app  to essentially see which  
airport lounges are included with the Travel  Plus pack. And it explains that access to airport  
lounges is subject to availability.  Therefore  I think that Barclays  gave  Mr and Mrs O enough  
information to know that entry is not guaranteed and to find out which lounges are included  
in the pack and which are not. 
Ref: DRN57760432Barclays has confirmed that the lounge Mr and Mrs O tried to access,  but were told that 
Barclays had not met its financial obligations,  was not a participating lounge in the Travel  
Plus pack  airport  lounge  product, and had not been  since the summer of 2017.  So it seems  
that Mr and Mrs O attempted  to access a lounge that wasnt included  with the airport  lounge  
access benefit. 
Because of this, I cant reasonably conclude  that Barclays have done anything  wrong or 
acted unreasonably because Mr and Mrs O were unable to access  the lounge  even if it 
was the case  that the lounge had a Dragon  Pass sign by the entrance.  I say this 
particularly as Ive not seen anything  to say that Barclays had misled Mr and Mrs O into 
thinking that the specific lounge was participating in the Travel Plus pack  airport  lounge 
access benefit. 
I understand that Mr and Mrs O were  also declined from using another  lounge  in another 
country because it was fully booked - even though they say it looked empty. I can 
understand why Mr and Mrs O mayve been frustrated with this. But the terms and conditions 
of the product provided by Barclays warn  that entry is not guaranteed and that entry  is 
subject to availability.  Therefore I think it would be unfair to hold Barclays  responsible  for Mr 
and Mrs O being turned away  from an airport lounge because it was fully booked  as this 
was something outside of its control.
Mr and Mrs O say that, because they couldnt  access the airport lounges  on the two 
occasions, Barclays was fraudulently charging  them the Travel Plus Pack  fees. But the 
reasons why they were refused access were not, as far as I can see, because  Barclays had 
done anything  wrong. So I dont think Barclays is required refund them any of the Travel 
Plus pack  fees  particularly as Mr and Mrs O were  still able to benefit from the other 
features it provided. Therefore, if Mr and Mrs O do not want to continue paying for the Travel  
Plus pack,  they will need to contact Barclays to cancel it.
Having taken everything into consideration, I dont think Barclays  has acted unfairly or 
incorrectly in this matter.  Because of this I dont  think Barclays should pay Mr and Mrs O any 
compensation or refund them the Travel Plus pack fees.
my final decision
Because of the reasons  given above, I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs O to 
accept or reject my decision  before  15 June  2019
Thomas White
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5776043