K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1997. Mr S says NewDay Ltd mis-sold  him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr S case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why. 
Mr S says the PPI was added without his knowledge or consent.  But hes not been  able to 
remember when the policy  was sold to him, and hes not given me much  more information to 
persuade me that this is what happened. And this policy was sold around  12 years ago  
which is something I have  to keep in mind when deciding what  I think is more likely to have 
happened. 
NewDay says the PPI was sold via post but due to the length of time thats  passed,  there  are 
no longer any documents available from the sale. But NewDay has provided a copy  of a 
postal application  it says wouldve been  used at the time  and Ive not seen any persuasive  
evidence that this type of document isnt relevant to this sale, so Ive relied on this in my 
decision. The sample provided shows that there was both a yes and no option for PPI. So I 
think Mr S wouldve known  about  the PPI and seen that it was optional.  And I think  its likely 
that the policy wouldve only been added  to Mr Ss account if he had ticked  yes for PPI. So 
based on this evidence, I think its likely that NewDay made it clear  Mr S didnt have to take 
out the PPI and that he chose to take it out  although I can understand why he cant  
remember this.
NewDay didnt recommend the PPI to Mr S so it didnt have to check if the PPI was right for 
him. But it did have  to make sure Mr S got the information he needed to decide  if the policy 
was right for him. 
Mr S was given a PPI questionnaire to complete in which he was asked to provide 
information about his circumstances at the time of sale. While Mr S has filled in this form, he 
hasnt said what date he thinks the PPI was sold to him. Weve  contacted  his representative 
on a number of occasions to ask whether this information is correct for 1997   but at the time 
of writing Ive not had any response.  So in the absence of any information about Mr Ss 
circumstances at the time of sale Ive continued with my decision on the basis  that the 
information in the PPI questionnaire is correct  for 1997. 
Its possible the information NewDay gave Mr S about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it shouldve  
been. But based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it doesnt  look like he 
was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover.  It also looks  like Mr S 
didnt have any sick pay or savings at the time  so the PPI would have been useful for him if 
something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont think better  
information about the PPI would have put him off taking  out the cover. 
Ref: DRN53366052This means  NewDay doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr S. But NewDay 
will pay back  some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr S because : 
NewDay got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr S about that. Because  NewDay  didnt tell Mr S, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, NewDay  has basically offered to pay back  the amount of commission  
and profit share that was above  50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in 
this case.
what the business needs  to do
NewDay has to pay back to Mr S any commission and profit  share it got that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium. NewDay should  also pay back to Mr S any extra  interest he paid 
because of that.
NewDay should re-work the credit card account  and pay back  to Mr S the difference  
between what Mr S owes and what he wouldve owed if the commission  and profit share it 
got hadnt been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. NewDay  should also pay Mr S 8%* simple  
interest if he paid off his credit card at some  point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr S can claim back the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so NewDay Ltd does not have to pay back  all of the cost of 
the PPI to Mr S.
But NewDay  Ltd does  have to pay back to Mr S any commission and profit share  it got that 
was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 April 2019
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5336605