K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that GE Money Home Lending  Limited mis-sold Mr N payment protection  
insurance (PPI). Mr N is also complaining about the cancellation of his PPI a few years later 
 but Im not looking  at that separate  point in this decision.
background
This complaint is about a monthly  premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 2008.
Our adjudicator said the complaint should  be upheld. GE disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion and so the complaint was passed to me. I reached a different view of the case,  and 
so I sent out a provisional decision,  and asked for comments. I said:
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our 
website and Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
The adjudicator said the complaint should be upheld  on the ground that GEs 
recommendation of the PPI wasnt a suitable  one. This is because Mr N had a pre-
existing medical condition which would make it hard to claim in some  situations. The 
adjudicator said GE didnt  do enough  to explain these limitations.  
But Ive provisionally  reached a different view.  I think GE did take steps to draw  the 
limitations of the policy, as it applied to his circumstances, to Mr Ns attention.  The 
limitation was noted in the written recommendation, and there  is a note on the file 
saying:
spoke to mr regarding his [condition], he is on controlled medication  [and is 
under medical supervision]. Made aware  that this would be excluded due to 
pre existing condition  for insurance. Mr still happy to proceed.
And even  if the information he was given wasnt as good as it should have been, I 
also think full information would not have  made  a difference to whether Mr N took the 
PPI. His medical condition appears  to have been well controlled,  hes told us he 
hadnt taken any time off work for it and I dont think hed have expected  to need to 
claim as a result of it. So the other  benefits  of the PPI would probably still seem  
attractive to him. And Im told he did later successfully  claim  on the policy  for another  
health issue, which I think supports my view that the PPI could still be useful for him. 
I also dont think there  are any other reasons the recommendation was unsuitable, 
based on what Ive seen of Mr Ns circumstances at the time. Being unable to pay a 
mortgage can lead to significant  difficulties.  The PPI would have paid benefits at the 
same time as Mr N received any employer sick pay, and potentially for longer than 
his full sick pay. It would have  paid unemployment benefits in addition to any 
redundancy pay. And it would have  put off the time when hed have needed to fall 
back on any savings. This all would  have put Mr N in a more secure position, if hed 
eventually lost income due to long term sickness or unemployment. And Ive not 
been told anything  to suggest he couldnt  afford  the PPI when he took it out.
Ref: DRN54985382Ive also looked  at whether there  were  other  possible reasons why the PPI might 
have been mis-sold. But I dont currently think  any apply to this case. I will explain 
why:
Mr N has said he didnt know he had PPI until four years  later.  But the evidence 
on file, some of which Ive already mentioned, does in my view suggest  he took 
out the PPI knowingly. For example, I have seen  a copy  of the PPI application 
form and I can see that Mr N signed  it. But this did all happen over ten years ago, 
so its not surprising if he hasnt remembered all the details.  
Its not clear how well GE explained  the costs and benefits of the policy before he 
agreed to have it. But I dont anyway think,  in his circumstances, full and clear  
information about the costs would have affected  whether Mr N took the PPI.
Its possible GE didnt clearly point out the other main things the policy didnt 
cover. But its unlikely Mr N would have been  affected by any of these. It seems 
he was eligible for the policy,  and hed be paying for it monthly, so he could 
cancel it at any time without further  cost if his situation changed.
Both GE and Mr Ns representatives said they didnt have anything  further  to add in 
response. 
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For the reasons  given  in my provisional decision,  I dont think  this PPI policy  was mis-sold.  
my final decision
Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 July 2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5498538