K821x#15complaint
Mr P complains that a car he acquired  with the assistance of finance  with 
Advantage Finance Ltd isnt of satisfactory quality.
background
Mr P acquired a used  BMW car on 7 July 2018.  The car cost £12,100  and had travelled 
around 46,355  miles at the point of sale. On or around 17 November 2018 the car suffered a 
breakdown and the transmission was damaged. The car has not been running  since this 
time.
Mr P complained to Advantage  that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality. An independent 
inspection was arranged  in December 2018 and an engineer concluded that although he 
couldnt confirm  exactly what  caused the failure,  it was not present  at the point of sale. 
Advantage said that the car was of satisfactory  quality and so it wouldnt pay for repairs.
Mr P brought his complaint to our service  and it was considered by one of our adjudicators.  
She thought  that the car wasnt of satisfactory  quality because  after 19 weeks  of ownership 
the car suffered a fault which rendered it no longer functional. She didnt think that the car 
was sufficiently durable as it did not last for a reasonable period of time.  She thought that 
Advantage should pay for the repairs to Mr Ps car.
Advantage didnt  agree  and replied  to say in summary that the adjudicator hadnt taken 
account of the independent inspection report which set out that the car didnt have the fault 
at the point of sale. Advantage said that it was to be expected that a used car will develop 
faults over time and it does not mean that a car isnt of satisfactory quality at the point of 
sale. Advantage did offer to pay half of the repair costs as a goodwill gesture.
Mr P didnt accept that offer and so the complaint has been  passed to me to decide.      
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr P acquired the car under a hire purchase agreement. The relevant legislation,  in this case  
the Consumer  Rights Act 2015 implies a term into the agreement that the car must be of 
satisfactory quality at the point of supply. As the provider  of the finance Advantage is 
responsible for the quality of the car it has supplied under the agreement.
Whether or not something is of satisfactory quality depends on a number of things such as 
the age and mileage of the car and the price  that was paid for it. In Mr Ps case the car was 
around six years old and had covered around 46,355 miles. The car cost £12,100. 
Satisfactory quality also covers durability which means that the components within  the car 
must be durable and last a reasonable amount of time but again that will depend  on the age 
of the car and the amount of miles covered. In other  words, would a reasonable person 
expect there  to be problems of this kind in a car of this age, price and mileage.
There is no dispute that there is a fault with the car, but the issue  is whether that fault was 
there or developing  at the point of sale. I agree  with Advantage Finance that the 
expectations of a second hand car are that there will be maintenance items as parts  wear  
Ref: DRN53601632out and need replacing. It is also clear that the car could  not have had this fault at the point 
of sale as Mr P wouldnt have been  able to drive it at all.
Advantage has pointed to the engineers report,  which says that the fault was a sudden  
mechanical failure and there was no plausible evidence that the fault was developing at the 
point of sale. The engineer was unable  to pinpoint an exact cause without further  
investigation.
In deciding this I have considered whether a reasonable person would expect to see such a 
fault given the cars age, price and mileage.  I dont think that they would. I have seen that the 
differential casing  has essentially  broken  apart and there has also been resulting damage  to 
the transmission. I dont think a reasonable person would expect a total transmission failure 
rendering the car un-driveable after 54,000  miles in a car of this quality. I think  a reasonable 
person would expect  the general life expectancy  of these parts to be longer than 6 years or 
54,000 miles.  
It seems  clear  to me that there was a significant  mechanical failing rather than a gradual 
wear and tear which would lead me to conclude that the car wasnt of satisfactory  quality at 
the point of sale. There is a reasonable expectation that the transmission would  last longer 
than 4 months and the 7,000 miles driven  by Mr P in a car of this age and mileage. So it 
follows that I dont  think the car was of satisfactory quality at the point of sale. 
Mr P has been without a car since late November 2018 which has caused  him 
inconvenience. He hasnt paid for the repairs to be carried out but he also hasnt been 
making any repayments to the finance agreement since October  so I agree with the 
adjudicator that Mr P should pay the instalment for November 2018 but he shouldnt  have to 
make any further repayments until the car is repaired.
Advantage should arrange to repair the car at no cost to Mr P and remove  any negative 
information from his credit file if any has been  recorded. Advantage should pay Mr P £250  
for the trouble and upset  caused,     
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct Advantage Finance Ltd to do the 
following:
Arrange to repair the car at no cost to Mr P;
Pay Mr P £250 for the trouble and upset caused;
Adjust the finance agreement to remove all repayments from November 2017  until 
the car is repaired;
Remove any adverse  information recorded on Mr Ps credit  file.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 June  2020.
Emma Boothroyd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5360163