K821x#15complaint
Mr H is unhappy that Capital One (Europe)  Plc hasnt closed down his credit card account.
background
In May 2018  Mr H saw on his credit file that he had a Capital One credit card,  which he didnt 
use. This was registered to his old address. He said hed thought  this account had been 
closed years ago,  so he asked Capital One to close it. He made  his request using Resolver 
 an online  service that allows customers to make  and manage complaints.
Mr H has complained that Capital One didnt close down his credit card account  when he 
asked them to. Mr H is also concerned that Capital  One have been sending post about this 
account, including replacement credit cards, to an address hes not been at since 2014.
Capital One says they never received the Resolver request to close down the account, 
which is why they didnt do it. They also say that, because  Mr Hs account has a credit  
balance, theyre unable to close the account  down without refunding this balance  first.
Our adjudicator found that Capital  One hadnt  acted fairly. She felt that Mr H was likely to 
have asked Capital  One to close his credit card account at some point in the past; otherwise 
he wouldve changed  the address on the account  when  he moved. She also felt that Mr H 
submitted the Resolver request to close the account  in May 2018, and Capital One shouldve 
actioned this. Because of this she thought Capital One should pay Mr H £100 to compensate  
him for the delay in closing his account.
Capital One didnt agree with the adjudicator.  They say that they didnt receive  any earlier  
request to close the account, and they didnt receive the Resolver request. So they dont 
agree they should compensate Mr H for any delay in his account being closed.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I have reached the same 
overall conclusions  as the investigator, and for broadly the same reasons.
Ive seen the request to close the credit card account made  through  Resolver,  sent on 14 
May 2018. Ive also seen  the update email from Resolver, sent the same day, showing that 
his request was successfully submitted  to Capital One. But Ive not seen anything  to show 
me that Mr H asked Capital One to close down his credit  card account before this date.
I dont agree with the adjudicator that Mr H mustve asked for his account to be closed, 
otherwise he would have updated the address  its easy to forget about an account that you 
no longer use when youve moved  address. Im not saying this is what  happened with Mr Hs 
account, but I cant say that the address not being  updated must mean that hed definitely 
asked for the account to be closed.
Ref: DRN56381642But I have seen that Mr H made a request  to close the account  on 14 May 2018, and 
Resolver confirmed thisd  been sent to Capital One. So Capital One shouldve  actioned this, 
and they didnt. This has caused a delay  in the account being closed. Mr H has also been 
frustrated by the situation and hes been worried that Capital One have sent his personal 
details to an address  he no longer lives at  theres  no evidence that this has been the case, 
and Ive seen  nothing to show me that Mr H has been financially compromised by anything 
Capital One may have  sent.
But I do agree  with the adjudicator that Capital One should compensate Mr H for the 
frustration and inconvenience their failure to deal with the account  closure  request  has 
caused. And, if they havent already done  so, Capital  One should  also close  down Mr Hs 
credit card account as soon as he lets them know how he wants  the credit balance  to be 
paid to him.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above I uphold Mr Hs complaint. Capital One (Europe) Plc should 
pay Mr H £100 to compensate him for the frustration and inconvenience  caused by the delay 
in closing his credit card account.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 January 2020.
Andrew Burford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5638164