K820x#14complaint
Mr G is unhappy with the way AXA Insurance UK Plc handled a fire claim under his home 
insurance policy.
background
In 2018 there was a serious fire at Mr Gs property. 
AXA instructed  its agent (a specialist restoration company) to restore  contents items that 
were capable of being  restored. Mr G says the agent damaged a number of items.
The limit of Mr Gs contents cover is £75,000.  He believes hes been paid about £66,500 and 
a further £8,500 has been paid to the agent. So hes reached the limit of contents cover  
under his policy. He thinks AXA should  pay him a further  £8,500 because  of the damage the 
agent caused to his possessions. The rest of his claim has been settled.
AXA arranged for an independent cleaning company to inspect clothing and handbags which 
Mr G didnt think had been cleaned properly. It also arranged for a senior manager from the 
agent and its loss adjuster to inspect other items Mr G wasnt happy with. Following their 
reports AXA said it was satisfied the cleaning had been successful.
AXA believes that it may have overpaid  Mr G in respect of accommodation  costs.  Since 
thats not part of Mr Gs complaint, I havent  looked  into that.
I issued a provisional decision explaining why I was minded to uphold Mr Gs complaint in 
part. An extract  from my provisional  findings is set out below:
The items still in dispute include  a three  piece  suite, dining table, hydrotherapy bath, 
fireplace, beds and three handbags. Ill deal with each of them in turn.
three piece  suite
Mr G said that AXAs  agent  had stripped the colour out of the leather in the cleaning  process  
and it was now pale white in colour  not cream as previously. He also said it had a slippery 
feel to it.
AXAs cleaning expert didnt agree that the three  piece suite had been damaged during the 
cleaning process.  It said:
The leather upholstery is a pigment type of leather,  which means that the leather has 
multiple layers of paint  sprayed on the surface  at the manufacturing stage which gives it a 
protective finish The soot residue/particles  will have not soaked into the leather but sat on 
the surface.
It said the cleaning  product  it had used was an alkaline  solution  to neutralise the acidic soot 
particles and once neutralised and cleaned, a moisturising product was used which helps  to 
stop the leather drying out and hardening. I think the slippery feel which Mr G described  is 
most likely to have been caused by the moisturising product rather  than any failure in the 
cleaning process.  
Ref: DRN56578822AXA said due to the acidic nature of soot,  it can sometimes  cause a slight  shade change in 
the paint and make the leather darker. It said if this happened,  the original colour cant  be 
restored.
Im prepared to accept that the three piece suite is now lighter  than it was before it was 
cleaned. It isnt unusual  for time and use, as well as light,  to cause changes in colour.  And, 
as well as removing smoke damage, the cleaning  process might  have removed soiling  that 
had built up over time from use of the suite, causing it to look lighter than Mr G is used to. 
Im not persuaded the suite was bleached or discoloured during AXAs  cleaning  process. So 
I dont think AXA needs to do anything further in relation to the suite.
hydrotherapy bath
Mr G alleges AXAs agent used his hydro  therapy bath with jets to clean toys and as a result  
the internal pipe work of this bath is now full of soot,  and needs  to be replaced.
AXA denies  this. It said the bath was never  filled with water  and the jet streams were never 
used as part of the cleaning process. But it seems possible to me that soot could have got 
into the pipework as part of the fire damage. I think  in order to treat Mr G fairly, if he wishes it 
to do so, AXA should investigate this and if the bath is damaged, it should repair or replace it 
(or, if it prefers, pay the cost of such repair or replacement) as part of the buildings  claim. For 
the avoidance of doubt, any cash settlement may be set against  any amounts Mr G owes  
AXA in respect of this claim.
dining table
Mr G alleges that AXAs agent damaged  the dining table by using it as a work  surface.  Ive 
seen photos of the table  showing various long scratches.  AXA says these photos  were taken 
before work started.  
Ive also seen a photo showing that AXAs agent was using the table to put things on. But I 
can see that the table was protected  by a cloth.  AXA says there  was also bubble  wrap under 
the cloth. In the photo there are various  items  on the table such as a CD player/radio  and a 
plastic bottle. Bearing in mind the steps taken  to protect the dining table  and the nature of 
the scratches, I dont  think Mr G has shown that the scratches were more  likely than not to 
have been caused by AXAs agent.
fireplace
AXA said the fireplace  hadnt been  attached to the wall. It said its agent cleaned it and then 
wrapped it in bubble wrap. Ive seen a photo of the fireplace  showing how it was well 
wrapped in bubble wrap  after it had been cleaned. 
I havent seen  any evidence showing that the fireplace has been damaged and/or if it is 
damaged, that AXAs  agent caused  the damage. So I am unable  to uphold this part of 
Mr Gs complaint.
beds
Mr G is unhappy that the beds  werent  cleaned. He said as a result  they had to be thrown 
away because the storage  company  refused to take them.
I can see that AXAs agent considered a number of beds to be beyond economical repair. I 
dont think AXA has done anything wrong in this regard. Theres no point  in trying to clean 
items when  it knows from experience the cleaning is unlikely to be successful. Usually  that 
Ref: DRN56578823would mean  Mr G would be paid what it would cost to replace them.  But unfortunately since 
hes reached the limit of his cover, AXA isnt obliged to pay any more.
handbags
Mr G said when various handbags were  returned  by AXAs  agent  after cleaning,  they were  
squashed at the bottom  of a box instead of being  placed in dust bags as they had been 
originally and so theyd lost their shape. AXA accepted that the inside of the bags should 
have been packed with tissue  paper to ensure  they kept their shape. 
AXA appointed another restoration company to inspect the handbags.  They  reported that the 
handbags didnt smell of smoke  but they couldnt  comment on the success  of the restoration 
as they didnt know what condition the handbags  had been  in before the fire.
AXAs agent  compared photos  of the bags before restoration with how they look now.  I 
agree that theres no significant  difference.  Ive also taken  into account the notes AXAs  
agent made about the handbags when it first inspected them. It had listed a number  of the 
more expensive bags  as being  in poor condition. All in all I dont  think Mr G has shown that 
AXAs agent  damaged the handbags  by not returning them  with proper packaging.
AXA accepted my provisional decision.  In summary Mr G made  the following points in 
response supported  by a large  number  of photos:
With regard to the three piece suite he didnt mind the paleness of the leather.  The 
problem is that it smells of smoke and is still dirty.
The dining table had always  been  protected and wasnt  scratched before  the fire. 
He had a quote for installing a replacement bath.
The handbags had been  in mint condition  and carefully stored before AXAs  agent had 
removed them  for cleaning.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party had any comments  on my provisional findings  regarding the fireplace and 
the beds and AXA accepted my provisional decision  regarding the hydrotherapy bath, I see 
no reason to change  them  and they now form part of this final decision. Mr G should send 
his quotes for a replacement bath to AXA.
three piece  suite.
Mr G provided  photos which confirmed the three piece suite hadnt  been successfully 
cleaned. AXA has confirmed that it paid its agent £227.50 for the cleaning. Since the 
cleaning was unsuccessful, I think to treat Mr G fairly the amount of the cleaning cost should  
be credited to him. For the avoidance  of doubt  AXA may set off that sum against any amount 
which Mr G may owe it. 
dining table
AXA says its agent noticed the table was scratched and took photos of it before they started  
cleaning. I note that the table appears badly scratched in those photos. Mr G has sent me a 
photo showing laptops placed on top of the table without any protection  underneath them. I 
agree that AXAs agent shouldnt have done that. But Im not convinced those items would 
Ref: DRN56578824have caused the sort of deep  scratches  on the table which is evident in the photos.  So Im 
not persuaded that AXAs agent  caused  that damage.
handbags
Mr G has provided  photos showing how his wifes handbags were carefully stored before 
they were taken away for cleaning. I agree that AXAs  agent  should have returned them in 
equivalent packaging. But Im not persuaded that the failure to do so has caused any lasting 
damage to them, in particular causing  them to lose their shape  and be in a worse condition  
than they were in before  the fire. Im more persuaded by the evidence of AXAs agent who 
noted when first going through  Mr Gs contents  that a number of the more expensive bags 
werent in a good condition.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  in part. I require  AXA Insurance UK Plc to:
investigate whether there is any soot or smoke damage to the hydrotherapy  bath and if 
there is to repair or replace it (or, if it prefers, to pay the cost of such  repair or 
replacement) as part of the buildings claim;  and
credit Mr G with the sum of £227.50 in respect of cleaning  costs.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 May 2020.
 
Elizabeth Grant
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5657882