K820x#14complaint
Ms W complains that AXA PPP Healthcare  Limited declined a claim against her private 
health insurance policy. 
background
Ms W took out a policy with AXA PPP in September 2018. In January 2019, she asked  
AXA PPP to cover a referral in relation to a lump on her leg that shed had for many years  
but which had become  painful since November/December 2018. Ms W said that she 
mentioned it to a GP in a health assessment about two years  before and the GP had said 
that it was probably  caused by an ingrowing  hair and it was nothing  to worry about. 
AXA PPP declined the claim. It said that the lump  was a pre-existing  condition under the 
terms of the policy. 
Ms W says she wasnt concerned about  the lump until it began  to hurt and had only 
previously asked a GP about it in passing in a health assessment some  years before. She 
said that it was more than two years ago and may have been  more than five years  ago.  
AXA PPP maintained its position. 
One of our investigators  looked at what had happened. She said that AXA PPP hadnt  acted  
unfairly in coming  to the view that the lump was a pre-existing condition under the terms of 
the policy. 
Ms W didnt  agree with the investigator. She said, in summary:
AXA PPP appears to have declined the claim because she received medical  advice 
about the lump.
The lump has been on her leg for around  eight to ten years. She has an annual 
health assessment  by a GP and no GP indicted that it was linked to any conditions. 
One GP noted  the lump  around  five years  ago and said it could be an ingrown hair 
but didnt confirm it was a condition  or cause  for concern  and didnt mention it in the 
subsequent detailed report.  
AXA PPP refers to pre-existing conditions but she wasnt  aware of any condition as 
the lump on her leg was defined  as a red papule . 
AXA PPP has confirmed that she would have cover if one of her moles  became 
cancerous and thats inconsistent  with the approach it takes here.   
She disagrees with the investigators  definition  of symptom and didnt experience  
any symptoms in relation  to the lump in the previous eight to ten years: the existence  
of a lump isnt a symptom. 
AXA PPP will cover any treatment in relation to the lump if it has been trouble free for 
two years from the start of the policy but its been trouble free for eight to ten years. 
The investigator hasnt looked at the reasons AXA PPP gave in a number of phone  
calls and in its final response letter for the rejection of the claim: it said that she had 
Ref: DRN52038932received medication,  advice or treatment, it didnt say that the lump was 
symptomatic.
As the investigator  said,  the part of the exclusion about receiving medication, advice 
or treatment doesnt apply.  
The complaint  should be judged solely on the reason AXA PPP gave for refusing the 
claim. 
The investigator said that the evidence  shed seen doesnt show  that the claim was declined 
solely because Ms W had received  advice  about  the lump.  In one of the phone calls,  
AXA PPP said that the lump fell into both parts of its definition  relating  to pre-existing 
conditions. She said that, in any event, we review the case independently and look at the 
whole picture. The investigator was satisfied  that AXA PPP had correctly  applied its policy 
terms. 
Ms W added:
AXA PPP says that it declined her claim based on both elements of the pre-existing 
condition clause  but failed to give the full reason in its letter. She has made a further 
complaint about this.
She has probably had the lump for 15 years or more and no GP has ever considered 
it to be symptomatic, indicative of an underlying medical condition or in need of 
medical intervention  and if a GP had referred  her AXA PPP would have declined the 
claim on the basis that the referral wasnt medically required, as there were no 
symptoms. 
If AXA PPP had authorised a claim, it would have led to an unnecessary biopsy and 
increased AXA PPPs costs. 
I should consider  the wider policy terms, the impact of those on referrals and the 
ethics of referring an individual for unnecessary  medical treatment. 
As there was no agreement between the parties, the complaint was passed to me, an 
ombudsman, to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 
Its clear that Ms W has very strong  feelings about  this matter. Shes provided detailed 
submissions to support  her complaint, which I have read and considered.  However, I trust 
that she will not take as a discourtesy the fact that I focus on what I consider to be the 
central issues. 
This service isnt the regulator and we cant direct businesses in relation to how they conduct 
their business or in relation to wider policy or ethical matters. In this case,  Im looking at 
whether AXA PPP acted unfairly in declining Ms Ws claim. Im not looking at what may have 
happened if Ms W had made  a claim about a different  issue.    
Ref: DRN52038933the relevant policy  terms and conditions
The starting point  is the terms and conditions  of the policy. Ms Ws membership certificate 
says that her membership  is on a moratorium basis. That means  that it doesnt cover  
pre-existing medical conditions Ms W had in the five years before the policy began until she 
has been a member for two years in a row and had a period  of two years  in a row 
trouble-free from that condition.  
The membership handbook says:
Am I covered for treatment of any conditions  I was aware of when I joined?
We call conditions you were aware of when you joined pre-existing conditions . 
The definition of a pre-existing condition
A pre-existing condition  is any disease, illness or injury that:
you have received medication,  advice or treatment  for in the five years before the 
start of your cover, or
you have experienced symptoms of in the five years before the start of your cover
whether or not the condition was diagnosed.
has the claim been declined unfairly?
The relevant  rules and industry guidance  say that AXA PPP has a responsibility  to handle 
claims promptly and fairly  and it shouldnt reject  a claim unreasonably.
I dont think that AXA PPP treated  Ms W unfairly.  Ill explain  why:
Ms W says that she had the lump for many years and it didnt cause  her any 
problems. The consultant dermatologist referred to it as a papule,  which  is a small, 
solid elevation of skin. 
AXA PPP relies on both limbs of its definition of a pre-existing condition.  In relation to 
the first limb, when  Ms W asked a GP about  the lump in a health assessment and the 
GP replied that it was probably caused  by an ingrowing hair, that amounted  to 
advice. Its irrelevant  that Ms W didnt make  a specific appointment with a GP about 
the lump,  that she asked about  it in passing and that the GP didnt note the advice in 
her report.  
Theres some doubt about  when Ms W received  that advice. In her first call to 
AXA PPP, Ms W mentioned that she thought she had an exchange with a GP about 
it two years before and in a later call she said that it would  have  been  earlier  than 
that, the implication  being that it could  have been  more than five years ago. I dont 
think that Ms W has shown that the exchange  took place more than five years before 
she took out her policy. In any event, I dont think that alters the outcome here 
because AXA PPP also relies on the second limb of its definition  of pre-existing 
condition.
Ref: DRN52038934I dont think its unreasonable for AXA PPP to conclude that the presence  of the lump 
over several years  is a symptom  in itself. Its an indication that something  unusual is 
going on.
I dont think its helpful to comment on what AXA PPP may have done if Ms W had 
asked for cover  for something else: Im looking at the request Ms W actually made.  
Im sorry  to disappoint Ms W but for the reasons Ive explained, I dont think that AXA PPP 
acted unfairly in declining her claim.  So, there are no grounds on which  to uphold her 
complaint. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Ms Ws complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 January 2020. 
Louise Povey 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5203893