K821x#15complaint
Mr G complains that Alliance Trust Savings Limited (ATS) (trading as Stocktrade) failed to
tell him about  the bundled structure of certain funds held within  his Self-Invested  Personal
Pension (SIPP). This meant  he had paid more fees than he needed to.
background
Mr G said hed decided to transfer  his SIPP investments to a new provider. At this point it
became clear he held funds that were not available through  the new platform because  they
were bundled.  He said he understood platforms ought to have converted bundled holdings
by 6 April 2016  or notified the customer of the position and options. He said he was not
advised of his options and the funds were  not converted.  He said the regulator required this.
He said Stocktrade  should not have continued to receive trail commissions and shouldve
notified him. He said he had suffered  loss due to the trail commissions paid since May 2013
and up to May 2016. Since May 2016  he said Stocktrade said they had not received any trail
commissions but he mustve been  paying  higher annual management charges. He wanted  to
be refunded the difference  in the charges compared to the level that wouldve applied  had
the fund been converted  earlier.
He also said that the ownership of Stocktrade  may have changed over the time his
relationship was with them and any change  of ownership wasnt relevant to him. His contract
was with Stocktrade that was a company incorporated with unlimited liability.
He didnt think the fact Stocktrade was an execution only  service relieved it of responsibility 
and the regulators  rules clearly applied. Mr G said that his complaint was that he was paying 
higher annual management  charges for funds even if Stocktrades  fees were  not any 
different. He believed that because he bought various bundled funds before 31 December 
2012 trail commission continued to be paid.
Stocktrade said any trail commissions mustve been  paid to the previous owners  of
Stocktrade and in any event they were not something Mr G was entitled to anyway.  All trail
payments stopped from 5 April 2016.
It also said Stocktrade was part of the business  belonging  to ATS which was a private limited
company. The business  was owned  by a third party prior to April 2016 and complaints
should be directed  to them. Further as Stocktrade was an execution only broker  it could only
act on client instructions. Its annual management  charge was the same irrespective of the
fund. It accepted that during the early part of his complaint Mr G had been  given  poor
information and it had taken some time to deal with the complaint. He was sent £50 by
cheque for this.
my provisional decisions
I issued three provisional decisions in this case.  In short, I said that before  I considered  the 
substance of the complaint, I first needed  to consider whether it had been made against the 
correct party  as this service is governed by dispute resolution (DISP) rules  as to the 
complaints we could  consider. It was clear  from documentation that Mr G has been  dealing 
with an entity  called Stocktrade but his SIPP statements  are issued by another  financial 
business. The Stocktrade business  had been  owned and operated  by another business prior 
to September  2015.
Ref: DRN52713822I decided that in respect of the period from April 2016 onwards ATS was an appropriate 
party to the complaint and therefore I could consider it for that period only.
Mr G complains of two things. Firstly the continued payment of trail commissions  and 
secondly higher  annual  management charges that can apply to bundled funds.
ATS confirmed that it hadnt received any trail commissions since it took over the Stocktrade 
business, so I didnt need to consider this further.
With respect to the annual  management charges it was clear  there  are unbundled versions 
of some of the funds  that Mr G had chosen and that the bundled  versions held may have 
had higher charges. I considered whether ATS shouldve either notified Mr G about the 
bundled nature of these funds or arranged to convert them.
As this is an execution only arrangement Mr G wouldve needed to provide express 
instructions for the switch into unbundled  funds so I didnt think it was possible for ATS to 
make a switch unilaterally and I couldnt  hold it responsible for that.
I considered whether ATS shouldve warned Mr G that he held bundled funds and that 
unbundled versions were  available.  However,  having seen the contractual  arrangements set 
up in 2009 it was clear  it was an execution only service for assets held as trustee. The 
Stocktrade business wasnt responsible for the fund selections and prohibited  from giving 
any advice. I assumed that the original 2009 contract has been  assigned to ATS when the 
business of Stocktrade was transferred to it and the same terms still apply. 
Having considered the nature of the relationship and the regulators guidance I didnt think  
ATS was responsible  for giving warnings to Mr G about bundled funds. 
I said it would assist  if, before I issue any final decision, ATS provided evidence to show the 
basis upon which it took on the Stocktrade  business and whether it has responsibility  for 
past actions or failure to act by the Stocktrade  business before it took it on.
I didnt propose to uphold the complaint. 
ATS replied and maintained it didnt take on responsibility for the past operation  of the 
Stocktrade business by the previous owner.
ATS also said that Stocktrade offered  a research facility for use by its clients.  It wouldve 
been available to Mr G to enable him to search  for funds and find Key Information 
Documents for relevant  funds. As it was an execution only platform research needed  to be 
carried out by individual  consumers or their financial adviser.  It remained of the view that the 
complaint needed to be brought against  the previous owners of the Stocktrade business.
It also confirmed the management charges for the bundled and unbundled versions of the 
four funds Mr G had been identified. It wasnt able to confirm  when the unbundled  funds 
were first available. These showed  bundled  fees in the range 1.5% to 1.25 % and lower  
unbundled version in the range  1.05%  to 0.5%.
Mr G commented that ATS had an ongoing responsibility under the guidance to inform  so 
when ATS acquired  the Stocktrade  business  the duty continued to apply to it. It couldnt  
simply disclaim  all responsibility.  He also confirmed that he could find information in his 
Ref: DRN52713823online account about funds which helped him trade.  He had an investment adviser up to 
June 2014 but thereafter up to the time he left Stocktrade in 2017.
Second provisional decision
In the light of the copy documents  provided by ATS regarding the transfer  of the Stocktrade  
business, it was clear that ATS had been responsible for the operation  since  September  
2015. I therefore thought  that I could  consider  its actions from September 2015 rather than 
from April 2016.
Many of the rules introduced following the retail distribution review focused on hidden 
commission payments and resulted in the creation  of new versions  of investment funds with 
a different or clean/unbundled charging structure, which  in many but not all cases were more  
favourable for investors in terms of charges.  
The early  rules considered whether conversion to these new funds was in the best interest of 
individual clients and how to assess that, who initiates the conversion, consent  for 
conversions etc. A policy statement re. the introduction of clean  unit classes  came into 
force on 6 April 2014 for new business and 6 April 2016 for legacy business such that 
platforms were  required  to have  access to clean unit classes or be able to pass on 
continuing payments  they received from providers. (Policy statement 13/1 and COBS 6.1E.). 
As Mr G invested in bundled funds before 2014,  I said I regarded his holdings as legacy 
holdings and the new obligations  would therefore  have been  relevant from no later than April 
2016, by which time ATS was the owner  and operator of the Stocktrade business.
The regulator issued  guidance to platform service  providers  in April 2013 regarding  
payments to platform service providers  and cash rebated from providers to consumers. This 
guidance specifically  confirmed that the platform service definition covered execution-only 
firms that white-label a platform or also provide custody services. The associated rules 
came into force over a period between April 2014 and April 2016.
It seemed clear to me that the Stocktrade  business was not providing investment advice to 
Mr G regarding his investments and couldnt  make any conversion  without his express 
consent. However, the 2013 guidance said that a platform service provider should pay due 
regard to its obligations under principle 6 (customers  interests)  and principle 7 
(communication with clients) and ensure it presents information without bias. It was clear the 
regulator considered the importance of the provision of information without bias. I didnt think  
providing information was the same as providing  advice.
My view was reinforced by later regulator  guidance  issued in 2018 (FG 18/3:  changing 
clients to post-RDR unit classes ) which considered COBS  rule 2.1.1R (1). This indicates that 
notification that  a clean unit exists without  any specific recommendation to convert  to that 
class does not constitute advice. I thought  this was useful further confirmation of the 
distinction between  advice and provision of information and/or notification that something 
exists wasnt the same  as advice.
I was aware the four bundled funds identified by Mr G were  held before the new guidance 
was issued. But given  the duty to act in the interests  of the client  and the obligation to ensure 
information about funds wasnt biased, I thought  it couldve helped Mr G to have some 
information about the new unbundled  funds that became available alongside the bundled 
funds he held.
Ref: DRN52713824I said this was because  the absence of information  could mean Mr G wasnt  aware there 
was an unbundled version of the funds he was in. That would mean  his perspective wasnt  
supported by full information and was in effect biased in favour  of the bundled fund. 
But I said that even  if I was wrong  in my view about  bias, the absence of information  about 
unbundled funds  wouldve  been  in breach of the spirit of the new rules that encouraged 
transparency.
I therefore needed to consider what information  was available. ATS said there  was a 
research tool available  to Mr G to check fund details. If this contained information about 
unbundled funds  then this supported the absence  of bias and clearer compliance  with the 
spirit of the regulator rules. I had assumed that such information was available  but said it 
would be helpful  if ATS could  confirm unbundled versions of the four funds were available on 
its platform from April 2016 onwards before I issued my final decision.
I therefore needed to consider whether ATS, in operating Stocktrade, shouldve gone  further  
and highlighted  the availability of unbundled funds  from April 2016.
However I accepted  that the regulator didnt expressly direct that this should happen, that 
some information was available and that Stocktrade  was acting in an execution  only capacity 
and not required  to give advice or review his investments.  It was Mr Gs responsibility  to 
review his investments  from time to time to ensure they remained suitable for his purposes. 
On balance, I said it wouldve been  helpful for Mr G to be provided with information that 
couldve prompted a review. But the fact there  was information provided about the funds 
offered on the platform meant I couldnt reasonably conclude that Stocktrade failed in its 
obligations under  the regulators rules at the time.
So I didnt propose  to uphold this complaint.
ATS said that it only offered one share class for two of the funds  (Jupiter  North American 
Income and GAM UK Diversified Income). For the other funds there  were  multiple  classes  
available but it couldnt track when these were  added to the platform and made  available.  
However it also said that there was nothing in the regulations that said it had to make  sure it 
was offering the fund with the lowest fees.  They were an execution only stock broking 
platform. It further said that, from 2014 onwards, it undertook a large project  to ensure clean 
funds were available to its existing customers.  It had never taken commission  payments as 
these were passed on to customers. It undertook a substantial project in 2015 to move its 
customers to the new share classes at its own expense. 
When it acquired the Stocktrade  platform in April/May 2016, the cut off to the charges had 
passed. Its expectation had been that RDR related communication had been  undertaken by 
the previous owner. It said many of the funds offered  when it acquired  Stocktrade were non-
mainstream and an alternative  share class wasnt always  available at the outset. Their 
onboarding of funds was demand driven.  It closed off old share classes and new requests 
wouldve been put into the clean  share  class which is why there was no set date for when a 
new class was available.  It said to this day it regularly received transfers in from other  
businesses including  the old share  class.
It also said that Mr Gs transfer was completed  in May 2016  with business it called the 
partnership book, and the autumn 2015 transfer  was for private clients. It couldnt  confirm 
whether any of Mr Gs share  classes were  closed off for purchase.  It said that as the transfer 
Ref: DRN52713825took place in April 2016 there was no continuing obligation in the time between October 
2015 and April 2016. 
It said for its existing clients it always paid any commission rebate back  to the clients  but 
once these were cancelled it couldnt do this so needed to transfer them  so they remained in 
an equal position. However the previous owner  kept the rebate and the client paid in full. 
When rebates were removed there was no impact  on the client. Overall  it sought to ensure  
the clients werent negatively impacted by the removal of rebates.
It said that GAM was a non-mainstream share class and Jupiter didnt offer clean shares 
across all its funds  immediately   - but didnt  have evidence to support this.
Mr G said that while  ATS provided some  information  on its website this didnt contain 
information about bundling  of funds. 
He hadnt had any information  from ATS to say this information was available  to him on the 
website. Mr G also said that ATS hadnt  been asked to confirm  that information  about 
bundling was available. He wanted to see evidence to show that information was available to 
him at the relevant time.
My third provisional decision
I said it was clear the regulator considered  the existing operation of bundled funds as 
distorting the market  and wanted  to ensure  an absence of bias.  It expressly  refers  to the 
issue of bias in the introduction to the regulations  I considered  above.
The regulator was also clear that to allow time for change the new requirements wouldnt 
apply to legacy  business until April 2016.  As Mr G purchased his investments before the new 
requirements applied  they are in my view legacy investments. This meant that I would 
consider the position from April 2016.  So whether or not Mr G was transferred in October 
2015 or from April 2016 or May 2016  doesnt make  a difference to my conclusions because  
what matters is that the rules are complied with from April 2016.
I previously concluded  that to avoid bias Mr G needed to be aware that there were 
unbundled versions of his investments available. I say that because  the absence  of 
information that they existed could create bias because he wasnt  in an informed position. 
I didnt think it mattered  whether or not ATS offered unbundled versions through  its platform, 
nor when it offered  them (if it ever did). What  matters is that without knowledge  of their 
existence or the market trend  to move to unbundled  versions, Mr Gs perspective was 
biased. 
ATS has identified unbundled versions of all four funds and the annual management charges 
applicable to each. ATS accepts it didnt provide information about  a possible move to 
unbundled versions. I say that because it argues there was no requirement to provide 
information about the existence of unbundled  shares classes nor to offer the cheapest class. 
For the reasons  already given I think the absence of such  information  can lead to bias and 
absence of transparency.
I therefore considered  what  ATS shouldve done. I noted in particular that ATS undertook  
what it said was a very large  exercise  to allow  its existing clients  to convert to unbundled 
funds in 2015. It said it undertook a substantial  project in 2015  to move all of our ATS 
Ref: DRN52713826customers to the new share classes at our expense. The fact it did this shows that it didnt 
think providing information to enable that was advice and that it needed to do that to support 
its clients. In my view that action wouldve shown how it was seeking  to comply with the 
principles of avoiding  bias and acting in the interests of its clients. Had ATS undertaken a 
similar exercise for Mr G and his legacy investments it would  have demonstrated it had done 
this.
But ATS didnt do this and Mr G was left unaware of any changes  or the possibility  of 
moving to the unbundled  versions. Mr G said that even  if ATS didnt offer unbundled 
versions of the funds  or if unbundled versions of some  or all werent available, he wouldve 
moved his investments to a provider that did offer them or shifted to a similar fund that did 
have an unbundled charging structure.  So, the absence of awareness, or absence  of an 
alternative fund, or the option  of access to that or a similar fund meant that his perspective 
was biased. So whether  or not an alternative existed or was offered doesnt  matter, what  
matters is that he was unaware of the changes  and his choices.
I dont think ATS can simply blame the previous provider. I say that because the obligations  
didnt come into force for legacy business  until April 2016. But even if I am wrong in that 
conclusion the obligations are continuing and not one off. ATS assumed a similar  exercise 
was undertaken  before  it took responsibility  for Mr G. The fact it made that assumption  
shows it accepts the exercise was needed. However, no such  exercise  was undertaken and 
for the reasons given, ATS took over responsibility  for ongoing  compliance  with the 
regulations from the date of transfer.
In my previous decisions I considered what information was available on the platform and 
made some assumptions about whether this was adequate.  ATS has not provided any 
details to confirm  Mr G was made  aware of the potential  to move to unbundled funds. Mr G 
has said that he was never told about the possibility of a switch  to unbundled  classes  and so 
wasnt aware of the changes.
For those reasons I can understand Mr G wasnt aware of the changes  and his perspective 
wouldve been biased or lacked transparency.  I think ATS didnt meet  its obligations under 
the principles and the new rules.  Consequently, Mr G has lost out in that he has paid higher  
management charges.
ATS has not been  able to confirm when  unbundled versions of each  fund became available,  
or whether or not it offered  them  via its platform. But I dont think  that matters. I say that 
because, as Mr G indicated, had he known about  the changes, even if there werent  
unbundled versions of his funds,, he wouldve moved to similar funds that did, or moved 
provider to do this. 
ATS said that it never  kept any rebate and credited this back to the client direct.  It said that, 
following the changes, it needed to move its customers to a clean fund for it to get the 
benefit of the lower  charge. In effect, as Mr G was not moved and there  was no rebate paid 
to him, he was paying the higher charge. 
So I think his loss is the difference between the management charges of the bundled and 
unbundled funds  for the period from 30 April 2016 to the date Mr G disinvested and moved 
his investments from ATS to a new provider in June 2017.
I proposed to direct that ATS should  pay this amount  to Mr G plus interest at the rate of 8% 
per annum  simple from the date each charge  was deducted to the date of payment to Mr G.
Ref: DRN52713827ATS has expressly confirmed it didnt  receive any trail commission  but cannot prove this as it 
says it didnt receive any. I am content to accept the express confirmation from ATS that this 
was the case.  Even if the confirmation was incorrect,  my award for loss would  compensate 
Mr G for the any higher  amount that has been  paid.
I have also considered whether Mr G has suffered  distress and inconvenience.  It is clear that 
Mr G is frustrated and upset  that he wasnt aware  of the changes and able to take steps to 
protect his investments in his pension. So in the circumstances, I think an award of £150.00 
is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
I proposed to uphold  this complaint.
I proposed to direct that ATS should  pay Mr G compensation  for loss and an amount  for 
distress and inconvenience on the basis set out above.
ATS said it didnt agree  with my decision but said it would accept my proposed  award in 
order to bring the matter  to a close. Mr G accepted my decision but asked that ATS should 
provide details of its calculations.  Since my provisional decision the previous owner of the 
Stocktrade business has confirmed that Mr G transferred  to ATS on 30 April 2016.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties have  accepted my decision,  I have  not changed my mind.
Ref: DRN52713828my final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I direct  that Alliance Trust Savings Limited  should pay Mr G: -
1. £150 for distress  and inconvenience
and 
2.  the difference between the management  charges of the bundled  and unbundled  funds for 
the period from 30 April 2016 to the date Mr G disinvested and moved  his investments from 
Alliance Trust  Savings Limited  to a new provider in June 2017.
Alliance Trust  Savings Limited  should pay the amount in 2 above to Mr G plus interest  at the 
rate of 8% per annum  simple from the date each charge was deducted to the date of 
payment to Mr G. 
Alliance Trust  Savings Limited  should provide details of its calculations  to Mr G in a clear  
and simple format.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 February  2021.
Colette Bewley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5271382