K821x#15Complaint
Mr C has complained that NewDay Ltd (NewDay)  irresponsibly provided him with six 
different card accounts which  it ought  to have  realised  that he couldnt afford to repay.
Background
Mr C applied for and was provided  with six different credit accounts  with NewDay between 
January 2018  and April 2018.  The cards provided were a mix of credit cards and store cards.  
The credit limit on some of these accounts were increased. When  it reviewed Mr Cs 
complaint, NewDay accepted  that it shouldnt have given Mr C his sixth account. But it didnt 
think that it had done  anything wrong  in relation to the first five of them.
Mr Cs complaint was then reviewed by one of our adjudicators.  And she thought  that 
NewDay shouldnt have  provided Mr C with any of the cards.  She told NewDay it needed to 
remove the effect of all of the interest  and charges  added  to Mr Cs accounts and also 
remove any adverse information  recorded  on Mr Cs credit file as a result  of these accounts. 
NewDay accepted,  our adjudicators finding,  that it shouldnt  have  provided  the five 
accounts. It also agreed to make  sure that Mr C didnt pay any interest, fees or charges on 
them. But it didnt agree to remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Cs credit  file as 
a result of these accounts. And it asked for an ombudsman to review  the case.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  unaffordable/irresponsible lending on our website  including how we look 
to put things right. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Cs complaint. 
Both NewDay and Mr C are in agreement that he shouldnt  have  been  provided with any of 
these accounts.  So I dont need to consider  whether NewDay decisions to provide these 
accounts were fair and reasonable.  I simply need decide whether what it has offered to do to 
put things right for Mr C is fair and reasonable bearing in mind  the circumstances of this 
case. 
Having carefully thought  about everything  provided, I think that NewDay needs to do a little 
more in order to put things  right in a fair and reasonable  way for Mr C. Id like to explain why 
I think this the case.
Our adjudicator told NewDay that wed generally  expect a lender to refund all interest, fees 
and charges added to any account  that shouldnt have  been provided and also remove any 
associated adverse information recorded on the consumers credit  file. But while we have a 
general approach  to how we might tell a lender  to put things right if it has provided credit  it 
shouldnt have, we can tell it to do something  different and/or something more if theres a 
strong enough reason to say thats what would be fair and reasonable to do in the 
circumstances of that individual case. 
But, in this case, NewDay hasnt explained why I should do something  different it has simply 
said that it doesnt want to remove any adverse information in this case.  I dont think its fair 
and reasonable for Mr C to have to deal with the implications of any adverse information 
when this information will be recorded about  accounts, which  all parties agree, shouldnt 
Ref: DRN59512352have been provided to him in the first place.  So, in these  circumstances,  Ive not been 
persuaded that theres a strong enough  reason for me to depart from our usual approach to 
putting things  right in upheld  cases about unaffordable or irresponsible  lending. And I find 
that NewDay should remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Cs credit  file as a 
result of these accounts.
Ive also thought about Mr Cs arguments  that he should be paid additional  compensation. I 
can ask a business to compensate for any additional (or consequential) losses that a 
consumer mightve suffered, or if theyve  been inconvenienced. But only usually where  
theres a clear and direct  link between  what the business did wrong and any additional 
losses suffered and/or  what the business has done to put things right doesnt  reflect  how 
much the consumer has been  inconvenienced.  
Ive carefully thought  about Mr Cs arguments. But Im sorry to inform him that I dont think  
that theres a strong enough  argument  for me to say that NewDay providing him with these 
accounts caused him additional losses. Its not in dispute that Mr C did borrow money  from 
elsewhere. But I dont  think that theres  a strong enough argument  for me to say that 
NewDay directly,  either wholly, or even  in a significant way, caused the losses that Mr C is 
looking to be compensated for. I say this while especially  mindful of the fact that the entire 
premise of Mr Cs complaint is that NewDay shouldnt have lent to him in the first place 
because of the precarious financial position he was already in. 
I accept that NewDay  continued to ask for the minimum payment due on the accounts after it 
accepted that the cards  shouldnt have  been provided but nonetheless exercised its right to 
ask for an ombudsmans decision in relation to Mr Cs credit file. But I dont think that this 
was unreasonable as Mr C still had to (and still has to) repay  what  he was originally lent 
even though his complaint has been upheld.
 
So overall while I do think that NewDay does have to do more to put things right for Mr C in 
terms of his credit file, I dont find that it has to pay him any additional  compensation.
Fair compensation  what  NewDay needs to do to put things right for Mr C.
Having carefully considered everything, I find that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr Cs complaint for NewDay to put things right in the following way:
rework each of Mr Cs accounts  so that all the interest, fees and charges applied 
from the outset are removed; 
AND
if an outstanding  balance remains on any account once these adjustments  have 
been made NewDay should contact  Mr C to arrange a suitable  repayment plan for 
this.  
OR (if the effect of removing all interest  fees and charges results in there  no longer 
being an outstanding balance on an individual account)
any extra  should be treated as overpayments  and returned to Mr C. 
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any overpayments  from the date they were made 
(if they were) to the date of settlement;
Ref: DRN59512353NewDay should also remove all adverse information recorded  about these accounts 
from Mr Cs credit  file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires NewDay to take off tax from this interest.  NewDay  must 
give Mr C a certificate showing  how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im upholding  Mr Cs complaint. NewDay  Ltd should put 
things right for Mr C in the way that Ive set out above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 May 2020.
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN5951235