K820x#13complaint
Mr and Mrs M say Cumberland Building Society  (CBS)  mis-sold them  a mortgage payment 
protection insurance (MPPI) policy. Im aware  weve already dealt with a similar complaint 
from them and provided Mr and Mrs M with an answer about that quite a while ago.
So to be clear, this decision is about  the MPPI  sold with their mortgage in 2000.
background
Im sorry  this matter has taken a long time to get to this stage. Theres been a legal case 
which has affected complaints like Mr and Mrs Ms. 
Nevertheless, one of our adjudicators wrote  to Mr and Mrs M some time ago and told them  
their complaint wasnt one we would be likely  to uphold.  Mr and Mrs M disagreed with this so 
the complaint  has been passed for an ombudsmans final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint about the mis-sale.
Mr and Mrs Ms main  points of complaint were that they were  told the MPPI wasnt  really 
optional and that they were made  to feel they ought  to buy it. They  also say they didnt need 
this type of protection because Mr M had a job which had good benefits with it.
Ive looked firstly at whether I think theres any evidence they were told the policy was 
something they needed to buy. I accept  this may well be Mr and Mrs Ms honest 
recollection now, but their mortgage application form does show that the MPPI was 
something that could  either be added on  or rejected  by the applicant(s).
Indeed, I can see Mr and Mrs M went on to take out a policy  only in respect of Mr M and as 
well as the mortgage application  form, a specific MPPI application form was needed,  if the 
policy was to be added. Mr M signed this application  so overall  I think he and Mrs M would 
have been able to see this was an optional policy. In short, I think they chose to buy the 
MPPI cover because it was something  they wanted  to have at the time.
CBS conceded  this was an advised sale and so it had a responsibility  to make sure the 
cover was suited to Mr and Mrs Ms particular circumstances. This brings us to the second 
point of complaint  in that Mr M says his work-related benefits  were good.
We actually have a letter from Mr Ms employer in 2000 saying he only had statutory sick 
pay. I think the good benefits he had came  after the sale. He was also eligible for the cover  
and not caught by any of the major exclusions we tend to see in these  types of policy. I 
think the cost of the cover was comparable with similar products marketed at that time and I 
dont think the monthly  premiums would have been unaffordable  for Mr and Mrs M. 
Ref: DRN56097292They also told us about savings they had. I understand the point thats being raised, but Im 
afraid neither this  nor the sick pay Mr M says he had  necessarily means  the policy 
wasnt suitable for him. For example, I can see they did have savings but some of the 
evidence shows these  being reduced  around  when they were  buying their house.
I also think their mortgage would have been  a significant and long term commitment in their 
situation and it was secured against their home.  The consequences  of not being able to 
keep up payments could therefore have been serious.  The MPPI policy would have paid a 
monthly benefit of around £300 in the event of something unexpected  happening. This 
payment would have  been in addition to any other means they already had in place.
So I dont  think CBSs  recommendation  that they should consider buying MPPI  was an 
unreasonable one and I think the policy was suitable  for their situation.
CBS had to provide information that was clear, fair and not misleading so Mr and Mrs M 
could make an informed  choice about whether they wanted to buy MPPI. I obviously cant 
say what was said during  the meetings or that CBS told them everything it should  have.  But 
CBS sent me some documents from the sale that showed a discussion had most likely 
taken place about their finances. I think its likely  this included information about  the MPPI  
costs. CBS also sent me a copy of the policy booklet which  included  details of the cover 
and how much it would cost. It says Mr M, as the policyholder,  would have been  given  this.
In summary,  I think its more likely Mr and Mrs M chose this cover,  knowing they didnt need 
to have it. Its understandable that they may not remember this now, but I dont  think  the 
policy was mis-sold.
All this means CBS doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the MPPI to Mr and Mrs M. 
But it has recently told us it now intends  to calculate and pay back  some of the cost of the 
MPPI to Mr and Mrs M because:
When the policy was sold,  CBS now admits it expected to get a high level of commission  
and profit share (more  than 50% of the MPPI premium). If thats right it should  have told 
Mr and Mrs M. Because it didnt tell them, that was unfair.
To put that right, CBS must pay back  the amount of commission  and profit share that 
was above 50% of the MPPI premium  and I think that offer is fair in this case. This is 
also in accordance with our approach.
what the business needs  to do
I direct  Cumberland Building Society  to pay back to Mr and Mrs M any commission  and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. Cumberland  Building Society 
should also pay back 8%* simple  interest  on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr and Mrs M can claim back the tax if they dont pay 
tax.
my final decision
Ref: DRN56097293The MPPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Cumberland Building Society does not have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs M.
But Cumberland Building Society does have  to pay back to Mr and Mrs M any commission 
and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  24 April 2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5609729