K821x#15complaint
Mr A complains that a vehicle he finances  through an agreement  with Advantage Finance 
Ltd (Advantage) is not of satisfactory quality. He wants  to be able to reject it and end his 
agreement.
background
Mr A took receipt of a used car in June 2018;  the car was first registered in 2013  and had 
completed 31,000  miles. He financed the deal through a hire purchase agreement with 
Advantage.
On 10 July 2018 he complained to Advantage. He said the clutch  was too high and there 
was a problem  with the fuel tank. He subsequently  had the car checked  at an independent 
garage and they identified  several problems. They said the clutch  needed replacing; the 
parcel shelf was missing; there was a coolant  leak; a fault with the fuel filler neck; damage to 
two tyres; damage to the front bumper and poor resprays had been  completed to the door, 
wheel arch and bumper.
The dealership completed some  repairs  at the beginning  of August but Mr A wasnt happy 
with the repairs  as he said they hadnt all been  completed.
So Mr A complained to Advantage  and they organised a third party independent  inspection  
of the car.
The independent engineer said the clutch was worn and, given the low mileage completed in 
the time Mr A had the vehicle, it was most  likely the clutch failure was in an advanced state 
when he took receipt  of it. He accepted that the subsequent fitting of dual controls may have 
affected the clutch but he still thought  it was likely  thered been a problem at inception of the 
finance arrangement.
Advantage still didnt  support Mr As request  to reject  the car they noted that Mr A had test 
driven the vehicle  before  he agreed to take receipt of it and that itd been  identified that the 
clutch was riding high then. They said that, even though adjustments werent possible at the 
time, Mr A had still been  prepared to accept the vehicle and, as such,  they couldnt be held 
responsible for a fault Mr A was aware of before he took possession.  They  understood from 
his application  form that Mr A was a driving instructor and they thought it was therefore  
reasonable to suggest he would know about such issues.
Mr A referred his complaint to this service and our investigator looked  into the case. She 
thought Mr As claim should  be upheld as she thought there was evidence  the vehicle was 
faulty at the point of supply and the independent  engineer had supported  this view. And she 
also noted that the dealer  had a chance to repair the car but the repair hadnt been 
successful. So she suggested  Advantage should take the car back and end the agreement;  
refunding Mr As deposit and paying him £200  to cover loss of use. She thought it was clear 
Mr A had been troubled by the issue and she suggested a further payment of £100 should 
be made to compensate him for this.
But Advantage didnt agree with the investigators suggested redress.  They said the relevant 
legislation suggested  issues  that had been  drawn  to their attention before a purchase could 
not be taken into account subsequently, when assessing whether a car was of satisfactory  
quality at the point of supply. They explained  they were  not disputing  the fact the clutch was 
Ref: DRN58926702nearing the end of its service life at the point of supply and Mr A clearly wasnt  either  as he 
had noted that on a form when he decided to finance the car. They therefore asked for a 
final decision  by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the investigators view and for similar reasons.  Please  let me explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr A acquired his car under a hire purchase  agreement. The relevant law says that the car 
should have been of satisfactory quality when supplied. If it wasnt then Advantage is 
responsible and if I thought the car was faulty when supplied, Id think it fair and reasonable 
to ask them to put this right. 
Advantage accept  that something was wrong at the point of supply. They accept that the 
clutch was nearing  the end of its serviceable  life and the independent inspection has 
confirmed this.
But Advantage are right to explain that the relevant legislation says we shouldnt  take into 
account issues that have been  drawn  to the consumers attention prior to purchase,  when 
we assess whether a vehicle was of satisfactory  quality  at the point of supply.
Here Mr A was advised that the clutch  was high when he agreed  to take receipt  of the car. 
But I think theres a difference between being advised  a cars clutch  is high and 
understanding it will need replacing. The dealership didnt explain the extent of the damage 
or set out how much  it would cost Mr A to resolve  the issue.  And if they had I dont think 
Mr A wouldve  accepted the car. I say that because, as soon as he did understand the issue,  
he contacted Advantage  to complain. 
I dont accept Advantages  assertion  that because Mr A is a driving instructor  he would have 
known the high clutch would mean a clutch replacement would be necessary. Hes a driving 
instructor not a mechanic  and I note he asked a garage to diagnose the problem with the car 
juddering. I think its reasonable to suggest  if he knew  the clutch was failing hed have simply 
booked it in for that repair.
So overall, I think there is evidence that this car was of unsatisfactory quality when supplied  
as the fault was identified  within  a short space of time and the independent inspector 
supports the view.  In those circumstances the law allows Advantage one opportunity  to fix 
the car. But theyve  had that opportunity and the fault remains.  So I think  Mr A should  now 
be allowed to reject the vehicle.
Ref: DRN58926703I note that several  other problems Mr A complained  about, and that Ive referred  to in the 
background of this decision, have not been elaborated on. They  may also be reasons why 
Mr A should  be allowed  to reject his car but Ive not asked  for additional evidence as I 
believe the problem  with the clutch is, in these particular circumstances, reason enough.
Ive reviewed the redress suggested  by the investigator. It seems sensible and I dont intend 
to change it. Its clear that Mr A has been  inconvenienced by this issue and hes lost the use 
of the car for an unacceptable  period of time.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and tell Advantage Finance Ltd to:
end the finance agreement with nothing further to pay
collect the car at no cost to Mr A
refund  the deposit and pay 8% simple  interest per annum from the date of payment 
until the date of settlement
pay Mr A £200 to cover loss of use
pay Mr A a further £100  in compensation for the trouble and upset caused
remove any adverse information  they have recorded on Mr As credit file in relation to 
this issue
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 May 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5892670