K820x#14complaint
The estate  of Mrs E complains that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited wont  honour  an 
agreement to continue  the home insurance policy without extra terms being applied.
background
The estate  of Mrs E is represented  in this complaint by her daughter  Mrs R. Mrs R told 
Admiral that her mother had moved  into a care home and the insured property had become 
unoccupied. But a family member would carry out regular checks to make sure the house  
was safe. Admiral told Mrs R it would continue to provide insurance  for the property until 
either the next renewal date or when it was sold. She received an email  to confirm this and it 
didnt mention any extra exclusions or conditions.  
Sadly Mrs E passed away the following month. Admiral then said after 30 days  unoccupied a 
number of exclusions would apply to the insurance  cover. The property  wouldnt be insured 
for acts including theft, vandalism and water or oil escape. Mrs R wants Admiral  to honour its 
commitment and compensate for her trouble and upset.
Admiral apologised  for any inconvenience  caused  by its handling of the late Mrs Es home 
insurance policy. It accepted its representative had made a mistake when it didnt inform
Mrs R about the unoccupancy restrictions. And it agreed to extend the restriction from 
30 days to 120 days at no further  cost. Admiral also offered to cancel the policy  and issue  a 
full refund if Mrs R wanted to take alternative  cover elsewhere.
Mrs R wasnt satisfied with Admirals response.  So she contacted our service  and our 
investigator looked into the matter. He listened to the call with Admirals  representative 
whod mistakenly said the cover  would continue until either the renewal date or when the 
property was sold. Mrs R shouldve been told the policy would continue  but with the 
unoccupancy clause enforced after 30 days in line with the terms of the policy.
Our investigator didnt  think it was unreasonable for Admiral to say it wouldnt provide cover 
for an unlimited amount  of time. He felt Admiral  had acted appropriately when it became 
aware of the error. Itd increased the unoccupancy  time limit to 120 days and offered to 
cancel the policy with a full refund if Mrs R preferred. So he felt Admiral  had been 
sympathetic in its response. And he wouldnt ask Admiral to do anything more.
Mrs R didnt agree. So shes  asked for an ombudsmans  final decision. Shed  spent  a lot of 
time and effort  chasing  Admiral.  Shes  now cancelled the policy  so shed like compensation 
for her trouble and upset   even if the payment went into the estate.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs R was given incorrect information  by Admiral about her mothers  home  insurance policy. 
Her mother sadly passed away and Mrs R has brought  the complaint on behalf of her late 
mothers estate. 
Ref: DRN51704252I realise this has caused a lot of upset and distress.  Unfortunately as our investigator has 
explained our service cant consider compensation for trouble and upset to an estate. Our 
rules wont  allow it. And in many respects  no amount of compensation could ever make up 
for the additional  upset caused at such a difficult time. I do appreciate how much  time and 
effort Mrs R has spent trying to resolve this matter.  But our service cant look at 
compensation for Mrs Rs trouble as the policy was in her mothers  name and the complaint  
was brought on behalf of her estate.
Although I cant consider  Mrs Rs circumstances  I can look at what Admiral has done  to put 
things right and whether  it needs  to do anything  more. When  Mrs R spoke to Admiral  she 
didnt receive the full reply from the policy underwriters.  She shouldve  been told the 
unoccupancy conditions would apply after 30 days. Mrs R was only informed about this 
when she contacted Admiral a few weeks later to say her mother had passed  away.  Its clear  
Admiral made a mistake. And its said it will provide training to make sure the mistake isnt 
repeated.
Admiral has explained  it has to impose a number of restrictions when a property becomes 
unoccupied. For example  it withdraws insurance cover  for theft,  malicious damage and the 
escape of water or oil. I realise a family  member  intended to visit the property on a regular 
basis. And I think thats a sensible idea. 
But I cant really say Admiral has done anything wrong by following the terms set out in the 
policy. It faces an increased risk when  a property becomes unoccupied. The policy  asks the 
holder to let Admiral know if the house  will be left unoccupied for longer than the limit shown 
in the policy  documents. And I can see from the home policy schedule the unoccupied limit 
is shown as 30 days.
When it became clear Admiral had misinformed Mrs R it agreed  to increase the unoccupied 
time limit to a maximum of 120 days at no extra cost. And Admiral said if Mrs R was still 
unhappy it would cancel the policy and make a full refund of the premiums paid so she could 
arrange cover elsewhere. I understand Mrs R has now cancelled  the insurance policy  
provided by Admiral and received a full refund of just over £100. And shes found  alternative 
insurance for the property.
I do appreciate how frustrating and upsetting this has been for Mrs R. But its not the role of 
this service to punish a business for its mistakes. We award  what we think is fair and 
reasonable. Admiral  has acknowledged its mistake and increased  the cover  by an additional  
three months without  charging any extra premium. When Mrs R decided to arrange 
alternative insurance it provided  a full refund of the premiums paid. I think  thats a fair and 
reasonable response. And I wont be asking Admiral to do anything  more.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask the estate of Mrs E 
to accept or reject my decision before 17 April 2020.
Andrew Mason
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5170425