K821x#15complaint
Mr M has complained that Advantage Insurance Company Limited unfairly increased his 
motor insurance premium.
Reference to Advantage includes its agents.
background
Mr M had a motor insurance  policy with Advantage. After  he changed his car Advantage 
increased the premium.  Mr M then moved  house  and changed job. Advantage again 
increased Mr Ms premium. Mr M felt that the significant increase in premium wasnt fair and 
brought his complaint to us.
One of our investigators  looked into Mr Ms complaint. He asked Advantage to show us how 
it had calculated the increases in Mr Ms premium. He thought  that Advantage had given us 
enough information to show that the increase following Mr Ms change of car was fair. But he 
didn't think  Advantage had provided  enough  information to conclude  that the premium 
increase following Mr Ms change of job and address was reasonable. As such the 
investigator said that Advantage should  return the premium to the figure it was at before 
Mr M changed job. He also said to add interest to the refunded sum at a rate of 8% a year 
simple.
Advantage didn't agree  so the complaint  has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I'm going  to uphold it. 
Mr M wasn't  happy with the rise in his premium after he changed address and job. 
Advantage calculated the risk it felt Mr M presented  as a policyholder when he took out his 
policy and it charged  him a premium to reflect that risk. And we generally think  its fair for an 
insurer to recalculate  the premium part way through a policy  - known as a mid-term 
adjustment - if policyholders have a significant  change in their circumstances.  Although wed 
look to see that an insurers calculated any change in premium fairly.
Mr M had a significant change in his circumstances when he changed his car. And 
Advantage recalculated his premium to reflect that change in risk. And its provided us with 
some information to show that it applied that change fairly. That is, its shown us evidence 
that it would  treat customers  with a similar  change in circumstances in the same way. 
Mr M then had two further changes  in circumstances that happened at the same time.  He 
changed address  and he also changed  job. And I would generally agree that a change in 
address is a significant change in risk for an insurer. And if Advantage had shown us that it 
had fairly  calculated a new premium  based solely on the change in risk Mr Ms new address 
presented, I would have  said that was reasonable. So we asked Advantage to show  us how 
it had calculated the increased  premium  for the change of address so we could see if it had 
applied this fairly. But despite prompting from our investigator, Advantage didn't provide us 
with that information. That means  I can't say with any certainty  that it treated Mr M fairly, as I 
cant be sure it treated him in the same way it would other consumers with similar 
circumstances.
Ref: DRN56339642Also Mr M didn't  only change  address he also changed jobs. And it appears that Advantage 
included within its revised risk calculation the change of jobs. I understand Advantage might 
feel that certain jobs attract a different level of risk. But I don't think it would be fair to 
recalculate a premium based on a change of job mid-term. There  are many  other  factors that 
insurers will also consider could change  a policyholders risk when initially calculating  how 
much to charge  for a policy. And I don't think its fair for each and every  one of those to lead 
to a different  premium.  For example things like minor motoring offences  such as speeding 
and accidents  don't generally affect a policyholders premium  mid-term. And I think  insurers  
like Advantage should  treat a change  in job the same way. So I don't think  it was fair for 
Advantage to consider Mr Ms change of job as a change in risk when it recalculated his 
premium at mid-term.
Also, as I've said above, we asked Advantage to show us how it had calculated  Mr Ms new 
premium. But it only provided  us with very limited information that didn't show  how the 
change in job had affected it. But it does appear that Advantage used the change  in job as a 
factor when reviewing  Mr Ms mid-term change  of circumstances.  And as I've said above, I 
don't think  thats  fair. 
So, as I can't  be certain that Advantage  calculated Mr Ms mid-term adjustment  reasonably, I 
think it should revisit that calculation and return Mr Ms premium to what  it was before he had 
those changes in circumstance.  Advantage should refund Mr M the difference and add 
simple interest to that refund.  
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I uphold this complaint. I require Advantage Insurance 
Company Limited  to return  Mr Ms premium to what it was before his change  of address and 
job. It should refund Mr M the difference and add simple  interest  to that refund at a rate of 
8% a year from the date it charged Mr M the additional premium to the date it refunds him.1
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 July 2020.
Joe Scott
ombudsman 
1 If Advantage  considers that its required  by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from that 
interest, it should tell Mr M how much its taken off. It should also give Mr M a certificate showing this 
if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HMRC  if appropriate.
Ref: DRN5633964