K820x#14complaint
Ms B complains  about the affordability of her hire purchase agreement  with Black Horse  
Limited (BH).
Ms B is represented in this complaint by a friend.
background
Ms B says she acquired a car with a hire purchase agreement from BH in February 2016. 
She says she feels her finances  werent  adequately assessed and the agreement  was 
completely unaffordable, based  on her disposable  income. And she says shes  provided a 
breakdown of her finances that shows she was in deficit  each  month.
Ms B also says she feels the terms of her finance  agreement werent properly explained  in 
full. She says for example  she wasnt made  aware there would be a huge balloon payment 
to be paid at the end to buy the car outright. And she says shes been left in a very difficult 
position as shes  paid too much for the car to have it taken away, but she cant afford  the 
balloon payment of £8,908 to keep  it.
BH says when a hire purchase agreement is proposed,  a detailed discussion takes place 
around the customers income and expenditure and these details are then recorded on the 
application. It says the details  Ms B provided were that she had a net monthly  income of 
£1,859 and expenditure totalling £678 per month, giving her a monthly  disposable income of 
£1,181. It says it also obtained  information  about Ms B from the credit reference agencies  
and used an automated credit scoring process.  And it says no concerns were  raised  over the 
affordability of her agreement.
BH also says Ms B signed a document confirming shed considered the affordability  of the 
agreement. It says her credit agreement has a repayment schedule  on the front page,  
including the final repayment of £8,908. It says her end of term options are detailed  in the 
terms and conditions. And it says should  the final repayment be unaffordable, the agreement 
gives Ms B the option to return  the car. 
Our investigator thought Ms Bs complaint shouldnt be upheld. 
Ms B disagreed with the investigators conclusions. She said her income and expenditure 
information clearly shows  the monthly  repayment of £416 wasnt  affordable. She said this 
information shows she was actually in deficit when she acquired the car. And she said she 
gave the dealership a housing benefit  letter as proof  of her address, so this shouldve  raised 
concerns about  a £30,000 finance agreement.   
So, the matters  been referred  to me to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold  Ms Bs complaint and Ill explain  why.
Ref: DRN57999152I see when Ms B applied  for her hire purchase agreement BH took details of her income  and 
expenditure and it also completed  a credit check against her. 
The information Ive seen shows Ms B told BH her gross annual income was £30,000 and 
her net income  was £1,859 per month. And she said her expenditure, including  rent, living  
costs and the cost of her existing credit totalled  nearly £700  per month, giving  her a 
disposable income of nearly £1,200 per month. So, based on this information, I dont think  it 
was unreasonable for BH to conclude the finance payments of £415.53 per month  should  be 
affordable to Ms B.
I also see the credit check BH carried out showed  Ms B had six active  credit accounts at the 
time and her total monthly  payments towards  these accounts was £81. 
I acknowledge Ms B has given us information suggesting her finances were  actually in a 
much worse  state than the income  and expenditure figures BH used as the basis  of its 
lending decision suggested. But I havent seen anything indicating  BH was aware of this 
information at the time. And Ms B had a responsibility to give BH accurate information when 
she applied  for her hire purchase agreement.    
Theres no specific list of checks a lender must carry out before deciding to give a customer  
credit. But the checks need to be proportionate  to the circumstances. And the information 
Ive seen indicates the checks BH carried out before  entering  into a hire purchase 
agreement with Ms B were proportionate  and appropriate in the circumstances. In particular, 
I think it was reasonable  for BH to rely on Ms Bs declared income and expenditure, 
supported by a credit  check. 
I note Ms B says she used a housing benefit  letter to prove  her address and she says this 
shouldve raised  concerns  about  the affordability  of the lending to her. But I havent  seen 
anything confirming BH received this letter. And I dont think it would  necessarily mean the 
lending wasnt affordable, in any event.
I acknowledge Ms Bs also unhappy about  the final payment of £8908  required under her 
agreement to acquire  ownership of the car. And she says the terms werent  fully explained to 
her. But I see the agreement she signed  contains a clause dealing with this matter.  And the 
front page  of the agreement includes a repayment schedule that specifically refers to this 
final payment. 
So, in the absence of anything suggesting  Ms B was misled about  this matter when she was 
taking out the agreement, I cant uphold this aspect  of her complaint.   
And, for these reasons,  I cant  fairly and reasonably uphold Ms Bs complaint.
my final decision
I dont uphold Ms Bs complaint against  Black Horse Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms B to accept or  
reject my decision  before 19 March  2019.
Robert Collinson
Ref: DRN57999153ombudsman
Ref: DRN5799915