K820x#14complaint
Mr F complains that British Gas Services Limited allowed his tenants  to arrange an annual 
service inspection.
background
Mr F has an insurance policy  with British Gas which covers the boiler, heating,  plumbing, 
drains and appliances at a property he rents out to tenants.
Mr F says he rang British Gas to arrange  an annual service check.  They didnt tell him at the 
time that the tenants had already contacted them to arrange the visit. 
So, two separate  visits were booked.  And Mr F wasnt present at the property when the 
inspection actually took place at the time arranged by the tenants. Mr F is concerned that if 
urgent work had been required,  he wasnt there  to authorise it. 
Mr F says he had the same experience the previous year.  At that time, he contacted  British  
Gas and was advised  theyd put a note on his file to ensure  it didnt happen again.
Mr F complained to British  Gas.  They admitted  their customer service had been poor. 
They said they should have told him when he rang to arrange the visit that the tenants had 
already booked one. 
And they said they should have been clearer in the previous year that the terms of Mr Fs 
policy allowed tenants to book these inspections and that they were obliged to tell tenants 
when an inspection was due.
They offered  Mr F £100 compensation  for the inconvenience  hed been  cause as a result  of 
the poor service.  But they said they hadnt  acted outside the terms and conditions  of the 
policy.
Mr F wasnt happy with this outcome and made a complaint to us. Our investigator looked 
into it and thought British Gas hadnt done  anything  wrong.
Mr F disagreed and asked  for a final decision from an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with British  Gas that their customer  service was poor in the way they handled the 
contact with Mr F  both when he contacted them about the most  recent  inspection  and 
when hed been in touch  the previous year.
I think £100 compensation  for his inconvenience  is fair and reasonable. I dont think British 
Gas need offer more. Mr F hasnt suffered any loss as a result of the poor service. Hes been 
mildly inconvenienced. No repairs  urgent or otherwise - were in fact required after the 
inspection. 
Ref: DRN52184622The terms and conditions  of the policy are fairly clear. On page 28 of the policy  booklet, it 
says:
When your annual service is due, well send you or your authorised contact an email,  
letter, text message or call you to arrange  it 
Mr F says he hadnt authorised his tenants as a contact, so British Gas didnt have 
permission to arrange the inspection with them.
However, I think this misses the point. British Gas arent suggesting the tenants  are an 
authorised contact. Theyve pointed out that earlier in the policy  booklet, some  important 
definitions are set out. 
These say when the policy  refers to you, this means:
the person(s) named  on your statement, plus the people who normally live in your 
home, including any tenants.  
Its not unusual  for this kind of policy to include this. It allows  arrangements  to be made more 
conveniently in many cases. And it provides the tenants with more  control  over the safety  of 
the property they live in. I cant  see that theres  anything unfair  or unreasonable in allowing  
tenants to arrange these  services  which are already  paid for.
I can also see that British  Gas were very clear that tenants could make these arrangements 
in the most recent renewal documents they sent to Mr F. So I dont think  he could 
reasonably say he wasnt made aware  of this policy provision.  
I take Mr Fs point that he wants to be present when these  inspections take place, so he can 
authorise any necessary  work or repairs. British Gas have said thats down  to Mr F to 
arrange with his tenants. And I cant say thats  unreasonable or unfair. 
British Gas say they do send tenants  and property owners a reminder when the inspections 
are due. So Mr F will always receive a timely  reminder to contact his tenants and make  sure 
mutually convenient arrangements are made.
In summary,  I dont think British Gas acted outside the existing  terms and conditions  of the 
policy. And I dont think those terms and conditions are inherently unreasonable  or unfair  
or that they caused Mr F to be treated  unfairly in this case.
Mr F was inconvenienced because British Gas failed to tell him what was happening   twice. 
And theyve  compensated adequately him for that. So Im not going to ask them  to do any 
more in this case.
Ref: DRN52184623my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Fs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 June 2019. 
Neil Marshall
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5218462