K821x#15complaint
Mr H complains about the service he received from Tesco Personal Finance Plc (Tesco)  
following the closure of his credit card account.
background
Mr H complains that following the closure  of his Tesco credit card account in September  
2018, Tesco  kept sending him updated terms and conditions about the account. He said he 
tried to log onto his account  to try to sort matters out but had been unable  to. He also said he 
rang and emailed Tesco but no action  was taken.
Tesco said that the reason the correspondence  was sent out was because he had a credit 
balance on his account and that in accordance with the Terms and Conditions customers will 
continue to receive updates including statements whilst there  is a balance.
Tesco also said that when  they close an account the customer no longer has access  to the 
online banking and mobile app, and that they deactivate the email statement alerts. Paper 
statements ought to have been reactivated but they werent. Had they been Tesco 
acknowledged Mr H would have  seen he had a credit balance and could have arranged to 
transfer out the remaining  balance.  Because of that, Tesco upheld his complaint and sent 
Mr H compensation of £25.00. In their final response letter in June 2019 Tesco also 
explained to Mr H how he could going forward, transfer out the balance.
Mr H was unhappy with Tescos response  and so an investigator  from this service looked  
into the complaint  and accepted that there  had been  failings in the level of service.  He found 
that the level of recompense  offered to Mr H ought to be increased to £50, as that was fair 
and reasonable.  Tesco  didnt agree, and so the complaint  has been passed  to me. 
my provisional findings
I issued my provisional findings on this complaint on the 25 November 2019. I said that I 
accepted that Tescos  terms  and conditions had been clear and so in that regard I did not 
agree with the investigators view. However,  I then went on to consider the level of 
compensation Tescos  had paid Mr H and I thought it was not enough.
The important point  is that Tesco have acknowledged that Mr H received poor service after 
he closed his account and they have apologised for that. They have offered £25 in 
compensation but our investigator  thought this was too low and suggested £50 would be 
reasonable. I do however accept that the terms and conditions make  it clear that whilst there  
is a balance on the account  statements will continue to be sent out. I think that is clear 
enough, so I dont say that Tesco acted unfairly  here.
However, I have given careful thought  to the offer of compensation Tesco  made to Mr H and 
I have taken into account not only the initial error they made but the effect of that upon Mr H 
and the difficulty  he had thereafter. I accept  Mr H will have contacted Tesco  to try to sort the 
matter out and this will have taken up his time unnecessarily, and caused  him frustration. 
So overall I think that the suggested compensation of £50 is reasonable. It is in line with the 
awards this service would  make  for distress  and inconvenience in circumstances like this, 
and I think it is fair and enough to put matters  right.
Ref: DRN57117002my provisional decision
My provisional decision is that I uphold  this complaint. If my findings  remain the same after I 
hear back from the parties,  I intend to require that Tesco  pay a further £25 to Mr H on top of 
the initial £25 already  paid, which would bring  the total compensation to £50 and which  I 
believe is fair in all the circumstances.
responses my provisional decision
Mr H did not respond to my provisional  decision, but Tesco  did, saying  it didnt accept my 
recommendation. The salient part of their response on this issue  appears  to me to be this;
There was no financial losses to Mr H and once  the error was identified we gave a 
full explanation why this happened, along with how to stop future emails being sent. 
£25.00 is a fair offer of compensation for the minor inconvenience we have caused 
Mr H and I feel this is in line with what would be expected. I do feel the fact that £50 
has been recommended  by the adjudicator, there  has been  an appetite shown to 
avoid retracting this recommendation, despite  it being based on inaccuracies.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  The role of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service is to resolve individual complaints and to award redress  where  it is appropriate so to 
do. What I need  to decide is whether Tesco acted fairly and reasonably  in how it dealt with 
Mr H. My aim is to ensure that a fair and reasonable outcome has been achieved. 
My decisions  are based on the evidence supplied to me. Where such evidence is 
incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I am bound to reach a decision on the balance  of 
probabilities  in other words, I consider what is more likely  to have happened in the light of 
that evidence  and the wider circumstances of the case. 
Looking at the available evidence, I think we have an unfortunate situation here. Its clear 
Mr H closed his account. Although  it is immaterial to his complaint, he thinks  this was in 
September 2018 but it was actually  in the last days of August 2018. 
There has been an accepted failure in the level of service provided  to Mr H. The issue  is now 
only about the level of compensation to be awarded  to Mr H. I do appreciate that Tesco have 
had another look at this, and they feel that the reason I have awarded £50 is not to detract 
from the investigators initial recommendation. 
As such Tesco have  asked me to review my decision  and having done so, Im afraid I cannot 
agree with their view.  
In my view, when I look at the inconvenience  caused to Mr H, which  is naturally based on 
the evidence he has given to this service,  I think £25 in compensation is simply too low. It 
follows that I think a greater sum is required.  There is no set figure for awards  of 
compensation, and in making such awards it is a matter of judgement based upon 
experience. The increase  I have suggested is by a modest sum of £25 and brings  the total to 
£50 which  I feel is in line with the awards  this service would make  for distress and 
inconvenience in circumstances  like this. 
Ref: DRN57117003my final decision
For the reasons  set out above require Tesco Personal Finance Plc to pay a further £25 to 
Mr H which  brings  the total compensation payable  to £50, and which  I believe is fair in all the 
circumstances.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 January 2020.
Jonathan Willis
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5711700