K820x#14complaint
Mr B is unhappy with the interest he was charged  by Bank of Scotland plc on his credit card 
account when  he was in financial difficulty. 
background
Mr B had a credit  card account with Halifax, a division of Bank  of Scotland plc. Towards the 
end of 2011 Mr B, together with his wife, started  to experience financial difficulty.  In February  
2012 they got in touch with a debt management  a company, who Ill call P, to help them 
manage their debts with their creditors. 
P looked at Mr and Mrs Bs income and outgoings.  The outgoings included: those in his sole 
name - including the Halifax account;  those just in his wifes  name;  and those in their joint 
names. Ps assessment showed they had just over £1,900 left each  month after all their 
priority spending had been taking into account. But the monthly repayments to their 
remaining creditors totalled nearly  £600 more  than this at just under £2,500. 
So Mr and Mrs B agreed to enter into a debt management plan with P. It contacted their 
creditors, including Halifax, setting out what they were able to pay each month. Mr B told us 
some of his creditors agreed to stop charging interest on these debts. But Halifax didnt. 
Mr B continued to make the monthly  repayments on his Halifax credit  until the outstanding 
balance was cleared in mid-2018. Also in 2018,  Mr B received a letter  from another of his 
creditors. He told us this explained the creditor hadnt managed his account  properly while  
he was in financial difficulty. It refunded the interest and charges wrongly applied during this 
time. 
This prompted Mr B to look into the rules  and guidelines published by the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) about how a business should treat consumers  in financial difficulties. He 
then complained to Halifax  about  the interest it had applied to his account. 
Halifax didnt uphold  Mr Bs complaint. In short, it said while P had requested  an interest 
freeze on his account, the amount it was offering to pay each month was more than Mr Bs 
minimum payment  this meant interest wouldnt be frozen as he was maintaining  the 
account within its terms and conditions. 
Mr B wasnt  happy with Halifaxs response, so he brought  his complaint to our service.  One 
of our investigators looked into this matter. She didnt think  it should be upheld.  Briefly, our 
investigator thought  there was no reason for Halifax to suspend the interest  on Mr Bs 
account as he was paying more  than the minimum payment due. 
Mr B didnt agree with our investigator. He asked  for an ombudsman to review his case. So, 
as this matter remains  unresolved, this complaint has been passed  to me for a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold it. Ill explain why. 
Ref: DRN54424602But first. Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint very briefly,  in far less detail 
than has been  provided, and in my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, 
Ive focussed  on what I think is the heart of the matter here: did Halifax  act unfairly and 
unreasonably when it didnt suspend the interest on Mr Bs account? 
If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied 
I dont need to comment on every individual point  or argument to be able to reach  what  I 
think is the right outcome.  Our rules  allow me to do this. This simply reflects  the informal 
nature of our service as a free alternative  to the courts. 
I would also point out that I really do appreciate the impact this issue has had on Mr B. But in 
reaching my decision in this case,  I have to put aside my natural feelings  of empathy and 
consider the case  impartially and fairly, based on the available evidence. 
I can also see there was some debate about whether Mr B had made  his complaint within  
the timescales set out in our rules. I know hes aware that in very general terms, we can only 
look at events that happened in the six years  before  the complaint was made.  I want  to 
clarify here that Mr B complained to Halifax in October 2018. Im satisfied this means we can 
look at the interest  and charges added  to his account in the six years prior to this  so, from 
October 2012 until the account was closed  in 2018.  
For completeness, I can also see Mr B was unhappy with the £74.10 interest he was 
charged by Halifax  when he cleared the balance on his account. But as this was refunded  in 
full, Im not going  to comment on this issue further other than to say I think it was fair and 
reasonable for Halifax to do this. 
Ill now turn to the crux of Mr Bs complaint  Halifaxs  refusal  to suspend the interest  on his 
account. Where someone is in financial difficulty and having problems making the payments 
on an account, theres an obligation  for lenders to treat them both positively and 
sympathetically. This could include,  depending on the situation, suspending  interest  and 
reducing the required monthly  payment.  
I can see Mr B has referred to the FCA handbook,  and in particular  a section of the 
Consumer Credit sourcebook (CONC). Hes highlighted  CONC 7.3.5G  which says, amongst 
other things,  that a business may consider suspending, waiving or cancelling  interest and 
charges. 
I would point out here that the G in CONC 7.3.5G indicates its guidance to be taken into 
account rather than a rule that must  be followed. The guidance  goes on to say it applies 
where a customer is unable to meet repayments as they fall due, or is only able to make 
token repayments,  and the level of debt would continue to go up if interest and charges were 
applied. But thats not what happened  here.
 
P assessed what Mr B was able to pay each month.  It then contacted his creditors setting 
out what he could  afford.  Ive looked at Halifaxs records.  These  show Mr B was able to 
make monthly payments significantly higher than the minimum required. 
For example, in October 2012, Mr Bs minimum monthly payment was around  £79. But the 
amount he paid was around £137.  This pattern of paying significantly more  than the 
minimum required was repeated over the following months and years until the account  was 
closed in 2018. Whilst the amount Mr B paid did vary from month  to month,  the payments 
Ref: DRN54424603were generally always over £100.  These  payments reduced the level of debt Mr B had with 
Halifax. 
So while P was asking Halifax to freeze the interest  on Mr Bs account, it was also setting 
out what he could  afford  to pay to Halifax each month. This showed that he could afford the 
monthly repayments. So I can understand why Halifax wouldnt agree to an interest freeze.  
Halifax told Mr B that it advised P of this when it contacted the bank on Mr Bs behalf. As 
Mr B was able to pay significantly more than his minimum  monthly  payment, Im satisfied 
Halifax was under no obligation  whatsoever  to suspend or waive the interest  on his account.  
As Ive already  said, I really do appreciate the impact this issue  has had on Mr B. But that 
doesnt mean Halifax has done  anything  wrong  here. Taking all the above into consideration, 
Im not satisfied Halifax acted unfairly  and unreasonably when  it didnt suspend  the interest 
on his account.  So Im not upholding Mr Bs complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 February  2021.
John Miles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5442460