K820x#14complaint
Mr T says Nationwide Building Society mis-sold  him a payment protection  insurance  (PPI) 
policy for his secured  loan.
background
In 1997, Mr T took out a PPI policy  for a secured loan on his property. Mr T paid for the PPI 
with a regular  monthly  premium, which didnt attract interest. It covered his loan repayments 
in case he was off work  sick or lost his job.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr T disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, so 
the complaint  has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ts case.  
While I know this will disappoint Mr T, I dont think this particular PPI policy was mis-sold  
Ill explain  why.
The sale was over two decades ago and the account has long since closed, so its 
understandable that neither side have the original  paperwork. However, Nationwide  have 
provided samples of the documents Mr T wouldve used at the time. From those, it looks  like 
the PPI wouldve been described  as optional and its cost wouldve been  set out separately 
to that of the secured  loan  rather than as something that was necessarily  included.  And it 
looks like Mr T wouldve  been given the option  to take PPI if he wanted  it, or to leave it if he 
didnt want it. So I think its most likely  that Nationwide gave Mr T a choice about buying the 
PPI, and that he chose  to take it at the time  even if, understandably, he no longer  
remembers doing so after so long.
Nationwide didnt recommend the PPI to Mr T, so they didnt have to check if it was right for 
him or check Mr Ts existing benefits.  Nationwide did have to give Mr T clear information 
about the PPI, so he could decide  for himself whether it was right for him.
It looks like the cost of the PPI wouldve  been  set out clearly, along with the total monthly 
payment that it protected. So I think Mr T probably wouldve understood what  the PPI cost 
and what it could pay out. And it looks like the policy wouldve been affordable, costing just 
£5.13 at the time of the sale.
Its possible that Nationwide didnt adequately  point out the main things the policy  wouldnt 
cover. But Mr T doesnt appear to have been  affected by any of those things.
Lastly, Mr T pointed out that hed had refunds from other PPI policies. And I understand  his 
point here.  But different  types of PPI worked  in different ways, and were sold by different 
processes at different times. So if one policy was mis-sold, it doesnt necessarily mean that a 
different policy  was too. Ive explained above why I dont think  that this particular PPI policy 
was mis-sold.
Ref: DRN54648952my final decision
For the reasons  I explained above, I dont  uphold Mr Ts complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 May 2019.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5464895