K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs O complain about how they were treated by their mortgage lender while  they 
were in financial difficulty. The mortgage  was taken over by Pepper  (UK) Limited which is 
responsible for its own actions and those of the previous lender.
background
Mr and Mrs O took out a mortgage some years ago with another lender. The loan was later 
transferred to Pepper which  is therefore  responsible for dealing  with this complaint.  In this 
decision Ill refer to Pepper throughout, though in doing so I also include the other lender 
where applicable.
Unfortunately Mr and Mrs O experienced financial  difficulty  to which Mr Os serious ill 
health appears to have  contributed significantly.  In around 2010, the previous lender agreed  
to capitalise their arrears and convert  the mortgage  from repayment terms to part repayment 
and part interest only to reduce the monthly  payments and help Mr and Mrs O get back  on 
track. But by the following year, they were back in arrears again and the mortgage never 
recovered.
By 2013, Mr and Mrs O were considering a mortgage rescue scheme operated  by their local 
authority. But that didnt  come to fruition,  and eventually the property was repossessed and 
sold. Mr and Mrs O were left with a shortfall of around £60,000. They were unable to make 
anything other than purely nominal payments to the shortfall and, in consideration of their 
ages and health, Pepper wrote off the shortfall  in 2017.
Mr and Mrs O complained. They  said the property had initially  been over-valued  and theyd 
over-extended themselves.  Then  when the arrears were capitalised,  the lender had 
increased the mortgage balance even though they were in negative equity by this point. 
They said the property  had been unfairly  repossessed even though they were  trying to use a 
mortgage rescue scheme, and they said that the amount  it was sold for was unfair.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint be upheld,  so Mr and Mrs O asked for 
an ombudsman to consider their complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im very sorry to hear of all the difficulties  Mr and Mrs O have experienced in recent  years. I 
understand that Mr O in particular has been  in very poor health and I can understand why 
things have not been at all easy for them.
As a result of their circumstances, they were unable to pay their mortgage for some time. 
When that happens, Id expect a lender to try and discuss  the situation with a borrower, and 
see how things can be got back on track.  They should try and come  to some arrangement 
for the mortgage  to be repaid, bearing  in mind that repossession should  be a last resort.
In this case, I think the lender did do that. Theres evidence in the contact  notes of 
discussions with Mr and Mrs O over a period  of time. It tried to help them by converting  the 
Ref: DRN53321912mortgage to reduce their payments, and capitalising the arrears to prevent further fees being  
charged. 
Mr and Mrs O are right that capitalisation  increases the mortgage balance.  But thats 
because existing arrears   payments that Mr and Mrs O owed, but hadnt made  are added  
to the balance. But it doesnt  change  the overall amount they owe.
To take a simple  example, if a borrower has a mortgage balance of £100,000 and has 
missed payments of £5,000 then they owe £105,000  the existing balance, plus the unpaid  
payments that have  to be made  up. The £5,000 is treated as arrears.
If the lender then capitalises, it no longer treats the £5,000  as arrears. Instead, it adds the 
missed payments to the overall balance, which increases to £105,000  so the overall 
amount owed hasnt  changed.
Capitalisation doesnt therefore  increase the amount outstanding, at least  in the short term. It 
allows the missed payments to be included in the main balance  and spread over the 
remaining term, rather than having  to be caught up sooner.  That does mean more interest is 
charged over the term, but it also means the lender no longer needs to do arrears 
management activity   or charge arrears  management fees.
In this particular  case, I think the capitalisation  was a genuine attempt to help Mr and Mrs O. 
Coupled with the change to repayment  type,  it reduced the amount they had to pay each 
month and meant they would no longer be charged  arrears fees or be subject to collections 
activity.
Unfortunately, this didnt  prove to be a sustainable  solution  but that doesnt mean it was 
the wrong thing  to have tried at the time.
When Mr and Mrs O fell into arrears again, I think the lender did try to work with them  to get 
things back on track,  but it didnt  prove  possible.  Mr and Mrs O were in discussion with their 
local authority and a local advice agency  about taking part in a mortgage rescue scheme but 
that didnt happen. Ive seen from a separate complaint about the advice  agency  that its said 
the mortgage rescue didnt go ahead because Mr and Mrs O werent eligible for the scheme.  
I dont know whether thats right or not, but in any case  theres  nothing  to suggest that 
Pepper is responsible for the failure  of the mortgage rescue.
Unfortunately the point  was reached where  the arrears were mounting,  the property was in 
negative equity, and it was clear that Mr and Mrs O had no prospect of getting the mortgage 
back on track. Im sure this was a very traumatic time for Mr and Mrs O, but it does seem  
that the mortgage had reached the point of last resort.  The longer it went  on, the worse  
Mr and Mrs Os position would have  got. So I dont think Pepper acted unreasonably in 
taking possession action  when it did.
Pepper sold the property at a significant  shortfall. It seems there had been negative  equity 
for many years, as the property had reduced in value since  the mortgage was taken out. As 
our investigator said, what happened around the time of the sale of the mortgage was too 
long ago to be considered  by us  and in any case the mortgage  was sold by a broker, not 
the previous lender. But I can see that the lender obtained and relied  on an independent 
valuation at the time.
Ref: DRN53321913Pepper also relied on an independent valuation when  it sold the property after repossession. 
Ive not seen any evidence that it sold the property for less than its market  value.  But even if 
it did, I dont think that makes any difference now. Because of the negative equity, the 
property was always going to be sold for less than the mortgage balance. And because 
Pepper has now agreed to write off the mortgage  balance  which,  in the particular 
circumstances of this case I think is the fair thing to do  it doesnt matter what  the size of 
the shortfall is since Mr and Mrs O will never be asked to pay it.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs O to 
accept or reject my decision  before  23 November  2019.
Simon Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5332191