K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2004. Mr S says HSBC  Bank Plc (trading as First Direct)  mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ss case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
On the credit agreement completed  at the time, which Mr S signed, I can see there was a 
box to tick if Mr S wanted the PPI  and the box is ticked.  Ive not seen sufficient evidence  
to persuade me that despite this HSBC didnt give Mr S a choice or that Mr S was 
pressured. So I think HSBC made  it clear  that Mr S didnt have to take out the PPI and he 
chose to take it out.
HSBC didnt  provide  Mr S with a personalised recommendation to take out the PPI so it 
didnt have  to check if it was right for him. But it did have to make sure Mr S got the 
information he needed to decide  if it was right for him. 
Its possible the information HSBC gave  Mr S about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But he chose to take out the PPI  so it looks  like he wanted  this type of 
cover. Based  on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it doesnt look like he 
was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover - so it could have been 
useful for him if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I 
dont think better information about the PPI would have put him off taking out the cover. 
Which means HSBC  doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr S.
But HSBC  has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr S because: 
HSBC got a high level of commission and profit share (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium)  so it should  have told Mr S about that. Because HSBC didnt tell Mr S, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, HSBC has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium   and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr S has said  including what  hes said about him working in 
a well-established  senior  role, with good sick pay entitlement, savings, and family to fall back 
on if need be. But circumstances can change; the PPI was designed  to provide some 
protection against the unexpected. Ive also not seen any evidence of the level of savings 
Mr S held. And overall,  despite  Mr Ss likely  good  sick pay entitlement, I still think  he 
wouldve thought  the policy could be useful.  So for these reasons, and the reasons 
explained above, these points dont  change my decision.
Ref: DRN50356122my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so HSBC  Bank  Plc (trading as First Direct) does not have 
to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr S.
But HSBC  Bank Plc (trading as First Direct) does have to pay back to Mr S any commission 
and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  I understand it has 
already done this, so I dont award  any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 March 2019.
Neil Bridge
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5035612