K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that Allianz Plc unfairly declined his claim  for subsidence on his home 
insurance policy.
Mr C has been represented throughout the claim and complaint. However, for ease of 
reading, all reference  to Mr C includes the actions of his representatives.
background
Mr C had a home insurance policy with Allianz.  This was due to expire at the end of 
August 2018.  Before  its expiration he made a claim for subsidence he believed  was 
occurring in an outbuilding  at the property.
Allianz sent a loss adjuster to inspect it and subsequently declined the claim. It said that as 
the subsidence only affected  the outbuilding and not the main  building  it would be excluded 
from cover  under the policy.
Mr C didnt think this was fair as he said the policy document he had been  sent didnt include 
this exclusion.  He brought his complaint to this service.
After this service informed Allianz  of the complaint, it agreed that the claim hadnt  been 
properly investigated.  It agreed to re-open  the claim.
Allianz sent an engineer to inspect the damage in order  to determine the cause. They  
instructed further  tests  and an expert  report was produced. This concluded that the most 
likely cause of the damage to the outbuilding was settlement. It said the cracks were  likely to 
have been caused by a mixture of ineffective foundations and inappropriate fill, as it had 
been built on consolidated sand/silt material mixed  with reworked topsoil. It therefore  said 
the claim would  be declined as settlement and defective design are both excluded from 
cover.
Mr C didnt think this was fair. He said that settlement would usually  happen within five to ten 
years of a structure being built and the structure had been standing  for at least  38 years. He 
asked for the complaint to be reviewed  by this service.
Our investigator considered all the issues but didnt recommend the complaint be upheld.  He 
said that he agrees  Allianz were wrong  to decline the claim in the first instance. However as 
it had now re-investigated  he was persuaded by its experts report  that the cause of the 
damage wasnt covered  under the policy.
Mr C didnt agree. He said there were also cracks a the front of the yard and as the damage  
had been getting worse  for around 40 years he didnt think  it could be anything  other  than 
subsidence. He asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN50568312Allianz has said that Mr Cs claim would be excluded from cover under the policy as the 
damage to the outbuilding is caused  by poorly  constructed foundations and settlement rather  
than subsidence.
In the subsidence section  of the policy, it says cover  excludes loss and damage:
resulting from faulty workmanship, defective design, the use of defective materials, 
settlement of newly made up ground  and coastal,  lake or river erosion.
So I agree that if the damage  is caused  by either faulty design  or settlement, it would be 
excluded from cover under the policy.
I have therefore  considered  whether  Allianz  has treated Mr C fairly when assessing the claim 
and applying  this exclusion. 
The policy doesnt  define settlement. However  this service considers a reasonable definition 
to be: Downward movement as a result of the soil being compressed  by the weight of the 
building. Whereas  we consider subsidence  to be defined as: Downward movement of the 
ground on which the building stands. Its caused  by the movement of the site itself  not the 
weight of the building pressing down on the site.
So put simply - in order for the damage to be caused by settlement, movement would  need  
to be caused by the weight of the building itself, rather  than movement of the ground.
To decide whether this exclusion has been  applied fairly I have considered comments from 
Allianzs engineers  report. I can see in the test carried out that boreholes  showed large 
areas of made  ground- ground that has been  created to fill an area under a property. 
The engineer commented that: The depth of infilling/possible  recent deposits was recorded 
to extend to depths ranging between 2.8 and 3.7m below ground level at the borehole  
locations and would  not be considered a suitable  bearing stratum for supporting the wall 
foundations under current Building Regulations.
 
And goes  on to conclude:  it is considered that the cause of the structural  cracking may be
attributed to a combination of the lack of a proper foundation beneath the external walls of 
the building: and adverse  total and differential settlement of the poor quality fill in which the 
base of the wall/foundations  are based.
I have considered the report, as well as comments from Mr C and I think the cause is more 
likely to be from settlement rather than subsidence.  
The report  concludes that the ground the building was built on appears insufficiently stable 
for a large structure. Particularly  as it wouldnt meet requirements under current building  
regulations. And the report identifies no other potential causes for the movement of the 
ground or cause of subsidence. So it seems most likely that the weight of the building  is 
causing this movement and the subsequent  damage.
Further, settlement often occurs when  there  is a change in water content of the soil. 
Considering the structure is very close to the bank of a river, it seems likely that the soil will 
very gradually take in this water  over time. This would lead to the soil softening and 
becoming less able to support a heavy  structure. 
Ref: DRN50568313So I think its most likely that the cause  of the movement is the weight of the building itself on 
ground that cant sufficiently bear that weight.  Which would meet the definition  of settlement 
rather than subsidence.  
Mr C has said the cracking would likely have appeared earlier if it was due to settlement 
which indicates it must be subsidence.  I dont think this is enough to prove that it is. It is 
difficult to say when  the causes  of settlement will start to show,  it may be some time before 
large enough cracks appear  especially in an outbuilding that is used less often than the 
main structure. And as the report provided  by Allianzs experts  hasnt found  any evidence of 
subsidence, Im not persuaded  that this is the cause. 
Allianz has also said that the claim would be excluded  from cover due to poor design as the 
foundations of the building  werent  sufficient. As I am already satisfied that the claim would 
be excluded due to being caused  by settlement, I havent considered this point.
For these reasons I think Allianz has fairly  declined Mr Cs claim. So I wont  be asking it to 
do anything differently.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given I wont require Allianz Plc to do anything  differently. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 July 2020.
Sophie Goodyear
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5056831