K821x#15complaint
Mr H has complained that DTW Associates Limited  trading as Auto Advance Logbook Loans 
(DTW) was irresponsible to have agreed credit for him.
background
DTW provided Mr H with a loan of £1,500 on 13 August 2018. The total repayable  including 
interest and charges came to £4,020, to be repaid over 24 months  at £168 a month (all 
figures rounded). 
This was a log book  loan, in other  words  it was granted  on the basis that Mr H provided 
DTW with a bill of sale for his car. This meant  that if Mr H didnt make his loan repayments 
DTW could  potentially recoup its losses through the sale of the vehicle. 
Mr H says that DTW should not have agreed  to lend to him because the loan was 
unaffordable for him and it should have known  this from the information it had. Mr H says 
that he was having problems managing his finances at that time and was making  
repayments to several debt management agencies. He also says that he was struggling  with 
a severe gambling  addiction and stressful personal  circumstances.  
DTW says that it conducted  a thorough  check of Mr Hs bank statements and checked his 
credit file to assess his ability to afford the loan.  It found the loan to be affordable  and 
doesnt agree that it was irresponsible to have lent. 
Our adjudicator upheld  Mr Hs complaint in her last communication. She found that DTW  had 
been irresponsible to lend to Mr H and recommended that it compensate him for this. DTW  
didnt agree with this recommendation  and so the complaint came to me, as an ombudsman, 
to review and resolve. 
I issued a provisional decision on 8 February 2021  upholding  Mr Hs complaint. I gave both 
parties a month to comment  on my provisional findings or provide new information.  Ive had 
no response from DTW. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As before, I have also taken into account 
the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good  industry practice at the time. Neither party  
has commented on my provisional  conclusions or the information Ive relied on or provided 
any new information for me to consider. Altogether, Ive found no reason to depart from my 
provisional findings and Im upholding Mr Hs complaint. I appreciate  that this will be 
disappointing for DTW. I set out my reasoning in my provisional decision and have included 
this again below.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) was the regulator when  Mr H took out his loan. The 
relevant rules and guidance at the time as set out in its Consumer Credit Sourcebook 
(CONC) said that DTW  needed to take reasonable and proportionate steps to assess  
whether or Mr H could  afford to meet its loan repayments in a sustainable manner over the 
lifetime of the agreement. Repaying debt in a sustainable manner meant being  able to meet 
repayments out of normal  income  while meeting normal  outgoings and not having to borrow 
further to meet these repayments. 
Ref: DRN58729352Neither the law nor the FCA specified what level of detail was needed  or how such  a check  
was to be carried out in practice.  The FCA said that the level of detail would depend on the 
type of product, the amount of credit  being considered, the associated  cost and risk to the 
borrower relative to the borrowers  financial situation, amongst other  factors. In other words 
the checks needed to be proportionate and borrower-focused. This suggests that the same 
checks might not be the appropriate thing to do for all consumers, or for the same consumer 
in all circumstances. The checks were to assess the risk to the consumer of not meeting the 
repayments in a sustainable manner,  not the risk to the lender of recouping  its money.
In general, Id expect  a lender to require more assurance, the greater the potential risk to the 
consumer of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way. So, for example, Id 
expect a lender  to seek more assurance by carrying carry out more  detailed checks
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult  to make any 
loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting  that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher  repayment from a particular level of income);
the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit  is 
likely to be greater  and the customer is required to make payments for an extended  
period).
Bearing all of this in mind, in coming to a decision on Mr Hs case, I have  considered the 
following questions:
did DTW  complete reasonable and proportionate  checks  when assessing 
Mr Hs loan application to satisfy  itself that he would  be able to repay the loan in a 
sustainable way? if not, what would reasonable and proportionate  checks  have 
shown?
overall,  did DTW  make a fair lending decision?
As mentioned above, when Mr H applied for a loan, DTW says it asked him about  his 
income and expenses and checked his credit file. DTW  says that Mr H supplied  it with 
access to 90 days of his bank transactions via open  banking.
Mr H was entering into a significant  commitment  with DTW  in that he would need to make 
monthly repayments for two years while ownership  of his car was held as security.  So I think  
it was reasonable  that DTW wanted to gather, and independently check, some detailed 
information about his financial circumstances before it agreed to lend to him. I think  that, on 
the face of it, the checks DTW did seemed proportionate. But a lender also needs to react 
appropriately to the information shown by those checks by, for example, ensuring  that the 
information it has is complete and correct (CONC 5.3.3). So Ive looked carefully at the 
information DTW says it checked  to consider  whether the lenders  assessment  of it was 
reasonable.
Mr H had given his monthly net income as £1,450 and expenses as a total of £625. DTW  
provided a credit reference agency  (CRA) analysis  of two months of Mr Hs bank  
transactions. This report  is dated  the 13 August and I assume  DTW  had access  to 90 days 
of Mr Hs transaction history via open  banking up to that date. I note that the analysis date 
range is May to July 2018 and the report lists transactions from and including  31 May to 31 
July. DTW says it uses whole months  in its analysis and, as the loan was agreed mid-
Ref: DRN58729353August, it seems it used  June and Julys transactions. So Ive focussed on what  this 
information showed.
DTW estimated that Mr H had an average  monthly net income of £1,833 and total expenses  
of £957. The estimate  of average income and expenditure appears to include transfers  in 
and out of the account. Excluding these, the transactional  information  shows Mr Hs net 
monthly income was £1,435. It also shows that he spent  his wages each month  and 
borrowed from family members. His monthly  spend  includes  an average of about £400 in 
transferring money  to his family.
DTW says that the reason  Mr H gave for the loan was consolidation and it says that the loan 
of £1,500 was the customers decision to clear an overdraft of up to £1,100. Despite 
concerns over the recent  management of his account, this decision seemed a reasonable 
solution and action. With respect  to DTW I suspect this is a mis-reading of the CRA analysis 
which I think shows the sums of deposits and withdrawals and not a running account 
balance. 
Mr H has provided his bank statements from the time and I can see from these that his 
account1 wasnt overdrawn to any great  extent. A supermarket bill took his account 
overdrawn by £49 on 20 June and it seems he borrowed from family and made no further 
withdrawals until he was paid at the end of that month. Mr H went overdrawn again (by £20 
or so) in July, about  a week  after his June pay. He borrowed from family to cover this, 
though an unauthorised overdraft charge and a payment to a debt management company 
took him into deficit again. Mr H didnt  use the account again  until he was paid at the end of 
July. It seems he was out of money  again  mid-August when he applied  to DTW.
The CRA analysis  shows two payments to debt collection agencies in July - one for £53, the 
other for £30 which is referred to as an initial  payment. DTW noted  in its final response  to 
Mr H that he had two defaulted accounts on his credit file from 2009 and 2016. It later said to 
this Service that  It is our understanding that these were 2 payments relating to each of the 
2 historic defaults from 2016 and 2017.  These commitments were  being met, along with 2 
other current credit accounts. 
I can see from the credit file report (provided by DTW) that the defaults comprised a current 
account (about £2,400) and a communications account (about £1,600).  Mr H recalls that the 
former was defaulted in early 2017  and the latter in late 2017  or early 2018. The actual 
report dates show the current account  as running from 06/05/2009 to 22/06/2016 and the 
communications account running from 02/10/2016 to 01/10/2017. Even without establishing 
exactly when these  two accounts went into default, I dont think  DTWs view of them  as 
historic debt is completely  reasonable, given  at least one of them is likely to have been  
within a year of the loan.  
Altogether, on balance, I think DTW should have reasonably suspected that Mr H was 
having problems  managing his money: he was overspending and relying  on family 
donations/loans; he was repaying significant default  sums and appeared to have started  new 
payments to a debt collection  agency. And I dont think it was fair to have agreed to lend to 
him under these  circumstances.
1 By which I mean Mr Hs main account  where his salary  was deposited. It seems Mr H also had 
another account and moved money back and forth between these.
Ref: DRN58729354I dont think further  investigation or a wider analysis  would  have given  DTW  any reassurance  
that Mr H would be able to meet his repayments sustainably  over the two years of the 
agreement. Had it enquired into Mr Hs debt management payments, for example, or looked 
at his bank transactions from August, I think it would have  learnt that in addition  to the two 
payments mentioned, Mr H had made  payments to another two debt collection agencies in 
the first few days of August  a total of £146 to one and a token payment of £1 to another.  
Mr H has mentioned spending money on gambling. There were  some betting transactions  
shown on the CRA  analysis in June and July but not to the extent that I think  would have 
raised concerns  for DTW. However,  I think that in August the frequency and amount of these  
transactions (as seen on Mr Hs bank statements) especially  combined  with the timing and 
pattern of his cash withdrawals would have caused concern to the lender  had it taken these 
into account when  making its lending decision. 
I can see from the statement of account  for the loan that Mr H appears to have missed 
payments from the onset  and made  overpayments  to keep his account  up to date. It seems  
he stopped making  payments after about  ten months and I understand an outstanding 
balance remains.
In summary,  I think it was irresponsible of DTW to have agreed to lend to Mr H and so I am 
upholding his complaint. 
what DTW  needs  to do to put things right
Ive found that DTW was irresponsible  to have agreed credit for Mr H in August 2018. In 
order to put things right for him DTW should:
remove any interest and charges included in the outstanding loan balance;  
treat all payments  that Mr H has made  as payments towards  the capital borrowed 
(£1,500); 
if Mr Hs repayments come  to more than the capital borrowed,  these should be 
refunded to him along with 8% simple interest* per annum to these amounts from the 
date they were paid to the date of refund;
if however, a capital  balance  remains then DTW should treat Mr H sympathetically 
which may mean agreeing a repayment  plan with him; 
remove any adverse information  about  this loan from Mr Hs credit file once its been 
settled; and 
revoke the Bill of Sale for Mr Hs car if this is still in place and return  any relevant 
documents to him.
*HM Revenue & Customs  requires DTW to deduct tax from this interest. It should  give Mr H a certificate  showing 
how much  tax it has deducted,  if he asks for one.
Ref: DRN58729355my final decision
For the reasons  given,  I am upholding Mr Hs complaint about DTW Associates Limited 
(trading as Auto Advance Logbook Loans)  and direct it to put things  right for him as Ive set 
out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 April 2021.
Michelle Boundy
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN5872935