K820x#14complaint
Mr Ks complaint is about the Self Invested  Personal Pension (SIPP) he had with 
Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited. He considers that Hargreaves provided 
misleading information about how his pension could be paid to his daughter in the event of 
his death. 
background
Mr K opened  his SIPP with Hargreaves Lansdown  in 2013. He completed a death  benefit 
nomination form where his first nominee  was his wife, and the second  was his daughter.    
Mr K has said that, at the time, his daughter  didnt  meet the criteria to qualify as a 
dependent for death benefit purposes. However this changed  with the introduction of new 
pensions legislation  in 2015. This provided more flexibility in how pension death benefits  
could be paid and Mr Ks daughter became what the trusts rules referred to as an Eligible 
Recipient.
Sadly Mr Ks wife passed away  in 2016.  So his daughter automatically became the sole 
nominee. And she was eligible to receive the pension benefits under the new legislation.    
Mr K understood that on his death  his daughter would  have  the option to take the pension  
benefits either as a lump sum, or as income  through the drawdown plan. 
Mr K subsequently discovered that this wasnt the case. Hargreaves said it was only able to 
set up a nominee drawdown  account for a person residing in the European  Economic Area  
(EEA) with a UK bank account. As Mr Ks daughter  resided outside of the EEA it could only 
pay her the pension benefits  as a lump sum. It wouldnt  allow  her to draw the pension 
benefits as an income  through  a drawdown arrangement. 
Mr K is concerned that as the value of his SIPP is over £400,000 there will be significant tax 
deducted if the benefits are paid out to his daughter as a lump sum. 
One of our investigators  considered Mr Ks complaint. She didnt recommend that the 
complaint should  be upheld.  In summary, she said that Hargreaves had to act in line with the 
rules and regulations  it was governed  by and, as it wasnt registered or regulated to conduct  
business with non-EEA members  it would be breaching the regulations if it did. And she 
didnt think it would  have  been possible for Hargreaves  to cover off all eventualities in its 
documentation/scheme literature.
She explained that the expression of wish form wasnt a legally binding  document. Although 
she accepted  that Mr Ks daughter was an eligible recipient under the schemes rules, she 
didnt think it was wrong for Hargreaves not to offer a nominee drawdown account in the 
circumstances. 
The investigator also noted that Hargreaves had allowed Mr K to transfer his SIPP  to 
another provider  that allowed payment of benefits to his daughter  on his death through  
income drawdown. It had waived the costs usually  applied on transfer.  The investigator 
thought this had been fair and reasonable in the circumstances  and she didnt recommend 
that Hargreaves needed to do anything more.
Ref: DRN54409112Mr K didnt agree with the investigators findings.  And he asked  that his case  be passed to 
as ombudsman for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
conclusions as the investigator, and largely  for the same reasons. 
Mr K has said both the firm and investigator failed to respond  to some of the issues  hes 
raised. Hes questioned the value  of a firms complaints procedure  and an independent 
complaints scheme where  elements of the complaint arent  addressed. 
I appreciate why Mr K wants  answers to all of his queries. However thats not strictly  our 
role. Our job is to investigate a complaint  and decide  whether we think a firm has done 
something wrong. And where  we think its done  something wrong  decide  how best to put that 
right. Our aim is to do so fairly, reasonably, quickly and informally.  So although we will 
consider all the evidence thats been  presented and everything thats been said, we wont  
necessarily address each  and every point thats  been made by either party.  Rather we focus 
on those issues that we think are central  to reaching a fair and reasonable outcome on the 
matter.
Generally speaking, its a firms own commercial decision  as to what type of products it 
wants to offer. If it doesnt offer the type of product and/or a particular  feature  usually 
associated with a product  that a consumer  wants, they have the opportunity to shop around 
for a product  with a different provider that has the particular features that they require. 
However in this case Mr K already had his SIPP. But my understanding  is that when it was 
originally arranged his daughter didnt  qualify as a dependent  in order to have  the pension  
paid on Mr Ks death in the manner he now requires. So I dont think this is a case where    
Mr K was originally misled into choosing a product  that didnt really  suit his needs.  
I think whats material here is the information  that was provided  to Mr K following the 
changes to pension  legislation  that came  into force in April 2015.  I accept  that Mr K may 
have understood  that, once the new legislation came into force it was merely a matter  of 
applying the existing terms to the new legislation and his own circumstances. But the earlier 
information referred to the income option for dependents.  And Mr Ks daughter wasnt a 
dependent as defined. 
The new legislation provided  for major changes to the way that pension death benefits  could 
be paid. So I dont  think it follows that the old terms would apply in a different legislative  
landscape. And the legislation  was enabling  it didnt oblige firms to change  their products 
to offer all the additional flexibilities  allowed under the changes. 
I accept that both the original and revised  terms didnt  specifically  exclude  the payment  of 
benefits through income drawdown  on death  where the dependent/recipient  was resident 
outside of the EEA.  So I accept that Mr K may have been misled  given  his particular 
circumstances and intentions. I also agree with him that there is now a greater likelihood  that 
nominees may reside outside of the EEA. 
But like the investigator, I dont  think the firm could reasonably be expected  to explain each 
and every circumstance  where the drawdown option may not be given. And I think the terms 
Ref: DRN54409113will likely cover the vast majority of cases;  albeit the firm could have included a general  
caveat that there might  be specific circumstances where some  options are limited  as a 
warning. But the Trust rules did provide that the way death benefits would be paid was at the 
Scheme Administrators  absolute discretion.  So there was never a guarantee the benefits 
would be paid in the manner that Mr K anticipated.
Having said all that, even  if I accepted  the firm did something wrong and it was at fault for 
misleading Mr K, Id then need to consider how the firm should put that right.  As Ive said,  its 
largely the firms decision  as to how it adapts  its products. So as payment via income 
drawdown to a nominee outside the EEA wasnt  something  it was offering, I think  the 
equitable way to resolve the matter was to allow Mr K to transfer to a SIPP provider that 
would provide that feature  without  penalty  which it did. 
Mr K has raised concerns about  the way the firm handled his complaint. Whilst I understand 
he naturally wants to tie up all the loose ends, I think whats  material  here  is that Mr K is 
now in the position he understood he was in, and wanted to be in. Although the firm could 
have been timelier in its responses, I think, ultimately, its resolved the matter  in a fair and 
reasonable way. And in my view thats whats key. 
my final decision
Accordingly, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ks complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 March  2019.
David Ashley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5440911