K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains Lloyds  Bank PLC mis-sold  him a savings plan. Mr Ms daughter has 
represented him in bringing this complaint, but for ease Ill refer to Mr M throughout.
background
Mr M bought  a Linkplan policy through Lloyds in 1985. The plan was described as 
providing life insurance cover and a cash  return   and said the provider would  pay a certain 
amount if Mr M died, as well as building  a cash value over time.
Mr M continued to pay into the policy over the years, although he says he spoke to the 
provider at regular  intervals. He says he asked about surrendering the policy  but the 
surrender value was generally much less than hed paid in, so he carried on with it.
In late 2018, Mr M complained to Lloyds. He said hed been sold the policy  mainly  as a 
savings vehicle, and was unhappy that all these years later he still could only cash it in for 
less than hed paid towards it.
Lloyds didnt uphold  Mr Ms complaint. It explained  it didnt think  it had advised Mr M to take 
out this policy.  While the amount of documentary evidence from the time was limited, it noted  
the provider didnt hold a record  of any selling agent  (or adviser)  and none was noted  on the 
confirmation letter Mr M was sent when the policy started. Instead  Mr M was offered  a free 
gift  which Lloyds  said was more likely an indication  Mr M had taken out the policy directly, 
in response to promotional materials.
Mr M wasnt satisfied  and brought his complaint to our service,  where  it was looked into by 
one of our adjudicators. The adjudicator  didnt  think  Lloyds  had mis-sold Mr M his policy,  
either. He didnt think Lloyds had advised  Mr M, and thought  the policy documents had been 
clear about  how it would work. He thought the policy had operated as it was intended  to and 
didnt think Mr M had been misled.
Mr M didnt  agree, and asked for an ombudsmans decision. He said the staff in Lloyds 
whod sold him the policy  said it was a superior investment product which  would produce 
significant investment growth.  He said Lloyds hadnt made  sure he understood the product 
and he was now struggling to maintain the payment  of the policy  premiums.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The first question for me to answer is whether  Lloyds recommended  Mr M take out this 
policy, or merely  facilitated the sale and helped  him apply for it. Ive considered Mr Ms 
recollections about this carefully, although  Im mindful that the sale happened nearly 35 
years ago and, naturally,  memories can fade and become less distinct over time.
Ive also given weight  to the (admittedly  limited)  documentary evidence  from the time thats  
been supplied.  Its the case that, had advice been  given,  Id have expected  to see the 
adviser or selling agent details within the application forms and confirmation letter. Its less 
likely Lloyds  would have  offered gifts or incentives  to Mr M directly  as it did in the 
confirmation letter  had he taken the policy out through an adviser. 
Ref: DRN52847512Overall I agree with our adjudicator that, on balance, its more  likely than not Mr M took this 
policy out without  advice. So Ive gone on to consider the information Mr M was given to see 
whether it accurately described the nature of the policy.
The policy terms explain  that the cash value will increase in line with any growth  in the 
investment units Mr Ms premiums are used to buy. But that some units  may be cancelled  in 
order to pay for the life cover element of the policy.
This balance  between investment and life cover  is also, in my view,  explained clearly in the 
promotional literature Mr M himself  provided  to our service as part of our investigation. I 
agree that the leaflet says Mr M will see some return for his money whether or not the policy 
pays out due to death or surrender. But I dont agree the policy was positioned as mainly  a 
savings vehicle.
The leaflet says the Linkplan is primarily [] straightforward life insurance.  It says that Mr 
Ms contributions will be linked to the performance of a fund, which  if it performed well would 
grow the amount of life cover  the policy provided.  And the funds performance (if good 
enough) would mean the cash  value  of your plan goes on growing too. Ive not seen 
anything to suggest the policy said Mr M would make a particular amount through saving or 
that the returns and surrender value were  guaranteed  to exceed his contributions.
Ultimately, I think  this policy  was described  as life cover that would also build  up some cash 
value. Thats what it has done  and so I dont think it was misleadingly described.
I understand Mr Ms strength of feeling about  his complaint. Im sure hes disappointed  the 
surrender value hasnt gone up by more while hes had the policy. But Im not persuaded 
Lloyds mis-sold the policy to him, so I dont think it would  be fair to require  it to pay him any 
compensation here.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 October  2019.
Luke Gordon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5284751