K820x#14complaint
Mr M says Financial  Insurance Company Limited (FICL) mis-sold him a payment  protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr M bought  the policy in 1997 at the same time as taking out a store  card. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr M disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaint  has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here),  I reach my conclusions on the balance  
of probabilities  that is, what I think is most  likely to have happened in light of the available 
evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ms case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ms complaint  and Ive set out my reasons below.
 Mr M says he didnt  know  the PPI had been added to his account, and that he wouldnt  
have agreed to buy it. Ive noted  everything Mr M has said.  The difficulty  I have is that I 
cant be sure what was discussed  between Mr M and the sales person  when  the policy 
was sold. Im also mindful that these events happened many years ago. I can also see 
that the store card application form was completed to show  that Mr M wanted the 
cover.
I accept that its possible  PPI wasnt discussed at the time, but its equally likely that it 
was  although I can understand why Mr M may no longer remember  this. Without 
anything else to support  what Mr M has told me, I havent been able to safely conclude 
that he wasnt made aware that he had a choice about buying the PPI. 
 FICL  didnt recommend the PPI to Mr M so it didnt have to check if it was suitable  for 
him. That means it didnt  have to ask about other means he had to cover  his 
repayments. 
 Its possible the information FICL gave Mr M about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it should  
have been. But its unlikely Mr M would have been affected by any of the main  things 
the policy didnt  cover, and the policy had a reasonable benefit. So I dont think  better 
information wouldve  stopped  him buying  it.
Ref: DRN59946052my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 March  2019.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5994605