K820x#14complaint
Mr G and Mrs V are unhappy  that their Sabre Insurance Company Limited motor insurance 
policy was cancelled because an additional premium wasnt paid. Mrs V is a named driver 
on Mr Gs policy.  
background
The broker  found  out that a previous  accident  hadnt been declared by Mr G and Mrs V 
when the policy underwritten by Sabre was taken out. The premium  was adjusted  to take it 
into account and Mr G was asked to pay an extra £185.24. Unfortunately  Mr G paid this sum 
onto his credit card account in the mistaken belief it was being  paid to his motor  insurer. He 
was sent some further letters  asking for payment and warning that failure to do so would 
result in the policy being cancelled. But he thought  these letters were an error and ignored 
them. His policy was cancelled and he was sent a refund of some  premium.
The brokers  final response letter set out that Mrs V was asked a clear question when the 
policy was taken out about whether there were any accidents, claims or damages in the last 
five years.  She said there  werent any. So when  the undeclared  previous  claim came to light 
the policy was updated and an additional  premium was requested. Unfortunately it appears 
this amount was paid into Mr Gs credit  card but wasnt in turn debited to his broker to pay 
for the extra premium.  In effect Mr G paid off a portion of his credit cards  outstanding 
balance instead  of paying for his car insurance.  Itd sent him all relevant notices informing 
him his policy  would be cancelled. 
Our investigator felt that this complaint shouldnt be upheld. She said:
Mr G and Mrs V say that an accident in 2016 was insignificant.  But they were aware 
itd affected their insurance premium previously and they were required to notify  
Sabre of it when  asked if theyd any accidents  in the previous five years. Because of 
this an additional  £185.24 premium was asked for. 
As this wasnt paid another letter was sent to Mr G reminding him to make the 
payment. Mr G then paid £185.24 onto one of his credit cards thinking  he was paying 
the additional premium. But that wasnt a way hed been  told to pay this amount. 
Because the additional premium wasnt received the policy  was cancelled as Mr G 
had been warned  it would be. This was in line with the policy terms. Mr G was 
subsequently offered  a new policy but declined this offer. 
Mr G doesnt agree  and has asked  for an ombudsman review.  He says there a number of 
legal entities involved in his insurance and he thought hed paid the extra premium to the 
correct company and in the same way hed paid the previous premium. A company shouldnt  
hide behind  the fine print of an agreement. Cancellation of the policy was totally  unjustified 
and disproportionate.  Cancellation couldve had devastating consequences.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN50604382Sabre hasnt provided us with any additional information since  it was named in this complaint 
but I have enough information  available from the other parties  involved in dealing with Mr Gs 
insurance policy to make  my decision.
There has been considerable  confusion  about the identity  of the underwriter of Mr Gs policy  
and which  business  is the correct one to deal with this complaint. Mr G suggests  Sabre isnt 
the correct business to deal with his complaint. And Sabre says the complaint should  be 
directed to the broker. Mr G also says the policys underwriter isnt clearly identified or shown 
and its unfairly attempted to hide behind  small print. But Im afraid  I dont agree. 
I understand how confusing it was for Mr G and Mrs V to keep track of all the various trading 
entities, names and parties involved in the sale, administration  and provision of this policy.  
Even so the policy schedule  and documentation they were sent clearly say that this was an 
annual policy that is underwritten by Sabre. And as any decision to cancel a policy  is made 
by, or on behalf of, the underwriter of that policy and in line with the policys terms and 
conditions, I believe its appropriate for Sabre to deal with this complaint and be the 
respondent business named in it.
Furthermore the simple  fact is Sabre, or those acting on its behalf,  were entitled to ask for 
the additional premium when the undeclared accident came to light. The increased premium 
would no doubt  have been calculated  using Sabres underwriting  criteria.  
Mr G was asked for payment of the additional premium and sent reminders. He was also 
warned the policy  would be cancelled  if the money  wasnt received. Unfortunately the 
additional premium  wasnt paid within the specified time. Theres  no doubt  that Mr G thought 
the additional premium had been paid but unfortunately hed paid the additional amount into 
his credit card account. And it only reduced  his outstanding credit  card balance rather  than 
paying the extra premium.   
When payment wasnt received the policy was cancelled and some premium  was refunded 
to Mr G. That appears to be reasonable and in line with Sabres policy  terms and conditions.
Mr G also seems to have  ignored the reminders  sent to him which  was unfortunate. And 
even if he thought a mistake  had been made it wouldve been helpful for him to have 
contacted Sabre or its representatives to resolve  things. If hed done  so I think its likely  the 
cancellation may well have been  avoided.
It was also reasonable  for Mr G to be offered a new policy but I see he declined this offer as 
he was entitled  to do.
Mr G and Mrs V have  said they would like a sanction of £25,000 imposed on the policys 
underwriter. Although I understand  their strength of feeling this service isnt a regulator. We 
cant fine or punish a business or require  it to change it practices and procedures. General 
issues about how the insurance  industry works are a matter for the Financial Conduct 
Authority. 
I understand how frustrating this has been  for Mr G and Mrs V. But taking  everything  into 
account I dont  think on balance that Sabre  has done anything wrong and I cant  fairly  or 
reasonably require it to do anything more.  
Ref: DRN50604383my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G and Mrs V to 
accept or reject my decision  before  3 July 2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5060438