K820x#14complaint
Mr W has complained about AXA Insurance UK Plc. He isnt happy about the way it dealt 
with a claim under his commercial motor insurance policy.
background
Mr W made a claim under his insurance policy after he was involved in an accident. AXA 
looked into repairing  the car, but the repair  was problematic. This was because the car had 
been written off and repaired previously. And although the accident damage  was to the 
opposite area of the car. The previous damage  (to the front of the car) affected the chassis 
and AXAs repairer wouldnt repair the car. This was because  the original damage was 
impacting on the new repair.
AXA offered  a cash-in-lieu settlement of £7,964.96 in order  that Mr W could get the car fixed  
himself. Or it said it would  repair the car if Mr W got the pre-existing damage repaired 
himself. But Mr W wasnt  happy about this, so he complained to this service. 
Our investigator looked into things for him. But she didnt uphold  his complaint. This was 
because she thought AXA hadnt  acted  unreasonably. Mr W didnt  agree,  and he thought 
that AXA should fully repair the car as he didnt believe the damage was pre-existing or pay 
him £10,000 and return  the car.
As Mr W didnt agree  the matter has been  passed  to me for review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Im not upholding this 
complaint. Ill explain  why.
I can understand Mr Ws position. He bought the car after it had been  written off previously 
and got it repaired  himself. And he had driven the car for a number of years after it had been  
repaired and before he was involved in this accident, and the car had passed a number of 
MOTs. But the evidence,  from the repairing garages  and AXAs independent  engineer, 
suggests that although the car was driveable  the original damage from the earlier  repair 
wasnt repaired properly. The chassis had sustained damage when it was written  off 
previously that wasnt fully repaired.
As such,  I can understand why AXAs repairer isnt able to fully repair the car now without 
having to repair the original chassis damage.  And as this damage didnt happen in this 
accident then it isnt responsible for this. So, I dont think AXAs  CIL offer of £7,964.96  is 
unreasonable. I say this as this will cover the damage sustained in this accident and I 
wouldnt expect AXA to have to pay more than this. Indeed, it has offered to undertake  the 
repairs once Mr W has repaired the original damage if he would  prefer  which seems  
reasonable.
I have considered the reports  and evidence provided by Mr W. He provided his own report 
that highlighted some of the repair work  his repairer had undertaken originally including  
welding to the front of the car. Mr W seemed  to highlight in his report  that he didnt  feel there 
was any chassis damage to this area of the car. But the pictures  he provided, and his 
Ref: DRN57016922subsequent independent  report  clearly  highlighted the very  poor repair to the front of the car 
which tends to support  AXAs findings.  
Plus, if Mr W doesnt feel there  is damage  to the front of the car then AXAs CIL offer would 
allow him to repair  the car without any additional  cost. However, Mr Ws own engineers  
report seems  to agree with AXAs (in the main). He suggests the car should be written off 
again now and that Mr W should be paid a total loss payment. But as the damage to the rear 
of the car sustained  in this accident  was repairable, and Im satisfied that any other damage 
to the front of the car and chassis  was pre-existing, I dont think AXAs offer is unreasonable.
I know Mr Ws car has passed  several  MOTs since the original repair. But this only shows 
the car was roadworthy and could be used on the road, as opposed to a detailed review of 
previous damage  sustained. I accept the car was roadworthy before Mr W was involved in 
this accident,  its just that AXAs repairers dont want to take responsibility  for the previous 
damage which will affect the repair of his car now and I dont think  that is unreasonable.
So, although  I can understand Mr Ws frustration, I dont think that AXA has acted 
unreasonably in offering to pay CIL for the damage sustained to the rear of the car in this 
accident. I simply leave Mr W to decide whether to accept this offer or have the front-end 
damage repaired/made good and then ask AXA to repair the damage sustained in this 
accident.
my final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above,  that I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 April 2020.
Colin Keegan
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN5701692