K820x#14complaint
Miss H complains that Aviva  Life & Pensions  UK Limited wrongly  transferred her pension to 
another provider  causing  her distress.
background
Miss H had a pension policy with Aviva. On 8 January 2019, she called  Aviva  to change  her 
address. But she was told during this call that her pension had been transferred to another  
business, who Ill refer to as B.
 
Following its investigations, Aviva discovered Miss Hs pension benefits  of £3,183 had been 
transferred to B in 2017. This was due to similarities between  Miss H and another customer. 
Administrative errors resulted in their details being merged so that their respective policies 
were transferred to B, one correctly  and one  Miss Hs  incorrectly.
In response to Miss Hs complaint, Aviva  acknowledged  it had made an error. As well as 
reinstating her pension back to the position it wouldve been but for its mistake,  it paid her 
£300 for any trouble and upset this may have  caused.
Unhappy with Avivas  response,  Miss H referred her complaint  to our service.  She said 
finding out about the error caused  her stress during her pregnancy, particularly as Aviva  
hadnt kept her informed  about what it was doing  to put things right.  So she didnt think the 
amount of compensation it had offered was fair.
 
Our investigator initially awarded Miss H a further £100 for the distress  this caused her, 
bringing the total compensation  to £400.  This was because it appeared Aviva  hadnt taken 
Miss Hs concerns seriously  when she first called  in early January.  In response, Aviva  
provided further submissions showing it had taken  immediate  action  to investigate and 
recover the transferred  pension  benefits. So our investigator revised her view concluding 
Aviva had acted promptly, reinstating Miss Hs pension policy within  a reasonable timeframe.  
Therefore, she considered the £300 compensation Aviva paid Miss H, was fair.
Miss H disagreed with the investigators view.  So the matter  has been  passed to me for a 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not going to uphold 
the complaint.  Ill explain  why.
Its not in dispute  that Aviva made an error  when  it transferred Miss Hs pension to another 
provider. And I can see that Aviva  reinstated the policy  back into the position it should  have 
been but for its error  by 4 March 2019   this included adding any financial gains due to the 
growth of the underlying investments. So the only matter for me to decide  is the level of 
compensation for the distress  and inconvenience  caused to Miss H.
When Miss H contacted Aviva in early January and found out what  had happened, Im sure 
this caused her stress and worry. A pension is an important part of saving for retirement and 
I dont underestimate  that finding  out an error had occurred would be upsetting.
Ref: DRN59263522But I can see Aviva  reinstated Miss Hs policy back to the position  it would  have been  but for 
its mistake. And it did so within a reasonable timeframe following her call in early  January 
2019. Aviva  requested the funds back from B within two weeks  of Miss Hs call and once this 
was received it reinstated her pension by early March 2019.
I accept Miss H called  Aviva for an update on 23 January  2019,  two weeks  after her initial 
call. But by this time Aviva  had already contacted  B requesting a refund of the pension  
benefits. I can also see from the communications between Miss H and Aviva during January  
and February 2019, that it did make efforts to keep  her reasonably  informed about its 
investigations. And on 6 February, around  four weeks  after the error came to light, Miss H 
was told that her pension  would  be reinstated  when the funds had been received from B. 
Once the money had been  returned  by B, the pension was reinstated.  It all took less than 
two months from Miss Hs initial call, for Aviva to put things right.
Im sorry  to hear that Miss H considers finding out about the error has affected her health 
whilst she was pregnant.  But I note she only became aware of the error two months  before 
things were put right. And as noted above, she was told by Aviva at an early stage that she 
was likely to receive a full refund. Therefore I think the £300 compensation paid by Aviva  for 
the distress and inconvenience  caused,  is fair.
So whilst I appreciate  how strongly  Miss H feels about this situation,  for the reasons Ive set 
out above, I wont be asking Aviva  to do anything further.
my final decision
Im not upholding the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 October  2019.
Yolande McLeod
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5926352