K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains about the lack of advice or service provided by Alexander  Beard Investment 
Management Limited (AB). He says that if advice had been given when requested  his 
pension drawdown  value would be higher and therefore he would not be facing such a 
reduction in income  from the drawdown  plan.  Mr B has also questioned the suitability of the 
Self Invested Personal Pension  (SIPP) that he was originally advised to take out by AB.  
background
I have noted that Mr Bs wife has an identical complaint to Mr B and I will also consider that 
complaint. Mrs B is representing  Mr B in this complaint so I will refer to Mrs Bs submissions. 
Mr B has a pension drawdown  plan where his pension funds are invested and the income 
that can be taken  (without  reducing  the capital  value) is dependent on investment returns. 
My understanding is that the drawdown has been in place since 2012. In 2018 Mr B noted  
that the recent investment  return  would lead to a significant reduction in income. 
My understanding is that Mr B is unhappy  with the lack of advice since 2015 and that he 
believes his current situation could have been  mitigated had better advice been provided.
Mr B referred his complaint to this service and it was considered by an investigator.  He 
thought that AB should have undertaken a review in 2017. But he thought it unlikely there  
would have been any changes made at that point  as to how the drawdown was invested.  
So he did not uphold  that part of the complaint. However he thought the lack of a 
review/customer service warranted  an award and he suggested AB pay Mr B £250.
Mrs B, on behalf of Mr B, did not accept that adjudicators assessment. She said that they 
had only seen the adviser once since 2015  and when they did see him in 2017, there  was 
little discussion of the drawdown  only that it needed tweaking. She remained unhappy 
with the recent returns of the drawdown.   
Mrs B added later that, on reflection, she did not believe the SIPP was suitable  as they could 
not monitor the investments themselves. She said that, on advice  for another financial 
adviser, they had moved their investments into a Managed Fund. 
AB was advised of this and asked whether it would agree to this issue being considered as 
part of this complaint.  It queried whether the complaint  had been  made  too late. The 
investigator then considered the time limits  and it was his opinion  that the complaint had 
been made in time. AB accepted that and confirmed it was happy  for the advice  about  the 
SIPP to be considered. 
An investigator then reviewed the complaint about  ongoing management and the original 
advice to take out the pension. She did not think the advice to take out the SIPP  was 
unsuitable. She thought the SIPP was appropriate  considering that Mr and Mrs Bs objective 
was to use drawdown in future.  And that it allowed  them to take out some investments that 
were not available through their previous pensions. She also thought that the drawdown was 
invested appropriately since 2014  at an agreed  risk level.  The investments were  chosen 
for the long term.  
Mrs B responded on behalf of Mr B. She did not agree and made  some  further  submissions. 
In summary  she:
Ref: DRN55417412Set out the background and history  leading up to their meeting with the adviser in 
question.
Set out that there was very little contact with the adviser after he became their 
financial adviser and no assessments were undertaken  on her pension  or any 
suggestions made.
Said their risk level had not been  an issue in 10 years  of receiving service from the 
business and they were  not advised to change their risk level. 
Pointed out that advisers  from the business  had been managing  Mr Bs pension  prior 
to the advisers  involvement. They did not have  the time or inclination  to manage the 
funds themselves. Their  new adviser  changed  the investments to a managed  
portfolio, not the adviser complained  of.
Said it was only when the adviser in question  took over as their financial  adviser  that 
their pensions  started doing  badly  as they were not monitored anymore.
Said it seems that a financial adviser can take fees in respect of a pension every year 
regardless as to whether it has made any money  and has no responsibility for the 
performance.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
suitability of the SIPP
Mrs B has concerns about the original advice  to take out the SIPP.  
I have seen a Financial Planning Report  dated  29 July 2008  for Mr and Mrs B. This sets out 
the advisers recommendations in respect  of their pension  planning.
It was set out that they were directors  of their own company. Mr Bs pension value was about 
£224,000. A switch to a new SIPP arrangement was recommended  on the basis that a wider 
range of investments could be held (that was discussed in detail) within the new pension 
contract and bearing  in mind that there  were no penalties on switching from the current 
pension. It was explained that the charges were slightly higher on the SIPP than the existing 
contract, but it was set out what effect  that would have and that this was acceptable in the 
circumstances.  Mr Bs attitude to investment risk was set out as cautious and it was 
therefore recommended that he invest in certain  offshore money  market  (cash based) 
funds. There is mention that this kind of investment was being made because of the current 
volatility in equity markets  (2007/2008 was a very volatile period for such  markets and I can 
see why such a decision was being  made considering Mr Bs attitude to risk).
Bearing this mind I do not believe  the advice was unsuitable for Mr B. There  were reasons 
for the switch to a SIPP and the risk he was taking was in line with his risk tolerance.  
Mrs B has mentioned that she does not believe the SIPP was suitable  because of the need  
for monitoring of the investments within it. It is not entirely clear  whether it is the SIPP that is 
referred to here or the drawdown. But in any event,  a SIPP   does not necessarily require the 
Ref: DRN55417413kind of monthly monitoring that is suggested. A SIPP is a pension  wrapper  within which  
investments can be held. The evidence suggests that Mr B opted for that because of the 
wide range  of investments that could  be held. Although a SIPP, like other  pensions,  gives 
the opportunity  for regular dealing if the policyholder requires, that is not required and that 
is not the only reason for taking out a SIPP.  A SIPP can hold long term investments with an 
intended low turnover  of any such investments.  A SIPP doesnt require highly active  
management and high frequency reviews as is suggested.  So I dont believe it is unsuitable 
for that reason. 
monitoring of the drawdown/reviews
I appreciate that Mr B understands that returns cant be identical every  year but I think it 
would be helpful  to firstly confirm that, however well a pension or portfolio like Mr Bs is 
overseen, there are no guarantees that it will produce a positive return  or any particular level 
of return. In fact it could  decrease in value.  The management  of investments calls for making 
decisions about, for example, the future economic situation. Making a decision that turns out 
to be wrong or less beneficial is not necessarily  proof of wrongdoing and the situation should 
not be viewed  with hindsight. 
I say this as, whilst in the early years the returns  on the investments within  the drawdown 
were significant, there was no guarantee this would continue  there was inevitably some  
volatility of returns.  It would be wrong  to expect as a matter of course that such  performance  
would continue. And there is no guarantee that any changes that are made to a portfolio 
would yield better  results,  however much  risk is taken. It should also be borne in mind that 
taking more risk brings with it the consequential increase in the risk of losses.  This is a 
difficult balance where significant returns are needed but the risk of losses has to be 
mitigated. I have noted the recent change that Mr B has made to his investments within  the 
drawdown  but there is no guarantee that this will provide the kind of return or income he is 
seeking.
If a guaranteed income is required then that would normally mean an annuity of some  kind.  
However that generally brings with it a lack of flexibility and normally less income than would 
be possible  with a drawdown plan  certainly  likely less than the level of income  Mr B was 
taking. 
Having said that, I have considered the particular facts of Mr Bs complaint. Mrs B says that 
with better  monitoring and advice the returns/income from the drawdown would have been 
better. 
From what  I can see, Mr and Mrs B entered into drawdown because they wished to take an 
income from their pensions but didnt wish to opt for fixed annuity of some kind.  I have seen 
a report from an AB adviser dated  7 March 2012  for Mr and Mrs B. This sets out that their 
attitude to risk was Profile 4 on a scale from one to ten. It is stated that:
Your preferred investment portfolio is likely to be mainly low-risk investments such as cash  
and bonds, with a few higher-risk investments such as shares.
The ways  in which to take income  are also discussed, as are the advantages and 
disadvantages of doing so including:
Taking withdrawals may erode the capital value  of the fund, especially if investment
returns are poor and a high level of income  is being  taken, this could result in a lower
Ref: DRN55417414income when the annuity is eventually purchased and could  also affect the long term
financial security of your spouse.
This makes your use of the £20.502.40 crucial because pensions are intended to be used to
provide income  for life. You have stated that the reason  tor taking  maximum GAD  in the
drawdown year ending 1 April 2012 is to add the £20,502.40  to other  personal  savings  lo
buy a property at or below market value for the purposes of achieving a rental  income.
And:
Withdrawing too much income  in early years  may have an adverse effect on preserving
your pension purchasing  power or preserving  the capital value of your fund.
It is also highlighted that:
With regard to annuities, although you have been very specific in stating that you do 
not wish  to buy annuities because you believe rates are at historical lows, you should 
be aware of the following:
There follows a warning  that annuity  rates may fall in future.
When Mr B entered into drawdown his attitude to risk was noted as lowest  medium.  It was 
then discussed  where  Mr Bs pension funds were currently invested (which was mostly cash) 
and that in order to generate the kind of yield required would probably require taking an 
investment risk of an Investor Profile 4. It was set out that:
I do not think you can be confident of meeting critical yield with your current investment 
strategy. This means that your long term income  security is at risk.
You should discuss increasing  your actual investment risk more in line with a typical Investor
Profile 4. This is the lowest  medium risk measure, and might  be considered the least risky 
portfolio suited to drawdown.
I know that you may not take any further  income  for the time being,  but now that you have
requested income  for the first lime, the matter of managing investment risk and meeting 
critical yield becomes ever more important.
If you continue to invest with low risk, as you are doing currently, I would urge you to
consider another retirement solution, which may mean buying  annuities,  despite your 
reluctance to do this.
I think, bearing in mind  the evidence, that it is clear that Mr and Mrs B did not wish to opt for 
annuities. So the drawdown was an appropriate  option. 
Mr Bs attitude to risk would then influence the level of risk that could be taken with the 
investments within  drawdown. As I have said it was not simply  a case  of taking more risk to 
generate higher returns, when those  returns could not be guaranteed and any losses  might 
be greater. This would expose Mr B pension to increased risk, and in combination  with high 
levels of income, could have placed  him in a worse position than he is now.  It was 
appropriate for the adviser to choose an investment balance which was commensurate with 
the risk that were acceptable  to Mr B. What was chosen in terms of investments was well 
diversified across many different assets   at a risk level acceptable to Mr B.
Ref: DRN55417415The level of income being taken was:
2016 About £23,000 from a pension value of about £184,000,  or about 13%
2017 About £28,000 from a pension value of about 196,000, or about  14%
In 2018 the pension value  was about  £174,000
So a high level of income was being taken  which would then affect  that pension value. It 
appears that this might  have been required for investments in property.
One of the material  issues  Mrs B has raised is the monitoring or management of the 
drawdown after it was taken out  particularly after 2015. In terms of monitoring I have  noted  
that the client agreement which Mr and Mrs B signed  in 2009 sets out:
With regards to investments which we have arranged for you, these will not be kept under 
review but we will advise  you upon your request.
AB were not monitoring the drawdown  on an active basis  but reviews could take place  
from time to time if that was felt necessary.  It would be for Mr and Mrs B to decide  what  level 
of income they wished  to take and take note of their pension values (as it appears  they did) 
and then request  any advice  they needed. I have not seen evidence  that AB indicated to Mr 
and Mrs B that they would  provide the kind of active monitoring  and reviews  they put 
forward, AB were not managing their investments on a daily basis.  What it was doing was 
meeting at intervals with them to see if any changes were necessary, that is very different 
than active day to day management. Given the investment that was chosen I do not believe  
that necessarily inappropriate in any event. The investment or portfolio was made up of a 
wide range  of underlying asset  classes at various different risk levels. It would be something 
that wouldnt require  particularly active reviews  it was a medium  to long term investment 
designed to produce returns over time at a certain risk level. 
It is apparent that significant returns were achieved in the early years  of the drawdown  at 
an agreed risk level. But in a recent year the returns significantly  reduced.  This would be a 
time to review the situation  as Mr and Mrs B did. I can see that in early 2018 AB emailed  
Mrs B to set out what investment returns had been  achieved recently, where  the pensions 
were invested, what the pension  values  were and that Mr and Mrs B should  consider the 
income they were  taking.  But that it is not evidence that some earlier reviews should 
necessarily have happened.  Even then, considering that the investments were yielding 
appreciable returns, whether any proactive changes would have been made. And in any 
event, as I have discussed  earlier, that any assumed action would have produced a better 
result.
I note that AB has produced a letter of March  2018 which discussed in some detail Mr and 
Mrs Bs situation and the steps they could take. But Mrs B has disputed its authenticity and 
says it was not received. I have therefore  discounted it as evidence in my assessment. 
My view is that Mr B was likely made aware  of the general risks of drawdown, that 
investment returns of any level were not guaranteed and that income could affect  the capital 
value of the pension. That income  subsequently fell to a level that it did is unfortunate but a 
foreseeable consequence of drawdown in a given situation. I can see why Mrs B would have 
liked more regular reviews but I dont agree that this would have likely remedied the position 
Ref: DRN55417416in which  Mr and Mrs B find themselves.  There is no ideal solution to the kind of income they 
require at the risk level that is acceptable. It is not clear that any earlier review should have 
taken place or that in any event that would have avoided the position Mr B is in now. As I 
have said, there is no guarantee that the way in which  Mr B is investing now will produce any 
improved results, although I am sympathetic to Mr Bs situation and hope it does.  
I note that it is suggested that it seems a pension  fund can not produce  the returns  required 
but the adviser can still charge fees.  That is true, because not producing  a hoped for level of 
return is not necessarily evidence that the adviser  has done something  wrong.  His new 
investment will probably be charged on the same basis. 
I do note however that a review was due to take place in 2017 but this does not appear to 
have happened. So I agree with the investigators  suggestion that AB pay Mr B £250 for the 
inconvenience this would  have caused.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  but only in respect of the inconvenience caused in 2017.  Should  Mr B 
accept this decision, Alexander Beard Investment Management Limited  should  pay him 
£250. 
I do not uphold  the complaint in any other respect.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 February  2021.
David Bird
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN5541741