K820x#14complaint
Mr S is unhappy about the issues hes experienced trying to obtain  share  certificates that 
Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited (the business)  says it sent to him in the 
post but he never received. 
Mr S would like:
A written letter of apology.
An acknowledgement of the lessons learnt.  
Financial compensation. 
background
One of our investigators  considered the complaint but didnt think  it should be upheld. In 
summary, he said:
Hes pleased Mr S has now obtained his share  certificates. 
The business has already apologised for the service and amount of time it has taken 
to address Mr Ss concerns. So it shouldnt have  to provide  another  apology.  
The missing share  certificates  werent the result of anything  the business had done.  
The business was still proactive,  offered a practical solution  and responded in a 
timely manner. And the overall length  of time taken to resolve the matter wasnt the 
business fault. 
Although Mr S would  like compensation  in the form of the fees that the business 
might otherwise have  incurred rectifying this situation  it wouldnt be appropriate in 
the circumstances. 
The business provided him with a way to rectify  the situation without any financial 
cost to him, but he chose to follow his own path.  So the business is not now 
responsible for any costs  he mightve incurred.  
Its not appropriate for him to ask the business  to provide in writing  what it has learnt 
from the process. 
To reiterate, the share certificates going  missing wasnt the business fault, it tried to 
help resolve the situation, but Mr S chose his own path and resolved the matter 
himself.  The business  isnt required to detail what it might have learnt  from this 
process. 
Whilst he has sympathy  with Mr Ss situation, and the time and effort  it has taken to 
resolve the matter,  it wasnt  the business fault. 
Mr S disagreed with the investigators conclusions  and has asked  for an ombudsmans 
decision. His objections  remain as set out in paragraph E of his letter  dated  27 March 2019  
which effectively says a conscientious review will show that the service fell far below the 
acceptable standard. And had his complaint  been  reviewed by senior  management they 
wouldve come  to a different conclusion.   
As no agreement has been reached the matter  has been passed to me for review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN52005612Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusions for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint.  
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what  Mr S says I dont think the 
business has behaved unreasonably.
But before I explain  further why this is the case,  I think its important for me to note I very 
much recognise Mr Ss strength of feeling about  this matter. 
Hes provided detailed  submissions to support the complaint, which  Ive read and considered 
carefully. However, I hope he wont take the fact my findings focus  on what I consider to be 
the central issues, and not in as much  detail, as a discourtesy.  
The purpose of my decision isnt to address  every  single point raised under a separate  
subject heading,  its not what Im required  to do in order to reach a decision in this case. My 
role is to consider  the evidence presented by him and the business, and reach what  I think is 
an independent,  fair and reasonable decision  based  on the facts of the case. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation  and best 
industry practice, but perhaps unlike a court or tribunal  Im not bound by this. Its for me to 
decide, based on the information Ive been  given, whats more likely  than not to have  
happened. 
Its unfortunate that the share certificates  got  lost in the post but I dont think I can blame the 
business for this as it has no control over the actions of a third party  postal service.  I also 
note that the documents were sent to Mr S via recorded delivery   which  I think was 
reasonable in the circumstances  and I dont think the business  was required to do any 
more.  
I agree  with the investigator that the business wasnt at fault for not being able to provide Mr 
S with another set of share certificates. I understand that as the stockbroker and not the 
shareholder this isnt something the business can do. Instead its the registrar thats 
responsible for issuing  the share certificates in the first place. 
Notwithstanding the above, the business offered to cover the cost of the new certificates  to 
be issued which I dont  think  it had do, and continued to engage with Mr S in a timely 
manner in an effort to try and resolve the matter.      
Im aware that the business  required Mr S to sign an indemnity  letter  which he refused to 
because he was unhappy with the wording.  I understand the business did its utmost to try 
and answer his questions. 
I note Mr S independently  approached the third party businesses  he wanted shares in and 
was successful in achieving his objectives.  But Im not sure why this makes the business  
which unlike him is subject its own rules and regulations and therefore has different ways of 
doing things  is in some way responsible for Mr S not obtaining the share certificates 
sooner. I dont think it is.  
If the business had point  blank refused to engage with Mr S or had deliberately or negligently 
mislaid/lost his share certificates I think the situation wouldve been different. But in the 
Ref: DRN52005613circumstances I think it made reasonable efforts to help Mr S resolve  his difficulty when it 
probably didnt  have to.    
I appreciate Mr Ss other  point about compensation but as hes not suffered an actual 
financial loss as a result of the business actions I dont think  hes entitled  to any 
compensation, even  if the business had done something wrong.
I appreciate Mr S will be thoroughly unhappy Ive reached the same  conclusion as the 
investigator, and I realise my decision isnt what he wants to hear. Whilst I appreciate  his 
frustration, Im not going to ask the business  to do anything. 
On the face of the available evidence, Im unable to uphold this complaint and give Mr S 
what he wants.  
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award.   
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 January 2020.
Dara Islam
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5200561