K820x#14complaint
Ms P complains  that BUPA Insurance Limited  unfairly increased the premiums for her 
private medical insurance. And didnt  tell her how her premiums would be impacted by 
making a claim. 
 
background
Ms P has held a private medical insurance  policy with BUPA for some time.  During  2018,  
Ms Ps policy came up for its annual renewal. Ms P was unhappy with the increase in her 
premium since  the previous year and contacted BUPA to ask it to explain.
BUPA said itd applied an annual inflation increase as well as making adjustments based on 
where Ms P lived, her occupation  and the claims shed made. 
Ms P had advised  BUPA of a change in her occupation and had made claims against her 
policy since the previous year. 
BUPA said it couldnt provide Ms P an exact  breakdown of its calculations, but told her the 
percentages her premiums had gone up by due to her claim history  and her change in 
occupation. 
Ms P complained to BUPA. She said shed contacted BUPA in the past before going ahead 
with a claim, and had asked how much her premium  would go up by. She said she wasnt 
given enough  information about how her premiums would be impacted to allow her to make  
a decision about  whether  it would be cost-effective for her to claim. And she said she 
thought the increase which had been applied due to her change  in occupation was too high 
and didnt take into account  her personal circumstances. 
BUPA responded and said Ms P had previously  asked  about cover for a procedure and how 
making the claim would  impact her premiums. It had told Ms P that the procedure  was a high 
cost claim which  would substantially impact her premiums. But, it said it couldnt calculate  by 
how much  exactly  until after the claim had been  brought and paid, and not until six weeks 
before the date of her next annual renewal. BUPA said the information  it had given  was 
correct, and it couldnt have provided  a more detailed estimate  of Ms Ps premium increase 
ahead of her renewal period. 
BUPA said when Ms P questioned her premium increase retrospectively, after her policy 
renewed in 2018,  it provided her with a scale which clarified the percentage increase in 
premiums in relation  to the cost of a claim. It had also explained  that her premium  had 
increased due to her change in occupation.  
BUPA said it thought  it should have explained  more about the impact Ms Ps change  in 
occupation would have on her premium at the time she made  the change. Ms P was later 
able to confirm  an alternative occupation which could  be recorded, and BUPA agreed to 
amend this and backdated the change by several  months because of its mistake. This 
reduced Ms Ps premium increase significantly. BUPA  accounted for the resulting lower  
premiums by reducing Ms Ps February  and March 2019 payment amounts. 
Unhappy with BUPAs  response, Ms P brought her complaint  to this service. 
Ref: DRN55630512Ms P has since raised a complaint about  her latest  renewal increase for her policy  at the end 
of 2019. Ive put this to BUPA and in summary  it said: 
Ms P had previously  received three months cover  for free in her 2018-2019 policy 
year; 
at the renewal in 2019, Ms Ps premium increased by 4.55%; and
this increase was made up of a general scheme  increase, minus a reduction  due to 
Ms P having not made any claims the previous year.  
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision and in summary I said: 
premium increases
BUPA provided Ms P with details of the increase in her premiums in 2018 in its response  to 
her complaint. It confirmed the percentage increases which related to her change  in 
occupation and the claims shed made the previous  year.
In relation to the renewal in 2019, BUPA confirmed the increase in premium was calculated  
based on its general scheme  increase,  and also said itd applied  a reduction due to Ms P 
having not made a claim the previous year. 
I said BUPA  isnt obliged  to provide  Ms P with a more detailed  breakdown  of how it 
calculates its premium increases, as this is commercially sensitive information. However it 
provided that information to this service. I was satisfied  by the evidence Id seen, that BUPA 
applied the same table of premium increase calculations  to policyholders renewing during 
the same  period. And where an increase has been applied fairly  and consistently,  I said 
I didnt think it was unreasonable.  
At the point of each annual renewal, Ms P had the opportunity to decide whether or not to 
continue with the policy. And I said if she deems  the premiums  to be too high, or that the 
policy doesnt represent value for money, she can choose to cancel. 
change in occupation 
I noted Ms P feels very strongly  that her change in occupation made little difference  to the 
level of risk she presents  to BUPA in her given circumstances. I understand the points Ms P 
made, however  I said its up to an insurer to decide how it apportions risk against different 
occupations. And usually this will be based  on various data and statistics.  
I said we generally  take the view that its up to an insurer  to decide how much to charge for 
its policies. Provided  it exercises this judgement  fairly and consistently, in line with its 
internal guidelines, its a matter in which we wouldnt normally  interfere. Were  not 
a regulator and we cant tell a business  how much to charge for its products. 
Based on the evidence  BUPA provided,  I was satisfied that its premium  increase calculation 
was accurate based on the occupation Ms P had stated at the time, and the level of risk 
BUPA had chosen to apportion to it. BUPA later allowed Ms P to amend the occupation it 
had recorded,  causing her premium  to decrease  for 2018-19.  And it back-dated this, as it 
said it hadnt told her how the change would  impact her premiums at the time of making the 
change. And I thought that was fair. 
Ref: DRN55630513impact of claims on premium increases 
Id seen evidence  that BUPA provided Ms P with general information confirming that making  
a claim can cause premiums to increase. BUPA said it couldnt be more  specific than this in 
advance of a claim.  It said this was because it would firstly need to know  whether or not 
a claim would be paid,  and the exact cost of it. And it said it couldnt say how a claim would 
impact the future premium calculation, until six weeks  before a renewal when premium 
increases are calculated.  
I said insurers will take into an account a variety of factors both relating to an individuals  
specific circumstances as well as wider  industry  factors when calculating premium  
increases. And its common  that the way an insurer makes  its calculations  and how it 
apportions risk will change regularly. Providing the insurer exercises these  changes  fairly 
and consistently,  in line with its internal guidelines,  I said this wasnt  something I deemed to 
be unfair. 
Id seen evidence  that BUPA reviewed its increase calculations on a monthly basis.  So 
I accepted it couldnt have  said by how much a claim would cause a premium to increase in 
advance of Ms Ps renewal period. So based  on this, I didnt think it was unreasonable that 
BUPA was unable to tell Ms P the amount by which  her future premiums would increase, 
prior to her making any claim.
 
the response to my provisional  decision
BUPA responded and said it accepted my provisional decision and had nothing  to add. And 
Ms P didnt respond.  
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has raised any new points, I see no reason to depart from the conclusions  
set out in my provisional decision and summarised above. 
my final decision
Im aware that BUPA Insurance  Limited has already made an adjustment  to reduce Ms Ps 
premium in relation  to her change of occupation. And it accounted for the difference in 
premiums by reducing her February and March  2019  payments. I conclude that this offer is 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.  My decision is that BUPA  Insurance  Limited 
doesnt need to pay anything further,  so I make  no award. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 July 2020.
Gemma Warner 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5563051