K821x#15complaint
Miss W complains that PDL Finance Limited (trading as Mr Lender) gave her loans 
irresponsibly.
background
This complaint is about four loans Mr Lender provided to Miss W between March  2015 and 
July 2018. They were all repayable by instalments over a number of months.  
Heres a loan table setting out details: 
Loan no
Start date amount £date paid instalments delay paying 
loan
1 09/03/2015 400 15/09/2015 6 no
2 15/09/2015 500 15/03/2017 6 no
3 25/08/2017 210 15/03/2018 6 yes
4 31/07/2018 200 15/02/2019 4 yes
Miss W had some problems paying loans  3 and 4  but its my understanding that she 
mightve paid all the loans by now. 
When Miss W complained to Mr Lender it didn't agree that it had acted  irresponsibly. But it 
did say that it was prepared to make  an offer in respect of loan 4 to reduce the amount she 
had to pay to clear it.
Miss W didn't feel this offer went far enough  to resolve  things and she brought  her complaint 
to us. Briefly, Miss W said that she was already  struggling to pay payday loans with other 
lenders - as well as an overdraft and credit cards  - and Mr Lender didn't do proper checks to 
make sure these loans were affordable. 
Our adjudicators overall view was that he hadnt  seen enough to say it was unfair for 
Mr Lender to have provided  loans  1, 2 and 3 to Miss W. But he felt that Miss W had shown 
signs that she was struggling to repay  both loans  2 and 3. And Mr Lender had agreed a 
repayment arrangement  to help her. So, for these reasons,  our adjudicator  felt it was unlikely 
that Miss W wouldve been able to sustainably meet her repayments for loan 4. So he 
thought Mr Lender shouldnt have given  Miss W loan 4.
To put things right our adjudicator recommended (Im briefly  summarising  here) that 
Mr Lender should  refund  the interest  and charges on loan 4, add 8% interest  and amend 
Miss Ws credit file to remove any negative information about this loan.
Mr Lender disagreed with our adjudicators  view that it shouldnt have lent loan 4 to Miss W. 
The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
what I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
Ref: DRN51049482Mr Lender  needed to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure 
Miss W could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into 
account a number of different things, such as how much  was being lent, the repayment 
amounts and the consumers income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages 
of a lending relationship, I think  less thorough checks might be reasonable and 
proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Mr Lender was required to establish 
whether Miss W could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments 
were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.  
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.  
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Ws complaint.
Looking first at loans 1 and 2, like our adjudicator, I think  that the amounts that Miss W 
needed to repay wouldve seemed relatively  affordable compared  with the take home pay 
shed declared.  Given  these repayment amounts, what  was apparent  about  Miss Ws 
circumstances at the time, and her borrowing history with Mr Lender, I dont think  it wouldve 
been proportionate for Mr Lender to ask Miss W for the amount of information that would be 
needed to show  the lending was unsustainable  before agreeing  the first three  loans. 
Ref: DRN51049483In coming to my decision, I've taken into account  that Miss W found it necessary to agree a 
repayment arrangement  in respect of loan 2, and this wasnt finally paid until around  a year 
after the original  contractual  end date. 
This doesnt change  my view about loan 2. But I think  in these circumstances Mr Lender 
ought to have looked in more depth at her financial circumstances  when Miss W asked for 
loan 3.  
Mr Lender says it did more checking  at this point - it specifically mentioned  asking Miss W 
further questions  about her council tax. And I can see from looking at its final response letter  
to Miss W some  of the questions it asked her about her financial situation  and what  she 
planned to use the money  for. But its not clear to me what additional checks  Mr Lender did 
to verify the information or to check it had a proper understanding of Miss Ws actual 
circumstances. And I dont know exactly what information Mr Lender found out or how it 
used this to inform its lending decision.
There was a gap of around  5 months between  Miss W paying loan 2 and asking for loan 3. 
I've thought carefully about what conclusions its fair to draw from this.
To my mind,  this gap wasnt long enough for Mr Lender reasonably  to say that Miss W had 
likely been  able to put her finances in order during this period.
Also, Mr Lender had reason not to think that Miss Ws financial circumstances had improved 
during this period. I say this because  between loans 2 and 3 Mr Lender told us Miss W made  
another loan application  which  Mr Lenders  underwriters declined  for reasons that Mr Lender  
told us were:  due to her circumstances at the time of the application as well as her prior 
lending history.
So Im currently thinking that Mr Lender  failed to take properly into account that:
Miss W had found it necessary to agree a repayment plan for loan 2  and the 
repayments for loan 3 were more  than shed  been  paying then. Its unclear to me why 
Mr Lender thought she could now afford to make payments that were  higher than 
shed been able to pay when she was on the repayment plan
there wasnt  anything to indicate her financial circumstances  had improved overall  
since shed started borrowing from Mr Lender. Miss Ws first Mr Lender loan was 
taken out over two years earlier. So Mr Lender shouldve  been  concerned  about 
whether Miss W was really using  the credit for its intended purpose  as a short term 
fix to help cover unexpected or unplanned  expenses
shortly before loan 3, Mr Lenders  underwriters had expressed concern about  
Miss Ws circumstances  and her lending history. 
My provisional view is that its difficult to see what had changed since  Miss Ws unsuccessful 
loan application being  declined that meant it was now fair for Mr Lender to provide her with 
loan 3. To my mind, the information I've seen shouldve made Mr Lender think  that loan 3 
probably wasnt going to be sustainably affordable for Miss W.    
So, Im currently thinking  about upholding Miss Ws complaint about loan 3.
Ref: DRN51049484In the event, Miss W did need to agree new payment arrangements for loan 3  and it too 
was paid later than the original due date. 
After paying loan 3 in March 2018, Miss W didnt  ask Mr Lender for any more  money  until 
she applied  in July 2018 for loan 4. Despite what Mr Lender says about this, I dont agree  
the gap in lending (around 4 months) was long enough for Mr Lender  reasonably  to think 
that Miss W mightve put her finances in order during this period. So, I dont think it was 
reasonable to think that in July 2018  she was effectively making a fresh start in terms of 
borrowing.
And, given  Miss Ws borrowing record, I think that Mr Lender  should reasonably have  seen 
that loan 4 was likely to be unsustainable  and it shouldnt have provided this loan. I say this 
because I think that the payment problems Miss W had trying to keep up the contractual  
monthly repayments on loans 2 and 3 shouldve reasonably prompted Mr Lender to 
recognise that Miss W likely had some longstanding  money problems. I dont think  that the 
gap in lending  of around 4 months  was long enough  to override this concern.
And this view is borne out by the fact that, in the event, Miss W also had problems meeting 
the agreed repayment schedule on loan 4. 
Ive carefully considered  everything Mr Lender has said, including its response to our 
adjudicators view. And Ive noted  that Mr Lender had already offered Miss W a small rebate 
in respect of loan 4 before she complained to us. I acknowledge that gesture was intended 
to assist Miss W. But, I dont think it goes far enough to put things right for her. For the 
reasons Ive explained, I think  Mr Lender  shouldve realised when Miss W applied  for loan 4 
that the loan wasnt affordable for her in the first place and so it was unfair to provide  loan 4 
to Miss W. 
 
Overall, this means Im planning to uphold the complaint about loans 3 and 4.  
what the parties said in response to my provisional  decision 
Miss W told us that she had nothing to add.
Mr Lender sent an email saying that We partially  disagree with your provisional assessment 
do not agree  with upholding  loan 4. And it explained why. 
what happened  next
I understood this to mean that Mr Lender agreed with the reasons Id set out for upholding 
loan 3. So I didnt  think I needed to say any more about that. And for the reason I explained 
at length in my first provisional decision, I still planned to uphold  Miss Ws complaint about 
loan 3.
But after thinking  carefully about  what Mr Lender  had told me in response to my provisional 
decision to uphold loan 4  I was thinking about  changing my mind about  upholding  that 
loan. So I sent a second provisional decision explaining why.
Heres what I said in my second provisional decision:
Ref: DRN51049485Mr Lender  says that when Miss W applied for loan 4 she used different details on her 
application  it says she didnt provide her full name,  her date of birth was also a day 
different and she had moved addresses . Mr Lender has sent us copies from its records 
showing what information it recorded. As a result, Mr Lender says it didnt realise that 
Miss W was the same  person it gave loans  1, 2 and 3 to. It thought she was a new customer  
and made  its lending assessment accordingly.
This new information changes things.
And based on this new information, Im now thinking about not upholding Miss Ws 
complaint about  loan 4. 
Thats because I think that the amounts that she needed to repay wouldve seemed relatively 
affordable compared  with the take home  pay shed declared when she applied  for loan 4.
And based on the information Miss W had put in her application for loan 4, Mr Lender didnt 
realise she was the same  person who had already  had loans 1-3. So it didnt take into 
account the fact that shed previously had a loan application declined and that shed had 
some problems paying loans 2 and 3.
Bearing in mind that Mr Lender understood she was a new customer, I can now understand 
why it didnt take into account Miss Ws actual borrowing history at that time. So I dont think  
its fair for me to say that its Mr Lenders fault that Miss W had problems paying loan 4. 
I think its reasonable to say that if Miss W had put full and accurate details on her loan 
application then Mr Lender couldve taken into account what it knew about  her borrowing 
history before making  a lending decision on loan 4.
And I think its likely,  had Mr Lender been  able to do that, it may well have declined Miss Ws 
application for loan 4 as the indications wouldve been that shed already had problems 
repaying earlier loans  (as Mr Lender  did when it declined  a previous loan application shed 
made). 
So, in the light of this new information  about the application she made for loan 4, as things  
stand, I no longer think its fair for me to uphold Miss Ws complaint about loan 4.
what the parties said in response to my second provisional decision 
Miss W hasnt specifically  commented on what Ive said in my provisional decision, except to 
say that shes anxious  that the complaint is settled as soon as possilbe.
Mr Lender has provided more detail around the checks  it carried  out before providing loan 3 
and asked me to reconsider  my decision to uphold loan 3.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Ref: DRN51049486Ive thought carefully about what Mr Lender  has told me about the information it took into 
account when  assessing Miss Ws application  for loan 3. But this doesnt affect my overall 
view. The apparent small increase in her disposable income isnt enough in my view to offset  
the fact that the monthly repayments on loan 3 were  significantly higher than shed 
previously had a problem paying  on the repayment plan for loan 2. 
And although it looks like Miss W gave Mr Lender  assurances about her financial 
circumstances, I dont  think  it was reasonable for Mr Lender  to rely substantially  on what 
Miss W was saying  in support of her application   particularly as her track record suggested 
that what shed  told Mr Lender couldve been at odds with her actual financial situation. 
So, after taking carefully into account  everything  thats been  said in response to my 
provisional decision, I still think its fair to uphold this complaint for the reasons I explained in 
my provisional decision. 
putting things right  what Mr Lender  should do
refund  all interest and charges Miss W paid on loan 3 (but not including  any rebate of 
interest or charges that Miss W has already benefitted from)
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement
if Miss W still owes Mr Lender anything  towards any outstanding  capital  balance,  
Mr Lender can first of all apply  the refund it owes Miss W towards paying this (and 
I remind Mr Lender that it should  take a sympathetic approach  and try to agree an 
affordable repayment plan with Miss W if shed like time to pay)
remove any adverse information  recorded  on Miss Ws credit file in relation to loan 3 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Mr Lender to take off tax from this interest. Mr Lender  
must give Miss W a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and direct PDL Finance Limited (trading as Mr Lender) to pay 
Miss W as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 March 2020.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5104948