K820x#14complaint
Mr E complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC unfairly and unreasonably failed to tell him that 
further borrowing  using  his mortgage  wouldnt be allowed in the first seven years.  He wants 
to either  borrow the money or be able to go to another  lender without paying  a penalty and 
compensation.
 
background
Mr E took out a Help to Buy (HTB)  mortgage  with Barclays. He later wanted to borrow 
more money and was told (after  applying for a decision in principle)  that he wasnt able to 
borrow under the mortgage for the pre-emption period. This was because due to the 
government guarantee Mr E couldnt  borrow more money; doing so would invalidate the 
guarantee (the government might suffer a loss so wont  allow further borrowing). Mr E said 
that this wasnt made clear to him when he took out the mortgage and he wanted  matters put 
right so he could borrow  more money.  He also said that he wouldnt have taken out a 
mortgage product,  which meant if he repaid the mortgage early to go elsewhere  hed have to 
pay an early repayment  charge (ERC), if hed known about the inability to borrow  more.
Mr E complained to Barclays  and said there  was confusion about how long the pre-emption 
period would last. Barclays said that the pre-emption period in Mr Es case  was the first 
seven years of the mortgage, and this was set out in the governments  guarantee scheme,  
not Barclays mortgage loan. It said that Mr E shouldve been given this information  by the 
HTB provider, rather than Barclays, and its staff couldnt have advised Mr E about  his future 
borrowing needs. It accepted that when Mr E first applied  to borrow more  money, its staff 
didnt know Mr E had a HTB mortgage  as he didnt tell them.  Barclays said Mr E could leave 
the scheme, but would  have to pay the necessary fees, including  the ERC. It also said 
remortgage and further borrowing applications  were subject to its lending  policies at the 
time. 
Mr E complained to us. The investigators view was that Barclays  wasnt required to give 
Mr E information about the HTB scheme. She also said that Barclays was right to say that it 
couldnt lend extra money to Mr E in the circumstances due to the terms of the government 
guarantee. The investigator  said that Barclays mortgage was the same as a normal  
mortgage in the sense  that it was subject to the same terms and conditions, and noted that 
the mortgage offer didnt say further  borrowing was possible. She said Mr E never said when 
he took out the mortgage that hed want to borrow more in the future and if this had been  
important to him, he shouldve asked at the time. The investigator didnt think  that Mr E had 
suffered due to the conflicting  information  initially given when the pre-emption period would 
end when he was unable to borrow more. She also said that he wouldve taken out the 
mortgage anyway  as he was unlikely to have got a normal mortgage to buy a property.
Mr E disagreed. He said he hadnt been  treated fairly and reasonably by Barclays and it 
could waive  the guarantee or ERC to let him do as he wished. The investigator said that the 
rule against  further  borrowing was the governments and Mr E could still not pay the 
mortgage in full, so it wasnt unfair or unreasonable for Barclays to refuse to waive the 
guarantee. Mr E felt Barclays shouldve explained the HTB scheme,  not just the mortgage.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN57444752In essence, the pre-emption period isnt part of Barclays lending  policies  it is part of the 
governments HTB scheme. The government has said if consumers borrow more money in 
the early years of a HTB mortgage  under the mortgage, it wont  honour its guarantee to the 
lender if the mortgage isnt paid in full. Mr E had a relationship with two bodies when he took 
out the HTB mortgage  one with Barclays to get the mortgage monies and one with the 
HTB provider which set up Mr Es access to the HTB scheme,  the underlying loan provided 
by the government, and the government guarantee.  Barclays isnt responsible  for the actions 
of the HTB provider or the rules of the scheme  it was for the HTB provider to tell Mr E 
about the pre-emption period. Barclays is expected to comply with the rules  of the scheme  if 
it wants to rely on the government guarantee, not to advise on the HTB scheme itself. Mr E 
also had a solicitor  advising him when he took out the mortgage.
Mr E says that he was told his HTB mortgage with Barclays would be the same as a normal  
mortgage. This is correct.  Mr E and Barclays obligations under the mortgage are the same 
whether or not theres a HTB scheme in place. But this doesnt mean that Mr E and Barclays 
dont have to bear in mind the terms on which the government has given Mr E a loan and a 
guarantee  the government has said if Barclays lends more money under the mortgage 
during the pre-emption period, it wont honour its guarantee. 
Consumers dont have  a right to borrow  more  money and in the terms and conditions  of the 
mortgage Mr E accepted,  it is made  clear  that Barclays doesnt have to lend more  money  in 
the future.  The mortgage offer he accepted also didnt  promise  further borrowing would be 
possible. In the mortgage  application notes, theres no reference to Mr E saying that hed 
wanted to borrow  more in the future, and in any event lenders cant  advise on future 
applications. Barclays isnt being unfair or unreasonable  in wishing to keep the benefit of the 
guarantee and refusing to lend more money  at this time to Mr E. Mr E mightnt pay the 
mortgage in full and property prices  might fall; thats  why theres a government guarantee. 
And given  the fact that Mr E needed to borrow 95% of the value of the property he was 
buying, I think that its more likely than not he wouldve proceeded with the HTB scheme 
anyway; there was no other realistic option.
The same applies when  Mr E applied successfully for a new mortgage product  Barclays 
wasnt required to remind him of the rules of the HTB scheme. I cant say that it was unfair or 
unreasonable for Barclays to have failed to do something in 2017 which it wasnt required to 
do when the mortgage was first taken out. And the product offer set out clearly  the terms of 
the ERC;  Mr E accepted  those terms. Barclays isnt acting unfairly or unreasonably in 
refusing to waive its right to an ERC.
Ref: DRN57444753Once Mr E came off the HTB interest  rate and moved onto a new mortgage product, 
Barclays says that it didnt know when he then applied to borrow more money that the 
mortgage was on a HTB scheme. It says if Mr E had told its staff this at the outset,  he 
wouldve been warned that there  was a potential issue  before a decision in principle was 
applied for (and which led to Mr Es rejection). I wasnt present at the meeting, but I think its 
reasonable for lenders  to expect HTB customers to mention  that they are such customers 
when they apply to borrow more money  as its well-known that HTB schemes are for those 
who need help to buy a property and get a mortgage. Branch staff dont have full access  to 
information in the same way as the staff who assess applications,  so they do need 
customers to give full details. I also think its unlikely that if Mr E had said that he was on a 
HTB mortgage, the member of staff wouldve sought  a decision in principle without 
discussing the potential  problem. And in any event, Barclays was fair and reasonable in 
refusing the application due to the impact on its guarantee   the application  could never 
have succeeded.
What about the initial  confusion about  how long the pre-emption period would last? I agree  
that Barclays staff needed  to check  the position,  but I dont think  that this is unfair or 
unreasonable. Mr E was told that there was a period of time that was more common  and 
then told the answer  for his mortgage.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or reject my decision before 
23 February 2019.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5744475