K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
2008. Mrs F says Bank of Scotland Plc trading  as Halifax  mis-sold her the PPI. 
Mrs F bought a Total Mortgage Protection  Plan (TMPP) alongside a mortgage TMPP can be 
split into sections  Mortgage Repayments  Cover (which is a form of PPI), life cover and 
critical illness cover. Mrs F has complained about the sale of the PPI so Ive looked  at the 
sale of the PPI cover only. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Fs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Halifax had to make Mrs F aware that the PPI was optional and gain her consent before 
adding it to her mortgage. I dont  know  for certain  what was said when the policy  was sold,  
and there  isnt much paperwork  available, but from what we know about how Halifax sold 
this type of policy at the time I think its likely Halifax made Mrs F aware  the PPI was 
optional, and she chose  to take it out, 
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mrs F so it had to check that the PPI was right for her. 
Mrs F has told us she had savings at the time she took the policy. But the PPI would  have 
allowed Mrs F to keep  her savings in place  to be used towards other  essential  expenses 
From what  Ive seen of Mrs Fs circumstances at the time she wasnt affected by any of the 
exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover and she seems to have had a need for the cover.  So 
I think the policy was right for him.  
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mrs F about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve 
been. But I think Mrs F chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type of cover.  
And it seems like it would  have been useful for Mrs F if something went  wrong. It also looks 
like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put Mrs F 
off taking out the cover.
 
Ive thought about everything Mrs F has said - including that she was pressured into taking  
the policy. But pressure  can be subjective and for me to uphold this complaint based  on this 
I would need to see persuasive  evidence  that this is likely to be what happened,  which  I 
havent seen.
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Halifax doesnt need  to refund everything 
Mrs F paid for it. But Halifax has already offered to give Mrs F back  some of the cost of the 
PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.  
Halifax will make arrangements  to pay Mrs F now Ive issued my final decision.
Ref: DRN58344032my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs F to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 February  2019.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5834403