K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains on behalf of his limited company, D, that Barclays Bank Plc (trading as 
Barclaycard) increased its charges for transactions made using  its payments  terminal 
without telling him.
background
Mr A is a director  of a limited company, which I will refer to as D. His company processes its 
customers debit card payments using  a Barclaycard machine. The charge used to be 0.23% 
for each  such transaction, but in September 2018 this was increased to 1.1%, which  equated 
to an increase of over £900 a month. Mr A complained,  on behalf of his company, that this 
change had been introduced without warning. He said that if he had known in advance, he 
would have abandoned Barclaycard and used another service provider.
Barclaycard said it had sent the company a letter in June, notifying it that the charges would 
be increased in September. It said it had changed  the charges  in line with the account terms 
and conditions, and had given due notice.  It sent us a copy  of the letter.
Our adjudicator did not uphold this complaint. She accepted that Barclaycard had sent the 
letter and so had complied with the contractual notice period. She accepted  that D had not 
received the letter, but she thought that was not Barclaycards fault.
Mr A asked for an ombudsmans decision. He said that a copy of the letter  was not enough 
evidence to prove that it had been  sent. Subsequently, Barclaycard  sent the adjudicator a 
screenshot of a computer record showing that the letter had been posted between 25 and 27 
June 2018.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I do not uphold it, for broadly the same  
reasons as our adjudicator.
I have seen an old version of the terms and conditions, which  say that Barclaycard may 
increase the charges, provided that it gives at least 30 days  notice first. Barclaycard has told 
us that the current  version requires 60 days notice, but as 1 September  is more than 60 
days after 28 June I think the longer  notice  period  has been  complied  with. I accept that the 
letter was sent,  because of the evidence I have described above. I also accept that D did not 
receive it, but that is likely  to have been due to a problem with the post, for which 
Barclaycard is not responsible. By sending the letter,  which was correctly  addressed,  
Barclaycard did what  it needed to do, so I cannot  uphold this complaint.
I regret that this is not the answer that Mr A was hoping for. But I hope that it may come as 
some consolation  to him if I point out that its likely that all the other  banks also increased 
their own fees at around the same  time,  because Visa and Mastercard both lowered  their 
floor limit for contactless payments to zero. That meant that all such transactions  had to be 
authorised, and this would have  increased the costs of merchant acquirers, which they 
would then have  passed on to merchants  like D. So even if D had taken its business 
elsewhere, it still might not have  realised the savings Mr A would have hoped  for.
Ref: DRN52795092my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A, on behalf  of 
D, to accept or reject my decision before 15 February 2020.
Richard Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5279509