K821x#15complaint
Mr T complains that his student  loans were wrongly  terminated by Erudio Student  Loans 
Limited. He considers that he submitted his 2018 deferment application on time, and he 
disagrees that he had arrears on the loans.
background
I set out the background  to this complaint and my provisional conclusions by way of a 
provisional decision  a copy of which is attached and forms part of this final decision. For 
the reasons I set out, I concluded (in summary) that:
-Mr T reasonably thought his on-line application  had completed,  and I saw no reason 
why a successfully-submitted application  might  not have led to his payments being 
deferred again;
-its reasonable for Mr T to say he didnt  question why he hadnt heard anything  about 
his deferment  application due to his experience of previous applications;
-Erudio had accepted that it failed to get back to Mr T when he had raised  a query 
about arrears on his account.  I concluded  that Mr T was quite reasonable in 
expecting a response rather than the termination  of his account; and
-I cant consider the arrears Mr T disputes  because Erudio looked into Mr Ts 
concerns about this in February 2017. Its now too late for him to complain  to us 
about that.
I also thought  Mr T had been  caused unnecessary upset, distress  and inconvenience. I 
proposed that Erudio  pay him £200 by way of compensation.
I invited Mr T and Erudio to let me have any further evidence  or arguments they wanted me 
to consider before making my final decision. Mr T accepted my provision decision but Erudio 
did not.
Erudio said in summary:
-Whilst it did not call Mr T back about  the arrears,  it did not agree that it had failed  to 
answer him regarding  his query. He was fully aware of the arrears  and how they had 
accrued following three previous final response  letters. 
-Several letters were  sent to Mr T which confirmed Erudio had not received a 
deferment application form, that monthly  payments were  now due, and no payment 
plan was in place. 
-Erudio had not sent an e-mail or deferment  acceptance letter to confirm it had 
received his application.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive noted Erudios further comments and evidence about Mr Ts knowledge of his arrears.  
But, as I set out in my provisional decision,  Mr T called Erudio on 30 November 2018 and it 
agreed to look into his query about the arrears. It wasnt until after Erudio  had terminated  the 
loan that it replied to Mr T and explained the arrears had built up in 2011.  I havent seen any 
Ref: DRN51442152additional evidence  that Erudio tried to contact Mr T about his 30 November 2018 call and 
before his accounts were terminated.
I appreciate that Erudio  wrote to Mr T about  his arrears over the years, and it had responded 
to his concerns  in final response letters in early  2017 and 2018.  But Mr T still had concerns  
about the validity of those  arrears when he spoke to Erudio on 30 November 2018. They  had 
accrued back in 2011 and had remained outstanding for many  years.  
I remain of the view, as I set out in my provisional decision, that Mr T reasonably thought  his 
deferment application had completed. He didnt  question why he hadnt heard anything  
based on his previous  experience, over many years, of responses  to deferment applications. 
And, as he thought his query  about  the arrears  was being looked  into, it was reasonable for 
Mr T to expect  a response to this rather than thinking his account was at risk of being 
terminated. 
Ive set out below how Erudio should resolve this situation. And I would encourage Mr T to 
engage with Erudio, about the historic arrears,  now that it has replied to his query.
my final decision
For these reasons  as well as those set out in more detail in my provisional decision  my 
final decision  is that Erudio Student Loans Limited  should:
consider Mr Ts 2018 application and, if it is successful, backdate the deferment to 
December 2018, subject to Mr T providing it with the necessary evidence  it usually 
requires, e.g. payslips, and any evidence meeting the qualifying  criteria for 
deferment.
If Erudio is no longer able to reinstate  the terminated loans, it will need  to make 
arrangements so the debt is treated as if the loans  have  been re-instated, including  
honouring the original terms and conditions (which may involve writing  off the loans 
when Mr T reaches 50) and ensuring Mr Ts credit file hasnt been adversely 
affected.
Pay Mr T £200 for the distress and inconvenience he has experienced.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 March 2020.
Emma English
ombudsman
Ref: DRN51442153copy of provisional decision
complaint
Mr T complains that his student loans were  wrongly  terminated by Erudio  Student Loans Limited.  He 
considers that he submitted his 2018  deferment application on time,  and he disagrees that he had 
arrears on the loans.
background
Between 1994  and 1996, Mr T took out three student loans. Although the loans were  due to be repaid  
over the 60 months  after hed completed his course, Mr T could  submit a yearly  deferment  
application. If accepted,  the deferment application  meant that no payment had to be made, normally 
for the next 12 months. In addition, as long as there  were  no outstanding arrears, Mr T would qualify 
for the balance of the loans to be cancelled in 2020 when  he will be aged 50.
In late November  2018,  Mr T made a deferment  application on-line. He remembers  uploading his 
payslips and receiving an on-screen message to say hed completed his application. But Erudio says 
its systems  show that Mr Ts on-line application was only partially completed.  A complete application  
had to be submitted by 24 December 2018 to ensure no payments would be due for the next 12 
months. Because Erudio didnt consider that it had received a completed application, it wrote to Mr T 
on 26 December 2018 telling him that the deferment application period  had expired and payments 
would become due again.
Erudio further says there were already  arrears on the account, so when a payment became  due in 
December 2018 the arrears balance led to it sending  a default notice on 28 December  2018.  The 
default notice stated that a payment had to be made by 23 January 2019  or further  action would be 
taken. Because it didnt  receive  a payment, on 26 January 2019 Erudio terminated the account  and 
told Mr T the full balance  was due for payment. In addition, Erudio told Mr T that he would no longer 
be able to apply for cancellation of the balance in 2020.
Mr T complained to Erudio to say that hed disputed the arrears but hadnt received a reply, he had 
completed his deferment  application on-line, he hadnt received the notice of default, and when he 
received the letter terminating his account this was the first letter  hed received  since submitting  his 
deferment application.  Erudio responded to say its systems  showed  Mr Ts deferment  application 
was 80% complete and because a further payment was missed  after the application  deadline, it 
correctly issued a notice of default and terminated the account. Erudio apologised  that it hadnt replied 
to Mr T with the reason  why there was an arrears  balance but said it had previously addressed his 
concerns as part of three previous complaints.
Our investigator concluded that Mr T would have received an automated e-mail  if his on-line 
application had been made successfully.  The investigator also concluded  that Erudio was entitled to 
issue a default notice because Mr Ts account was more  than four months in arrears. He further 
concluded that the letters warning Mr T that his accounts  would be terminated  if he didnt take action 
had been sent to his address, and therefore were deemed to be received.
Mr T didnt accept the investigators findings. He said Erudio had made mistakes  on two previous 
deferment applications, and he has always been below the income threshold  to qualify  for deferment. 
Mr T questioned why he would only complete an application up to 80%; he believes  a likely  
explanation is that the on-line portal didnt  upload his payslips. Mr T also explained that he didnt 
question why he hadnt received an automated e-mail because, on previous applications, some time 
would pass before  he heard from Erudio about  his application.
Ref: DRN51442154my provisional  findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide  what  is fair and reasonable  in 
the circumstances of this complaint. Where the evidence  is contradictory or inconclusive, as some of 
it is here, I reach my decision on the balance  of probabilities  that is, what I consider is most likely  to 
have happened, in light of the evidence that is available  and the wider surrounding  circumstances.
Its not in dispute that Mr T started an on-line  deferment application in late November 2018. Both 
parties accounts  of what then happened  differ;  Mr T says he completed the application, but Erudios 
systems show it was left incomplete. Erudio says an e-mail would  have been sent if the application  
had completed and that, because its records show Mr T previously  applied on-line  in 2017, he should 
have known that if he didnt  receive  an e-mail his application  hadnt completed. Mr T agrees  he didnt 
receive an e-mail, but he disagrees that hed applied  for deferment  in the same way the previous 
year.
I can see that it was in Mr Ts best interests to submit  this application. His income  appears to have 
been below the threshold, so I see no reason  why a successfully-submitted application might not have 
led to his loan being deferred again. Mr T was also aware  of the possibility that the loan balance could  
be written off in 2020.
I accept there is contradictory evidence  surrounding whether Mr T completed his deferment 
application before the deadline. But Im not persuaded Mr T would have knowingly left the application 
incomplete given the benefit to him. And I dont accept  that Mr T should have known there was a 
problem just because he didnt receive  an e-mail confirming the application had completed. Even if Mr 
T had applied on-line  the year before, hed had many years of applying with postal applications. I 
consider its reasonable for Mr T to say he didnt question why he hadnt heard  anything from Erudio  
given his experience of previous applications, again made over many years.  On balance, I accept  that 
Mr T reasonably thought his application had completed.
Theres also contradictory evidence about whether Mr T knew his account  was at risk of being 
terminated, meaning  he would lose the right to have a deferment application  backdated and would no 
longer qualify  for his loans  being written  off in 2020. 
On 30 November  2018  Mr T called Erudio about  the application he was making and the arrears on Mr 
Ts account  were discussed.  The call handler did make Mr T aware  of the arrears  and the need to 
repay them  but left it that they would  look into Mr Ts concern and come back  to him. The records 
show this was because Mr T felt the account shouldnt  have any arrears as his income had always 
been below the income threshold. Erudio apologised to Mr T in its letter  dated  19 February 2019 
because it hadnt attempted to contact Mr T and explain the arrears related  to a period in 2011 when  
his income had exceeded the income threshold.
When Erudio sent the notice of default on 28 December  2018 the concern Mr T had raised  about the 
validity of the arrears,  a month earlier, remained unanswered.  Although Erudio called Mr T as part of 
its normal arrears collection  activity during  December 2018, theres  no evidence  it got through  to him, 
or that it tried to leave  a message or respond to the query Mr T had raised about  those arrears.  
Its not clear why Mr T wouldnt have  received  the letters sent to him on 26 and 28 December 2018. 
The letter telling Mr T that his account had been terminated was sent on 26 January 2019  and he 
contacted Erudio on 7 February 2019. So, its difficult to see why he wouldnt have acted similarly 
quickly had he received a letter telling him his application hadnt been received or the arrears  on his 
account were  valid and his account would  be defaulted.
As Ive already said, its reasonable for Mr T to say he didnt question why he hadnt heard  anything  
about his deferment  application from previous  experience.  From 28 December 2018 to 24 January 
2019, incorporating a busy Christmas period, Erudio  completed  all stages  that led to termination  of 
the account.  
Ref: DRN51442155In conclusion, I consider  that Mr T reasonably  thought hed completed his deferment application, and I 
see no reason why a successfully-submitted  application  might not have led to his payments being 
deferred again. I also find  and Erudio has accepted  that it failed to get back to him about  the query  
he had raised about the arrears. I think Mr T was quite reasonable in expecting a response rather 
than the termination of his account.   
I have to decide a fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint in all the circumstances. I consider it 
would be fair for Erudio now to consider  Mr Ts 2018 application and, if it is successful, backdate the 
deferment to December 2018,  subject to Mr T providing  it with the necessary evidence it usually 
requires, e.g. payslips. Erudio has said that its unable  to reinstate terminated loans  so it will need to 
make arrangements so the debt is treated as if the loans had been re-instated,  including  honouring 
the original  terms and conditions and ensuring Mr Ts credit file hasnt been adversely affected.
I have no doubt that when Mr T received  a letter telling  him he had to pay the full balance  of his loans  
within seven days and he longer had the rights that could  lead to the loans  being written off, this 
would have caused some  upset and distress. He has also been put to inconvenience  in trying to sort 
things out. I think he should fairly receive  some compensation to reflect  all of that. I assess  fair 
compensation at £200. 
Mr T disputes his loan balances  should include  any arrears. He thinks these were wrongly applied 
when his deferment application wasnt processed correctly  around 2011. However,  I cant  consider 
any arrears  that accumulated at that time. This is because  Erudio considered  Mr Ts concerns  about  
this in February 2017 and told him he had six months to bring his complaint  to us. However, Mr T 
didnt raise his complaint with us until April 2019. So he is too late to complain to us about that.
I know that Mr T also has concerns about how Erudio  and its third party collectors  have been 
communicating with him and this is now being looked into by Erudio  as part of a new and separate 
complaint.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, but subject to any further submission I might receive by 5 December 
2019 I propose to order Erudio Student  Loans Limited:
To consider Mr Ts 2018 application  and, if it is successful, backdate  the deferment to 
December 2018, subject to Mr T providing it with the necessary evidence it usually  requires, 
e.g. payslips, and any evidence meeting the qualifying criteria for deferment.
If Erudio  is no longer able to reinstate  the terminated loans, it will need to make arrangements 
so the debt is treated  as if the loans  have  been  re-instated, including honouring  the original 
terms and conditions (which may involve writing off the loans when Mr T reaches 50) and 
ensuring Mr Ts credit file hasnt been adversely  affected.
Pay Mr T £200 for the distress and inconvenience.
Emma English
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5144215