K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs L complain that Bradford & Bingley Plc mis-sold them  a payment protection 
insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
Mr and Mrs L applied for PPI during a meeting in 1994 when they completed their mortgage 
application. The policy  provided Mr L with cover for accident, sickness and unemployment.  
Mr and Mrs L took out a further advance on their mortgage later on  but they didnt take any 
more PPI. So Im looking  at the PPI sold to them with their mortgage at the start. 
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend upholding  this complaint. Mr and Mrs L disagree with our 
adjudicators view. Their main complaint  is that they werent asked questions about  their 
work benefits. Mr and Mrs L dont feel PPI was needed as they had savings and sick pay 
through work  that they couldve relied on.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Ls case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ls complaint. Ill explain my reasons.
Although the PPI policy just covered Mr L the mortgage was in joint names. So Ive looked 
carefully at both their circumstances when the policy was taken out. 
It isnt reasonable  to expect Mr and Mrs L to remember exactly  what was discussed  when 
they took out PPI so long ago. So what they say isnt enough on its own for me to be able to 
uphold their complaint.  I have to take into account  everything Ive seen and been told and 
decide what I think is most likely. 
On balance, I think Bradford & Bingley made  Mr and Mrs L aware that the PPI was optional 
and they chose to have  it. I say this because the mortgage paperwork they signed offered 
Mr and Mrs L the option of saying that cover was not required if they didnt want  PPI. They 
indicated on their signed mortgage application  that they did want PPI. 
Theyve also selected the type of cover  they wanted  and filled in boxes showing the amount 
of cover required and the way they wanted  the policy benefit split between them. So, 
although I cant say exactly what was discussed  at the meeting, I think  Mr and Mrs L 
wouldve understood that it was up to them to say if they wanted PPI. And they chose the 
level of cover and amount  of benefit they wanted for Mr L.   
Although Mr and Mrs L couldnt  remember, Bradford & Bingley says it didnt  advise them to 
take out the policy. But it still had to make sure it told them  enough about the policy for them  
to decide if they wanted  to buy it. I think, broadly  speaking, it did - and where it mightnt  have 
done, better information wouldnt  have  made  a difference.  
Ref: DRN50574092Although  Mrs L was working  I havent seen anything  to suggest it was inappropriate that the 
cover was just in Mr Ls name. As he was the main earner I can see why Mr and Mrs L 
wouldve wanted to protect his income.  I think its likely that they might soon have faced 
some financial  difficulty making  their monthly  mortgage repayments if he wasnt working  
even if Mrs L was still able to work.
Mr L was eligible for the policy and I think  that Mr and Mrs L couldve  benefitted  from him 
having cover. I say this because Mr L told us he wouldve  received at least  6 months  sick 
pay. But the policy wouldve paid out in addition to any employee benefits (and for longer) 
giving Mr and Mrs L useful protection  up to 12 months in the event of a successful claim. 
It wouldve  also paid out for up to 12 months  if Mr L lost his job unexpectedly and he was out 
of work. 
Being entitled to redundancy  benefits wouldnt have helped if Mr L was off work sick. And 
PPI wouldve  paid out in addition to any redundancy money he mightve got if hed lost his 
job, giving  Mr and Mrs L some additional financial security in those circumstances.
Hoping someone else can help in the event  of money problems isnt as dependable as 
taking out PPI. 
The amount  of savings Mr and Mrs L had is unclear  information on their mortgage 
application suggests this mightve been  less than they remember. 
And I dont  know if Mr and Mrs L wouldve always had savings they could rely on if theyd 
needed to make a claim. 
PPI wouldve  covered their mortgage for longer than the amount of savings they had 
wouldve lasted if theyd  needed to use these to make their monthly repayments. And having 
PPI wouldve  meant  they could keep their savings intact to spend on things they were  saving 
for or to provide  financial security for the future. 
So, looking  at Mr and Mrs Ls circumstances at the time, I think the policy gave them  
worthwhile benefits.  
Its possible  some information Bradford & Bingley  gave Mr and Mrs L about the PPI wasnt  
as clear as it shouldve been. But, Mr L wasnt affected by any of the policy  exclusions or 
limitations. So I think it unlikely that having better  information about the PPI wouldve put 
Mr and Mrs L off having  the cover. 
On balance, I think Mr and Mrs L were  given enough information to make  a properly 
informed decision.  They chose the cover  they wanted for Mr L when they had the option to 
decline PPI. So they do seem to have wanted PPI at the time.  The cost was clearly shown 
on their mortgage offer so they wouldve been able to see what  the monthly premium would 
cost  and Ive seen nothing  that suggests  it wasnt affordable  for them.  
Looked at overall, it doesnt  look as if Mr and Mrs L lost out as a result of anything 
Bradford & Bingley  did wrong. So it doesnt  need  to do anything to put things right.
Ref: DRN50574093my decision
For the reasons  set out above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision  before  24 July 2019.  
Susan Webb 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5057409