K821x#15complaint
Mr A complains that Aviva Insurance Limited didnt progress a claim he made  on his motor 
insurance policy properly  and failed to keep  him updated.
background
Mr A told us his claim was still open  in February 2019 after an accident in August 2018. He 
said he hadnt been updated  on progress.  And he thought the progress made had been 
slow. Aviva apologised for its lack of contact. It offered  Mr A £100  compensation.  He 
accepted it, but later he complained to us and said the compensation should be higher.  
One of our investigators  considered Mr As complaint. He didnt  think the progress made  on 
the claim was unreasonable. He said Aviva had faced  problems  with the other  drivers 
insurer. But he noted that there  was only one call from Aviva  to update Mr A about  liability.  
The investigator thought it should  pay Mr A a further £75 compensation. Aviva agreed to do 
that. Mr A said it wasnt enough,  so the complaint was passed to me for review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
I think Aviva  should have made more contact with Mr A. But I dont think  it can be blamed for 
the claims slow progress.  Its notes show that it appointed solicitors to recover its costs.  It 
seems the other insurer wasnt co-operating  with it, but Mr A wasnt  told about that. Aviva 
says it only contacts consumers if theres  something  to report. I think  if a claim  starts  to drag 
on, updates should  be given even if theres  no progress. And here there was something to 
report. I think it would be fair for Aviva to pay Mr A a further £75 compensation. I dont think 
more than that is needed to reflect the level of distress and inconvenience Mr A faced.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Aviva Insurance  Limited  to pay 
Mr A a further £75 for distress and inconvenience.  Under the Financial Ombudsman 
Services rules, I must ask Mr A to accept or reject my decision before 18 October 2019.
Susan Ewins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5226445