K821x#15complaint
Miss W complains Lloyds  Bank PLC (Lloyds)  recorded adverse information on her credit 
file unfairly. She states changes to its overdraft  pricing structure and continued charging  of 
fees caused her to exceed the agreed overdraft limit on her current  account with it. 
background
In April 2019, Miss W complained to Lloyds about  the arrears information  it recorded on her 
credit file for the month of June 2018. She said shed noticed the daily overdraft fees had at 
one stage taken  her account over its agreed overdraft limit, but this shouldnt have led to 
adverse reporting.  Lloyds  said it had reported accurate information to credit reference 
agencies as Miss Ws account had exceeded the agreed overdraft limit at the end of June 
2018.
Miss Ws complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. He thought Miss Ws bank 
statements showed she was in a cycle of repeated  payday and high-cost  borrowing and her 
account had exceeded the agreed limit on several occasions. The adjudicator  concluded 
Lloyds acted unfairly when it renewed  Miss Ws overdraft arrangements in April 2017 and 
continued charging overdraft fees.  He recommended Lloyds to rework Miss Ws account  to 
remove interest and charges added to it from that point,  and to amend information recorded 
on her credit  file accordingly. 
Lloyds said Miss W had previously complained about overdraft fees at the end of 2017  and it 
issued a final response at the time.  As Miss W didnt refer that complaint to us within  six 
months, Lloyds said it didnt consent  to our service considering events prior to January 2018  
when it sent its final response.   
The adjudicator accepted  we couldnt  consider events prior to January 2018. But he thought 
Lloyds should  have still reviewed Miss Ws overdraft limit when it investigated her complaint 
at the time. He recommended  Lloyds  to rework the account from January 2018. Lloyds didnt 
respond, so the case was passed  to an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss W has already acknowledged  the adjudicators revised view.  But for the sake  of 
completeness, I cant consider the complaint Miss W made to Lloyds at the end of 2017 as it 
was referred to our service too late. But I can consider the remainder of her complaint. 
Lloyds says Miss Ws April 2019 complaint was concentrated on her credit  file. It says there 
was no indication of financial  difficulties and Miss W was crediting the account and aware of 
the overdraft fees.
Lloyds is right in that Miss W complained when she discovered it had recorded adverse 
information on her credit  file. But we know  Miss Ws account exceeded the agreed  overdraft 
limit which led to this information being recorded.  And it was the application of the overdraft 
charges which  took the account  over its agreed limit. So, in deciding this case, Ive 
considered all the circumstances relevant to Miss Ws complaint.
Ref: DRN58246372Lloyds will be familiar  with all the rules, regulations and good  industry  practice we consider  
when looking at whether a bank  treated a customer fairly and reasonably  when applying  
overdraft charges. So, I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything  provided,  I think Lloyds acted unfairly when it 
continued charging overdraft interest  and associated fees from January 2018. By this point, 
Miss W had already got in touch to raise  concerns about these fees  after all that was the 
reason for her complaint  at the end of 2017.  Its worth noting that Lloyds  referred to its 
Customer Support Unit (CSU) in its final response letter dated 5 January 2018;  it apologised 
to Miss W for not doing a warm  transfer to CSU,  and for not notifying her to tell the agent  
she was in financial difficulty when  it asked her to call CSU.
Miss Ws statements around  this period show shed spent significant  periods with an 
overdrawn balance, with regular occurrence of the agreed overdraft limit being exceeded. 
The statements  also show Miss W was in a cycle of repeated payday and other,  high-cost 
borrowing. In these  circumstances, Lloyds ought  to have  realised  Miss W was at a significant 
risk of being  unable  to repay what she already owed. 
So, I think by January 2018  when it investigated her previous complaint about  overdraft  
charges  Lloyds  should have stopped providing  the overdraft on the same  terms and 
treated Miss W with forbearance rather than charge even more interest, fees and charges on 
the overdraft. I accept Lloyds did refund the fees for a period. But as it started charging 
again without  establishing Miss Ws position  had improved and she was able to manage, 
I dont think this went far enough, or that it means Lloyds acted fairly and reasonably.
As Lloyds  didnt react to Miss Ws account  usage and instead continued charging in the 
same way, I think  it failed to act fairy and reasonably towards her. Miss W ended  up paying 
additional interest, fees and charges on her overdraft and this ended  up exacerbating 
difficulties she already had in trying  to clear it. 
Ive also thought about what  Lloyds  has said about  there being no indication Miss W was in 
financial difficulties when  she complained in April 2019. I dont think an improved financial 
position in April 2019 means it was fair and reasonable for Lloyds to have kept adding  
charges to the account from January 2018. Its important  to also note the arrears information  
Miss Ws complained about  relates to a period  where she was still relying on payday and 
high-cost borrowing.  Miss W had spent significant  time with an overdrawn balance, and her 
account was still over the agreed overdraft limit.
So, I consider Miss W lost out because of what Lloyds did wrong. And this means  that it 
should put things right.
Fair compensation  what  Lloyds  needs to do to put things  right for Miss  W
Having thought about everything, I think it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Miss Ws complaint  for Lloyds to put things right by:
Reworking Miss Ws current overdraft  balance so that all interest, fees and 
charges applied to it from January 2018 are removed.
AND
Ref: DRN58246373If an outstanding  balance remains on the overdraft once these  adjustments have 
been made, Lloyds  should contact Miss W to arrange a suitable  repayment plan 
for this. If it considers it appropriate  to record  negative information on Miss Ws 
credit file, it should reflect what would have been recorded had it started the 
process of taking corrective action on the overdraft in January 2018.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest,  fees and charges results  in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra  should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Miss W along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from 
the date they were  made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no 
outstanding balance remains after all adjustments  have been made, then Lloyds 
should remove any adverse information  from Miss Ws credit file. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Lloyds to take off tax from this interest. Lloyds must give 
Miss W a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  Im upholding Miss Ws complaint. Lloyds Bank PLC should put 
things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 September 2021.
Gagandeep Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5824637