K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
2002. Mr and Ms C say Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold them the PPI. 
background
Mr and Ms C applied  for a further advance on their mortgage with Lloyds in 2002. At the 
same time they were sold a PPI policy. The policy covered Mr C and Ms C against being 
unable to work due to accident, sickness or involuntary unemployment. The monthly  cost of 
the PPI policy  was £14.50. The cover was split to provide 70% of the benefit  to Mr C and 
30% to Ms C. In the event  of a claim the policy couldve paid a monthly benefit for up to 12 
months per claim.
In 2005 Mr and Ms C cancelled the policy.
An adjudicator didnt think the complaint should  be upheld.  Mr and Ms C disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion. So the complaints  been  passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Mr and Ms C say the PPI was not discussed with them, it wasnt made  clear  the policy was 
optional and it was added  to the mortgage  without their knowledge.
The mortgage was applied for and the policy sold to Mr and Ms C during a meeting in 2002. 
Lloyds has given us a copy of the mortgage application form signed by Mr and Ms C in May 
2002. On the final page  is a section headed, Payment Protection Insurance. Within  this 
section are two statements, one opting to apply for PPI and the other declining  it. I can see a 
box beside the statement accepting the PPI has been marked  with a tick. The box beside the 
statement to decline the PPI has been  left blank. Mr and Ms C have signed the mortgage 
application at the bottom  of the page. Lloyds has also shown us a PPI application form which  
has been completed and signed by Mr and Ms C on the same day as the mortgage 
application. 
The paperwork Ive seen  from the time indicates that Mr and Ms C were made aware of the 
PPI and chose  to apply for it.
Lloyds has also shown  us a copy of a letter dated  November  2005 from Mr C to the policy 
insurer. The letter is requesting that the policy is cancelled.  In the letter  Mr C wrote,  The 
insurance was taken out when I was feeling insecure about my employment. That suggests 
to me that Mr C gave  some thought to the PPI application before he decided to take it out.
Ref: DRN57110692Taking everything into account  I think its most  likely Mr and Ms C were made aware the PPI 
was optional and they chose to take it out. Although after so many years I can understand 
why they might not recall this.
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr and Ms C so it had to check that the PPI was right for 
them  and based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think that it was. 
I say this because:
The policy covered Mr and Ms C, with the cover split to provide 70% of the cover to Mr C,  
as he was the main  wage  earner this seems to be a suitable way for the policy  to be set up.
Mr and Ms C were  not affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover.  For 
example they didnt  have any medical conditions that wouldnt have been covered. And they 
were not in unusual  employment situations  which might have made it difficult  for them  to 
make a claim.
Mr Cs employers wouldve paid him sick pay if hed become too unwell to work. Mr C told us 
he was entitled  to up to 12 months  sick pay. Its likely  that would be six months  full pay 
followed by six months half pay. But this particular  policy wouldve paid a monthly benefit in 
addition to any sick pay, and for up to 12 months. This is longer than Mr Cs full sick pay 
would likely  last. So I still think Mr C wouldve found  the benefit useful if he became too 
unwell to work, particularly if he was unwell for a prolonged period. Similarly its likely the 
policy could have paid a monthly  benefit  for longer  than Ms Cs full sick pay would last.
And if Mr or Ms C lost their job the monthly benefit would mean he could use any 
redundancy pay for other  living costs. And I can see from the cancellation  letter in 2005  that 
Mr C was not feeling secure  in his employment  at the time of the sale.
I cant know after all these years exactly what Mr and Ms C were  told or given at the time. 
And its possible the information Lloyds  gave Mr and Ms C about the PPI wasnt as clear as 
it shouldve been.  But from what Ive seen they chose  to take it out - so it looks  like they 
wanted this type of cover. And it seems like it would have been  useful for them  if something 
went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think  better information about the 
PPI would have  put them off taking  out the cover. 
In summary,  I think its likely Lloyds made  Mr and Ms C aware the policy  was optional  and 
they chose to buy it. From what Ive seen it looks as if the policy  Lloyds recommended  was 
right for them. And I dont think any clearer or more  complete information wouldve made 
them act differently and decline it.
Ref: DRN57110693my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award  against          
Lloyds Bank  PLC.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Ms C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  3 August  2019.
Steve Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5711069