K822xcomplaint
Mrs B has complained to Shawbrook Bank  Limited (Shawbrook) about the way it has 
handled a claim  she made under the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA).
background 
In January 2016 Mrs B entered into an agreement with a company called Green Yorkshire 
Solar Limited (Green Yorkshire) for the supply  and installation of a solar panel system.
The cost of the system  was £9,900, and it was paid for using  a fixed  term loan Green 
Yorkshire arranged  for Mrs B with Shawbrook.  The total amount to be repaid with interest  
was £15,616.80 over 10 years.
Mrs B complained to Green Yorkshire soon after the installation  about the system and said 
that it didnt include  a battery  as was part of the contract. In resolution  of matters, a battery  
was provided, and Mrs B agreed to a reduction  in the cost of the system by £2,250.   The 
original loan was cancelled and in November  2016 a new agreement was put in place for the 
lower system cost.
Mrs B says at the point  of sale she was told by Green Yorkshire that the solar panels would 
provide enough financial  benefit to cover the cost of the loan and make the system self-
funding.  She also says she was told the system  would generate £99,000 in tax-free income  
over 25 years.  Financial  benefits come in the form of energy bill savings  and Feed-in Tariff 
(FiT) payments from selling excess energy back to the grid.
Under section 75 of the CCA, a finance provider can be held responsible  for 
misrepresentations and breaches of contract to the same  extent  as the supplier  of goods.  
The system hasnt performed as Mrs B was expecting  and so made a claim to Shawbrook.  
Initially Shawbrook didnt  accept Mrs Bs claim and said it was the same complaint that had 
been dealt with by Green  Yorkshire  previously.  Unhappy with the response, Mrs Bs 
complaint was referred to our Service by a firm of solicitors on her behalf.
One of our investigators  started looking at the complaint and Shawbrook  accepted that the 
benefits had been misrepresented to Mrs B.  To  put things right, it offered to compensate 
Mrs B by restructuring the loan so that she would not pay more than the amount of financial 
benefit generated by the system over the loan term  essentially making it self-funding.   
Shawbrook also offered a payment of £200 to reflect the trouble and upset the situation  had 
caused Mrs B.
The investigator put Shawbrooks offer to Mrs Bs solicitor and recommended that it was fair 
and reasonable.  She said that the offer would make sure the system  covered its cost and 
Mrs B would continue to receive financial benefit  beyond the loan term.  The  investigator 
said she couldnt make  it true that the system  would  generate £99,000, but the offer made 
sure Mrs B would suffer no loss.  The investigator also noted that the battery issue had been 
resolved by Green Yorkshire, as it supplied the battery and reduced the contract price for the 
system.
Mrs Bs solicitor  asked some questions about how Shawbrooks offer would  be restructured 
and implemented,  as Mrs Bs existing loan is in arrears where she hasnt made payments.  
Ref: DRN52393162The investigator confirmed that once the loan is restructured Mrs B would be expected to 
resume making monthly payments.
The solicitor  said that Mrs B is concerned that she will struggle to pay the new loan 
payments. It also said the solar panel  system is not working properly and asked for 
Shawbrook to arrange for it to be serviced.
Shawbrook responded saying that once the loan was restructured Mrs B could contact it and 
go through her income and expenditure to see how it could help her with the payments.   It 
also agreed to arrange  for an engineer to inspect the system.
Following the engineers  inspection, Shawbrook explained that Mrs B had arranged  for the 
panels to be moved  on the roof when having work done on her home.  This has caused  
damage as the wiring  is incorrect, resulting  in the warranty for the system being invalidated.
Mrs B didnt accept Shawbrooks offer and said the system wasnt  performing properly 
before being moved.  She made  a counter offer and asked that:
The loan balance  be cleared to nil.
The battery be fixed and provided  with a warranty.
The system  be serviced in view of its underperformance.
Shawbrook didnt accept  those terms.  It re-iterated that its offer from April 2020 accounted 
for the reduced  loan amount and as Mrs B hasnt made any payments since, theres no need 
to update it.
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint  has been  passed to me to review afresh 
and make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   Having done so, Ive reached much the 
same conclusion as the investigator  that Shawbrooks  offer is fair and reasonable.
For there to be a valid claim under the CCA,  there must be an appropriate debtor-creditor-
supplier relationship.  Im satisfied that relationship exists here, and as Shawbrook has 
accepted responsibility for the claim I wont  expand  further.
Ive reviewed Mrs Bs complaint in full, and Shawbrook has accepted  the financial benefits of 
the system were misrepresented to Mrs B.  So, the central issue  for me to decide  is whats  a 
fair and reasonable way for things to be put right.
Mrs B was told the system would generate sufficient savings and FiT income to cover  the 
cost of the loan.   The  offer Shawbrook has made to Mrs B to make the system self-funding  is 
based upon the actual  and estimated financial benefits which were calculated  using the 
recommendations of an industry expert.   That methodology is in line with what  this Service 
would suggest.
I also understand Mrs B says that Green Yorkshire told her that she would receive  £99,000 
in income generated by the solar panels over 25 years.  If the system is working properly it 
will continue to provide  benefits after the loan term, but it wont generate the level of income  
Ref: DRN52393163she was expecting.  I cant reasonably ask Shawbrook to make the representation true and 
pay that income to Mrs B  as its unlikely that she would ever have received that income. 
So, thats not an actual loss, but rather a loss of expectation.
Ive also considered the problems Mrs B is having with the solar  panel system and its current 
underperformance.  The engineer that inspected the system  reported that the panels  had 
been moved under Mrs Bs instruction, not by a professional installer, and this resulted in 
damage to the system.  I understand Mrs Bs frustration and her comments that the system 
was underperforming  before the panels  were  moved.  But I cant  fairly  say that Shawbrook 
should honour the system warranty when Mrs B arranged for the panels to be moved 
causing the damage. 
So, overall, I think the complaint should be upheld, but Im satisfied Shawbrooks  offer to 
make the system self-funding is fair and reasonable in principle.  I understand the offer is 
based upon the premise that the panels  are functioning properly, but I cant say that 
Shawbrook is responsible for arranging for the system to be serviced.
I realise that by restructuring the loan the balance to be repaid will be reduced, but Mrs B 
has concerns that she may struggle making the monthly payments.  Shawbrook  has 
confirmed it will consider  Mrs Bs circumstances and assist  her if she contacts  it.  I think  this 
is fair and reasonable.
Shawbrook didnt address Mrs Bs concerns  and deal with her claim initially,  and Im sure 
that will have compounded her frustrations.   Shawbrooks offer included £200 for the trouble 
and upset caused, and I feel thats an appropriate  sum in the circumstances.
I realise Mrs B may be disappointed that I havent  agreed with her request for Shawbrook to 
cancel the loan or arrange for the system to be serviced. But I must confirm  that Ive 
considered everything  independently and reached  the outcome that I consider to be fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs Bs complaint against Shawbrook Bank Limited.   But I 
consider the offer Shawbrook  has made to Mrs B to make her solar  panels self-funding,  and 
pay £200 for trouble and upset, to be fair and reasonable.
So, I leave it for Mrs B to decide whether to accept Shawbrooks offer and decide how it 
should implement  the compensation from the options its provided.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 April 2021.
Ross Hammond
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5239316