K820x#14complaint
Mr T complains about issues hes experienced with a car supplied  with finance  from 
Santander Consumer  (UK) Plc.
background
In May 2018  Mr T was supplied with a car and entered into a conditional sale agreement  
with Santander.  At the point of supply  the car was 4 years old and had covered  a recorded 
mileage of 21,000  miles.
Shortly after purchasing  the car Mr T noticed  a discrepancy in the paperwork in relation  to 
the cars mileage. He contacted the supplying dealer  who told him it was due to an 
administration error.
Mr T continued to use the car for around  a year and covered approximately 12,000 miles. In 
March 2019 he experienced a transmission issue and took the car to a garage.  The garage 
told Mr T that the mileage  reading on the odometer (33,000) was different to the mileage 
reading on the transmission (70,000).
Mr T complained to Santander. He asked to reject  the car and said if hed known that the 
mileage was higher  he wouldntve  entered  into the agreement. He was unhappy about the 
transmission which he felt had failed prematurely.
In its final response Santander said it had contacted the supplying dealer who had been 
unable to confirm  the reason for the different mileages. In relation to the transmission  fault, 
Santander said it was up to Mr T to show that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the 
point of supply.
Mr T wasnt happy with the response  and complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She said that although there was a difference  
between the odometer reading  and the transmission  reading, there wasnt enough  evidence  
to suggest that the odometer  had been  tampered with by the dealership. In relation to the 
quality of the car, the investigator said that whilst there was a transmission fault, there  was 
no evidence that the fault had been  present at the point of supply. 
Mr T didnt  agree. He said he couldnt afford  to repair the car and that although the garage 
had originally aid it would carry out the repairs as a gesture of goodwill it was no longer 
prepared to do this now that the mileage discrepancy had been identified.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed the report from the garage  and I can see that there is a significant discrepancy  
between the odometer mileage and the transmission mileage. The transmission mileage is 
much higher.
Ive thought about the reasons why there might be a difference. One possibility  is that the 
odometer was tampered with. If that had been the case, and taking into account the mileage 
Ref: DRN53746522covered by Mr T in the first year, this would mean  that the car would have covered 
approximately 58,000 miles at the point of sale. 
Mr T has said that the car had some work carried out under warranty in July 2017 prior to the 
point of supply  and that the recorded mileage  at that time was 39,734. The garage  has said 
that this was an administrative error. If the job sheet is correct,  this would mean that the car 
covered approximately 19,000 miles between July 2017 and May 2018 over a period of 10 
months. I dont think this is likely.
Ive also considered the possibility that the recorded mileage on the job sheet  has been 
entered incorrectly as the garage  has said.
Another possibility  is that the reading on the transmission is higher because  the transmission 
has been replaced using second hand  parts proper to the point of supply. This would mean 
that the transmission reading related to the car it came from.
There are several possible explanations  for the discrepancy. In order to uphold  this 
complaint I would need to be satisfied, on the balance  of probabilities that the dealership had 
tampered with the odometer.  Im unable to say that one possible explanation is more  likely 
than the other and in the absence of any other  evidence Im unable to safely conclude that 
the dealership  is responsible. 
Ive also considered whether the car is of satisfactory quality.  Under the Consumer Rights  
Act 2015,  where  a fault occurs in the first 6 months  its presumed that it was present at the 
point of supply  unless the business can show otherwise. After  6 months, the burden  of proof 
is reversed and its up to the consumer  in this case Mr T  to show that the fault was 
present at the point of supply. 
Ive taken into account the length of time Mr T has had the car and the mileage hes covered. 
I can see that the car passed its MOT in December 2018 with no reported issues relating to 
the transmission. If there had been  a  fault  with the transmission  at the point of supply I 
would have expected this to have presented itself sooner given the time and mileage 
elapsed. I also think its likely that the fault wouldve been identified  at MOT.
Based on what Ive seen,  Im not persuaded that Mr T has shown  that there was a fault with 
the car at the point of supply. So Im unable to say that the car is of unsatisfactory quality.
For the reasons  Ive given Im unable to uphold the complaint and I wont  be asking 
Santander to do anything.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 July 2020.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5374652