K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2005. Miss S says HSBC Bank Plc mis-sold her the PPI. 
background
The background to this complaint, and my provisional findings,  can be found in my 
provisional decision which Ive attached  below  and which forms part of this final decision.
In summary,  I didnt think HSBC mis-sold the PPI to Miss S for the following reasons:
I think HSBC made Miss S aware  she had a choice in taking PPI, and she subsequently 
chose to take it.
It wasnt clear  if HSBC  recommended  the PPI to Miss S or not, but I considered  the 
complaint as though it did give advice. So HSBC needed to make sure the PPI was 
suitable for Miss S  and I thought  it likely it was based on what  she told us about her 
circumstances at the time.
HSBC also needed to make sure it gave Miss S enough information  about the PPI so 
she could make an informed choice. I thought it was possible that the information HSBC 
gave Miss S about the PPI might not have  been  as clear as it should have. But I didnt 
think clearer information wouldve  stopped her from buying  the PPI, given her 
circumstances at the time.
Which means HSBC doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss S.
But HSBC  has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Miss S because: 
HSBC got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Miss S about  that. Because  HSBC  didnt tell Miss S, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, HSBC has paid back the amount  of commission  and profit share  that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case
Ref: DRN58968112my findings
HSBC replied to my provisional  decision to say it didnt have anything  further  to add.
Miss S didnt respond  to the provisional  decision,  so Ive assumed  she doesnt have any 
additional points  for me to consider.
Because of this, I see no reason to change my provisional decision. Ive attached  this to the 
bottom of this final decision.
my final decision
The PPI policy was mis-sold  so HSBC Bank  Plc does not have  to pay back  all of the cost 
of the PPI to Miss S.
But HSBC  Bank Plc does  have to pay back to Miss S any commission and profit share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done  this, so I dont 
award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 February  2019.
Sophie Wilkinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN58968113copy of provisional decision
complaint
This complaint is about  a credit card payment  protection insurance (PPI) policy taken  out in 2005. 
Miss S says HSBC Bank Plc mis-sold her the PPI. 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken  
this into account in deciding  Miss Ss case.
I dont currently think this policy was mis-sold because:
I think HSBC  made it clear  that Miss S didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose to take it out 
 although I can understand why she cant  remember this.
Neither party  has been  able to give me any information from when this PPI was sold  so it makes 
it difficult for me to know how PPI was presented to Miss S. Miss S says she thinks  the sale of this 
PPI took place in a meeting  she had with HSBC,  so Ive taken this into consideration when 
looking at this complaint.
Because there isnt much  information available,  Ive had to think  about  what  I know about how 
HSBC normally sold policies around the same  time it sold PPI to Miss S. And having  thought 
about this carefully, I think it more likely  that Miss S actively  chose to buy a PPI policy and I think  
it likely she would have  had to sign separately to confirm she wanted the cover.  I havent seen 
anything to make me think  HSBC didnt follow its normal sales  process  on this occasion.
Miss S has said she didnt ask for PPI and she wasnt given a choice in buying  it, but she hasnt 
given me much more detail than this. For me to be able to agree with what  shes said about  the 
sale, I have to think it more likely that someone at HSBC deliberately misled  Miss S into thinking  
she had to buy PPI, or someone  added the cover  without her knowing about  it. And although I 
agree these things are possible, I dont think theyre more likely.
HSBC cant confirm  if it recommended the PPI to Miss S or not. But in fairness  to Miss S, Ive 
considered this complaint on the basis  that it did make a recommendation   as this puts more 
responsibility on it for how it sold the PPI. So HSBC had to check  that the PPI was right for Miss S 
 and based  on what Ive seen  of her circumstances  at the time, I think  that it was. For example 
she wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover and she seems to have 
had a need  for the cover.  
Its possible  the information HSBC gave Miss S about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it shouldve  
been. But she chose  to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type of cover. And it seems like 
it would have  been  useful for her if something went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. So I 
dont think better information about the PPI would have put her off taking  out the cover. 
Which means  HSBC  doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss S.
But HSBC has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Miss S because: 
HSBC got a high level of commission  and profit  share (more than 50% of the PPI premium)  - so it 
should have told Miss S about that. Because HSBC didnt tell Miss S, that was unfair. 
Ref: DRN58968114To put that right, HSBC has paid back the amount  of commission and profit share that was above  
50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Miss S has said - but these points dont change  my current  decision.
my provisional  decision
I dont currently think the PPI policy  was mis-sold  so HSBC Bank Plc does not have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Miss S.
But HSBC Bank Plc does  have to pay back to Miss S any commission and profit  share it got that was 
more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I dont award any further 
compensation. 
I now invite  Miss S and HSBC to give me any further information they want  me to consider  before 
I make  my final decision.  This must be provided to us by 21 December  2018.
Ref: DRN5896811