K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B have  complained that Santander  UK Plc (Santander) acted unfairly when  it 
sold them  two different accounts. 
Mr and Mrs B also complain that Santander mis-managed their money  by not helping them 
to earn interest  on it.
background
Mr and Mrs B opened a fee-free account  with Santander in April 1995.  They  changed the 
account to the Santander  123 account  in February  2015 and changed  it again  to the 
Santander 123 Lite account in September 2016.
The 123 and 123 Lite accounts offer banking benefits in return for a monthly  fee, but from 
what Ive seen they dont offer any insurance  or protection benefits.  The 123 account offers 
cashback on certain direct debit  transactions, and a higher  interest rate on some  credit 
balances held with Santander. The 123 Lite account  offers  only the cashback  element, for a 
lower monthly fee than the 123 account.
One of our adjudicators didnt think that Santander had treated Mr and Mrs B unfairly and 
didnt recommend that Santander should pay them any compensation. Mr and Mrs B didnt 
agree so they asked for an ombudsman  to look at the complaint and make a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve explained  how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website.  
Ive used this approach  to help decide what to do about Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. 
Where evidence is incomplete and matters  are in dispute, as they are here,  I make  my 
decision based on what I think is most likely to have happened  keeping  in mind everything 
Ive seen and been told.
After giving Mr and Mrs Bs complaint a lot of thought,  Im not upholding it. Ill explain why.
Ive started by thinking about whether Mr and Mrs B were given a fair choice when they took 
their packaged bank account.
When Mr and Mrs B first raised  their complaint  with Santander they said that they were told 
they werent eligible for a fee-free account. They also said they were told they had to take 
the account in order  to have a loan, overdraft or mortgage. When  they referred their 
complaint to this service  they complained that they were told they had to change their 
account to the 123 account in order to keep  their overdraft.
I cant be sure exactly what  Mr and Mrs B were told when they changed their account,  but 
Im not persuaded they were left with no other option and took it just to keep their overdraft. 
From the bank statements Ive seen it looks  as though they relied fairly heavily on their 
overdraft, and although I havent seen  much of their account history from before the date 
they upgraded, I cant see that this wouldve been much different  to what I have seen. So I 
Ref: DRN52456722think its more likely  than not that theyd held an arranged overdraft for some time before the 
changed to the 123 account, and they were aware  they could have a fee-free  account  whilst 
keeping their overdraft  in place. 
I dont think that Santander made a personalised recommendation when it sold the 
123 account to Mr and Mrs B. So it didnt have to check if the account was suitable  for them.
But Santander still had to give Mr and Mrs B enough clear  information about the 123 account 
for them to decide  if they wanted  it. Like our adjudicator, I think that Mr and Mrs B were  
interested in some of the benefits of the account and chose it because of these benefits.  
At the time they upgraded the benefits of the 123 account were cashback  on certain direct 
debits, and better interest rates  on credit balances. The account cost £2.00 per month.
Having looked  at the way Mr and Mrs B used their account it looks as though it was their 
main account. Thats  to say, they paid their main  household utility  bills from it. The direct  
debit cashback  applied to certain  utility bill transactions at different rates, and having  thought  
carefully about this, I think Mr and Mrs B were probably aware  of that. In the months  after 
upgrading they received  more in direct debit cashback (around £7) than they paid to have  
the account (£2).
Mr and Mrs B have  also said that they were sold the account  even  though they used their 
overdraft a lot  so they didnt benefit from the preferential credit  interest  rates. I understand 
why theyve said this, and its fair to say that they were certainly  overdrawn  more than they 
were in credit, so they didnt  earn as much  interest  as they mightve expected. But that 
doesnt make me think Santander did something wrong. I think Mr and Mrs B were  most 
likely aware  of this benefit too, and although  they didnt make as much use of it as they did 
the cashback benefit, the account still looks  like it was financially beneficial  to them when 
Santander sold it.
Mr and Mrs Bs account was changed  to the 123 Lite account after Mrs B had a discussion 
with Santander  in September 2016. This account  offered the same  cashback benefit that 
Mr and Mrs B had previously benefitted from, without the potential  to earn extra  credit  
interest.
Given what Ive already explained,  I think Mr and Mrs B were aware of how their account  
was changing   and I can see why the 123 Lite mightve been more appealing to them.  They 
were able to continue to benefit from the cashback  benefit, without paying the higher 
monthly fee to also get the preferential  interest rates that they werent making  use of.
Having considered everything, I think Santander most likely  gave  Mr and Mrs B enough 
information about the 123 and 123 Lite accounts  for them  to know  what they were paying for. 
And they chose to take them.
I accept that its possible  that Santander didnt tell Mr and Mrs B everything it should have 
about the 123 and the 123 Lite accounts. But because I think  they were  financially beneficial 
to them,  Im persuaded that Mr and Mrs B would still have taken  them, even if Santander 
had given them better, or indeed more  information  about them.
Turning to Mr and Mrs Bs second complaint point, Mr and Mrs B say they deposited a lump  
sum of over £75,000  and they didnt  earn any interest on it. They  feel Santander  shouldve  
Ref: DRN52456723contacted them to help them make better use of the money, and to make sure they got a 
better return.
 
From what  I know, Mr and Mrs B deposited the lump sum into their account in April 2017. 
This was after theyd downgraded from the 123 account, to the 123 Lite account.  As Ive 
said, whilst  the 123 Lite account offered the cashback benefit, it didnt offer any preferential  
interest rates. 
Its not in question whether Santander  did or didnt apply interest correctly. So I dont need  to 
make a finding on that here. The matter in question is whether Santander  shouldve  
proactively reviewed Mr and Mrs Bs account  and offered  them the opportunity  to discuss  
their account  balance  effectively, to help them to earn interest on it.
I certainly agree it wouldve been very helpful  for Santander  to have contacted  Mr and Mrs B 
to discuss the funds they held in their account. And indeed, its perfectly reasonable with 
hindsight for Mr and Mrs B to be disappointed  that they didnt  make  that money  work harder 
for them. But in considering whats fair I have to look at what  Santander  did or didnt do, 
keeping in mind  what it should have done. 
Santander didnt  have a requirement to continually monitor  Mr and Mrs Bs account in this 
way. It also isnt obliged  to contact its customers to proactively review their account holdings. 
Whilst this is commonplace for some financial institutions, it wasnt  wrong for Santander not 
to do this. So whilst Ive thought carefully  about this point, I cant hold Santander  responsible 
for Mr and Mrs Bs large balance not earning  interest in the way they think it should have. So 
I dont find that Santander  has acted unfairly or unreasonably here.
I want to reassure Mr and Mrs B that Ive looked  at all the information I have about their 
complaint. And Ive thought carefully  about  everything theyve said. But having done so I 
dont think Santander  acted unfairly when  it sold them the 123 and the 123 Lite current  
accounts to them. And I also dont think  it was wrong not to proactively contact them  to help 
them to earn interest on their credit balance.
my final decision
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr and Mrs B but for the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold their 
complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 July 2019.
Sam Wade
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5245672