K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva)  unfairly refused his travel insurance claim.
background
In July 2018 Mr S flight was cancelled. So he had to pay for alternative transport to his 
destination. He claimed for the extra costs  on his Aviva travel insurance policy. But Aviva felt 
the purpose of his trip was business  travel. It said claims for trips made for that purpose 
arent covered by his policy. So it refused to pay his claim. 
Mr S complained. He said the trip wasnt  for business. Instead he was going  to meet friends  
 with the possible intention of playing music at an event. He said he wasnt  paid for playing 
at the event.   Aviva didnt  accept that, so he came to this service. He wants Aviva to pay his 
claim.
Our investigator initially said Aviva hadnt shown it could refuse Mr S claim.  But it had sent 
her the wrong  policy document. After she received the correct  one she said it could fairly 
refuse the claim.  Mr S didnt accept  that. So the complaint has come to me for a final 
decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not making Aviva pay 
Mr S claim or do anything differently.
Aviva has relied on this exclusion to refuse the claim  Any claim where the purpose  of the 
trip is business travel . So I need  to decide if it was fair of it to do so. First of all Ive 
considered what  is meant by business travel. It isnt defined in the policy.  So Ive used a 
common or everyday  meaning of the term. That would  be something like travelling to 
undertake commercial activity. Then Ive considered if that was the purpose of Mr S trip.  
I dont think what should be considered  commercial  activity is clear cut. But on balance I 
think the purpose of Mr S travel was to undertake  commercial activity. 
Mr S has been a little inconsistent with his explanations about the trip. But having  listened to 
what hes said to this service and Aviva it seems  the following is probably correct.  He plays  
and produces music for a record  label. He was travelling to meet friends that share a 
common interest in a type of music. There  was an intention to put on a music event in the 
destination city. His original flight was booked and paid for by the event organiser. An aim of 
the event was to publicise the music  label.  Mr S would only get paid for playing at the event 
if enough money was taken in entrance fees or otherwise. And Mr S says if he did get paid, 
the amount wouldve  been minimal.  
Mr S says the purpose of the trip was to meet up with friends.  He implies the music event 
was incidental. So the trip would  have happened  without it. I accept he was meeting up with 
friends. But it seems to me the event  was central to their trip. And I think  it was probably 
planned when  the flights were booked  - even if a venue for it wasnt secured until much  later.  
So I think its fair to say the purpose of Mr Ss trip was to attend and play at the event.    
Ref: DRN54268342But just because Mr S might have received payment and might  have had expenses, like his 
flight, paid for it doesnt necessarily mean he was undertaking commercial  or business 
activity. An amateur enthusiast, for example, could receive the same  but might  not be 
considered to be travelling for commercial reasons. Ive considered if that description applies 
to Mr S. But on balance, for the reasons given below, I dont think it does.    
Mr S says he plays at regular music events where  he doesnt earn money   sometimes  he 
loses money. It seems the event  he travelled to didnt make a profit  and so he didnt receive 
a payment. But hes also said an aim of the events  he takes  part in is to raise profile in the 
hope of making  money in the longer term. The event  he made the trip for was described  as a 
showcase  so I think its fair to say its intention was to promote the music label. 
Mr S releases music  through the label.  He has an interest in its success.  So whilst the 
individual event  and trip may not have  been  profitable for the label or Mr S its purpose  was 
still commercial.  So I think Avivas  decision  to apply the business travel exclusion was fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Ive considered everything Mr S has said  including music not being his job or even a 
regular source of income for him and why the flight was paid for by the event organiser. But I 
still think, for the reasons  given above, its fair and reasonable for Aviva to consider the 
purpose of the trip to be business  travel. So Im not making it to pay the claim.      
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im not making Aviva Insurance Limited pay Mr S claim or do 
anything differently. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 April 2019.
Daniel Martin
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5426834