K820x#14complaint
Mrs W complains that AXA Insurance UK Plc hasnt paid her full claim under her travel 
insurance policy. She also complains about AXAs delay  in dealing with her claim.
background
In April 2016 Mrs W, her husband Mr W and their young child travelled abroad  for a 
three-week trip. Their  original return flight was on 12 May 2016.  
Unfortunately the familys return date was delayed due to complications of Mrs Ws 
pregnancy. She spent  an initial  period  of five days in hospital to 13 May 2016,  so they 
missed their return  flight. 
Mr W returned to the UK after a few weeks. Mrs W didnt return  due to her pregnancy  
complications, and explained she was verbally  advised by her doctor not to travel. She spent  
a further eight days in hospital in June, and then over two months in another hospital  for 
complete bed rest. During  this period  their young child was cared for by relatives. Their baby 
was then born prematurely. It was only in January 2017 after the baby had had the required 
check-ups that Mrs W and her children  were able to return to the UK. 
In January 2018 Mrs W made a claim to AXA for the expenses shed incurred both at home 
and abroad. She included the cost of maintaining her home in the UK. The claim was for 
more than £16,000. She had to chase progress of the claim with AXA.
It wasnt until September 2018  that AXA paid part of Mrs Ws claim. It paid her the daily 
hospital benefit for the five days she spent  in hospital in May 2016, and the cost of the new 
flights at the end of May 2016.  But it wouldnt pay her full claim. It said there  wasnt  medical 
evidence that she was unfit to fly back to the UK at the time she was first discharged  from 
hospital. AXA accepted its undue delay  in processing her claim, and paid her £200 
compensation for this. Mrs W didnt  accept AXAs response. It told her she could cash its 
cheques and still pursue her complaint  through this service.
Our adjudicator ultimately didnt uphold the complaint. She said that the medical evidence 
didnt show that Mrs W had to remain abroad  after her first hospital stay.  Mrs W didnt agree 
so the complaints come to me for review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that it was a very stressful time for Mrs W, as well as her family. She has explained 
how difficult it was particularly for her young child, who was staying with relatives  abroad  
while Mrs W was in hospital, and wasnt allowed  to visit Mrs W. Im pleased that her baby 
was born safely and I can understand that her babys health and welfare was Mrs Ws first 
priority at the time.
I need to decide whether AXA has fairly settled Mrs Ws claim and whether its payment of 
£200 compensation was reasonable. Despite my natural  sympathy for all that Mrs W and her 
family went through I think AXA has settled her claim fairly, for broadly the same reasons our 
Ref: DRN55626242adjudicator has given. Ill explain why and in doing so Ill focus on what  I think are the central  
issues. 
AXA has accepted  the evidence Mrs W provided  that she wasnt able to return  to the UK on 
her original flight because  she was in hospital.  Its paid her for the end May 2016 
replacement flights that she booked,  together  with the hospital  benefit for that first stay. 
I think that was fair.
Our adjudicator has explained that under the terms of the policy  Mrs W needed to contact 
AXAs emergency assistance line if she was admitted to hospital and/or incurred expenses  
of more than £500.  That is clear in the policy.
Based on AXAs records it wasnt until 11 July 2016, around two months after her first 
hospital admission,  that Mr W contacted AXA. It has shown us a copy of the letter it sent 
him, with the information Mrs W would  need to make  a claim. But Mrs W has since told us 
that Mr W did call AXA in May 2016 or around  the beginning of June. She says he contacted 
AXA again  in July 2016 because it hadnt  sent any documents. 
Mr W has given  us the mobile phone number he would have used to call AXA. It has 
checked its records but cant trace any May/June 2016 call from that number. Due to the call 
being more than six months before  he asked  for records,  his mobile  phone  provider hasnt 
been able to give him his call history. 
AXAs records do indicate the first notification of Mrs Ws illness was made in July 2016. Its 
possible Mr W did ring earlier,  but on balance I dont  think thats  the more  likely explanation. 
I think its more likely that he called  AXA in July 2016 after he returned to the UK. And AXA 
did send him the information Mrs W would need to make a claim. This included  that it would 
need medical evidence including a medical certificate completed by her treating doctor  to 
explain her condition. So despite the later delay in dealing with the claim I think  AXA had 
explained in 2016 that Mrs W would need  medical  evidence to support her claim.  
If Mrs W or Mr W had called AXA at the time of her May 2016 hospital  admission I think it 
could have looked into her medical  condition and considered how to bring her back to the 
UK. Theres no medical evidence to show she wasnt fit to fly home  at this time. Mrs W has 
since told us she was advised not to fly by her doctor, but we dont have any other evidence  
of that. I think its likely AXA would  have arranged for her to return to the UK in May 2016. 
Mrs W says that she phoned her UK midwife at the time she was experiencing complications 
of her pregnancy, and was told that she wouldnt have got the same level of treatment in the 
UK as she got abroad. I can entirely  see her reasons  for remaining abroad. But this doesnt 
mean her claim is fully covered under her travel  insurance policy.  
Mrs W has said she understands now that her costs  in the UK (for running her home  there 
as well as being  abroad) arent covered under  the policy. She still thinks  that AXA should 
pay the costs that are covered under  the policy, so she receives the benefits  shes entitled 
to.
Ive thought about Mrs Ws points. But I dont think it would be fair for me to say that AXA 
must now pay Mrs Ws medical costs and her other expenses for remaining abroad after her 
first hospital  admission. I appreciate there  is cover under the policy  for those costs,  but only 
if Mrs W hadnt been medically fit to return to the UK after she first experienced 
complications in her pregnancy. Mrs W hasnt  been able to provide any medical evidence to 
show that she wasnt fit to fly at that time.  
Ref: DRN55626243AXA has said sorry for its delay in dealing with Mrs Ws claim. It has paid her £200 
compensation for distress and inconvenience.  Its clear to me that AXA should have made its 
claim decision earlier. But I think its apology and compensation payment was fair, so I dont 
require AXA to pay Mrs W any additional amount. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 July 2019.  
Amanda Maycock
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5562624