K820x#14Complaint
Mr M has complained about a loan Loans  2 Go Limited (L2G) provided to him. He says 
L2G irresponsibly  lent him this loan as it shouldnt have proceeded with the application  when 
it ought reasonably  to have known it had been provided with inaccurate information.
Background
One of our adjudicators reviewed what Mr M and L2G had told us. And he thought that L2G
hadnt lent irresponsibly. So he didnt uphold  Mr Ms complaint. Mr M disagreed and asked 
for an ombudsman to look at his complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained  how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible  lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Ms complaint.
L2G needed to make sure that it didnt  lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is
L2G needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether Mr M could
afford to repay before providing this loan. Our website sets out what  we typically  think  about
when deciding whether a lenders checks were proportionate. Generally, we think  its
reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough   in terms of how much  information it
gathers and what it does  to verify  it  in the early  stages  of a lending  relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high.  And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater  the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt  continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
L2G provided Mr M with a loan for £500  in July 2018. It had an APR of 990.1% and
was to due be repaid  in 18 instalments of £113.28,  which meant the total amount to be 
repaid was £2,039.04. L2G says it agreed to Mr Ms application  after he provided details of 
his monthly income  and expenditure.  It says it cross-checked this against information on a 
credit search it carried out on Mr M. The information Mr M provided  about his income and 
expenditure showed hed be able to make  the repayments he was committing  to. But it, in 
any event, adjusted Mr Ms expenditure declaration  to account for Mr Ms existing credit 
commitments and this still showed the required payments were affordable. L2G says,  in 
these circumstances  it was reasonable to lend. 
On the other hand, Mr M has said he was in financial difficulty  and has provided us with his 
bank statements. Ive carefully thought about what Mr M and L2G have said. The first thing 
for me to say is that this was Mr Ms first loan with L2G. The information  provided suggests 
Mr M was asked  to provide details of his income  and expenditure and L2G did carry  out 
external checks and didnt simply rely on what it was told.
Bearing in mind the amount of the repayments, the credit search not showing anything too
alarming (there was a history of some  settled payday loans) and Mr Ms lack of any previous 
lending with L2G, I dont think it was unreasonable for L2G to rely on the payments  being 
affordable as, on the face of things,  they appeared to be. I accept Mr Ms actual 
Ref: DRN55102092circumstances at the time are more accurately reflected in his bank statements. And the 
reason why he might not have been able to repay is clear when these are considered.  But 
L2G could only make its decision based on the information it had available  at the time. And, 
at this stage of the lending relationship, I dont think proportionate checks  wouldve extended 
into L2G asking  Mr M to provide his bank statements.
Equally its only fair and reasonable  for me to uphold a complaint in circumstances a lender
did something wrong. And, in this case,  I dont think that L2G did anything wrong in deciding
to lend to Mr M - it carried  out proportionate  checks even though  its looks like the information
it was provided with didnt tell the whole story. L2G reasonably  relied on this information and 
given the amount of the repayments involved and its lack of history with Mr M, I dont think  it 
was unreasonable for L2G to provide this loan.
Ive thought about what Mr M has said about  the terms of this loan and the published final 
decision hes referred to. As the deciding ombudsman on the case Mr Ms referred  to, Im 
familiar with it. But I need to decide whats fair and reasonable  in Mr Ms case. And I dont 
think the facts and circumstances of Mr Ms case are the same as the one he has referred 
to. Nonetheless  Ive considered the terms of the loan and whether Mr M was treated unfairly.  
The amount  Mr M was expected to pay can only be described as eye-watering. I appreciate 
making the payments will have been  difficult. But the credit  agreement makes  no attempt to 
disguise and arguably brazenly sets out just how egregious these terms are. As Mr M 
accepted the terms the terms of this loan,  the payments appeared  affordable and there 
wasnt anything on file, at least, to demonstrate L2G actively took advantage of Mr Ms 
obvious financial difficulty (the credit  search  didnt set out the full extent  of Mr Ms position), 
overall I find L2G didnt  unfairly provide this loan given all the circumstances.
I appreciate this will be very disappointing for Mr M. But I hope hell understand the reasons 
for my decision and that hell at least feel his concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2021.
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN5510209