K820x#14complaint
Mrs and Mr S complain  that Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold them a mortgage payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
In 1999, Mrs and Mr S took out a mortgage through Lloyds Bank. They were also sold PPI to 
cover their mortgage repayments. They were both covered under the policy  for accident, 
sickness and unemployment, at a cost of around £2.49 per month for up to 12 months  cover  
per successful claim, to cover their mortgage  repayments in full. The cover  was split equally 
between them Their  mortgage ended in 2002.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  was upheld. Mrs and Mr S disagreed 
so the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. Mrs and Mr S said that PPI 
wasnt discussed at the meeting they had with the bank.  They  said if the bank thought their 
salary and sick pay was enough to get the mortgage, they didnt need PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here),  I reach my decision on the balance of 
probabilities  in other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened in light of 
the available  evidence and the wider circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website. And 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs and Mr Ss case.  
Lloyds no longer has Mrs and Mr Ss paperwork from the time of sale.  Banks often only keep 
records for six years and Mrs and Mr Ss mortgage  account was closed over 15 years ago. 
Also, I cant know what was discussed  at the meeting Mrs and Mr S had with Lloyds. 
Based on the limited  information now available, I dont have enough  to fairly conclude that 
the optional nature of PPI wasnt brought to Mrs and Mr Ss attention  at the time of sale and 
they didnt chose to take it out. I think it just as likely it was.  Ive listened  carefully  to what 
Mrs and Mr S have  said. I dont doubt what they say about  not remembering  PPI being 
discussed. However, memories can fade over time, so I cant  just rely on what  Mrs and Mr S 
remember now. 
To be fair to Mrs and Mr S I have proceeded on the basis that Lloyds advised them to take 
out the policy. That means Lloyds had the additional  responsibility of considering whether 
the policy was suitable for them. It also had to give them  information  that was clear, fair and 
not misleading about PPI, so that they could make  an informed choice about whether they 
wanted it. I cant see that the policy  was unsuitable  for them.  I say this because:
-it seems that Mrs and Mr S were  eligible  to take out the policy;
-Neither Mrs or Mr S appeared  to be affected  by any of main limitations or exclusions 
which mightve made it more difficult for them to make a claim. 
-Mrs S said she wouldve got six months  worth  of full pay through  work  if off sick. 
Ref: DRN52087542Mr S said he wouldnt  have got paid sick pay from his employer. The PPI wouldve 
paid out on top of Mrs S work benefits,  for up to 12 months per successful claim, so 
potentially for longer  than her work benefits  wouldve  covered her for. It wouldve 
allowed them to use her work benefits  to meet their other household expenses. It 
wouldve also provided them with the reassurance that their mortgage repayment 
could be met if Mr S wasnt fit to work  and he wasnt receiving any income.  It 
wouldve also provided them both with cover for unemployment.  Mortgage PPI is 
often still suitable  for people  with work  benefits.  A mortgage is a big commitment with 
the risk of losing your home if you dont  keep up repayments. So mortgage  PPI can 
offer an increased sense  of security. I dont think Mrs and Mr Ss other  resources 
made the PPI unsuitable. Mrs S said she had some  other insurances,  but I cant  see 
these provided her with duplicate cover;
-They said their family  wouldve helped too. I accept they may have  wanted  to, but 
help like this cant always be guaranteed when  the time comes.  So, I think the PPI 
could still have  provided valuable protection;
-I think the policy was a reasonable cost for the benefit it gave and there  isnt anything 
that makes me think it was unaffordable for Mrs and Mr S when they took it out. 
Its possible Mrs and Mr S didnt  get all the information they should have had about the PPI. I 
dont know what they were told about the costs and benefits of the policy.  But as I think it 
was suitable for the reasons Ive given, I dont think this wouldve made  a difference  to their 
decision to buy it. Therefore, on balance, I dont think  Mrs and Mr S have  lost out because of 
anything Lloyds did wrong. So I dont have grounds to uphold  the complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  15 June  2019.
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5208754