K820x#14Complaint
Mr H complains a locked  box that was left with National Westminster  Bank  Plc (NatWest) for 
safe keeping has been lost or stolen. He brings  this complaint in has capacity as the 
executor of his late-fathers estate.
 
Background
Mr H has a receipt which shows  the box was left with NatWest in 1970.  His father  died a 
couple of years later and the contents of the box was valued. But he says the box was never 
collected and he only remembered it in mid-2017 when  one of his daughters read a letter  
relating to it from the 1970s.
Mr H thinks its more likely than not the box was lost or stolen. But NatWest thinks  its more 
likely the box was collected at some point after the valuations was carried out. Our 
investigators thought  there were a number of things that could have happened and didnt 
think it was more likely than not the bank  was responsible for the loss or theft of the box. 
Mr H didnt agree, so the complaint has come  to me to review. Mr H said,  in summary,  that:
The solicitors that acted for his father  still has a large file of papers relating to the 
settlement of his estate,  which  includes the original receipt from when  the box was 
deposited with the bank. If the box had been collected by the solicitors then there  would 
be paperwork relating  to this and the receipt  wouldve been relinquished. The absence of 
such paperwork and the presence  of the receipt indicates the box wasnt collected.
He doesnt  know why the box wasnt collected  by the solicitors. But theyve  said the 
probate application and settlement of the estate  couldve been completed  without 
collecting it. He didnt  collect it and didnt actually know  where the holding  branch was 
located. The other executor was unwell and died in 1973  he had no reason to collect 
the box because  the contents  had been left to Mr Hs daughter. His daughter  was fairly 
young at the time and the decision was made  to give her the contents of the box when 
she was older. For reasons he cannot  be sure of now,  the whole family overlooked the 
collection of the box while  the estate was being  settled and then forgot about it entirely 
until 2017.
NatWest hasnt explained why the solicitors still have the receipt or why its no longer 
valid. If the box was collected  then the bank should, and would, have demanded the 
receipt be returned and retained  a record of the collection. The fact the bank no longer 
has any record of the box indicates  it was lost or stolen at some point after the contents 
was valued in 1972. The receipt  should be honoured unless the bank can prove the box 
had already been collected.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive, or contradictory (as some of it is here),  I have to make  my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  that is, what I consider is more likely  then not to have  happened  in 
the light of the available evidence and the wider  surrounding circumstances.
Ref: DRN50366992Mr H clearly has very strong feelings  about this matter, which  I completely understand given 
what was in the box. Hes provided detailed submissions, which  Ive read and considered in 
their entirety. I trust he wont take as a discourtesy  the fact my findings focus on what  I 
consider to be the central issues and are expressed  in less detail.
Mr H seems to suggest the existence  of the receipt  in the solicitors  files is proof enough that 
the box wasnt collected. But I disagree. Nowhere  on the receipt does  it say it must be 
produced and surrendered before the box will be relinquished.  And, in my experience,  even 
when a document does says it must be produced   as, for example, is the case  with the 
older-style bank and building society passbooks  sometimes they go astray.  So banks and 
building societies usually  have processes in place which allow the owners of such  items to 
obtain them  in the absence of the such documents. Quite often proof of identity and, thereby, 
ownership is enough. 
In this particular  case it wouldnt surprise me if the bank  wouldve asked  for proof  of identity 
in addition to seeing the receipt  if such had been produced   given that it knew the actual 
owner of the box had died. And I say this because Mr H seems to suggest that the receipt on 
its own would have  been sufficient for an individual (perhaps acting on the solicitors behalf) 
to collect the box.
Mr H also says the bank  should still hold records of the box and its collection.  But, again, I 
disagree. Forty-five years had passed between Mr Hs fathers death and him getting in 
touch to query the boxs whereabouts. Its apparent  Mr Hs father held various accounts with 
the bank as well as the safe custody arrangement. And records  relating to all those holdings  
were destroyed at some point in the intervening years. I wouldnt expect a bank to retain 
records for anything like that length  of time after a relationship had ended. And retaining data 
indefinitely in the way Mr H suggests could  contravene the various data protection laws 
thatve been in force over the years.
I also have some difficulty understanding how the box could have been  overlooked  and/or 
forgotten for so long either by the family  or the solicitors. I appreciate it was probably a busy  
and stressful  time for Mr H. But theres  no dispute  that both he, the other  executor and the 
solicitors were aware of its existence following Mr Hs fathers  death   the box and its 
contents were referenced in several documents around that time.  In particular:
The solicitors say their records indicate  the boxs contents was valued  on the banks 
premises by a third party. Mr H might  not have  know when the holding branch was but 
whoever instructed the valuers  mustve had this information.
The estate duty Inland Revenue forms make  reference to the boxs contents which were 
gifted to Mr Hs daughter in 1970 on the same  day the box was deposited with the bank, 
and prior to his fathers death.
The solicitors wrote to the holding branch  soon  after obtaining the Grant  of Probate. 
They enclosed the executors authority, gave  instruction about certain holdings, 
confirmed they would  send someone  to the branch to collect some documents   
indicating the solicitors knew where  the branch was  and confirming instructions about 
the box would follow separately. The letter also said the executors were taking steps to 
realise securities and would be in touch soon to settle some debts. That suggests to me 
that both executors were actively involved in the process of settling the estate. And I 
have some difficulty accepting the other executor was as incapacitated  by sickness  as 
Mr H suggests  if he was I dont see why he accepted the executorship  and/or why the 
Ref: DRN50366993solicitors indicated his involvement in settling the estate. I cant  rule out the possibility  
that the other executor  collected the box.
NatWests records suggest it carried out a thorough search but didnt find the box. So I have 
little reason to think its still held somewhere  by the bank. Ive also taken into account 
NatWests comments that it would usually make  a charge for keeping  boxes in safe custody 
and, this charge  wouldve been  passed over to someone else once Mr Hs fathers accounts 
were closed. In my experience, thats  usually what happens and I can see from the solicitors 
letter that an executor  account was held at the bank. So payment may have continued from 
that account until the box was collected.  Its also my understanding that banks will 
occasionally complete audits of their safe custody  contents yet theres been no suggestion 
this particular box turned up at any point in the intervening years.
Having considered all the possibilities, and in light of what  Ive already  said,  I dont think  its 
more likely than not the bank lost the box or it was stolen while  in the banks possession.  So 
it wouldnt be fair to instruct the bank to pay Mr H the current  value of the boxs contents or 
any other compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 August 2019.
Ruth Hersey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5036699