K821x#15complaint
Mr C and Ms C complain  about AXA Insurance UK Plcs decision to decline their home  
insurance claim for accidental damage to their heat exchanger unit. 
background
Mr C and Ms C have  a heat exchanger at their property.  Every three years it requires routine 
maintenance in the form of cleaning with water and drying. It is then reinstalled. Mr C carried  
out the cleaning of the unit in August 2018. He hung it out under his veranda in the shade  to 
allow it to drip dry. On returning 40 minutes  later he discovered it had been damaged. There  
was distortion, sagging  and shrinkage of the plastic fins. The unit was unusable. 
Mr C contacted AXA to make a claim under the additional accidental  damage section of the 
policy. AXA declined the claim. It said that cover was only provided for damage  caused  by 
Mr C and Ms C, their guests or vermin. It said the actual cause of the damage was the heat.  
It said the damage hadnt been caused  directly by them so the claim wasnt  covered. 
Mr C and Ms C complained to AXA. They said the damage was the result of human error. 
AXA looked  into their complaint but didnt think itd done anything wrong. So Mr C and Ms C 
complained to this service. Our investigator looked  into their complaint and recommended 
that it was upheld. He thought the damage  was sudden,  unexpected  and unforeseen  and 
had been caused by Mr C by placing it outside to dry. He recommended  that AXA pay the 
claim (Mr C and Ms C having  already paid to replace the unit themselves) together with 
interest at this services  usual rate. 
Mr C and Ms C accepted our investigators  findings but AXA didnt. It said the heat 
exchanger was built to withstand temperatures of 55 degrees  but the temperature  on the day 
in question was just over 28 degrees. So it said it was struggling to understand how a unit 
that was in good condition  and undamaged from use melted  in temperatures so much lower 
than it was built to withstand. It questioned whether the damage  was sudden, happened 
within a 40 minute period  or had occurred  in the manner described by Mr C. It said it 
accepted it hadnt relied  on this previously but did so now in response to our investigators 
view. 
Our investigator looked at the complaint again but wasnt  persuaded to change his mind. He 
said he thought  the damage  was consistent  with melting and that it was unlikely that the 
damage happened with immediacy but that didnt mean it wasnt  sudden. 
In response AXA said it thought the damage wasnt  sudden  not with reference to the 
40 minutes the unit was outside but that it had likely occurred  over a much  longer period of 
time. It said the manifestation of the damage  may well have been sudden but the cause 
gradual. It asked for the complaint to be referred  for an ombudsmans  decision. 
I issued both a provisional decision (in June 2019) and a final decision in (July 2019) on this 
case. Having considered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  what was fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint, I didnt think  it should  be upheld.  
In brief,  I thought the grounds on which AXA had declined the claim  that it didnt meet the 
policy definition of accidental damage were  wrong,  so I didnt think itd treated  
Mr C and Ms C fairly. Notwithstanding  that, I still thought AXA shouldnt be made to pay the 
claim. Thats because  I didnt think AXA had had the opportunity  to consider the claim 
Ref: DRN59643862against the remaining policy terms and conditions. Whilst I thought  it was only reasonable it 
be allowed to do so now, I thought AXA would say to Mr C and Ms C what  itd had said to us; 
that its highly unlikely a unit built to withstand  temperatures of 55 degrees centigrade melted  
on a day the temperature didnt exceed  29 degrees  centigrade (and so mustve occurred 
over a much longer period  of time). I said I agreed  that the unit had been damaged by 
melting but wasnt persuaded that it couldve happened suddenly (as required by the policy  
terms) by being left outside in temperatures just over half what  it was built to withstand. 
AXA didnt respond to my provisional decision.  Mr C and Ms C responded and said it was 
unfair that they had to defend themselves. They said theyd handled insurance claims for 
other family members but had never experienced another insurance company trying  to 
wriggle its way out of its obligations in the way AXA was doing  to them. They  hoped  I would  
be able to support  them  because their claim was an honest one. 
I thought about  what  Mr C and Ms C said but it didnt persuade  me to change my mind  and 
uphold their complaint.  I said that not all damage a house sustains is covered by home 
insurance and unfortunately the damage as claimed by Mr C and Ms C didnt meet  the policy 
definition of accidental  damage.  I said that I didnt think AXA had unfairly  tried to wriggle out 
of its obligations.  I thought it assessed the claim  against the policy  terms and felt the 
damage Mr C and Ms C had claimed for wasnt covered by the accidental damage  event. 
I explained that as Im required  to assess complaints impartially  and to treat both parties 
fairly I didnt  think I could reasonably ignore AXAs point  about the damage not being caused 
suddenly. And unfortunately for Mr C and Ms C, it had the same  effect on their claim as 
AXAs original reason for declining it. If the damage wasnt  sudden,  then it wasnt covered by 
the policy. I thought  that AXA had investigated Mr C and Ms Cs complaint fairly. My final 
decision was that I didnt think the complaint should  be upheld.  
A few days  after my final decision had been sent to both parties. Mr C contacted our 
investigator to say that he didnt think I had read the five page  submission  he and Ms C had 
sent in response  to my provisional decision. Indeed, due to a regrettable  administrative error 
at this service, the response hadnt  been  added to our file. Consequently I had not seen their 
comments prior to issuing my final decision.
Mr C asked if anything could be done  in the circumstances.
As both parties are aware, this services statutory role is exhausted once  an ombudsmans  
final decision  is issued on a complaint. There are, however, very rare circumstances where 
this service seeks the consent of both parties to reconsider a complaint. So this is what 
happened here. This service felt, as a matter of procedure, it would be unfair not to allow  me 
to consider the evidence Mr C and Ms C had sent in purely because an administrative error 
had occurred. Im grateful  to both parties  that they both gave their consent. 
Mr C said he has concerns about  whether its now possible for him and Ms C to receive  a 
fair hearing.  I could  appreciate why Mr C might  say that and reassured him and Ms C that 
the evidence they sent was been  fairly considered. And rather than issue  a final decision I 
decided, in the interest of fairness,  to issue a provisional decision so that both parties could 
consider what I said and have the opportunity to comment prior to any final decision being 
issued. 
Ref: DRN59643863Having now been  attached to the complaint file, I read the five page submission that 
Mr C and Ms C sent us in response to my June 2019 provisional  decision. In summary, they 
made the following points: 
Gradual damage  can be excluded as the cause  of damage to the heat exchanger. Thats  
because it has no moving parts, and no heat source. Theres  no evidence of an electrical 
fault and the two fans were still functioning  normally;
The damage is localised to one area of the core which shows  that ageing isnt a factor. 
Theres no visible of material degradation, fading, crazing or cracking;
When the core was first hung out, it was in the shade. Just before he left the house, Mr C 
checked the core which was still dripping  water on to the decking.  At this point the core 
wasnt unduly warm and the plastic wasnt sticky or soft. Mr C decided  as water was 
still dripping from it, to move it to an area of the veranda with a better  air flow. The core 
was still in the shade;
On returning  45 minutes later, Mr C discovered  the damage. The sun had changed its 
position in the sky enough that the facet  of the core was catching its full force  and was 
damaged. Mr C took the core down and into the shade. There was still water  on the 
undamaged side inside; 
Mr C says its plausible to think that the glazed roof light on the veranda  could  have had 
a reflecting or refracting effect. Its possible  that the water droplets insider the core,  
combined with the transparent plastic fins acted with a magnifying  effect  to concentrate  
the suns rays so they caused rapid, localised super  heating;
Mr C submitted some evidence he found where it took less than 7 seconds  for a full 
water bottle  to burn car upholstery;
Mr C contacted the heat exchangers manufacturer to find out what kind of plastic was 
used to manufacture the core. The type used, PET-G has a lower  melting  point that 
some plastics to make the manufacturing process easier;
Other manufacturers of heat exchanger  units recommend  keeping  their cores  away from 
direct or indirect sunlight. They also recommend vacuuming and to avoid using water.  
The instructions  for Mr C and Ms Cs unit made  no reference to this. They  followed the 
manual supplied with their unit;
That AXAs behaviour  towards them when they made the claim was unprofessional  and 
unreasonable. 
I issued a provisional decision on this case in August  2019.  I made  the following provisional 
findings:
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I think this complaint should be upheld. Ill 
explain why. 
If Id seen the evidence Mr C and Ms C sent this service after the provisional  decision I 
issued in June  2019 then I wouldve issued  a second provisional decision which upheld the 
complaint.
I explained extensively in my June 2019  provisional  decision why I thought that the grounds 
AXA had relied  on to decline the claim (that the damage didnt meet the policy definition of 
accidental damage  because it needed to be caused by them, their guests or vermin and it 
was, in fact, caused  by the heat) shouldnt reasonably apply to Mr C and Ms Cs claim. 
Ref: DRN59643864But although  I thought AXA had unfairly declined the claim as presented  I still thought the 
claim shouldnt  succeed. I said this because I thought AXAs  point about the unit being  built 
to withstand temperatures of 55 degrees heat yet apparently melting in temperatures about 
half of that had merit. The evidence supported the fact that the damage had been caused by 
melting but I agreed  that it was highly  unlikely that a until built to withstand temperatures  of 
55 degrees would melt,  as alleged, on a day it was in the shade  and the temperature  didnt 
exceed 29 degrees. This meant I didnt think it was reasonable to say the damage  had 
occurred suddenly. I went on to say that if Mr C and Ms C had any evidence  to support their 
point of view then I would consider it before  issuing  my final decision. 
On now considering the evidence provided by Mr C and Ms C, I think its reasonable to think 
that the core of the heat exchanger was damaged  suddenly and unexpectedly by Mr C 
placing it outside. He had no reason to suspect that doing so would result in the damage that 
was caused so it was unforeseen. Mr C has provided previously unseen evidence about  the 
type of plastic used in the manufacture  of the core and how it could have melted as hes 
described. Equally  persuasive is Mr Cs point about  the damage being  confined to one area 
of the core.  I think its reasonable to conclude from the fact that it is, that aging  wasnt a 
factor in causing  the damage either.  
And on reconsidering the instruction manual for the unit I note that it says to clean it with 
water of no more than 55 degree heat. This is clearly  where  the reference to the unit being 
able to withstand temperatures up to that has come from. But on reflection,  cleaning isnt a 
lengthy process. And the water  temperature, even if it was at 55 degrees,  would quickly  cool 
when it was applied  to the unit and became  exposed  to the air. What I cant  find any 
reference to anywhere  is that the unit is built to withstand sustained temperatures of up to 
55 degrees. The only reference  to the temperature and the unit is the part of the instruction 
manual that deals with the cleaning.  
So theres no evidence  about what the maximum sustained temperature the unit was able to 
withstand. So it is reasonable to think, the melting  point of the unit may well have been much  
lower than 55 degrees. AXA says that the damage mustve occurred have gradually. But it 
has provided no evidence  about how this couldve happened. In the absence  of any 
evidence to show how it couldve been caused  gradually, I dont  think  I can reasonably 
ignore the evidence thats been provided  by Mr C and Ms C. 
I also find Mr Cs full account  about  how he hung the unit out, where he hung it and the 
position of the sun during the time it was outside  to be reasonably plausible. Mr C and Ms C 
need to show  that the damage they have claimed for is covered by one of the insured events 
listed in the policy terms. And I think  the points they made and the evidence  theyve 
provided  means  they have been able to do so. The relevant event is the accidental 
damage event. Thats  defined in the policy as: 
Sudden, unexpected and unforeseen event that causes visible damage. Cover is only 
provided where You or Your  guests  cause the damage unless we explicitly  state otherwise.
For the reasons  Ive given above,  I think that Mr C and Ms C have now been  able to show  
the damage to their heat exchanger was caused in the way required by the terms. That 
being the case, AXA must pay the claim.
 
It follows that I provisionally think that AXA has unfairly  declined  Mr C and Ms Cs claim for 
accidental damage  to their heat exchanger  unit. Its reasonable to think  that he damage 
happened suddenly  and unexpectedly in the manner described by Mr C. It was caused  by 
Ref: DRN59643865him placing the unit outside to dry in the same  way that someone who claims for damage 
caused by knocking a glass of wine on the carpet causes  damage. Whilst it is the wine that 
does the damage, the person who knocks it over causes it. I think that the damage caused  
satisfies the policy definition of accidental damage and that AXA should,  in all fairness pay 
the claim.  
I note that Mr C and Ms C replaced the unit themselves  at a cost of £2,338.99 in September  
2018. AXA should pay this amount (less any applicable  policy  excess) to Mr C and Ms C 
together with interest at this services usual rate of 8% per year from the date they paid the 
supplier to the date AXA pays my award.  Thats because theyve been  without  the use of 
their money for this period  of time. 
As Ive said previously, insurers  are entitled  to investigate and assess claims as they see fit. 
And making  a claim itself always attracts a certain  amount of inconvenience. But Ive not 
seen any evidence that AXA treated Mr C and Ms C unprofessionally or unreasonably.
my provisional decision
My provisional decision is that I intend to uphold this complaint and to make 
AXA Insurance UK Plc pay Mr C and Ms C the cost they incurred to replace their heat 
exchanger unit  namely £2,338.99 (less any applicable policy  excess). It should add 
interest* to this amount  from the date Mr C and Ms C paid for the unit (which I understand to 
be 5 September  2018)  to the date it settles this award at this services usual rate of 8% 
simple a year. 
AXA responded to my provisional decision to say it had no further comments  to make.  
Mr C and Ms C responded  to say they accepted my provisional decision.  
The complaint was passed  back to me to issue a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As AXA has provided no substantive comment in response to my provisional decision and 
Mr C and Ms C have  accepted my provisional findings, my decision remains unchanged. For 
the reasons I gave  in my provisional decision,  Im satisfied that this is a complaint that 
should be upheld.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require AXA Insurance UK Plc do the 
following:
pay Mr C and Ms C the cost they incurred to replace their heat exchanger unit  namely  
£2,338.99 (less any applicable policy excess);
add interest* to this amount from the date Mr C and Ms C paid for the unit (which I 
understand to be 5 September  2018) to the date it settles this award at this services  
usual rate of 8% simple a year.
Ref: DRN59643866Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C and Ms C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  19 October  2019.
Claire Woollerson
ombudsman
*If AXA Insurance  UK Plc considers that its required by HM Revenue  & Customs to take off income  tax from that 
interest, it should tell Mr C and Ms C how much its taken off. It should also give them a certificate  showing this if 
they ask  for  one, so they can reclaim  the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN5964386