K820x#14complaint
Mr T has complained about action  taken by The Co-operative Bank Plc in connection with 
his professional career development loan.
background
Mr T took out a loan with Co-op  in March 2015  to provide him with funds while he was 
studying. He agreed  to start making payments to repay the loan in March  2016 but he was 
unable to make any repayments until January 2017.
Mr T agreed  to credit funds to a current account  he has with Co-op to cover  the arrears  on 
his loan. Co-op said it would transfer the funds from the current  account to the loan but it 
didnt do this. It then sent a final demand  and a default notice to Mr T.
Mr T complained to Co-op  in June 2018  and it admitted it had made an error. It offered to 
pay him £100 compensation.
In November 2018 Mr T received a letter from a debt collection agency  saying  it had been  
instructed by Co-op to contact him regarding the outstanding balance on his loan. Mr T 
complained to Co-op again and it admitted it had made another error. It said the loan was 
still shown as being in arrears because  of its failure  to transfer the funds  from the current  
account. Co-op offered to pay Mr T another £175 compensation for this error.
Mr T wasnt happy with Co-ops  response  to his complaint  and referred it to this service.
our initial conclusions
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint should be upheld. They agreed Co-op had 
made mistakes that had impacted  on Mr T but they thought £275 was a fair offer of 
compensation for Co-ops failings in customer service.
Mr T didnt  agree with our investigators  recommendation.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear that the level of service Mr T received from Co-op in relation to his loan fell well 
below the standard he was entitled to expect and Co-op has accepted  this. I need to 
consider what effect Co-ops errors have had on Mr T and how much  compensation it would 
be reasonable for him to receive.
Neither Co-op nor the debt collection agency  recorded any adverse  information on Mr Ts 
credit file and no additional charges have been added  to his loan. Im therefore satisfied Mr T 
hasnt been financially disadvantaged by Co-ops mistakes. But he has suffered 
unnecessary trouble  and upset.
Taking everything into consideration, I think the total sum of £275 that Co-op has offered to 
Mr T is a reasonable sum to compensate him for his trouble and upset. Im not persuaded I 
could reasonably require Co-op to pay him any more than that. Given this, Im not going to 
Ref: DRN50304882uphold this complaint because  I think Co-op  had made fair and reasonable offers of 
compensation to Mr T before he referred his complaint to this service.
It isnt clear to me if all or part of the £275  Co-ops offered Mr T has actually been paid. If it 
hasnt been paid, I leave it to Mr T to decide  whether or not he now wants  to accept it.
my final decision
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 March 2020.
Charles Bacon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5030488