K820x#14complaint
Ms G complains that she was mis-sold a payment protection  insurance  (PPI) policy. 
Although the policy was sold by another business, Financial Insurance  Company Limited 
(FICL) has accepted responsibility for the sale and this complaint.
So Ive referred  to FICL during this decision.
background
Ms G took out a 12-month loan to buy goods from a store in 2004. At the same  time she was 
sold a PPI policy. 
The PPI cost Ms G £15.45 per month.  It wouldve paid a monthly benefit of £139.04 if Ms G 
was unable to work  due to ill-health, an accident or if she lost her job. This couldve 
continued for the remaining term of the loan.  
Our adjudicator didnt  think Ms Gs complaint should  be upheld.
Ms G didnt agree with the adjudicators opinion so the complaints been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Ms Gs complaint. Ill explain why.
FICL had to make it clear to Ms G that the PPI was optional. 
FICL has shown us a copy of the original loan application  form. I can see that there is a box 
on the form that could  be ticked to add PPI or left blank if PPI wasnt  required. I can see the 
box has been ticked and the monthly premium is shown just above. Ms G has signed  the 
application form adjacent  to the ticked box. Taking  everything into account I think FICL most 
likely made it clear  that Ms G didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose to take it out  
although I can understand why she cant remember this after so many  years.
  
I dont think FICL advised Ms G to take the policy out. So it didnt have to take steps to 
ensure the policy  was suitable for her. But FICL did have to give Ms G clear information so 
that she could  make a choice about whether or not to take the policy  out.
After so many years  its not possible for me to know if FICL  gave  Ms G all the information it 
shouldve about  the policy. 
Ive thought about whether clear  information wouldve put Ms G off taking the policy out.         
I dont think it wouldve. I say this because:
Ms G was eligible  for the PPI based on her circumstances at the time of the sale.  So 
shed have been able to make a claim if she needed  to.
Ref: DRN50805602If Ms G couldnt work due to ill-health the policy wouldve paid a monthly benefit that 
could last for the remaining  term of the loan.  And it wouldve paid the same benefit if 
Ms G lost her job. 
 
Ms G has said her employer wouldve paid her full sick pay for up to six months if she 
couldnt work. Ive thought about  this and I recognise the loan term was fairly short at 
12 months. But apart from her sick pay Ms G has told us she had no other resources 
such as savings. The policy would pay any benefit in addition  to her sick pay, and for 
longer than Ms G wouldve received full pay. So I still think Ms G wouldve found the 
policy useful if things  went wrong.
The policy had some exclusions  and restrictive terms. But Ms G wasnt  affected  by 
these. For instance Ms G has told us she didnt  have  any medical conditions at the 
time of the sale which the policy wouldnt have covered. 
The monthly cost of the policy was made  clear  on the application form.
So, taking everything  into account I think its likely Ms G was made aware the PPI was 
optional and chose  to add it to the loan. And even if FICL had given Ms G all the clear 
information about the policy that it should have,  I still think Ms G would have gone ahead 
and bought it. 
my final decision
I dont uphold Ms Gs complaint against  Financial Insurance Company Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Ms G to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 April 2019.
Steve Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5080560