K821x#15complaint
Mrs P complains about problems she had opening a new ISA with Nationwide  Building 
Society. Mr P brings this complaint on her behalf. 
background
Mr P said that his mother had four separate ISAs  with Nationwide, which were due to mature  
around the same time. He wanted to open  one new ISA account  for this money, for her. He 
said he tried to do that online at the start of April. He checked  three  days  later,  and there 
was no new account.  So he complained.  He also complained that someone had phoned  
Mrs P the day after hed tried to open  the account,  and Mrs P had asked that person to ring 
him instead, but no one called him. 
Mr P said that the system opened four separate accounts, one for each of Mrs Ps maturing 
ISAs, instead of combining them  into one. Nationwide  had told him it would write to his 
mother about that. Mr P thought it was a complete waste of time for Nationwide to need to 
get in touch with his mother  and him about  this. He thought that Nationwide  should be able 
to manage the maturity  of its ISAs without its customers being troubled.   
Mr P said that when he tried to raise a complaint, the process  wasnt  customer  friendly, and 
there was a prolonged wait time. He was concerned  about the service  provided to him over 
the phone, and that the response to this complaint  gave the wrong maturity date for one of 
Mrs Ps accounts. He thought that Nationwide  should get that sort of thing right.
Mr P said he wanted Nationwide to pay Mrs P compensation of £150 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused.
Nationwide said that Mrs P had now got three  Loyalty Single Access ISAs (Loyalty ISA) 
and one Fixed Term  ISA. They had all been backdated so that they all opened on 4 April. 
Nationwide said that the terms of this account  meant that Mrs P could only have one Loyalty 
Single Access  ISA. So she would have to make changes to two of her accounts,  but she 
could move the money from the extra two Loyalty  ISAs  into one, if she wanted  to. 
Nationwide said that it thought that it had opened  these  accounts within  a reasonable 
timescale. It said that there were delays opening  one account, which  was because of 
problems with the national insurance  number Mrs P had given. That account had now been  
opened, but it was a Fixed Term ISA, not the Loyalty ISA that Mrs P wanted, because  she 
already had more  than one of those. 
Nationwide didnt think that it had acted inappropriately,  or that any compensation was due.
Our investigator didnt  uphold this complaint. He said that all the accounts had been opened 
within five working days  of Mr Ps request. He said that Nationwide  had contacted Mrs P 
promptly, on 5 April,  to check  some incorrect national insurance number details.
Our investigator said that both Nationwides decision to use an automated telephone system, 
and its handling  of multiple loyalty ISA accounts were commercial  decisions for Nationwide 
to make.  He said he couldnt comment on that.
Ref: DRN50610442Our investigator didnt  think that there was evidence that Nationwides  call handler  had 
provided a poor service.  And he didnt  think  that Nationwide had done  anything wrong by 
actioning each of Mr Ps requests to open accounts  for Mrs P separately. 
Our investigator said that Nationwide had acted fairly and in line with its terms and 
conditions. So he didnt think it had to pay Mrs P any compensation. 
Mr P didnt agree with that. And he said that we had some of the details wrong. He had 
contacted Nationwide on 5 April, it hadnt  rung him, as our investigator had said.  Mr P 
wanted his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman.
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I proposed  to uphold it. 
This is what  I said then: 
-Mr P gave  maturity instructions for four of Mrs Ps ISAs in early April. They were all due 
to mature in the next few days. 
-Nationwide actioned  those requests.  I knew that Mr P wouldve liked this to happen 
faster than it did, but I thought Nationwide  completed this in a reasonable time period. 
And it backdated the changes to the date that the requests were made. 
-I understood that Mr P would have liked all Mrs Ps money  to be put together into one 
ISA. Nationwide  says that this is possible  using  its online service,  Mr P says it wasnt at 
the time.  But even  if the website did allow Mrs Ps maturing ISAs to be combined, I did 
think that Nationwide still made a mistake  here.
-What seemed to have  happened was that Mr P, on behalf  of his mother, tried to move all 
of Mrs Ps four ISAs into a single Loyalty ISA, but ended up opening four separate  
accounts. He was able to open  three separate versions of the Loyalty ISA. Nationwide 
says that its customers are only allowed one of this sort of account, although it also 
suggests that this rule may not have been enforced  in the past.
-I thought it was clear  that Nationwide only wants its customers to have one of these  
accounts, and it allowed  Mr P, on his mothers behalf, to open three. I could understand 
why this happened, as Nationwide  is particularly busy around  this time, and the ISAs 
were all opened on the same day. But I did think that Nationwide  made a mistake  in 
allowing that to happen, and would  need to do something to resolve this.
-Mrs Ps fourth ISA was moved into a Fixed  Term ISA. That seemed to have happened 
because there was a different problem with this ISA being opened, and whilst that was 
being resolved,  Nationwide noticed that Mrs P already had three  Loyalty ISA accounts,  
when shes only allowed one. So it opened a Fixed Term ISA for her instead. I hadnt 
seen anything that suggested to me that this different sort of ISA that Mrs P ended up 
with was something shed agreed to. And I hadnt seen  anything  that suggested that 
Nationwide offered, at this time,  to add this money  into one of her three existing Loyalty 
ISAs instead.
-When this case came through to me, it seemed  as if Nationwide  had already  offered to 
combine at least some  of Mrs Ps existing savings into one Loyalty ISA. But it wasnt  
Ref: DRN50610443clear what  Nationwide  was proposing  to do with Mrs Ps one Fixed  Term  ISA. So we 
asked Nationwide  about this, and it clarified  what it was offering to do. 
-Nationwide said the Loyalty ISAs could be merged into one account. Interest would be 
paid on the separate ISAs to that date, and then they would be combined into one 
Loyalty ISA. That wouldnt be backdated to 4 April 2018. 
-I knew that Mr P wanted  Nationwide  to backdate this change. But I thought this provided 
a reasonable solution  to the problems caused by Mrs P having more  of these products 
than shes supposed to hold, or than she apparently wanted  to hold. The interest  on the 
Loyalty ISAs is the same, so I didnt think that Mrs P would lose out if this change  wasnt 
backdated to 4 April 2018, although  I said I would consider anything  further  that Mr P, on 
her behalf, had to say about this. 
-Nationwide wanted to treat the Fixed  Rate ISA differently. It said that there is a penalty 
for closing those early.  If Mrs P really hadnt  been given the option to put this money into 
a Loyalty ISA, as Id said, then Nationwide said it would  transfer  the money from the 
Fixed Rate  ISA into a Loyalty ISA and waive the penalty. But then it wouldnt pay Mrs P 
interest on the Fixed Rate ISA for the time it had been open.
-Id already said that I hadnt seen anything to make me think  that Mrs P was offered the 
choice to put the money which ended up in this Fixed Term ISA into a Loyalty ISA. But 
Nationwide would  only close it and move  the money if it could either apply a penalty for 
closing the account,  or withhold any interest  she wouldve earned during this time. I said 
to Nationwide  that this didnt seem  fair.
-Nationwide then said it would  need Mrs P to go into her local branch to see a Personal  
Banking Manager who can discuss in detail with her what  the best options are and 
advise which accounts are best to merge, as the accounts  held have different rates  and 
different conditions. It said that its Personal Banking Managers have expert knowledge 
for these types of accounts, which is why the complaints team cant  propose a 
conclusion, as theyre not qualified in these different accounts and products.
-Our investigator asked Mr P, on his mothers behalf, whether he would be interested in 
resolving the case through a discussion between Mrs P and Nationwide,  which they 
could either do in a branch, or over the phone.  Mr P said no. He still wanted  an 
ombudsman to make a decision in his mothers case. 
-I thought that our investigator was right to put this offer to Mr P, but I wasnt surprised 
that he turned it down  on his mothers behalf. I didnt think  that what Nationwide 
suggested was a fair way to resolve this complaint.  
-I thought that it was clear that Mrs P only wanted  her money  to be in a Loyalty ISA. It 
looked to me as if the opening  of four separate ISAs  for her was a mistake. I didnt know  
whether Mr P played a part in that mistake, but I thought it was clear  that Nationwide  did. 
-Id explained  that I thought the proposal  that Nationwide  made  to combine Mrs Ps 
separate Loyalty  ISAs  into one was a fair solution  to that part of this problem. I thought  
that Nationwide should apply the same solution  to the Fixed Rate  ISA. Once its 
combined the three Loyalty ISAs into one, it should transfer the money in her Fixed  Rate 
ISA into Mrs Ps sole Loyalty ISA. It should  do that without penalty. 
Ref: DRN50610444-I didnt think Nationwide should pay Mrs P the interest that she has earned on the Fixed 
Rate ISA, because  I hadnt seen anything that suggested to me that she ever wanted  
that sort of account. So, instead,  I said I would  ask it to work  out how much interest she 
wouldve earned on that amount, if it had been  put into a Loyalty ISA on 4 April.  It should 
add that money  to Mrs Ps one remaining Loyalty  ISA too. 
-In response to our complaint, Mr P said that wed got some details wrong. He said that 
hed called Nationwide on 5 April, it hadnt called him. But this is Mrs Ps complaint, and 
our investigator was referring  to a call made to Mrs P. I noted  that Mr P said, when he 
wrote to Nationwide about  his complaint, that Nationwide had called Mrs P on 5 April.  He 
complained that shed  asked Nationwide to call him instead, and it hadnt  done that. So 
we thought that Nationwide called Mrs P on 5 April because Mr P told us thats what 
happened. 
-I knew Mr P wouldve  liked to deal with this call for Mrs P. But he doesnt have power of 
attorney for Mrs P, so Nationwide says it doesnt  have  an ongoing authority to speak to 
him about Mrs Ps ISA accounts. I wouldnt expect Nationwide, in these  circumstances, 
to ring a different person  about  Mrs Ps accounts,  and talk to that person about the 
accounts without  Mrs P there. So I didnt think Nationwide did anything wrong when it 
didnt call Mr P.
-Mr P has also complained about  the quality of the service  that Nationwide provides. He 
wants it to do better.  I explained that I cant require Nationwide  to provide excellent 
customer service.  But I can look at what Nationwide has done and say where  I think it 
could have been better. 
-I didnt think that all of Nationwides customer service was poor. But I did think  that it was 
likely, on what  Id seen, that Nationwide caused this problem in the first place, by 
opening an account type for Mrs P which shed  never asked for, instead  of offering to put 
her money in one of her existing accounts. 
-I thought that Nationwide had also prolonged the process of putting this problem right, 
because it hadnt  accepted that it made a mistake. And I thought that Nationwide should 
pay Mrs P some  compensation  because of that. I thought that a compensation payment 
of £100 would  be the right amount to make up for the poor service that I did think 
Nationwide had provided at points during this complaint, and which I thought  had 
caused both distress and inconvenience to Mrs P.
I invited the parties  to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Nationwide said it had nothing further to add. Mr P replied, on behalf of Mrs P, with some  
further comments.
Ref: DRN50610445my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I havent changed my mind.
Mr P said that he was glad that the decision had changed. He said that he would accept 
£100, on behalf of Mrs P, but he had asked  for £150, so he wasnt sure why he hadnt  got 
that, and wanted to know how Id decided on £100. He said that £150  was the least  
Nationwide should  pay for its failings.
He said that closing and merging the accounts,  as Id suggested, was fine. He said that if 
there was any financial  loss to Mrs P then he would certainly appoint  his solicitor to take the 
necessary legal action.
Mr P said that since Nationwide has demonstrated  it is incompetent in getting  things  done  
correctly he wanted  a letter sent from Nationwide  outlining  that there will be no financial loss 
to Mrs P in any circumstances. And he wanted  it to set out which  accounts  will be closed and 
balances. And he wanted  a contact name  and phone number of the person chosen by 
Nationwide to handle  this matter, because he had no confidence in Nationwide.
When I make a decision, and Mrs P accepts it, that becomes legally binding on Nationwide. 
So I dont  think that Nationwide has to write to Mr P to set out what  it proposes  to do on 
Mrs Ps accounts. He doesnt  have to rely on promises made by Nationwide.  It will be bound 
to do what I have proposed. 
I think that what Ive suggested wont leave Mrs P any worse off than if all of her money had 
been moved into one Loyalty  ISA when her old ISAs  matured. Ive not seen anything that 
suggests that might be wrong. So I will still make  that award, as set out in my provisional  
decision. 
Mr P also wanted to know why I hadnt awarded  Mrs P the £150 he suggested,  but instead 
had reduced the amount to £100.  When I consider a case  where I think  compensation is 
due, I dont actually  start from what the individual has suggested. Instead, I draw on the 
guidance our service provides for awards  (which is published online)  and my own 
experience, to reach a view on whats fair and reasonable  in each case.  
In this case, I think that its fair and reasonable to ask Nationwide  to pay Mrs P £100 in 
compensation. I would  still have proposed that amount if Mr P had asked for £50, or for no 
compensation at all.
Ref: DRN50610446my final decision
My final decision is that Nationwide Building Society  must make the following changes to 
Mrs Ps ISAs  
-The money from two of her three existing Loyalty Single Access ISAs  should be 
moved into the third one. The interest  accrued on the two ISAs which are closed 
should also be added to the one remaining  Loyalty Single  Access ISA.
-The money from her one existing Fixed  Term ISA should be transferred into her one 
remaining Loyalty Single Access ISA. Nationwide should do this without  penalty.  And 
it should pay into that Loyalty Single Access ISA the interest  that Mrs P wouldve 
earned on her Fixed  Term  ISA if it had been  opened as a Loyalty Single Access ISA.
Nationwide Building  Society must also pay Mrs P £100 in compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 February  2019.
Esther Absalom-Gough
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5061044