K821x#15complaint
Miss H and Mr S are unhappy that Ageas Insurance Limited turned down their claim for 
accidental damage  to their carpet and sofas.
background
Miss H and Mr S made a claim on their home insurance policy.  Ageas ultimately declined the 
claim as they didnt think Miss H had taken reasonable care to avoid or limit the damage.  
Miss H and Mr S then brought their complaint  to this service.
Our investigator upheld  the complaint as she didnt think there was enough evidence to 
show that Miss H had been reckless. She said Ageas should deal with the claim in line with 
the rest of the policy terms. Ageas didnt agree, so the complaint has been  passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why below.
Miss H says she was painting the bannister  on the stairs while  her two young children, aged  
seven months and three years old, were playing in the lounge. Miss Hs younger child 
started crying so she took him into the kitchen, leaving her older child in the lounge. While 
Miss H was in the kitchen,  the older  child spilled the paint and caused paint damage to the 
carpet on the stairs and in the lounge as well as to two sofas.
Ageas doesnt  appear to dispute that Miss H and Mr S are covered for accidental damage  or 
that the damage was caused  by an accident.  But it says Miss H failed to take reasonable 
care to avoid or limit the loss, as required by the policy, so it doesnt have to pay the claim.
In order to show that Miss H didnt  comply with this condition from the policy, Ageas must 
show that she failed  to recognise  a risk or recognised a risk but deliberately courted it. In 
other words, that she acted recklessly.
Miss H says she had a dust sheet covering the top of the stairs and that, when her youngest 
child started crying, she moved the paint can from the top of the stairs  to the second step. 
Ageas says Miss H couldve  left the paint can at the top of the stairs, rather  than moving it to 
the bottom  where  there  was no dust sheet. Or that she could have put the lid back  on the tin 
or taken  the tin into the kitchen with her.
Ageas also suggested that Miss H didnt need to close the door to the kitchen, and that 
leaving it open wouldve  allowed her to supervise her older  child and so prevent the damage.  
Miss H says she shut the kitchen door as she was boiling pots on the hob and didnt want  
her older child to come in.
I think Miss H moved the pain can from the top of the stairs towards the bottom as she 
thought it would be safer there.  So I think she did recognise that there was a risk of paint 
damage. And while with hindsight Ageas may be able to give examples of different  action  
that may have avoided  the damage, I dont think this means the action  Miss H took was 
reckless.
Ref: DRN55169522Due to her youngest  child crying, Miss H had to decide what to do relatively quickly. She left 
her older child playing in the lounge, with the paint can some distance away  and up two 
steps. And I dont think she was gone for an unreasonable amount of time. So I dont think  it 
would be fair to say that she deliberately courted  the risk, or that she acted recklessly.
So I dont  think Ageas has shown that Miss H failed to take reasonable care,  or that it has 
acted reasonably in declining  her claim as a result  of this policy condition.
putting things right
Ageas should  deal with Miss H and Mr Ss claim in accordance with the remaining terms and 
conditions of the policy.
If any cash amount become payable, Ageas should add interest  to that amount at 8% simple  
(less any tax properly deductible) from the date of claim until the date of settlement.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I uphold this complaint.
Ageas Insurance Limited should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss H and Mr S 
to accept or reject my decision by 17 November 2019.
Alan Millward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5516952