K820x#14complaint
Mrs L has complained  that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) delayed in collecting her car for 
repair under  her motor  insurance policy.
Mrs L is represented by her husband  Mr L.
background
Mrs Ls car was damaged  and Mr L phoned UKI on the evening  of Friday 27 July 2018,  after 
5pm to report it and ask for it be repaired making a claim  under her policy.
UKI said it have the repairing garage  call him on Monday or Tuesday the following week. Mr 
L explained they were  going on holiday on the Tuesday  31 July. He said they received no 
call before they left on holiday, which meant  they had to chase UKI when they were away.  
UKI then said the car would be collected to be repaired once they returned home.
Initially there was some  confusion, as the repairing garage told UKI it had tried to phone  Mr L 
on Tuesday 31 July. But this was a mistake, as the repairing garage actually didnt get the 
instruction from UKI until Thursday 2 August. This was because a fax from UKI to the garage 
failed to go through.  
Once Mr and Mrs L returned from holiday, their car was collected on 13 August and they 
were given a hire car for the duration  of the repairs until 24 August. UKI also paid Mrs L £60 
being £10 per day for the delay the repair took beyond the guaranteed promise  of seven 
days. 
Mr and Mrs L complained. They said had the repairer contacted  them, they could have left a 
key to the car with a relative and the car could have  been repaired when they were on 
holiday. They found as the hire car was much smaller, it therefore an inconvenience  to use. 
Plus, they complained that they were  put to some  trouble and upset by having  to wait in all 
day for the hire company  to deliver it and then having it to return it to the hire company, 
which necessitated Mr L taking time off work.  They also complained about the inconvenience 
at having to contact  UKI when on holiday to chase things  up.
The adjudicator didnt think Mrs Ls complaint should be upheld.  Mr and Mrs L disagreed so 
their complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding this 
complaint. Ill now explain  why.
Theres always inconvenience  when making an insurance claim, especially when the car has 
to be taken away to be repaired. Mrs L chose to make this claim late on a Friday evening  
and they were off on holiday on the following Tuesday. 
I can understand why it would have been very convenient for the repair  to her car to have  
been repaired whilst they were away on holiday and I can understand their disappointment 
that this didnt happen. However, my role is to determine if UKI did anything wrong and I 
dont think it did.
Ref: DRN50805732The claim was reported to UKI late on a Friday evening and something went  wrong  with the 
instruction to the repairer. That obviously wasnt picked up effectively picked up at the time. 
These things happen, but I dont think simply because something went wrong  with a fax 
being sent that UKI actually did something  wrong  causing Mr and Mrs L unnecessary 
inconvenience.
This is because effectively I consider neither UKI nor the repairing garage had enough time 
to get the repair  sorted out, so it could indeed be done whilst Mr and Mrs L were away. Had 
UKI been given  more  time, it would have  more likely it would have been able to get the 
repairs done during Mr and Mrs Ls holiday as they wished, considering its contact with the 
repairing garage happened on Thursday 2 August. However, UKI was under no duty to 
initiate the repairs  to the timetable of Mr and Mrs Ls holiday plans, as there  is no term or 
condition in the policy to that effect.
Further, whilst the policy does have  the seven-day  guarantee  promise, it also provides for 
compensation of £10 per day for any overrun  of these repairs. UKI honoured that by paying 
Mrs L £60 since the repair of their car over ran once the car was with the repairing  garage. 
Consequently, it doesnt need  to do anything more.
I find no merit in Mr and Mrs Ls complaint about the inconvenience of having to use the hire 
car, which was smaller  than their own. Thats because this is what Mrs Ls policy  provided.  
And had the accident happened at time Mr and Mrs L werent planning  a holiday, they would 
have had to use to the hire car in any event. 
Lastly, as the adjudicator explained  UKI, theres no evidence to show that UKI were aware 
Mrs L is disabled, sadly.
my final decision
So for these reasons, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 December 2019
Rona Doyle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5080573