K821x#15complaint
Mr D has complained that Admiral Insurance Company  Limited unfairly charged him an 
additional premium  for his motor insurance  policy.
background
Mr D insured his van with Admiral. He had an accident and while sorting  out repairs  Admiral 
asked him if the van had any damage not related  to the accident. Mr D told Admiral  that his 
van had a scratch to the wheel arch, a nick to the door and a minor dent all caused by 
contacts with stationary  objects including a bollard and a lamppost.  
Admiral then wrote to Mr D to say that as he hadn't previously told it about three driving  
incidents when  he took out the policy it had charged  him an additional premium of around 
£1,890. Mr D brought his complaint about  that to us. Our adjudicator didn't think Admiral  had 
dealt with Mr D fairly.  So he said it should waive the additional premium it charged  and pay 
Mr D £150 compensation  for his distress and inconvenience.
Admiral didn't agree so the complaints been passed to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im going to uphold it. 
Admirals said that when he was applying for the policy it would have asked Mr D if hed had 
any claims or incidents regardless if a claim was made. And its said that if hed told it about 
the three incidents  causing damage to his vehicle then it would have charged an additional 
premium from the outset.
Ill explain  that when  applying for an insurance policy a consumer like Mr D is required to 
take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation.  In other words he has to take 
reasonable care to answer the insurers questions to the best of his ability. Clearly  Admiral 
believes that when  it asked Mr D if he'd any claims  or incidents he should have told it about  
the three events described above. But in the specific circumstances of this case  I don't 
agree. 
When deciding whether Mr D has taken reasonable care to answer  Admirals  question I have 
to think about  how clear Admirals question was. But I've seen no evidence that when asked 
if he'd had any incidents that Admiral described what  it meant  by incidents. And Mr Ds told 
us that he thought the events were  so minor that they weren't something Admiral  would want 
to know about.  So he didn't tell them. And given the very minor nature of the damage and 
the fact that no third parties were  involved  I can understand why he would have thought that. 
In those circumstances I think that Mr D did take reasonable care to answer Admirals 
questions. So I don't think he made a misrepresentation.  It follows  that I don't think  it was fair 
for Admiral to charge Mr D an additional premium.  That means  it should  repay  to Mr D any of 
the additional premium it has charged  him in respect of the three driving  incidents  referred  to 
above and cease any further  attempts  to collect the additional premium from him. Also, as 
this has been  a source of distress and inconvenience for him, it should  pay Mr D £150 
compensation.
Ref: DRN50776962my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I uphold this complaint. I require Admiral Insurance  Company 
Limited to:
Refund Mr D any of the additional  premium  it has charged him in respect of the three  
driving incidents referred to above  and cease any further attempts to collect the 
additional premium  from him.
Pay Mr D £150 compensation for his distress and inconvenience  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask [insert anonymised  
name here] to accept  or reject my decision before 25 March 2020.
Joe Scott
Ombudsman 
Ref: DRN5077696