K821x#15complaint
Mr U complains that FirstRand  Bank  Limited, trading as MotoNovo Finance, wont  reimburse 
him for cost of the repairs that have been made  on his car.
background
A used  car was supplied to Mr U under a hire purchase agreement with MotoNovo Finance 
that he electronically signed in May 2018.  He returned the car to the dealer in August 2018 
because of issues with the clutch  but the dealer couldnt find a fault. The car then broke 
down in December  2018 and Mr U complained to MotoNovo Finance. He wasnt satisfied 
with its response so complained to this service.  And in February  2019  he paid £905.31 to a 
garage for a replacement  flywheel and clutch assembly. 
The adjudicator recommended that this complaint should be upheld. She was satisfied that 
the car had issues developing  or present with the clutch at the point of sale so she 
recommended that MotoNovo Finance should cover  the cost of the repairs which  Mr U had 
paid for and that it should also pay him £100  for the inconvenience caused by the time taken 
to identify the fault and have the repairs  carried out.
MotoNovo Finance has asked for this complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. It says, 
that:
the garages report isnt impartial as it carried out the repair  work;
the qualifications of the engineer are unknown so the statement is an opinion;
theres no specific confirmation that the faults were  present at the point of sale;
Mr Us driving  style,  regardless of the mileage  covered, needs to be taken into 
consideration;
unauthorised  repairs  were carried out; and
Mr U has continued to use the car between August and December 2018 when its 
claimed that there was a fault with it.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
MotoNovo Finance, as the supplier  of the car, was responsible  for ensuring that the car was 
of satisfactory quality. That will depend on a number of factors,  including  the age, and 
mileage of the car and the price  that was paid for it. The car that was supplied  to Mr U was 
three years old, had been driven for 37,188 miles and had a price  of £21,908. Satisfactory 
quality also covers durability which means that the components within  the car must  be 
durable and last a reasonable amount of time  but exactly how long that time is will depend 
on a number of factors. 
The car was supplied to Mr U in May 2018  and he complained to the dealer  about clutch 
issues in August 2018. MotoNovo Finance says that the dealer was unable to find a fault so 
Mr U continued to use the car. But it broke  down in December  2018 and was recovered to a 
garage. Mr U complained  to MotoNovo Finance and asked it to pay for the car to be 
repaired. It said that it would require an independent  engineer's report  demonstrating that 
the car was either not fit for purpose or not of satisfactory quality when it was supplied  to 
Mr U.
Ref: DRN55248642Mr U paid £905.31 for the garage to replace the cars flywheel and clutch  assembly and hes 
provided a report from the garage which says:
This vehicle was recovered to us with no forward or reverse drive,  the gears could 
be selected easily, with or without the car running. We removed the gearbox to 
inspect the clutch  assembly and flywheel and found the clutch  friction plate was worn 
to excess and broken  and the dual mass flywheel was heat damaged.  The 
wear/damage to the friction  plate suggests  this has been  a long-term problem.  We 
have replaced  the flywheel  and clutch assembly and road tested the vehicle and all 
seems to be ok, without any obvious faults.
Although that isnt an independent experts  report,  there doesnt seem  to be any doubt that 
Mr U contacted the dealer about  clutch issues with the car in August 2018 and that clutch 
issues caused the car to break-down in December 2018. The cars mileage was 40,741 
when it broke down so Mr U had only driven  about 3,000 miles in the car. I consider it to be 
more likely than not that there was an issue with the cars clutch that was either present or 
developing when  the car was supplied to Mr U in May 2018 and for that reason I consider 
that the car wasnt  of satisfactory quality at that time.
Mr U has paid for the car to be repaired and I find that it would be fair and reasonable in 
these circumstances  for MotoNovo Finance to pay £905.31 to Mr U to reimburse him for 
those repair  costs. Mr U will have been  caused  distress and inconvenience by the issues 
with the car and I find that it would also be fair and reasonable for MotoNovo Finance to pay 
him £100 to compensate him for that distress and inconvenience.
 
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I uphold Mr Us complaint. And I order  FirstRand 
Bank Limited, trading as MotoNovo Finance, to:
1.Pay £905.31 to Mr U to reimburse  him for the repair costs that hes incurred.
2.Pay £100 to Mr U to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience that hes 
been caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 October  2019.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5524864