K822xcomplaint
Mr F complains that the vehicle he acquired  through a hire purchase agreement financed  by 
FCE Bank Plc wasnt  of satisfactory quality. He wants compensation.
background 
The details of the complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them  again  
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
Mr F has asked that an ombudsman make the final decision as he didnt think  FCEs original 
offer to refund two monthly payments had been  taken into account by our investigator in 
determining the level of redress. And he also felt he should be awarded additional 
compensation as the car had been  in for repairs three times.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Prior to this complaint being  referred to me there had been considerable progress made 
towards resolving the outstanding issues between the parties.
Mr F acquired the vehicle  in March 2017,  and it suffered a serious  breakdown in May 
2019.This was due to the head gasket becoming warped and leading  to cracked cylinders.  
An engine replacement was required. At this time the vehicle was just out of warranty.
An agreement was later reached whereby Mr F was offered the options to have the full cost 
of repairs covered or alternatively he could pay five per cent towards  the costs  and receive 
an additional  12 months warranty. Mr F chose to accept  the latter option.
In addition, FCE offered  to pay the cost of car hire for that period when a courtesy vehicle 
hadnt been provided (£765.39). And after the intervention of our investigator it further 
agreed to reimburse  the £350  cost of a vehicle examination report  which Mr F had arranged.
As FCE has covered the cost of car hire it wouldnt  be fair and reasonable to expect it to 
refund two monthly payments  in addition. If his own vehicle had been available Mr F 
wouldve had to cover  all the usual running  costs. By covering the cost of car hire FCE has 
put Mr F back  as far as is possible to as near the same position as if his own vehicle had 
been available.
In considering an award of compensation for distress and inconvenience I have to take 
account of the overall situation.  My understanding is that the two previous  repairs  occurred 
before this complaint was referred  to this service.  And that they related to spark  plug issues 
which were repaired under warranty. As those matters had been resolved prior to this 
services involvement I dont think it would be fair to revisit those aspects.
Ref: DRN59521022When the vehicle  suffered  its latest breakdown FCE responded  to Mr Fs complaint and 
upheld it. It initially agreed to refund two monthly  payments to cover the period the vehicle 
had been unavailable. Its also shown flexibility in dealing with subsequent developments. 
And it agreed to increase  its offer and instead pay the vehicle hire costs incurred by Mr F 
(which were more expensive than the two monthly payments); and the cost of the vehicle 
inspection, which at £350 was significantly more than the cost of the vehicle inspection  
reports this service typically receives.  
I think its reasonable to expect when acquiring a used vehicle that there  are likely to be 
issues from time to time. In my view FCE has dealt fairly with Mr Fs complaint and in a 
timely manner. Whilst I acknowledge there may have been some loss of enjoyment for Mr F 
from not having his own vehicle available,  to some extent that is offset  by the hire vehicles 
being newer models. The purpose of compensation is not to penalise a business and I think 
FCE has done as much as could  reasonably  be expected  to minimise any inconvenience to 
Mr F. 
In summary,  whilst Im upholding the complaint,  Im of the view that the offers  made by FCE 
amount to a fair and reasonable settlement. Accordingly, Ive reached the same view as our 
investigator that FCE neednt do anything else.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is that Im upholding this complaint.
FCE Bank Plc has made  an offer which I consider  to be a fair and reasonable resolution of 
this complaint.
Its agreed to refund  Mr F £1,115.39 being  the cost of car hire and an inspection report.
I require FCE Bank  Plc in full and final settlement of this complaint to pay Mr F £1,115.39 (if 
it hasnt already done so) together with simple interest at the rate of 8% per year from date 
of payment to date of settlement. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 October  2020.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5952102