K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain about a default  marker  placed on their credit files by Shawbrook 
Bank Limited.
background
In October  2017 Mr and Mrs W had some new doors and windows installed in their home. 
This was paid for with credit provided  by Shawbrook in May 2017. There  were various 
problems with the installation, and they complained to Shawbrook and to a third party called 
Ultraframe (UK) Limited1 (whose precise  role in this case has been unclear and has been  
disputed). In the meantime, they refused to make monthly payments under the credit 
agreement until the problems with the installation were resolved.  Both complaints were  
resolved by this Service, and the outcome was that another  company called Kairos Group 
Limited (which represented Ultraframe  in the complaint  against  that company) paid 
Shawbrook for three months of arrears  under  the agreement, for the months of December 
2017 to February  2018 (as a gesture of good will and without  admitting liability),  and 
Shawbrook removed any negative information  from Mr and Mrs Ws credit  files.
Shawbrook expected that Mr and Mrs W would resume making payments in March. But that 
didnt happen,  because there  continued  to be problems with the installation.  Shawbrook 
served a default  notice  in April 2018, and the account was defaulted in June. In July, Mr and 
Mrs W brought a second complaint about  Shawbrook to our Service, this time complaining  
about the default, and that is the complaint I am dealing with here.  In August Mrs W set up a 
direct debit for future  monthly payments, but she did not pay off the new arrears  until July 
2019.
Shawbrook offered Mr and Mrs W £100  for a delay in dealing  with this complaint,  but 
otherwise it did not accept  that it had done anything wrong. Shawbrook  said that apart from 
one day in May 2018, when the supplier  (Zenith) had returned to the house  to effect a repair,  
Mr and Mrs W had not reported  any more problems to Shawbrook or to the supplier.  The 
supplier had not visited their home again,  and yet in February 2019 they had told our Service 
(and then we had told Shawbrook) that there were no longer any problems with the 
installation. Shawbrook also denied that it had or would ever have agreed to defer future 
repayments until after any outstanding installation issues were resolved. So Shawbrook 
argued that there had been no reason for Mr and Mrs W not to pay them,  and that there had 
been nothing wrong with it defaulting  their account. But Mrs W insisted that she had 
contacted the supplier  several times, and that the supplier had returned to the property  more  
than once.
One of our investigators  considered this complaint, and in April 2019 he concluded that 
Mrs W had contacted both the supplier  and Shawbrook,  and that the supplier had returned to 
the property at least three times  since May 2018,  ending in February 2019. He also said that 
our Service  had contacted  the Ultraframe on behalf of Mrs W and reported the problems she 
was experiencing,  because  the supplier was a representative of Ultraframe.2 So he 
concluded that Shawbrook should remove the default. However,  he said he was unable  to 
recommend that Shawbrook pay compensation for any mistakes  made  by the supplier, so he 
did not recommend  that it pay more than the £100 it had already offered.
1 I wouldnt normally  name third parties in a published decision, but it is necessary for me to do so in 
this one.
2 Mrs W insists that she herself always contacted Zenith, never Ultraframe, and it was always Zenith 
which came  to her house.
Ref: DRN50698542Mr and Mrs W appear to have been  satisfied with that opinion.  Shawbrook was not. It 
maintained that when  the original complaint had been resolved it had made it clear that 
payments would be due thereafter,  and it had not agreed anything  to the contrary. It said that 
the supplier had only been  Ultraframes  representative specifically in relation to credit 
broking and not generally for everything, so it could not understand why Ultraframe had been 
approached in relation to ongoing  problems with installing the doors and windows. 
Shawbrook said it had not been told about  these issues (post-May 2018) until September 
2018. It said it had effectively written off the original arrears, which were over £1,000. It 
asked for an ombudsmans decision.
I wrote  a provisional decision which read as follows (I have made some  small edits  to clarify 
the roles of the different  companies involved).
my provisional findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Shawbrook did not write  off the original arrears  at the conclusion  of the original complaint. 
These were  paid to them by Kairos Group  Ltd, on behalf of Ultraframe,  on 9 February 2018 
(see the emails between  Kairos  Group and Shawbrook dated  7 and 9 February),  so 
Shawbrook was not out of pocket. However, this complaint does not turn on that point.
I think this complaint is about three  issues:
Whether Shawbrook should  have to pay Mr and Mrs W compensation for the 
suppliers delays  in completing the installation work,
Whether Shawbrook was wrong to record the default on their credit files, and
Whether £100 is fair compensation for the delay in dealing  with this complaint.
Shawbrooks liability for the service provided by the supplier
I dont think our investigator meant that our Service is unable  ever to recommend or require  
that Shawbrook  pay compensation  for a suppliers mistakes  only that he didnt  feel able to 
do so on the facts of this particular case. In certain circumstances, section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974  can make a provider of credit jointly liable with a supplier of 
goods and/or services  which  were paid for with the credit, if there has been  a breach of 
contract by the supplier. That section applies here. So our Service can consider how 
Shawbrook responded when Mrs W complained about the continuing problems with the 
installation. If its response  was not adequate,  then we can tell Shawbrook to pay 
compensation if we think it is fair and reasonable to do so.
Throughout this case  in both the original complaint and in this further  complaint  Mr and 
Mrs W have complained about various  problems with the installation of the doors and 
windows. In this complaint,  Mrs W has argued  that because of these problems she and her 
husband should not be liable for the arrears that accrued after March 2018. It is the reason 
they did not make the payments and allowed the default to be recorded against them in the 
first place. They saw keeping this money as their compensation for the ongoing  problems. 
I think that is a separate matter from whether they were  right to withhold payments until the 
issues were resolved, and whether Shawbrook was right to register  the default. I will deal 
with those matters in the next section.
Ref: DRN50698543I dont think its likely  that Shawbrook had no idea that there  was still a continuing dispute 
about the installation work  between March and July 2018, because Mr and Mrs W continued 
to withhold their payments  during that period. Whether they were entitled  to do that or not, 
I think Shawbrook must  have been aware that the problems were  continuing.   But even if 
I took a different view about that, it is not in dispute  that Shawbrook  was told in July, if not 
earlier, and again  in September.
However, I cannot see that anyone told Shawbrook in any detail what  the problems  actually 
were  only that some problems still existed. I am satisfied that the supplier  and Ultraframe  
were told, but that would not have assisted Shawbrook. It was not the responsibility of the 
supplier or Ultraframe to pass  on this information  to Shawbrook, and Shawbrook would not 
have expected them to. So it seems that Shawbrook was waiting for someone to update it 
with what was happening, which I think is understandable. However, in late 2018 Shawbrook  
contacted the supplier, and the supplier told it that matters  had been  resolved. So up to that 
point, I dont think Shawbrook needed  to do anything else.
In fact, the supplier  did not resolve  matters  to the satisfaction of Mr and Mrs W until the 
following February. In that month,  the outstanding work was completed,  but Mr and Mrs W 
continued to pursue this complaint, which was not just about the default that was recorded, 
but also about their liability  for the arrears.  Their stance was that they should not have to pay 
the arrears, as compensation. I am told that since then, they have paid the arrears  and their 
account is now up to date. But they only did this to avoid worse  damage to their credit files; it 
was not a concession that no compensation is deserved.
Although the work has been  completed  and no more remedial work is necessary, it should  
not have taken more than a year to complete the installation. Section 52 of the Consumer 
Rights Act 2015 says that if a contract to perform a service does not include a term about the 
time in which  the service  is to be performed, then there is an implied term that the service  
must be performed  within a reasonable time.  I think the supplier breached this term, and 
Shawbrook is liable  for that.
Five months  worth of payments3 comes  to over £1,675,  and that is far more  than I think this 
Service would typically award  for delays,  so I wont refund all of that. But I think a modest 
three-figure sum might be fair compensation for this delay. So I invite submissions from both 
parties about what would be fair.
I will only award compensation for the delays since March 2018, because Mr and Mrs W 
have already been compensated for the earlier delays.
the default
Although I understand Mr and Mrs Ws reasons for withholding the payments from March  
2018, I do not agree with them. I think Shawbrook was entitled to record  the default, and 
I will explain  why.
Although it is true that the problems with the supplier continued after the first complaints 
were closed, that did not affect Mr and Mrs Ws contractual duty to make  payments to 
Shawbrook under the loan agreement.  Shawbrook  was still entitled to receive that money.  
3 That is, the arrears for March to July 2018,  inclusive.
Ref: DRN50698544And just because Kairos Group had paid the original arrears for them  did not mean that that 
was likely to happen  again.
If Shawbrook  had agreed to put Mr and Mrs Ws account on hold until the works were  
completed, then I would have taken a different view, and I would have  held Shawbrook  to 
such an agreement.  But I have seen no evidence that Shawbrook agreed to do that. The 
Financial Ombudsman  Service  has three  case files about this matter   the complaint against 
Ultraframe and the two complaints against  Shawbrook  and I have carefully looked through 
all three files to see if Shawbrook, Ultraframe, Kairos Group or either of our investigators 
said anything to suggest otherwise. But I cannot  find that they did. The most  relevant things 
I found were the following.
Firstly, the original investigators opinion in the first complaint against Shawbrook,  dated 16 
February 2018, said this:
After speaking to Shawbrook, it agreed to  ensure all problems regarding the 
installation were  addressed.
Mr and Mrs W told me that they accept this suggested settlement. I have advised  
them to let me know whether there remain  any ongoing issues  with regards to the 
installation
That does not go as far as to say that Shawbrook agreed that they need not pay anything 
until the problems  had been  addressed.
However, I have noted that the same  investigators opinion in the complaint against  
Ultraframe, dated 1 February  2018, says this (emphasis  added):
Zenith4 has now looked into the complaint again, and offered to cover the arrears 
being 3 repayments of £355.49 (£1066.47) and resolve any outstanding  issues.
Youve told me that youre happy with this and will commence repayments on 
1 March, provided all issues have been resolved .
So it is clear that Mr and Mrs W said at the time that they would continue to withhold 
payments if the problems  continued. However, I have seen nothing to suggest that 
Shawbrook, Zenith, Ultraframe or Kairos Group  told them that this would be acceptable. As 
for what the investigator  told them, that was set out clearly in an email to them  on 28 
February, which read as follows (emphasis  added):
I have reminded  Ultraframe that a repayment is due tomorrow and in my view, I'd 
said that you were willing to commence  payments on 1 March provided all 
outstanding issues had been resolved.  I might suggest  making the payment due 
tomorrow and asking Ultraframe to compensate for failing to resolve  the outstanding  
issues instead.  This would avoid any further complications from adverse information 
being recorded on your credit file. However, this is ultimately your decision.
It is correct that this was Mr and Mrs Ws decision to make, since our Service  cannot tell 
complainants what  to do. However, we can  and in this instance did  give information  
4 In fact the reference to Zenith is wrong. The complaint was against Ultraframe  and the offer was 
made by Kairos Group,  which represented  Ultraframe. This confusion may have come about  because 
Zeniths website said (at that time) that Zenith was an appointed representative  of Ultraframe.
Ref: DRN50698545about the likely consequences of a given course of action. Here, our investigator pointed out 
that not making payments  would affect Mr and Mrs Ws credit files.
That was also made very clear by Shawbrook in the default notice it served  on 13 April 2018. 
It warned that if the arrears were  not paid by 1 May then Shawbrook may terminate the loan 
agreement, bring  proceedings  for the entire  outstanding debt (a five-figure sum), and default 
the account. Specifically, it said:
We may also register your account  as being 'in default'  with one or more Credit  
Reference Agencies. This will stay on your credit  file for a period of six years.
Shawbrook was entitled to serve that notice, because it had received no payments since 
February. When it still received no payments, it defaulted the account  on 29 June. It was 
entitled to do that, and it did so nearly  two months  later than it said it would, so it gave Mr 
and Mrs W plenty of time to change their minds. It gave them  fair warning. So I cannot say 
that Shawbrook  did anything wrong, or that it should remove the default.
the delay
I think the £100 Shawbrook has offered is fair compensation  for the delay  in responding to 
this complaint, and I wont require it to do more about this issue.
my provisional decision
My decision  is that I am currently  minded to uphold this complaint in part. I invite  
submissions from the parties  about  how much compensation would be fair for the problems 
with the supplier between March 2018 and February  2019. I do not intend to uphold the 
complaint about  the default,  or to increase the compensation for Shawbrooks delay in 
considering this complaint when it was first raised.
responses to my provisional  findings
Mrs W asked  for her and her husbands  credit score to be cleared because  they had thought 
they were doing  the right thing at the time. Once  they had paid their arrears, they had 
expected the defaults  to be removed from their credit files, but they were still there. She 
argued that the defaults should be transferred  to the suppliers credit file.
Shawbrook said that it had no knowledge  or evidence that the supplier in which Shawbrook 
has a D-C-S relationship  as required under  Section 75  completed  this work. (I will explain 
what D-C-S relationship means  later.)  Shawbrook went  on to say that the work had actually 
been carried out by Ultraframe,  which  it said neither Shawbrook nor Zenith had been aware 
of. It argued that it would therefore be unfair to hold Shawbrook liable for the work. 
Shawbrook also said that as far as it had known in 2018,  the work had been  completed in 
March 2018, and listed a number of reasons  why it had thought that.
Both parties  made a number of other  representations too, which I have read,  but I have 
summarised above the ones which I consider to be the most relevant to my final decision.
Ref: DRN50698546my findings
I have reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I have not changed my 
mind. I will explain  why.
the default
I recognise that Mr and Mrs W thought  they were doing the right thing when they continued 
to withhold their payments. But I am unable to agree,  because  of the various written 
warnings and advice  they were  given, as summarised in my provisional findings.
Paying off the arrears is reflected in their credit  files, but it still doesnt remove the defaults. A 
default remains on a credit file for six years. But any lender who checks  their credit files will 
still be able to see that they have  cleared the arrears and are now up to date.
A default cannot  be transferred from someones  credit file to someone elses,  whether 
because the debtor withheld  the payments because of a dispute with the creditor or for any 
other reason.
Shawbrooks responsibility for the work carried out
I still remain of the view that section 75 makes  Shawbrook  liable for the work  which  was 
done on Mr and Mrs Ws doors and windows. I will explain why. But before I do that, it is 
necessary for me to set out which companies  have been involved in this complaint and the 
earlier complaints. The reasons why that matters  are, firstly, because section 75 only makes  
Shawbrook liable for a breach of contract by the supplier, and there is a dispute about  who 
the supplier was, or at least a lack of clarity  about  who it was. And secondly, section 75 
usually only applies if Shawbrook makes  the credit agreement under pre-existing 
arrangements, or in contemplation of future arrangements, between [Shawbrook] and the 
supplier (see section  12(b)). This is what Shawbrook  was referring to when it mentioned 
having a D-C-S relationship  with the supplier.
I say usually because  the combined  effect of sections 12, 75 and 187 of that Act is that 
section 75 doesnt  only apply to credit agreements  made directly between  Shawbrook and 
the supplier  it also applies to credit  agreements made under pre-existing arrangements,  or 
in contemplation  of future arrangements, made between Shawbrook  and an associate of the 
supplier.
Associate is defined in section 184. Subsection (3) says that two companies  are associates 
of each other if the same person is a controller  of both. Section 189 defines controller,  
and its meaning is broader  than just a director of a company.
Under section 11(4), it does not matter whether Shawbrook  (or anyone else) knew the 
identity of the supplier  at the time the agreement was made.
Shawbrook provided  credit to Mr and Mrs W (without paying the money directly to them)  so 
that they could  pay for the windows  and doors.  The credit agreement  is dated 5 May 2017,  
although the work was carried out much  later, starting in October. The agreement names 
Zenith Staybrite or, to give it its full name,  Zenith Staybrite Limited, as the credit 
intermediary, not as the supplier. So Shawbrook did not expect to pay the money directly 
to the supplier, but to pay it via Zenith  Staybrite,  for Zenith Staybrite  to forward to the 
Ref: DRN50698547supplier (whoever that was) in due course,  as part of arrangements (whether  pre-existing or 
future arrangements)  with the supplier.
Zenith Staybrite went into administration in August 2017. In September,  Zenith  Staybrite 
changed its name to Zensb Realisations Limited.  Because I am about  to mention another  
business called Zenith,  I will refer to Zenith Staybrite by its new name, Zensb,  from now on.
The work on the doors and windows was begun in October.  Being in administration, Zensb 
didnt carry out the building work itself, or accept payment  of the money  on behalf of the 
supplier when Mrs W signed  Shawbrooks  Customer Satisfaction Note at the end of that 
month. Another business, Zenith Home  Improvements,5 supplied  and installed the doors  and 
windows.
Zenith Home  Improvements was actually a trading  name for a company called Clearwin 
Limited. Clearwins registered office was at the same address as Zensbs office. 
Shawbrooks satisfaction note names  Zenith  as the business which supplied  and fitted the 
doors and windows. So it probably  wasnt obvious to Mr and Mrs W that the work was 
actually being  carried out by a different company  to the one named on their credit  
agreement, which of course said Zenith  Staybrite. It may not have been obvious to 
Shawbrook either.
Mr and Mrs W complained to this Service in January 2018. One of our investigators set up 
two complaints for them. One complaint was against  Shawbrook. They intended  their other  
complaint to be about the supplier, but that complaint couldnt be set up against  Clearwin,  
because Clearwin  was not regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), which  meant 
that it did not fall under  our Services jurisdiction.  And it couldnt be set up against  Zensb  
either, because its not possible to set up a complaint against a company which is in 
administration. Our investigator looked at Clearwins website, which  said that Clearwin  was 
an appointed representative  of Ultraframe (UK) Ltd and that Ultraframe was regulated  by 
the FCA. So the investigator set up the second complaint against Ultraframe,  and Ultraframe 
agreed to accept responsibility  for that complaint.
Although that complaint was nominally  against Ultraframe, it was actually handled  by yet 
another company, Kairos Group Limited.  Kairos Group carried out all correspondence, and 
also paid the gesture  of good will which resolved  that complaint. At that time, they both had 
the same  director. And it is with Kairos Group  that Shawbrook has been corresponding 
about this complaint, the one Im dealing with now.
Kairos Group and Clearwin were  both incorporated in August 2017.  I infer that these  
companies were probably set up to facilitate Ultraframe taking over Zensbs contracts, 
because the same individual is registered at Companies House as having significant  control  
over Kairos  Group and Clearwin since then, and over Ultraframe since  2016.6 (And also 
because the original director of Kairos Group and Clearwin was a former  director of 
Ultraframe.)
5 This business, and this complaint, have nothing at all to do with Zenith Home Improvements Limited, 
which was a totally different  and unrelated  business which did not yet exist and which was run by 
completely different people.
6 See https://beta.companieshouse.gov.uk/company/10935394/persons-with-significant-control,  
https://beta.companieshouse.gov.uk/company/10932339/persons-with-significant-control and 
https://beta.companieshouse.gov.uk/company/01765701/persons-with-significant-control.
Ref: DRN50698548As the same person  controls Clearwin Limited,  Kairos Group Limited  and Ultraframe  (UK) 
Limited, and controlled  them all in 2017, they were  then and are now associates of each 
other. So for the purposes of section 12  and therefore section 75 too  it doesnt matter  
which one was the supplier, as long as one of them was. So Shawbrook will have made the 
credit agreement under arrangements,  or in contemplation of future arrangements,  between 
it and the supplier or one of the suppliers associates.
At the time of the credit agreement, in May 2017, Zensb and Ultraframe were two entirely  
separate businesses,  controlled by different people7 and based at different premises,  and 
Clearwin did not even exist yet. But I dont think that matters, because that was no longer the 
state of affairs by the time the initial work  was done and Shawbrook paid the money to the 
supplier, or to the suppliers associate.  The relevant companies were  associated by then  
the time of the transaction financed by the credit agreement. It also doesnt  matter that 
Zensb was in administration by then, because Zensb was not the supplier.
Mrs W is adamant that only Zenith ever came to her house and did any work. Of course, by 
then Zenith could only mean  Clearwin. The fact that Zenith is named on Shawbrooks 
own Customer Satisfaction Note is strong evidence in support  of Clearwin having been the 
supplier.
However, Shawbrook  said in its response to my provisional decision that another company 
was really the supplier, and that a different company seemed to have actually carried out the 
building work  instead  of the company it called the supplier. Shawbrook referred me to an 
email it had received  on 3 May 2019,  from what Shawbrook  described as the supplier. That 
email is from Kairos Group. And Shawbrook said it had been told by one of our investigators 
that Ultraframe had actually carried out the work. Shawbrook also said:
the supplier confirmed that there is no relationship  between them and Ultraframe  
(see attached email ), so the work was completed by a third party  that Shawbrook 
or the supplier  was unaware of, so it would be unreasonable to hold Shawbrook 
responsible for this.
The email  from Kairos Group says Ultraframe (Quantal)  are a manufacturer of conservatory 
roofs so  we are unsure  as to what part they play in this. And another email  the same day, 
from a business  called  Job Worth Doing (which appears to have been run by the same 
people who ran Zensb and Clearwin), said I really do not know  how quantal  (sic) have come  
into the equation as this is a window and door contract.
In fact, Ultraframe bought  Quantal in 2012,  and although Ultraframe  continues to use the 
name Quantal for its roof products, it also builds  full extensions, including  doors  and 
windows.8 But I havent  seen  any evidence  that Ultraframe actually carried  out any work  on 
Mr and Mrs Ws house  and Kairos Groups  email strongly suggests that it didnt.  So if one 
of my colleagues suggested or implied  that it did, I suspect it was only because Ultraframe 
took responsibility for the second complaint, which  is not quite  the same thing as Ultraframe 
actually having  done the work the complaint was about. So I think  Ultraframe is a red 
herring. I think the supplier was almost  certainly  Clearwin. But even if Ultraframe  or Kairos  
Group  was the supplier,  Shawbrook  would be liable for any breach of contract by them, if it 
7 In fact, they may not always  have been completely  separate because in 2012 the same individual 
was a director  of both companies at the same time. But that is too long ago to matter to this 
complaint.
8 See https://www.ultraframe-conservatories.co.uk/extensionplus/ranges
Ref: DRN50698549paid the money  to one of their associates.  That would be the case whether Shawbrook knew 
who the supplier  was or not, because of section 11(4), as I mentioned earlier.
(I recognise that the satisfaction note only related to the work  done in October 2017, and so 
it does not conclusively prove that only Clearwin  did the follow-up  work  later on. However,  
even if another  company did do the remedial work,  or some  of it, that wouldnt mean it 
couldnt also be another supplier, as long as it was paid under arrangements  falling within 
section 12(b) or section 187. Nothing  in sections 11(1)(b),  12(b), 75 or 187 actually  
precludes a credit agreement from having  more than one supplier, since  section 6 of the 
Interpretation Act 1978 says In any Act  words in the singular include the plural.)
Shawbrook has made detailed arguments  about  why it didnt realise that the work had not 
been completed to Mr and Mrs Ws satisfaction, and that a dispute was still ongoing, during 
2018 and 2019. However, in my provisional  decision I did not say that I was going  to uphold 
this complaint on the ground that Shawbrook had done anything  wrong,  or had failed to do 
something it was supposed  to do, between March 2018 and February 2019. I only said it 
was because the supplier had taken  too long to complete the work; that this was a breach of 
contract by the supplier; and that Shawbrook was liable for that breach under section 75. It 
was not on the basis  that Shawbrook had known, or should have known, that there  was still 
remedial work outstanding.  Section  75 does  not require such  knowledge on the part of the 
creditor. So I will still uphold  this part of this complaint.
It just remains for me to decide how much  compensation this matter is worth. I cant  take the 
suppliers general customer service or its complaint-handling into account  only the delay in 
completing the work. I think  £500 is in line with what this Service would typically award.
the delay
I havent changed my opinion  that £100  is fair compensation  for this issue.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. I order Shawbrook Bank Limited to pay Mr and 
Mrs W £500 in settlement of their claim under section  75, and (if they have not done  so 
already) pay them the £100 the bank offered them for its delay in dealing with this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  10 January 2020. But my final decision concludes  this 
Services consideration of this complaint,  which means Ill not be engaging in any further 
discussion of the merits of it.
Richard Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5069854