K820x#14complaint
Mrs S has complained that Canada Square  Operations Limited mis-sold  her a credit  card 
payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
Mrs S took out the PPI in November 2000 at the same time as she applied  for the credit card 
online.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account  in deciding  
this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ss complaint and Ill explain why.
Mrs S couldnt remember how she had taken out the card and policy but Canada  Square has 
provided evidence  that they were applied for online.  Canada Square has provided screen  
shots of the web pages that Mrs S would have seen during the online application process. 
Under the heading of Payment Protection, Mrs S would have needed to select yes or no 
options to either request or decline PPI. These options had equal prominence  and neither 
had been pre-selected. I think Mrs S would have  understood  from the wording and layout of 
the page that the PPI was optional.
The sale was a long time ago and Mrs S herself has said that she has no recollection  of the 
sale. Looking at the available evidence, it seems  to me that she decided to take out the 
policy, knowing that she didnt have to, even if she no longer remembers  doing  so.
Canada Square  didnt advise Mrs S to buy the policy,  so it didnt need to ensure that it met 
her needs.  But it did need to provide her with enough information to make  an informed 
decision about whether or not it was right for her.
Theres been some inconsistency in what Mrs S has said about  the level of sick pay and any 
other means  she may have had at the time. Most  recently Mrs S says her employer  would 
have given her six months full pay, followed by six months half pay if she was off sick. But 
the policy would have paid out in addition to any sick pay and potentially for longer than Mrs 
S would have received full pay for. Mrs S has told us she had some savings. But having  the 
policy would have meant that she could  retain  these  or use them to cover  other  outgoings at 
what would  have been a difficult time. Overall I think that Mrs S had a need  for the policy and 
could have benefitted from it.
Its possible that Canada  Square didnt provide as much information about  the policy as it 
should have, particularly about  the things that it didnt  cover.  But Mrs S wasnt affected by 
any of those things.  As I think  that she had an interest in the policy  and decided  to buy it, I 
dont think that further  information would have caused her to change her mind.
This means  that Canada Square  doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs S. 
But Canada Square has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs S because:  
Ref: DRN51247602When the policy was sold,  Canada Square  expected to get a high level of commission  
and profit share (more  than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Mrs S 
about that. Because Canada Square didnt tell Mrs S, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Canada Square has paid back the amount of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think  that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  Canada Square Operations Limited  does not have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs S.
But Canada Square Operations  Limited  does have  to pay back to Mrs S any commission 
and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  I understand it has 
already done this, so I dont award  any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs S to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 September 2019.
Carole Clark
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5124760