K820x#14complaint
Mrs L complains  that Allianz  Insurance Plc declined her horse  insurance  claim and about  its 
service. My references to Allianz include its agents.
background
Mrs L took out an insurance policy for her horse  which  started in 1994. Allianz is the insurer. 
She now has a 'veteran  plan' which covers injuries only.
In January 2018 Mrs L claimed for vet treatment for her horse's eye problem. Mrs L, through 
her vet, said her horse was fine when turned out in the field but when Mrs L bought her back  
to her stable  later that day she had a teary and partially closed eye. On investigation the 
problem was diagnosed as neutrophilic keratitis (an inflammatory condition which affects  the 
cornea of the horse's eye) with corneal ulceration most likely due to pseudomona (fast 
growing bacteria).
Allianz declined  the claim.  It had received Mrs L's vets' evidence that the claim was probably 
caused by an injury. But the independent  vet Allianz  instructed thought  the horse's condition 
was probably an infection  due to her ongoing eye condition and treatment,  rather than injury, 
so the claim wasn't  covered by the policy terms. Allianz accepted it had delayed in 
reassessing the claim and had been poor in its communication with Mrs L. It offered £150 
compensation for her distress and inconvenience due to its poor service.
Our investigator thought Mrs L's vets' opinion  had more weight as they actually saw the 
horse so Allianz  had unfairly declined the claim.  Mrs L had already told us she accepted the 
£150 compensation for Allianz's poor service.
Allianz disagreed  about the claim and wanted  an ombudsman's  decision. It provided further 
vet evidence which it said supported that the claim condition was caused by illness not 
injury.
As we hadnt  sent Mrs L the most recent evidence from the independent vet Allianz 
instructed I asked our investigator to send the vet report  to her with my provisional decision.  
I said Mrs L may want to show the new evidence to her vet and submit further evidence in 
response to my provisional  decision.
my provisional decision
I made  a provisional decision  explaining  why I was intending to not uphold the complaint. 
I said:
As Mrs L accepted the compensation offer for Allianz's poor service I've not looked  at that 
issue in detail. For the avoidance  of doubt, I think £150 compensation seems a reasonable 
amount.
I have to decide whether Allianz  fairly and reasonably declined the claim. On the evidence  
I have I think it did. I'm intending to not uphold  the complaint. I'll explain why.
The veteran  plan covers  vet fees to £1,000 for injury only,  not illness. The policy  defines  
injury as:
Ref: DRN52160102'physical damage  or trauma caused  immediately  by an accident. Not any physical 
damage or trauma that happens over a period of time'.
The policy defines  illness  as:
'sickness, disease and any change(s)  to your horse's normal  healthy physical state or 
appearance'.
There's a lot of detailed  evidence from Mrs L's two vets and the independent vet Allianz 
instructed. I'll summarize the key points, but Mrs L will be sent the full report  from the 
independent vet.
Mrs L's vets first report dated 18 January 2018 says:
when the horse  was first examined she had four pin point areas of corneal ulceration 
in the left eye. That had progressed  to four cratered areas of melting corneal 
ulceration when  he then saw her four days later
she was later diagnosed with neutrophilic keratitis with corneal ulceration most  likely 
due to pseudomonas. Its considered unrelated  to her previous  eye condition.
When Allianz rejected  the claim another vet at Mrs L's practice told it:
trauma to the eye is one of the most  common causes of equine corneal  ulceration, 
and on the balance of probabilities the ulcer  is most likely to have been caused  by a 
traumatic incident
the horse's  corneal  ulcer is considered to be unrelated to the previous diagnosis  of 
eosinophilic conjunctivitis.
So at that stage Mrs L's vets' evidence  was clear that they considered  the claim condition  
was probably caused  by injury, and unrelated to the horse's previous eye illness.
The evidence from the independent vet Allianz  instructed is that:
the horse had been treated since 2016  for a condition of the left eye and the vet 
notes record cataract  with possible posterior uveitis. From that time the eye was 
under continuous treatment with cortisone and ifs recognised that cortisone reduces  
the resistance  to infection
the description by Mrs L's vet of four pin point  areas of corneal ulceration  is typical  of 
developing infection rather  than the effect of a new injury  and the diagnosis  was 
neutrophilic keratitis caused by pseudomonas
he thought  the infection was due to illness and not injury
the independent vet spoke to one of Mrs L's treating vets to try to resolve the 
difference of opinion.  The independent  vets report of the call was that Mrs L's vet 
said the cause  of the condition was unknown but injury  couldn't be ruled  out.
So the independent vet thought the claim condition wasn't caused by injury.  From his report  
of the conversation Mrs L's vet opinion had changed  from saying the condition was probably 
caused by injury to not ruling out injury as the cause.
Allianz then said it had seen more recent vet notes  for the horse which  showed  the condition  
had been an ongoing problem which also suggested illness not injury  was the cause.
Ref: DRN52160103One of Mrs L's treating  vets responded that:
the horse had been seen for re-occurrence of swelling of the eyelid and an 
uncomfortable left eye. There'd been no signs  of infection  or re-occurrence of a 
corneal ulcer. After  staining the cornea with fluorescein, there has been a small 
positive dot on some occasions which  disappeared after couple of days
they believe its the calcium deposits in the cornea that are the cause of the recent 
irritation.
The independent vet Allianz  instructed provided  further evidence:
the horse had suffered recurrent bouts of inflammation  in the left eye since  
December 2016 which the vet notes  describe  as 'chronic'. The chronic changes  that 
occur in such a condition affect  the structures of the eye and the normal  circulation of 
blood and fluid within the eye which affects  the normal physiology. Constant  
treatment was given  to control and reduce the rate of deterioration but complications  
aren't unusual
in this case the complication was the ulceration  and neutrophilic keratitis with 
bacterial pseudomonas  thought  to be the cause
if the condition  had been  caused  by immediate injury neutrophilic keratitis wouldn't 
have been diagnosed  because neutrophils  (a white blood cell) wouldn't have been 
immediately present, they respond over time to infection
from a review of the vet notes after January 2018 the ulcer flared up in April, June 
July, November, December 2018  and May 2019. The findings  and treatments in 
Mrs L's vets notes are detailed
Mrs L's vet said there'd  been  no re-occurrence of a corneal ulcer but that didn't fit 
with the clinical  history noted and antibiotic  drops had been regularly used
Mrs L's vet suggested the current inflammation was caused by calcium deposits 
causing irritation in the eye occurring as a separate condition.  But calcium  deposits 
develop over time as a direct  consequence  of recurrent inflammation and ulceration.  
In his opinion  the clinical history indicates a continuing deterioration of the eye and 
confirms his initial opinion  that there is one related history of recurrent inflammation  
in the eye with cataract formation,  uveitis and keratitis. Corneal  ulceration  occurred 
as a complication due to infection  rather than an injury.
I accept that Mrs L's vets actually saw the horse.  But on the current overall evidence I'm 
more persuaded  by the analysis of the condition by the independent vet Allianz instructed 
that the claim condition  probably wasn't caused by injury. I say that because:
I make  my decision  based on whats more likely than not to have happened to 
Mrs L's horse given  her circumstances. Initially Mrs L's vets said the ulcer  was most 
likely to have been caused by a traumatic incident But the independent  vet reported 
that in conversation Mrs L's vet said injury  couldn't be ruled out as a cause, which is 
very different  to saying injury was the probable cause
from what Mrs L said happened, if injury was the cause the injury happened when 
the horse was in the field on the day Mrs L saw the teary  and swollen eye. But the 
independent vet Allianz instructed says the description by Mrs L's vet of four pin point  
areas of corneal ulceration, which was seen  very shortly  after,  is typical of developing 
infection rather than the effect of a new injury
the independent vet says if the eye problem had been caused  by immediate injury 
neutrophilic keratitis wouldn't have been  diagnosed because  neutrophils (a white 
Ref: DRN52160104blood cell) wouldn't have been immediately present, they respond over time to 
infection. That suggests the infection was due to illness, not injury
Mrs L's vet notes show her horse had an ongoing chronic eye problem since  2016. 
Mrs L's vets didn't  dispute that the treatment  the horse was given is known to reduce 
the resistance  to infection. I note the disagreement between the parties' vets about 
the ongoing eye problem after the claim.  But Mrs L's vet notes  made at the time do 
suggest a reoccurrence of the eye problem which supports the independent  vets 
opinion that its more likely than not that there's a history of recurrent inflammation 
which, given the horse's medical history, probably wasn't caused  by injury.
On the overall  evidence  I think  Allianz  can reasonably understand that the claim condition is 
more likely than not to have been  caused by illness, not injury. So there is no cover under 
the policy terms. Allianz acted fairly and reasonably in declining the claim.
If Mrs L is going to ask her vet to provide further evidence it would be helpful if they could 
address the above four reasons  I've given  as to why I think the overall  evidence  shows  the 
claim condition  probably  wasn't  caused  by injury.
responses to my provisional  findings
Allianz didnt respond. Mrs L didnt agree. She said shed spoken to her vet and made the 
following points, in summary:
Allianz continued to state that named drops were used continuously in her horses 
left eye. But they werent, shed returned the left over bottles to her vet and had sent 
us a refund  invoice
the 30 January  2018 letter from her vets says trauma to the eye is one of the most 
common causes of equine corneal  ulceration  and on the balance of probabilities in 
her horses case trauma cant be ruled out as being the primary initiating factor
her certificate of insurance  dated 24 December 2019 lists exclusions. One says 
excluding claims resulting from or connected  to eye disorders  from 21 January 
2018. As she claimed on a earlier date in January  2018 she and her vet thought  the 
claim was covered for the eye complaint
her vet had read Allianz's independent vets report  and stood by her original letters. 
Her vet thought  that in law only the evidence at the time of the incident,  not at any 
future date, should be taken into account. The vet couldnt understand why Allianz  
had been able to use later evidence to support its case. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  to disappoint Mrs L but her response to my provisional  decision hasnt changed  my 
mind. I dont  uphold this complaint.
I did see the dispute about  whether the eye drops  had been continuously used on her horse. 
But whether  or not the drops were in continuous  use doesnt affect my provisional findings. 
Allianzs independent vets evidence  as to why the claim condition probably  wasn't  caused  
by injury isnt only based  on the drops  being used continuously. Ive explained above why 
Im persuaded by Allianzs independent  vets evidence.
Ref: DRN52160105Ive seen Mrs Ls vets letter of 30 January 2018  which says trauma is a common cause for 
corneal ulceration  and trauma  cant be ruled  out as being the main  initiating factor  in her 
horses case. The letter reflects the conversation Mrs Ls vet had with Allianz's independent 
vet. I make my decision on whats more likely than not to have happened to Mrs L's horse 
given her circumstances.  Not ruling out trauma isnt the same as saying its the most 
probable cause for her horse even given her existing medical  condition.  For the reasons Ive 
given, looking at all the evidence from Mrs Ls and Allianzs independent vets I still think that 
for Mrs Ls horse  the claim condition is more likely than not to have  been  caused by illness,  
not injury. 
Mrs Ls December 2019 insurance certificate she sent us lists specific exclusions,  one of 
which is eye disorders from 21 January 2018. But the certificate also clearly  says the policy  
covers vet fees for injuries only for 12 months and theres been no cover for illness since  
21 January 2017.  So I dont think Mrs L or her vet could  reasonably  understand that vet fees 
for an eye condition not caused by injury were  covered.
In making my decision I take into account  all the available evidence, as the courts do subject 
to the admissibility  of evidence. Allianz  sent us evidence from the independent  vet after the 
claim event.  Its not unusual for vet evidence to be submitted by either party after the 
claimed for event has happened. Mrs Ls vet had the opportunity  to respond. Im satisfied 
that its reasonable for me to take Allianzs independent vets evidence into account in 
making my decision. 
For the reasons  Ive given in my provisional  findings and these findings I think Allianz 
reasonably understood that the claim condition was more likely than not to have been 
caused by illness,  not injury.  Theres  no cover  under the policy terms. Allianz acted fairly and 
reasonably in declining the claim.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 April 2020.
Nicola Sisk
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5216010