K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage Mr and Mrs D hold with Bank  of Scotland plc trading  as 
Halifax. In essence,  the complaint is about how Halifax has administered their monthly  
payments over a sustained period,  and how it has recorded those payments on 
Mr and Mrs Ds credit files. Its a joint complaint,  but all our dealings have been  with Mrs D.
background
The events leading up to, and arising  out of, the complaint are complex.  Ive read everything,  
and its apparent that some parts of the evidence are less relevant to the underlying case 
than others. There are also a lot of duplicated documents and repetition of arguments. In 
what follows, I have, by necessity, summarised events in rather  less detail than has been  
presented, using my own words. 
No discourtesys intended by that. Its a reflection  of the informal service  we provide, and if I 
dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think  it 
was material to the outcome of the complaint.  This approach is consistent with what  our 
enabling legislation requires of me. It allows me to focus on the issues on which  I consider a 
fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by matters which, although presented as 
material, are, in my opinion peripheral or, in some instances, have little or no impact  on the 
broader outcome.  
Mr and Mrs D started  the complaint in April 2018.  They were unhappy that Halifax had 
recorded payments  they believed theyd made on time as having been  received late. It had 
then reported  these late payments on Mr and Mrs Ds credit  files. They were prompted to 
complain after Halifax wrote admitting it had recorded  some  payments late by mistake, for 
which it apologised and said it would put things right. 
Mr and Mrs D thought  there were more  errors  than Halifax had identified and owned up to. 
They put together a comprehensive and detailed  case, arguing that the incorrect reporting of 
late payments had done serious damage  to their credit ratings.  They gave examples of 
several occasions where theyd been unable to secure credit  from prime sources at the most 
favourable rates. Instead, theyd had to borrow from non-mainstream  lenders  on much more  
expensive terms. 
Mr and Mrs D estimated  the aggregate cost of this over time to be close  to £23,000. They 
looked to Halifax  to reimburse them  this sum,  but Halifax  rejected their complaint, and it 
came to us. Mr and Mrs Ds complaint  been  looked at by two different adjudicators. The 
current adjudicator  gave her initial assessment in September 2018, the main points of which 
were, in summarised form:
Halifax had admitted to mistakes  on four monthly payments made during 2013, but it had 
corrected all four (including amending the credit file entries to show the payments as 
made on time);
The other occasions where Mr and Mrs D thought timely payments had been reported  as 
late, it was because they were a month out in their reasoning. That is, they were paying  
for the previous rather than the current month;
She didnt think there were any more incorrect markers from Halifax  on Mr and Mrs Ds 
credit files. She hadnt been able to see what else might  be on the files from other 
creditors that might impact on Mr and Mrs D ability to borrow  at optimum rates.  
Ref: DRN59186802Mr and Mrs D didnt agree; they and the adjudicator debated back and forth the contrasting 
evidence from Halifax and them about  the timing  of payments. With no prospect of either 
coming round to the others  point of view,  the case was referred for review by an 
ombudsman.
my findings
Ill begin with some general observations.  
Im aware Mr and Mrs D have complained about  how the adjudicators  handled their 
complaint. One of our managers has dealt  with that as a separate  matter,  and if 
Mr and Mrs D wish to pursue  that further theyve been advised  how she can do that. My 
focus here is on the underlying dispute  between Mr and Mrs D and Halifax
Were not the regulator of financial  businesses, and we dont police their internal processes 
or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the Financial Conduct Authority. We deal 
with individual  disputes between businesses and their customers. In doing that, we dont  
replicate the work of the courts. Were  impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions  
on how we investigate a complaint. We conduct  our investigations and reach  our 
conclusions without interference from anyone else.
Mrs D told the adjudicator she wanted  to contact me directly. Weve already explained why 
that wouldnt be appropriate. It would, in effect, be giving Mr and Mrs D a one-sided personal 
hearing to press their case directly  without the business being involved and being able to 
contribute. 
On the rare occasions we conduct  a direct hearing,  its at the discretion of an ombudsman,  is 
called solely because he or she thinks its essential to reaching a fair outcome, and both 
parties to the complaint are present.  Anything  else would be procedurally  unfair, and 
introduce the risk of bias. Im satisfied this is a complaint I can fairly deal with on the basis of 
the evidence on file from all parties.
On the subject of the evidence from the parties, its up to us to decide what  evidence  we 
need to decide a complaint, where we should  get it from,  and what weight we should attach 
to it once we have it. Its our judgement to make  on when  we have everything we need  to 
reach a fair conclusion,  and when we dont  have it, how long we should  reasonably  wait 
before deciding the case without it.
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im afraid Ive some  
disappointing news for Mr and Mrs D. Ive come to broadly the same conclusions  as the 
current adjudicator, and for much the same overall  reasons.
Its probably worth emphasising what the starting point of this complaint is. At the most basic  
level, it is that Mr and Mrs D believe that what Halifax has put on their credit  files is the 
reason theyve not been able to borrow  money  on the most favourable  terms; not just a 
reason but the sole reason. In order to find in their favour, Id need to be persuaded, on the 
balance of probabilities, that all of the following were true:
that every time Halifax has recorded  information on Mr and Mrs Ds credit  files that a 
potential lender might consider adverse, its done so in error (and some of those  errors  
remain uncorrected now);  
Ref: DRN59186803that Halifax has never had legitimate cause to record information on Mr and Mrs Ds 
credit files that a potential lender  might  consider adverse; and
that no other existing  creditor  has recorded any information on Mr and Mrs Ds credit files 
that a potential lender might consider adverse.
 
Mr and Mrs D clearly feel very passionately about their complaint and I understand  that. A 
persons credit rating is vital to their ability to obtain  credit on the best possible terms, so its 
imperative that the information reported on them be accurate and fair. But it seems to me 
that in bringing  their complaint with the vigour  they have, Mr and Mrs D have focussed only 
one the first of the above points, and not taken  account of points two and three.
I know how strongly Mr and Mrs D feel about  point one, and that even now,  they believe 
theres reporting of late payments on their credit  files that shouldnt  be there. I have to say I 
dont agree, just as the current adjudicator didnt. But in any event, its not what the 
complaint turns on.
Its important to remember that, separate from the arguments over the timing and reporting 
of certain payments, Mr and Mrs D did have  some genuine arrears, and payment 
arrangements to deal with them.  Merely by Halifax reporting those fairly and accurately on 
their credit files, Mr and Mrs Ds credit ratings  and how potential new lenders might assess 
applications for credit from them - would have suffered some detriment. Theres  no way of 
isolating that legitimate  impact and excluding it as a reason Mr and Mrs D have had to take 
more expensive credit  than theyd have wished.
But more  fundamentally, to find that Halifax should  pay Mr and Mrs D the redress  theyre 
seeking, Id also have to be satisfied on point  three  above; that is, that none of their other  
creditors has ever posted adverse information on their credit files. Sadly,  Im unable to test 
that because,  despite  numerous requests from us, Mr and Mrs D havent  provided us with 
copies of their full credit files.
I cant say we havent given them time to do so; both adjudicators asked for the full files 
when they were conducting their initial investigations  in 2018. More recently, the current 
adjudicator explained to Mr and Mrs D exactly why it was necessary for us to see the 
information, and gave them a further  extension of time to provide it. In that context, Id be 
slow to conclude that the reason we havent seen Mr and Mrs Ds full credit files is that they 
havent been given the opportunity to send them or that they dont appreciate how crucial  the 
information is to the merits  of their claim.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes  this 
services consideration  of this complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further  
discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  24 June  2019.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5918680