K821x#15complaint
Mr K complained that Barclays  Bank  UK PLC mis-sold him a payment protection  insurance 
(PPI) policy with a credit card he bought via a postal  application  in 1999. 
background
Our adjudicator said Mr Ks complaint should  be upheld. But Barclays didnt agree with this 
and the complaint has been passed to me for an ombudsmans decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Having done this, Ive decided to uphold Mr Ks complaint. 
Mr K said he doesnt recall agreeing to any PPI. Barclays sent us a copy of Mr Ks original 
credit card application form and having  looked at how this was set out I think  there was an 
important discrepancy  which Barclays should  have clarified.
The credit card application form contained a section about PPI. But I can certainly  see ways 
in which  the form could have been  made  much  clearer. 
For example, if the applicant wanted  PPI, they needed to tick the yes box. If they didnt 
want PPI, they needed  to tick no. However, there was no requirement to sign separately for 
the PPI and so the only signature required on the form was to agree to the credit card 
account itself. So if the applicant wanted  the card, they had to sign the form. I also think 
there were some shortcomings in the way the PPI was described  no cost was shown, 
although I accept  there  were most  probably some terms and conditions  attached  to the 
postal application  form.
None of these  things are, in themselves, issues which would cause me to uphold  Mr Ks 
complaint. But I think  theres good evidence he didnt really understand the form. I say this 
because importantly, it appears he selected  the no PPI choice on the application form. But 
this was scribbled out and a tick was placed into the yes box. 
I think this leaves the application  form  and Mr Ks intentions - very unclear.
I think its fair to say that its common practice  in the UK to either sign or initial mistakes such 
as this. And Id also say that its quite common to date them too. 
Mr K says he wasnt aware hed bought PPI and I note he went  on to cancel the policy the 
next year. So, to me this adds considerable weight to his explanation and recollection  of the 
sale and the fact that he didnt ever want this type of cover.    
In my experience, many financial businesses would require greater clarification when a 
consumer submits an application for a financial product, in this state. Barclays  doesnt 
appear to have done this and I think there was sufficient uncertainty  about what Mr K wanted  
to do. It also seems to me that the matter would  have been very easy to clarify.
Ref: DRN50744542In short,  I dont think Barclays went far enough  to establish that Mr K consented to the PPI 
policy with his new credit  card.  So Im upholding his complaint.
fair compensation
Barclays should put Mr K in the financial position hed be in now if he hadnt taken out PPI. 
A. Barclays should find out how much  Mr K would have owed when  he closed his account  
if the policy hadnt been added. It should  remove the PPI premiums  added,  as well as 
any interest charged  on those premiums.  It should  also remove any charges that were 
caused by the mis-sale of the PPI  as well as any interest  added  to those charges.
Barclays should then refund the difference between  what  Mr K owes  and what he 
would have owed. If Mr K made a successful claim  under  the PPI policy,  Barclays  can 
take off what he got for the claim  from the amount it owes  him.
B. If when  Barclays works  out what Mr K would  have  owed each  month without PPI  Mr 
K paid more  than enough to clear his balance, Barclays should also pay simple  
interest on the extra Mr K paid.  And it should carry on paying interest until the point 
when Mr K wouldve owed Barclays something  on his credit  card.  The interest  rate 
should be 8% a year.
C. Barclays should tell Mr K what its done to work out A and B.
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires  Barclays  to take off tax from this interest. Barclays must give Mr K a 
certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
I uphold Mr Ks complaint  against Barclays Bank  UK PLC and require it to pay the 
compensation set out above.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 May 2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5074454