K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that Greenlight  Credit Ltd (trading as Varooma) sold him logbook loans he 
could not afford, and then ignored his complaint.
background
Between 2014 and 2017 Mr B took out nine logbook loans with Varooma. All of them were 
settled early (loan 3 was refinanced by loan 4), saving  Mr B nearly £3,300 in interest he 
would otherwise have had to pay. The details of the loans were  as follows:
#Date Principal Total to 
repayMonthly payment
Duration in months
Repaid Money saved
11.6.2014 £1,000 £1,749.96 £145.83 12 30.12.2014 £244.52
213.12.2014 £200 £380.04 £31.67 12 30.12.2014 £174.30
35.2.2015 £600 £1,050 £87.50 12 5.3.2015 £347.53
45.3.2015 £1,200 £2,250 £150 15 1.10.2015 £301.34
59.5.2015 £600 £1,260 £70 18 29.2.2016 £145.58
616.1.2017 £1,500 £3,600 £150 24 17.8.2017 £1,144.06
73.2.2017 £1,000 £2,400 £100 24 17.8.2017 £817.48
88.9.2017 £1,000 £1,700.04 £141.67 12 28.8.2018 £50.00
98.11.2017 £500 £849.96 £70.83 12 28.8.2018 £65.32
Total: £7,600 £15,240 Total: £3,290.13
The total interest to repay (but for early  settlement) would have been £7,640. The total 
interest actually paid was £4,349.87.
In February 2018  (when loans 8 and 9 were still outstanding), Mr B complained  to Varooma 
that the loans  had not been  affordable,  and had made him dependent  on borrowing. He said 
Varooma should  have  realised that his situation  was getting worse, and should  have  carried 
out better  affordability  checks. He also said Varooma had pressured him into signing the 
loan agreements, and did not explain them  properly.
Mr B says Varooma ignored his emails,  so he emailed the companys compliance officer. He 
says the compliance  officer responded 28 minutes later but still did not address  his 
complaint  instead he just referred  Mr B to our Service.  Mr B complains that Varooma did 
not give him a final response letter, despite  him asking for one. He says this delayed his 
complaint with our Service.
Varooma said it had done proportionate checks,  and these  had suggested that the loans  
were affordable. These  had included credit score  checks for loans 1, 7, 8 and 9, but it would 
not have been proportionate to check this every  time. It had taken Mr Bs payment history  
into account, which until the eighth loan had been good.
Our adjudicator upheld  this complaint in July 2018.  He thought that the first five loans had 
been affordable,  but by 2017 Mr B had had three defaults, was in arrears  on five other  
accounts, and was in a debt management plan with two other  lenders. As this information 
had not appeared on Varoomas credit checks,  the adjudicator thought  that the checks  had 
not been thorough enough,  and that Varooma should have asked Mr B more questions. He 
therefore recommended that Varooma refund  the interest on loans 6 to 9, with simple 
interest on the refunds at 8% a year. (It could offset this against  any principal still 
outstanding on loans 8 and 9, which had not yet been settled at that time.)
Ref: DRN56176742Varooma did not accept  that opinion. It pointed out that logbook  loans are aimed at people 
with poor credit histories,  so Mr Bs defaults  would not necessarily have prevented it from 
offering him a loan. He had not contacted it to say that he was in financial difficulty. He had 
been asked if he was in a debt management  plan or if there  was any other reason why he 
might struggle to repay the loans, and he had not mentioned any (Varooma provided call 
recordings to prove  this). There was no evidence that Varoomas loans had put Mr B in a 
worse financial position, and he had made all of his repayments on time. He might have 
been put in a worse position  if Varooma had declined the loans because  of his defaults. 
Varooma insisted it had complied with relevant regulations. It asked for an ombudsmans 
decision.
I wrote  a provisional decision which read as follows.
my provisional findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
did Varooma take Mr Bs complaint  seriously?
It is not in dispute  that Varooma did not respond  to Mr Bs initial  emails  on 6 and 9 February. 
When Mr B emailed  its compliance officer on 12 February, Varoomas response was that it 
could find no trace of those emails on its systems. This has not been explained. But Mr B 
sent his emails to the correct email address, so on the balance of probabilities  I infer that it is 
likely to be Varoomas  fault that it did not respond to them. There is no evidence of bad faith,  
however, and it may just be a computer glitch. That is not an excuse  for poor customer 
service, but it does make the matter less serious  than it would be if it had ignored Mr B on 
purpose. I am reinforced  in that opinion by the fact that the compliance  officer  replied to 
Mr Bs third email promptly  within half an hour.
Mr B has also complained about  that reply, since the speed of Varoomas reply suggests to 
him that his complaint was not taken seriously. He says it means that Varooma cant have 
carried out a proper investigation  of his complaint.
I do understand what Mr B means,  but I dont think it necessarily  follows that a fast response  
(eventually) means that an adequate investigation was not carried out. In the compliance  
officers follow-up email to Mr B, he said I have checked the income and expenditure forms 
completed, proofs provided and the contact notes from each new loan. I think  28 minutes 
was long enough for Varoomas compliance  officer to look at Mr Bs account and check 
those things for himself.  Whether or not the compliance officer  was right to reject  Mr Bs 
complaint, I think he had enough time in which to consider enough information to be able to 
answer it.
In his first email, the compliance officer also told Mr B that I am happy for you to pass this to 
the financial ombudsman  for early  consideration.  In his second  email later that day, he 
added I am allowing you to go the ombudsman rather  than have to wait for a full response. 
This meant that Mr B did not need to have  a final response letter from Varooma, or wait for 
eight weeks before approaching our Service. We could have begun  considering  his 
complaint immediately. Unfortunately, Mr B did not share the compliance officers  emails 
with us until 10 April,  and my junior  colleagues  who first dealt with this complaint (before it 
was assigned to the adjudicator) do not appear to have noticed Mr Bs summary of those 
Ref: DRN56176743emails on his complaint  form,  because  they wrongly told him that Varooma still had eight  
weeks to consider his complaint, unless he received its final response  letter  in the meantime. 
This caused an unnecessary delay, which was entirely our own fault and not Varoomas. 
I would like to sincerely apologise to Mr B for that error.
I think that Varooma  probably consented  to Mr B approaching our Service  immediately to 
make up for the delay  of six days during which nothing  had happened  with his complaint,  
between 6 and 12 February. That seems to me to be a reasonable attempt  by Varooma to 
put that matter  right.  So I do not uphold this part of this complaint.
did Varooma carry out proper affordability  checks?
In deciding what affordability checks Varooma should have done,  I have  had regard to the 
Consumer Credit Sourcebook (usually known as CONC), issued by the Financial Conduct  
Authority (FCA). I agree with the adjudicator  that loans 1 to 5 were affordable. In 2017,  when  
loans 6 to 9 were  sold, CONC 5.2.3  said that checks should  be proportionate to the 
applicants credit history and financial position  and the type, amount and cost of credit  being 
applied for.1
CONC 5.2.4(3) said that the information a lender should consider may, depending on the 
circumstances, include some or all of the following:  
(a) its record of previous dealings;
(b) evidence of income;
(c) evidence of expenditure;
(d) a credit score;
(e) a credit reference agency report; and 
(f) information provided by the customer.
For loans 6 to 9, Varooma took into account  items  (a), (b), (c), (d) (except for loan 6), and (f).
Each time Mr B applied for a loan, Varooma asked him about his income and expenditure 
(I&E). It filled in his answers on a form, which he subsequently signed. It used each I&E 
form to calculate  his disposable income.
Mr B says that in one instance (loan 7), Varooma just asked him if anything had changed 
since the previous  application, instead  of going through  the whole checklist (to which  Mr B 
replied that there had been no change). That would usually not be good enough, but I think  
that since loan 7 came only two weeks  after loan 6, it was unlikely that the answers would  
have been different, so taking that into account, I dont think  this was an error.
Some of the loans overlapped with each other. But the total amount  Mr B had to repay  each 
month never  exceeded  or even approached   his declared disposable income.  The 
1 The 2017 version of CONC can be seen at: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/CONC/5/?date=16-01-2017&timeline=True&view=chapter
Ref: DRN56176744following table sets out how much he had to repay,  and what  hed said he could afford  to 
repay:
Loans Total to repay (monthly) Disposable income (monthly)
1 and 2 £177.50 £935
3 £87.50 £847.50
4 and 5 £220 £935
6 and 7 £250 £797
8 and 9 £212.50 £630
So on the information Mr B provided, it would have seemed clear to Varooma that he would 
be able to afford all of the loans.
My starting point is that a person who applies for a loan should be truthful about his financial 
circumstances, and so a lender should be entitled  to accept what  its customer  tells it. 
However, CONC 5.3.3 says:
a firm should  take adequate steps,  insofar as it is reasonable and practicable to 
do so, to ensure that information  (including  information supplied by the customer) on 
an application for credit  is complete and correct.
So considering only what Mr B had told it would not always necessarily  have been  enough.
Varooma checked  Mr Bs credit score for each of loans 7, 8 and 9. His score each time was 
low  in the 400s. That would have suggested  that his financial situation was poor. However, 
I note that Mr B also had a similarly low score when he applied for loan 1, and yet he was 
still able to repay that loan and the following  five loans,  so Varooma might reasonably have 
decided that his good payment history  outweighed  his low score.
Mr B applied for the sixth loan almost  a year after he settled the fifth loan. It was his largest 
loan with Varooma,  with the joint-largest monthly repayments and (at that time) the longest 
duration. So for those reasons I think Varooma should have checked his credit score when it 
considered this application. Its failure  to do so was an error. However  I dont think  its a 
significant error, because  it did check his credit  score when he applied  for the seventh loan, 
which was only about two weeks later. Its not likely that his score would have changed 
significantly in the meantime, or that Varoomas lending decision  would  have been  different. 
So since  Varooma thought that the seventh  loan was affordable,  its likely  that it would have 
thought the sixth loan was affordable too, if it had checked Mr Bs credit  score then.
I have considered whether considering Mr Bs credit score, his I&E forms, and his prior 
payment history was enough, or whether  Varooma needed to do more than that. I note that 
checking a full credit reference agency report is not compulsory, because the rule says a 
lender should  consider some or all of the items  listed. Since  Varooma  considered  items (a) 
to (d) and (f) on the list, it argues that it didnt have  to consider (e) as well. I agree. Just 
because the checks  Varooma  carried  out did not discover Mr Bs financial difficulties does 
not mean it would be reasonable to infer that those checks must not have  been  adequate. 
Rather, I think  I should assess whether Varoomas checks were adequate by reference  to 
what CONC said at the time. If the checks were adequate, then it was not Varoomas fault 
that it didnt realise  Mr B was struggling or that he could not afford  the loans.
I note that CONC 5.2.1(2) only required a lender to take into account information  of which it 
was aware at the time (and to that, I would add information of which  it would have been 
Ref: DRN56176745aware if it had complied with CONC),  but I cant uphold a complaint based on information of 
which Varooma was not aware and was not required to obtain.
did Varooma fail to explain the loans properly?
It seems  unlikely  that Mr B didnt understand how the loans worked  in 2017, given that hed 
already had five Varooma loans in 2014 and 2015. He was provided with the loan 
agreements, which include the terms and conditions. The particulars of each loan are set out 
clearly. On balance, I think its likely  that Mr B understood  the terms of repayment.
did Varooma pressurise  Mr B into taking the loans?
I have listened  to a sample of the large  number of call recordings, including  where  Mr B 
applied for a loan and went  through  his I&E with the call handler. I didnt hear anything which  
suggested that Varooma was putting him under pressure to take out a loan.  I do appreciate 
that Mr B may well have  felt under financial  pressure to apply  for a loan, but that is not quite 
the same  thing.
my provisional decision
So my provisional decision is that I currently do not intend to uphold this complaint.
postscript
After our adjudicator made his decision to uphold  Mr Bs complaint, Varooma told him that it 
would report Mr B to the police, to the Information  Commissioners Office (ICO), and to the 
national fraud database,  for making fraudulent loan applications. That is regrettable,  
because it gives rise to the unfortunate impression that it is a retaliation for Mr B having  
made a complaint to our Service,  rather than a report  made  in good faith, since  the report 
would be based  on information which was already known to Varooma long before it received 
our adjudicators opinion.  I would observe  here that Mr B has repaid everything he owed 
Varooma (and he generally had a good payment history with Varooma). It would obviously 
be contrary to the statutory purpose  of Part XVI of the Financial Services  and Markets Act 
2000 for any FCA-regulated firm to try to discourage a consumer from bringing  a complaint 
in such a manner,  or to appear to do so. I would like to take this opportunity  to suggest that 
Varooma reconsiders  its actions in this matter.
responses to my provisional  findings
Mr B did not accept my decision. He explained that his complaint about  the loans not being 
explained properly  is that Varooma did not clearly  explain how much interest he would have 
to pay. He says he did not realise  that he would be paying so much interest  which in total 
came to slightly more than the principal he was borrowing  or that the interest would be 
front-loaded. In particular, in the case of loans 6 and 7 (which were only two weeks apart) he 
would have had to repay a total of £6,000  even  though hed only borrowed £2,500.  That 
interest amounted  to 140 percent of the principal. This was clearly excessive. The fact that 
he had saved some money  by settling loans early did not make it alright.
He also made the following points:
Ref: DRN56176746Every time hed cleared a loan, it was only a matter of months  before  hed got 
another one. He had become more and more reliant on borrowing as time went on, 
especially at the end.
Some of the loans had overlapped. Hed had five loans in eleven  months,  during 
which there was only one gap of five weeks when he hadnt had a loan. That should 
have alerted Varooma that hed been borrowing outside his means.
The I&E figures hed given were  not intentionally  wrong, he had just used 
approximate, round numbers. But such large figures for his disposable income 
should have made Varooma question why he would need nine logbook  loans.
A credit score in the 400s is very low. Varooma should have investigated  further, and 
then it would have  discovered his three defaults. The fact that Varooma had not done 
so suggested  that the check had only been a tick box exercise rather  than a 
meaningful check. He questioned what the point was of checking a credit  score if 
such a low score does  not appear to matter.
Loan 6 had been his largest loan, and loans 6 and 7 together  (£2,500) were for 
considerably more than his previous  loans,  so they should have  warranted  fuller 
checks. It wasnt enough simply to ask him (for loan 7) if his income and expenditure 
were the same as two weeks earlier (at loan 6). This did not comply with CONC.
It was not fair of me to let Varooma off the hook on loan 6 just because it had done a 
credit check  for loan 7. The implication  was that if Mr B had never had loan 7, then 
I would  have upheld  his complaint about loan 6.
Varooma should have  checked  his credit  score for every loan.
He asked how checks (c) and (f) interact with each other (in CONC 5.2.4), or if they 
are really the same thing.
It appeared that he had paid too much interest  on loan 3.
Varoomas compliance  officer had taken  only 28 minutes to look at nine loans,  or 
about three minutes to review each loan. This was not enough. Varooma should  
have taken the full eight weeks allowed to investigate his complaint  more thoroughly.
As a result of Mr Bs submissions, I have made some adjustments  to the table  on page 1.
Varooma claimed  it had never said it would report Mr B to the ICO or to the police. It said it 
had an obligation  to report him to the national fraud database for providing  false  I&E 
information.
my findings
I have reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  However, I have not listened to all of the 
138 call recordings we have been  given. I have listened to the four calls Mr B specifically 
asked me to listen to, which I agree are likely  to be the most important ones. These were the 
calls in which he applied for loans 6 to 9. I have also listened to some  related calls made  on 
the same  dates as those  four. (Our adjudicator  listened to many other calls and noted what 
they were about.)
Our adjudicator reminded Varooma of the email it had sent us in which  it had said it would 
report Mr B to the police2 and to the ICO, and he sent it a copy of the email  for its ease of 
reference. I agree with and endorse the adjudicators response, and so I will not amend the 
postscript to my provisional decision.  I stand by it. I would add that Principle 6 of the FCAs 
Principles of Business  in the FCA Handbook  requires firms to pay due regard  to the interests  
2 Action Fraud is part of the police.
Ref: DRN56176747of their customers and treat them fairly.  The FCA elaborated on what this means in its paper 
Treating customers fairly  towards  fair outcomes for consumers (July 2006).3 In paragraph 
1.2 it said one of the outcomes of this principle should be that Consumers do not face 
unreasonable post-sale barriers imposed by firms to change  product, switch provider, submit 
a claim or make a complaint  (emphasis added).
In CONC 5.2.4(3), paragraphs (c) (evidence of expenditure) and (f) (information provided 
by the customer) certainly do overlap,  because  Mr B provided the evidence of his 
expenditure. But the information provided by the customer  can include other information as 
well, such as whether the customer  has any other loans, or is in a debt management plan,  or 
if there is any other reason why he might  struggle  to repay a debt. As I said in my 
introduction, Varooma asked Mr B about  that.
did Varooma carry out proper affordability  checks?
I have reviewed Mr Bs credit file. He had three defaults in 2013, but they were all settled by 
March 2014. His first Varooma loan was in June 2014, after he had appeared to have  got his 
finances back under control. There were no more defaults until sometime  after loan 5 was 
repaid. All five loans were repaid early. So I remain of the view that they were affordable.
Mr B defaulted on three credit cards in August and October  2016;  the total of the default  
balances was about £3,000. He took out loans 6 and 7 with Varooma  in early 2017. He then 
defaulted on two loans with third parties in June  2017; the total of those loan balances  when  
they defaulted was about £5,000. He then took out loans 8 and 9 in September  and 
November of that year. These five defaults had not been settled by January 2018 (the date 
of the credit  report). So I accept that Mr B was in financial difficulty in 2017. However, even  if 
loans 6 to 9 (or any of them) were not affordable, that can only affect  the outcome of this 
complaint if Varooma should have discovered  the defaults.
I agree  that Varooma should have checked  Mr Bs credit score  when he applied  for loan 6. 
However, it did check his credit score two weeks later when he applied  for loan 7, and I still 
think its unlikely that anything would have changed in the meantime. I can therefore infer 
what a check would  have  shown if one had been done: it would have been very similar  if not 
identical to what Varooma found  two weeks later. I also still think it was reasonable of 
Varooma to ask Mr B, when he applied for loan 7, if his I&E figures  were  the same  as they 
had been two weeks earlier.
I dont think the difference between Mr Bs actual  disposable income and what  Varooma 
concluded it was can be explained entirely  by one of them having rounded the figures or 
used approximate figures. However,  CONC 5.3.1 goes into further detail about what the FCA 
expects. It says:
(4) If a firm takes income or expenditure into account  (b) it is not generally  
sufficient for a firm to rely solely  for its assessment  of the customers income  and 
expenditure, on a statement  of those matters made by the customer; 
That is supplemented by CONC 5.3.3, which Ive quoted  already  (on page 4). I have noted 
that when Mr B applied  for loan 7, he was asked to provide either  payslips or bank 
statements to verify  his income.  However,  payslips would not have served as proof of his 
expenditure.
3 See https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/archive/fsa-tcf-towards.pdf
Ref: DRN56176748As Ive said,  loan 6 was bigger than Mr Bs previous loans with Varooma, had a longer term, 
and the biggest monthly  payments of his previous loans up to that time. Only two weeks  later 
it was followed by loan 7, which took the total amount borrowed to £2,500, more than double  
the largest amount hed borrowed before. That represents a significant increase on his 
previous borrowing.
On balance, I still remain of the view that Varooma didnt need  to obtain Mr Bs credit report  
for loan 6, given his previous good payment history  in particular, that he had previously 
maintained monthly  payments of the same amount on loan 4  and the fact that he hadnt  
taken a loan with Varooma in a long time.
But after taking CONC 5.3.1(4) into account,  and reconsidering the significant increase in 
Mr Bs borrowing  when  he took out loan 7, I have now come  around to the view that for loan 
7 Varooma should have obtained  a full credit report. Had it done so, it would have learned 
about the three recent defaults.  That in turn would (or ought to) have prompted  Varooma to 
ask Mr B for further evidence of his income and expenditure, given that he had not declared 
the defaults. It was no longer enough  for Varooma to rely solely  on what  he had told it about 
his I&E. Varooma  would then have found  that Mr Bs own assessment of his I&E was not 
accurate, and that his disposable income  was much lower than he had suggested it was. 
I cant be sure what Varooma would have  decided to do if that had happened (given that its 
business model is to lend to people with poor credit histories), but on the balance of 
probabilities I think  that Mr Bs financial situation meant that it was probably not responsible  
to lend so much to him at once.  I think that loan 7 was mis-sold.
I am reinforced in this opinion by what I heard in the recording  of the call in which Mr B 
applied for and was given  this loan. The call handler told him that he had borrowed almost 
the maximum amount  he was eligible to borrow  he had borrowed £1,500 on loan 6, out of 
a maximum of £1,600.  The normal policy was to have  one loan per customer,  but loan 7 was 
lent to Mr B concurrently with loan 6 in order to get around the £1,600  limit. So Varooma lent 
him £900 more  than its systems would have  permitted.
I turn to loan 8. If Varooma  had found  out about  Mr Bs true situation when he applied  for 
loan 7, then I think  that this information ought  to have  prompted it to check  his credit report 
again when he applied for loan 8. It would then have  learned about  the fourth and fifth 
defaults which he had incurred three  months  earlier, and which  indicate  a deteriorating 
financial position. For that reason, I think that loan 8 and also loan 9 were  mis-sold too.
I take into account the fact that Mr B still managed to settle those loans early, which  is 
evidence that actually supports Varoomas case that the loans were affordable. But I note 
that CONC 5.3.1 requires that a lender should take reasonable steps  to assess the 
customers ability to make repayments in a sustainable  manner.  It goes on to say:
(6) For the purposes of CONC  sustainable  means the repayments   can be made  
by the customer: (a) without  undue  difficulties,  in particular:
(i)the customer  should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting  
other reasonable  commitments; and
(ii)without having to borrow to meet the repayments
Mr Bs credit  file shows that in late 2017 he took out a number of loans  with other  lenders,  
and I think that this indicates that he did fall into a spiral of debt as he describes. He had to 
borrow further in order to make his loan repayments.
Ref: DRN56176749I will order Varooma to refund the interest which  Mr B paid on loans 7, 8 and 9 (but not loan 
6). I will not however  order  it to pay interest on the refunds, or to do anything  else,  in order to 
take into account Mr Bs own responsibility for his borrowing.
did Varooma fail to explain how much interest Mr B would  have to pay?
I have seen all of the loan agreements, and they are very clear about how much interest 
would be charged  on each loan. For example, the loan agreement for loan 6 spells out that 
the interest on the loan is £2,100 and that the total to repay  is £3,600. It was Mr Bs informed 
choice to pay that much. Indeed, I note that when  he applied for loan 6 he mentioned that 
another lender had offered him a cheaper  loan of the same  amount and for the same  term, 
but he still chose  to stay with Varooma.  So I do not uphold  this part of his complaint.
did Mr B pay too much interest  on loan 3?
This is really a new complaint, but I will deal with it here rather than requiring both parties to 
start a new complaint  from scratch. I do not uphold it. I will explain why.
Mr B settled loan 3 early, on the day his first monthly payment was due. His statement 
shows that he made one monthly payment of £87.50, and paid an early  settlement figure of 
£614.97. (The principal borrowed was £600  and the total interest on the loan was £450.) He 
had therefore  effectively paid interest  of £102.47 (made  up of £87.50 + £14.97), even  though 
one months interest  should be only £37.50 (that is, £450  12). Mr B queried this figure,  as it 
suggests that he may have made  an overpayment  of £64.97.
I can see Mr Bs point,  but when he settled  loan 3 after one month it wasnt as simple as just 
repaying the principal  plus one months interest.  The terms and conditions of the loan 
agreement say, under the heading  Early Repayment:
You have the right, under  s94 of the Act, at any time to repay in full or in part the outstanding  
balance under this agreement, less any rebate to which  you may be entitled under  s95 of the 
Act.
The Act means the Consumer Credit Act 1974.  The effect of sections 94 and 95 of the Act, 
and the regulations made under section 95 (which are the Consumer Credit (Early 
Settlement) Regulations  2004), is that the early  settlement figure will include some  more 
interest, in addition to the interest  already paid. Its the whole of the outstanding amount  in 
this case, eleven monthly  payments  minus a rebate. The regulations  set out a complicated 
formula for calculating  how much the rebate  should be.4 This means that when  any loan is 
settled after one month, the borrower  will unavoidably end up having paid more than one 
months interest. So in the case of loan 3, the rebate was inevitably less than the difference  
between £450  and £37.50. Varooma  worked it out to be £347.53.  The same will have 
happened on the other eight loans. Its not unfair  of Varooma to do this, since it is only doing 
what Parliament has deliberately allowed  it to do. (The reason is so that lenders  do not lose 
too much  money  as a result of loans being  settled  early,  as lending might  become 
unprofitable if early  settlement only involved repaying the outstanding principal.) 
Nevertheless, it is still cheaper than repaying  the loan over its full term.
4 See regulation  4 at http://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/2004/1483/regulation/4/made (the formula is 
explained further in the schedule to the regulations).
Ref: DRN561767410I havent checked if the early settlement figures  are correct. If Mr B wants  to challenge  
Varoomas calculations, then he will need to bring a new complaint to Varooma about  that, 
and Varooma will have  eight weeks to deal with it before he can raise it with our Service.
complaint handling
I have reconsidered  this issue,5 but I have  not changed my mind.  The compliance  officer  
took 28 minutes to consider nine loans,  which I agree works out at about three minutes per 
loan. But each I&E form is only one page  long,  and on each loan agreement  the variable  
particulars of the loan (i.e. the loan amount,  interest,  term, and monthly payments) take up a 
fraction of a page  and are clearly displayed. I think that an experienced compliance  officer  
could make a reasonable assessment of each loan in three minutes.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part. I order Greenlight Credit Ltd (trading as 
Varooma) to refund to Mr B all of the interest  he paid it under loans 7, 8 and 9, and to 
remove any adverse data it may have recorded  on his credit  file about those three loans. 
I do not require  it to do anything else.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 February  2019.
Richard Wood
ombudsman
5 Our Services jurisdiction  to consider complaints  about complaint-handling is sometimes questioned. 
Varooma has not done so in this complaint.  But for the sake of completeness, I consider  that DISP 
2.1.4(3) (another rule made by the FCA) is broad enough  to allow  me to consider Mr Bs complaint  
about how Varooma administered his complaint about  a regulated activity (namely entering a 
regulated credit agreement as lender).
Ref: DRN5617674