K821x#15complaint
Mr A is unhappy with the delays caused by Hastings Insurance  Services Limited when 
dealing with a payment  for his car insurance policy. And being  sent incorrect  balance 
information following  his payment.
background
Mr A contacted Hastings  to make a payment for the full balance of his car insurance policy.  
Hastings attempted  to put the payment through twice but both appeared to have not gone 
through. So Mr A checked his bank account  and saw that the payment was shown as 
pending. Hastings  asked Mr A to send evidence of the payment and he did this. But they 
were still unable to locate the payment.
Mr A says he became  concerned about  the whereabouts of the money and attended a 
branch of his bank  to see where  it had gone.  His bank confirmed the payment was going  
through. Mr A says he made  several  calls to Hastings and despite being told he would be 
contacted by them, he wasnt for several  days. However, three days  after the payment 
Hastings did contact him and inform him the payment had been located and applied to his 
account. Mr A made a complaint to Hastings in relation to the lack of communication.
Mr A says he was then sent a schedule of payments in the post by Hastings. This showed 
he had to make a final payment despite  having  paid the full outstanding premium. So he 
raised a further  complaint point regarding  the erroneous statement sent to him.
Hastings responded to Mr As complaint and said that due to telephony  issues they couldnt 
call him despite trying  to do so a number of times. They said the payment was located  in 
their system but it hadnt been applied  to Mr As account. And that three days after Mr As 
initial contact  they had managed to get in contact with him and tell him the payment had 
been received.  Hastings  acknowledged the inconvenience caused by the delay and offered 
to pay Mr A £75 in compensation. They arranged to have an updated  payment schedule  
sent to him showing the nil balance.
Mr A came to our service  and an investigator looked into his complaint. He thought Mr A 
should be paid £100 in compensation  to reflect the impact the errors had on him. Mr A 
accepted his findings but Hastings disagreed as they felt the £75 reflected this. So the 
matter has been  passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Hastings have acknowledged that Mr A was inconvenienced by the fault in their telephony 
system and the delay  this caused  in them  confirming  his payment had gone  through. And 
I agree  that the period in delay of three  days is relatively short. But I must consider  how this 
has impacted Mr A and if the compensation offered reflects  this.
Mr A paid his entire outstanding premium balance,  which was a substantial amount of 
money. So it is reasonable that he would be anxious regarding  its whereabouts. Even  
though the payment was located and applied to his account in a short period of time it is 
clear from Mr As actions he was distressed about  the situation. He attended  his bank 
Ref: DRN59060172personally and made  a number of calls to Hastings in an attempt to understand where his 
money had gone.  So these actions  in themselves show he was concerned about the 
situation.
In these circumstances, I think Hastings should have kept Mr A regularly updated in relation 
to the status of his payment. And I can see from the notes on his account that Hastings did 
try to contact him at regular intervals by telephone to update him. But they were  aware  at the 
time of the telephony issues they faced.  Hastings has acknowledged having an email 
address for Mr A and I think had they used this it may have alleviated  some of the stress he 
faced. So although  I appreciate the telephony  issues werent in Hastings control, I think they 
had other  ways to relay  the information  to Mr A. This may have prevented him from having to 
attend his bank and continually call them for an update. So I think  Hastings could have 
handled things  better as the delay in him not hearing from them  and having  to chase them,  
over a few days,  caused Mr A considerable distress.
I have also considered the payment  schedule  sent to Mr A showing an outstanding balance 
when he had already paid off the full amount.  After  experiencing an already difficult situation,  
this would have  added  additional  stress to Mr A. I appreciate that Hastings rectified the error,  
but I think the additional stress this caused  should be taken into consideration when 
awarding compensation. Mr A had already made a substantial payment  and was presented  
with an additional  cost. This no doubt added to the distress he had already faced from the 
delays caused  by Hastings. And caused  him to make further contact with Hastings through  
their error. 
Having looked  at the final response letter issued by Hastings, I dont think it has been taken 
into consideration when awarding  compensation. There is a brief mention of sending  a new 
payment schedule to Mr A, but there is no mention of how the fact this was wrong was taken 
into consideration throughout the body of the letter. So I think an overall amount of £100  in 
compensation is fair for the trouble, delays and error Hastings caused Mr A. I can see 
Hastings have already awarded Mr A £75 in compensation, so I think  Hastings should pay 
him an additional £25.
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given above, I uphold  this complaint and direct Hastings Insurance 
Services Limited to pay Mr A a further £25.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 June  2019. 
Stephen Westlake
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5906017