K820x#14complaint
Miss B says The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) mis-sold her a mortgage payment 
protection insurance (MPPI) policy.
background
Miss B took out an MPPI policy  with a mortgage  in 2007. She paid a monthly amount for the 
policy.  
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Miss B disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion,  
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Bs case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Miss Bs complaint because:
I think RBS made Miss B aware  that she had a choice about buying the MPPI, and that 
she chose to take it. The mortgage  application had options to select MPPI or to decline 
it. The mortgage offer, which  Miss B received prior to the start of the policy, described 
the MPPI  as optional.  Miss B also completed  a separate direct  debit  form in order  to pay 
for the MPPI. 
RBS recommended the MPPI  to Miss B, and it seems to have been right for her based 
on what Ive seen  of her circumstances at the time. The mortgage was a significant 
commitment and she couldve lost her home if she fell behind with the repayments. While 
she had some sick pay, the MPPI  wouldve paid out on top of this and for longer. This 
wouldve left her sick pay available for other things. 
I think RBS couldve  explained  the cost of the policy  better than it did. But even if it had, I 
think Miss B would still have bought it, given the importance of keeping  up with her 
mortgage repayments. Miss B has confirmed that, other than her sick pay, she had no 
way to keep up with repayments if she was unable to work.  She also had some medical 
conditions which the policy  did provide  cover  for. So I think shed have still thought the 
policy was worthwhile.  
Its possible that RBS didnt point out the main  things  the policy didnt cover.  But Miss B 
doesnt appear to have  been affected by any of those things. 
Ive taken into account Miss Bs comments. But these points dont change my conclusion.
Ref: DRN55166382my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Miss Bs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 March  2019.
Phillip Lai-Fang
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5516638