K821x#15complaint
Miss G complains  about the short term loans she took out with Casheuronet UK LLC (CEN) 
trading as Pounds to Pocket. Miss G says that Pounds to Pocket lent irresponsibly.
background
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should  be partially upheld. Pounds to Pocket 
disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. The complaint  was then passed to me. 
I issued my provisional decision saying that Miss Gs complaint  should also be partially 
upheld. A copy of the background to the complaint and my provisional findings  are attached 
and form part of this final decision. 
Pounds to Pocket,  and Miss G confirmed that they had received my provisional decision. 
Pounds to Pocket,  didnt agree with my provisional decision. It said:
the information it had provided showed  it had made reasonable checks before  
lending to Miss G 
it did not have  any reason  to make additional checks  before loans 2 to 6. And as 
gambling is not a matter  of public record it wouldnt have found  out about  this 
the amounts  I had used in respect  of the interest  Miss G had paid was incorrect.  This 
was nearer £3,000 than £3,500 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In response to my provisional decision Pounds to Pocket provided much of the information it 
had already shown me about  its lending  decisions. But I have  already  considered  this and 
the reasons why I dont think its checks went far enough are in my provisional decision.  So I 
wont repeat  them here.   
In my provisional decision I said that Miss G repaid interest of nearly  £3,500 over the four 
years she borrowed, but as Pounds to Pocket  have said this was the amount she was 
charged. Pounds to Pocket says she repaid £3,150. This is still a high amount, and it doesnt 
change my findings. 
Pounds to Pocket has said that it didnt need  to make further checks and so it wouldnt have 
found out about Miss Gs gambling.  But, as I said earlier, and for the same reasons, I dont 
agree with this. I think Pounds to Pocket shouldve  made a full review of Miss Gs finances 
from loan 2 onwards  and I dont think it did this. And if it had made better  checks, I think  its 
reasonable to say that it wouldve found out Miss G was spending  significant  sums on 
gambling. As I said earlier I dont think Pounds to Pocket wouldve thought that it was 
reasonable to lend to her in these  circumstances. 
what Pounds to Pocket should do to put things right
To put things right for Miss G, Pounds to Pocket  should:
Ref: DRN58212612refund  all the interest and charges applied as a result of loans 2 to 6; and
add interest at 8% per year simple on the above interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid, if they were,  to the date of settlement; and
remove any adverse information  recorded  on Miss Gs credit file about loan 2; and
remove all entries about  loans 3 to 6 from Miss Gs credit  file. This is because  the 
number of loans  taken from loan 3 means any information recorded about them is 
adverse
HM Revenue & Customs requires Pounds to Pocket to take off tax from this interest.  
Pounds to Pocket must give Miss G a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she 
asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I partly uphold  Miss Gs complaint.
Casheuronet UK LLC should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 April 2019.
Andy Burlinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN58212613extract from my provisional  decision
Miss G took out six instalment loans  between December 2012 and December  2016.  Some  of the 
information Pounds to Pocket has given us is shown in the table below: 
loan 
numberdate 
startedamount 
borrowedterm  (days) endedmonthly 
payments
1 28/12/2012 £300.00 361 £48.00
1a 03/05/2013 £300.00 362 £85.00
1b 23/10/2013 £250.00 336 £99.00
1c 28/11/2013 £330.00 36310/06/2014
£142.00
2 18/06/2014 £550.00 343 £94.00
top up to 
loan 222/06/2014 £390.00 33927/05/2015£160.00
3 09/06/2015 £200.00 204 £49.00
3a 15/10/2015 £300.00 19519/11/2015£98.00
4 20/11/2015 £600.00 341 06/01/2016 £102.00
5 09/01/2016 £650.00 354 £99.00
5a 14/03/2016 £300.00 34519/12/2016£135.00
6 19/12/2016 £1,100.00 345 23/12/2016 £161.00
The loans labelled a, b and c are all refinances to the initial loan. This means  a further amount  was 
borrowed and both the term and the repayment changed.  For example in loan 1 Miss G borrowed 
£300 and she was due to make 12 monthly repayments of £48. She borrowed a further £300 just 
under six months later (loan 1a) and she was then due to make  a further 12 monthly  repayments of 
£85 as part of the same loan. 
Pounds to Pocket  has looked at Miss Gs complaint and said that it shouldnt be upheld. It said that it 
did appropriate checks for all of the lending.  It said these checks showed that the loans were  
affordable and that Miss G wasnt dependent on short term credit. 
But it did say that loan 6 was approved  despite the credit model score not meeting a minimum  
threshold. So it offered to pay £100 compensation in respect of this. 
One of our adjudicators  looked  at what Miss G and Pounds  to Pocket said. They thought Miss Gs 
complaint should be partially upheld. She thought that it had made proportionate checks for loan 1 
and the first refinance to this which  is 1a on my table. So she thought  that Pounds to Pockets 
decisions to approve these loans was reasonable. 
Our adjudicator didnt think that Pounds to Pocket had made  proportionate checks for loans 1b to loan 
6. She thought  if it had then it wouldnt have agreed to lend Miss G money  for loan 2 and loans  4 to 6. 
This is because she didnt  think that Miss G could afford the repayments. And Pounds  to Pocket  
wouldve seen this had it completed better checks. 
She thought  that Miss G could afford the repayments for loans 1b, 1c and loan 3. So she also thought  
that Pounds to Pockets  decisions to lend were reasonable for these.
Miss G has accepted our adjudicators  opinion  about loan 1. Because of this I dont think  there is any 
ongoing disagreement about this loan. So I wont be making a decision about  this lending.  But it was 
part of the borrowing  relationship Miss G had with Pounds to Pocket. As such  its something I will take 
into account  when considering the other loans she took.
Ref: DRN58212614Pounds to Pocket  didnt entirely agree with our adjudicator and it provided  its detailed  reasons  why 
which I will consider below. But it did make  an offer of compensation for loan 2. Miss G didnt accept  
this offer. So as no agreements  been reached the complaints  been passed  to me to me to issue a 
decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time the loans were offered.
what rules and regulations were in place when Pounds to Pocket approved loans  2 to 6
The Financial Conduct  Authority (FCA)  was the regulator when Pounds to Pocket lent to Miss G after 
April 2014. The FCAs Principles for Business (PRIN)  set out the high level standards  which all 
authorised firms are required  to comply with. PRIN 2.1.1 R (6) says A firm must  pay due regard to the 
interests of its customers  and treat them fairly. 
The FCAs  Consumer  Credit sourcebook (CONC) is the specialist sourcebook  for credit-related 
regulated activities.  It sets out the rules and guidance specific to consumer credit providers, such  as 
Pounds to Pocket. At the time these required  Pounds to Pockets  to take reasonable  steps to assess  
the customers ability  to meet repayments under a regulated credit agreement  in a sustainable 
manner without  the customer incurring financial  difficulties or experiencing significant  adverse  
consequences.  - CONC 5.3.1G(2). 
CONC 5.3.1G(6)  defined sustainable as being able to make repayments without undue difficulty. It 
went on to explain  that this means the customer should be able to make repayments on time,  while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; and without having  to borrow  to meet the repayments.  
So  treating  customers  fairly  in the context of providing  credit meant assessing their ability to repay 
the credit in a sustainable way. And how should Pounds to Pockets  have gone  about making these  
assessments?
CONC 5.2.3  G said that 
The extent and scope  of the creditworthiness  assessment or the assessment required  in a given 
case, should  be dependent upon and proportionate to factors which may include one or more of the 
following:
(1) the type of credit;
(2) the amount  of the credit;
(3) the cost of the credit;
(4) the financial position of the customer at the time of seeking the credit;
(5) the customers credit  history,  including  any indications that the customer  is  experiencing  
or has experienced  financial  difficulties;
(6) the customers existing financial commitments including any repayments due in respect of 
other credit agreements,  consumer hire agreements,  regulated  mortgage contracts, 
payments for rent, council tax, electricity, gas, telecommunications,  water and other major 
outgoings known to the firm;
(7) any future financial  commitments of the customer;
(8) any future changes in circumstances  which  could  be reasonably expected to have a 
significant financial adverse impact on the customer;
(9) the vulnerability of the customer,  in particular  where the firm understands  the customer 
has some form of mental capacity limitation or reasonably suspects  this to be so because  
the customer displays indications of some form of mental capacity  limitation.
Ref: DRN58212615CONC 5.2.4G(2)  said that
 A firm should consider  what is appropriate in any particular circumstances  dependent on, for 
example, the type and amount of credit being  sought and the potential risks to the customer. The risk 
of credit not being sustainable directly  relates to the amount of credit granted and the total charge for 
credit relative  to the customers financial  situation.
And CONC 5.2.4G(3)  said that
A firm should consider  the types and sources of information to use in its  assessment  which  
may, depending on the circumstances,  include some or all of the following:
(a) its record of previous dealings;
(b) evidence of income;
(c) evidence of expenditure;
(d) a credit score;
(e) a credit reference agency report; and
(f) information provided by the customer.
It is important to note here that the FCA didnt, and doesnt, specify  exactly  how the assessment is to 
be carried out but the extent and scope and the types  and sources of information  to use needed  to 
be enough to be able to reasonably  assess the sustainability of the arrangement for the consumer.  
In other words the assessment needs to be consumer-focussed. It is not an assessment of the risk to 
the Pounds to Pocket of not recovering the credit  to its satisfaction, but of the risk to the consumer of 
incurring financial difficulties or experiencing significant adverse consequence as a result of the 
decision to lend. 
As set out in CONC, the risk to the consumer directly  relates  to the particulars  of the lending and the 
circumstances of the consumer. Therefore, Pounds to Pockets  assessment of creditworthiness would 
likely need to be flexible   what  is sufficient for one consumer might not be for another, or indeed 
what might  be sufficient for a consumer  in one circumstance might not be so for the same consumer  
in other circumstances.  
what should have  happened when  Miss  G applied for credit and did Pounds  to Pocket get this 
right? 
Bearing the above in mind, I would expect an assessment of creditworthiness to vary with 
circumstance. In general, Id expect Pounds to Pocket to require more assurance, the greater the 
potential risk to the consumer  of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way. So, for 
example, Id expect Pounds to Pocket to seek more  assurance by carrying  carry out more  detailed  
checks
-the higher the loan amount;  or
-the lower the consumers income; or
-the longer the lending relationship
In coming to a decision  on Miss Gs case, where  Pounds to Pocket  agreed six loans, which  were also 
refinanced a number of times, I have considered the following questions:
did Pounds to Pocket complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing Miss 
Gs loan applications to satisfy itself that she would be able to repay  the loans in a sustainable  
way? (And if not, would those checks have shown that she would have been  able to do so?)
did the overall  pattern  of lending increase Miss Gs indebtedness in a way that was 
unsustainable or otherwise  harmful?
did Pounds to Pocket act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Ref: DRN58212616Having done so, Ive concluded that Pounds to Pocket  was irresponsible to lend to Miss G over loans  
2 to 6. I dont think it made proportionate checks for this lending. And if it had it wouldve  seen that 
Miss G couldnt  sustainably afford  to make  the repayments.  
So I plan to uphold  Miss Gs complaint about loans  2 to 6 and ask Pounds  to Pocket to refund the 
interest and charges she paid for these loans. Ill explain  why.
did Pounds  to Pocket carry out proportionate checks when assessing Miss Gs  loan 
application to satisfy itself that she would  be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way?
Pounds to Pocket  has explained in some detail how it carried out its assessment of Miss Gs loans 
applications. In response to the adjudicators opinion  Pounds  to Pocket  provided a document  called 
CEU Lending  Criteria and Proportionate Checks. This outlined in detail the checks  it provided as a 
business. It concentrated on the time after April 2014 when the Financial  Conduct Authority  (FCA) 
took over regulation of this type of lending. 
For loans 1 and 2 it said that it requested from Miss G information about  her income and expenditure. 
It also did credit reference agency searches. It used both of these pieces  of information  to assess if 
the loans were  affordable  for her. It said that for these loans the checks showed that Miss G had 
enough disposable income to comfortably make the monthly  repayments. 
For loan 3 it said that by the 1 March  2015 it had implemented [an] affordability review that is 
consistent with the FCA Handbook. 
Pounds to Pocket  says that it began implementing changes to its affordability and rate cap rules  in 
June 2014, and as such many loans funded between June 2014 and February 2015 were funded  
under the new rules  and guidance. However,  in our discussions with the FOS, we have chosen to use 
March 1, 2015  as the date of demarcation  for Post-2015 loan,  as the FCA-mandated  pre-
authorisation redress period  ended as of February 28, 2015 and all changes  were  fully implemented 
by that point. And that all loan offers now meet the FCA rate cap and affordability rules.
And it said in response  to our adjudication In response to FOS  assessment which recommends 
Pounds to Pocket  uphold loans  which  were funded after March 2015,  we regret  to inform you that we 
cannot agree to FOS recommendations .  
Pounds to Pocket  seems to be saying that because it reviewed its processes and incorporated 
regulatory changes as it was required to, all loans for all customers granted  from 1 March 2015 
onwards were granted responsibly.
I dont agree with this argument. It doesnt follow  that a firm cannot have  treated any consumer  
unfairly simply because it has been authorised and is regulated by the FCA. This assumes  that an 
authorised firms regulated activities are always implemented in a way that results in fair outcomes for 
all consumers. This is not the case, as the experience of this Service bears  out.1 
Pounds to Pocket  says that the checks it conducts at the time of lending  are proportionate in every 
circumstance. And it considers these checks to have been enhanced through its review. But, as Ive 
explained above, the FCA is not prescriptive about  how the relevant  rules and guidance  set out in 
CONC should  be implemented; specifically CONC does not set out how Pounds to Pocket ought to go 
about its affordability assessments. The CONC  guidance does say that the assessment  that should 
be carried out is dependent  on what is appropriate for both the consumers  circumstances and the 
particulars of the loan in question. So it doesnt follow that a standard  way of assessing loan 
applications, whatever the extent  and scope of it or whatever the type  and source  of information  it 
uses is automatically the right thing to do for all consumers in all circumstances. And so I cannot  pre-
judge Miss Gs complaint  about irresponsible lending  on the basis that the affordability check Pounds  
1 http://www.ombudsman-complaints-data.org.uk
Ref: DRN58212617to Pocket carried out was the right thing to do in her case. And I am not planning  to automatically 
reject her complaint on this basis.
Further to this point, as Ive mentioned, there are also other considerations which this Service  is 
required to take into account  when making determinations  on complaints. As the FCA Handbook sets 
out in the rules  and guidance relevant to dispute handing 
The Ombudsman will determine a complaint  by reference to what is, in his opinion, fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the case.  (DISP 3.6.1R)
And DISP 3.6.4R goes on to explain that
In considering what  is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case, the Ombudsman will 
take into account:
(1) relevant:
(a) law and regulations;
(b) regulators rules, guidance and standards;
(c) codes of practice; and
(2) (where appropriate) what he considers to have been good industry practice  at the relevant 
time.
So, I am required to consider more  than the rules  and guidance set out by the regulators  in making 
my determination on a complaint. And so I would not be acting in accordance  with my statutory role if 
I only considered  the extent to which Pounds to Pocket complied with rules and guidance set out by 
the FCA in my determination. 
why I dont think Pounds to Pockets  checks were proportionate 
Moving on to the specifics of this complaint Ive carefully thought about  what  Pounds to Pocket and 
Miss G have provided and what  both sides have said. 
By the time Miss G took loan 2 shed had a relationship with Pounds to Pocket  for over a year and a 
half. And Miss G had refinanced loan 1 three times. Borrowing for this length of time, and being  
unable to fully repay her first loan in this way, seems to me to indicate Miss G may be having some  
financial difficulties. I note that she asked for her second loan about a week after finally  repaying  her 
first. And so I think Pounds to Pocket shouldve become  concerned about  whether  it knew enough  
about Miss Gs true financial situation.
So from loan 2 onwards  I think that it wouldve been proportionate to find out about Miss Gs normal 
monthly living costs  and regular  financial  commitments including any existing  short-term  lending. And 
I think  that Pounds to Pocket needed to verify this information to get an accurate  picture  of Miss Gs 
finances, in order to make  sure she was in position to make the repayments sustainably. 
Ref: DRN58212618Pounds to Pocket  has said that it gathered the following information from Miss G: 
It recorded  Miss Gs monthly income  as being £1,250 for loans 1 and 2 and £1,300 before approving  
loan 3. It recorded  her monthly expenses as being £560 before loans 2 and 3. 
Pounds to Pocket  goes on to say that for loans  3 to 6 Broadly, the assessment considers a 
customers income and expense  data for the following six categories: housing, utilities, food, 
transport, other credit commitments, and other recurring  expenses. We validate the figures provided 
by the customer using the customers  credit  report; of note,  we examine the customers other credit  
commitments, and utilise the Income Confidence Factor (ICF), which gauges  the accuracy of the 
customers reported income. We further compare  the expense figures  to average expense  data 
published by the Office  of National Statistics  (ONS).  Where material discrepancies are found, we 
request the customers  bank  statement to further evaluate their incomings and outgoings. We also 
instituted a mandatory cool off period of 15 days when a customer borrows two loans in quick 
succession to better allow customers  to assess their financial situation.
Pounds to Pocket  uses  validated data in order to determine the customers estimated disposable  
income (EDI). Pounds to Pocket  only makes  loans where  total payments are less than 80% of the 
customers total EDI for the term of the loan. This assessment,  including the validation of expenses  
and income  is conducted  on each loan application.
In the case of Miss G, these loans were  evaluated with the above mentioned assessment.
Pounds to Pocket  has provided  the following information about these loan 3 to 6. Its not clear how it 
calculated the EDI figure as its not provided  the information it used to make this calculation. 
loan 
numberreported 
Incomereported 
expendituremonthly 
EDItotal cost 
of loan% of EDI 
for loan 
term
3 £1,300.00 £560.00 £355.00 £280.65 12%
4 £1,300.00 £560.00 £655.00 £523.51 7%
5 £1,800.00 £925.00 £843.00 £760.55 8%
6 £1,900.00 £1,075.00 £456.00 £834.99 16%
Its not entirely clear,  but the total cost of loan  column seems to only refer to the interest payable. It 
doesnt take account of the capital  that Miss G also needed to repay. 
And based on what it saw from this it thought it reasonable to lend to Miss G.
However looking at how it assessed this case, and the detailed information  provided in the CEU 
Lending Criteria and Proportionate Checks  document, I dont think Pounds  to Pocket did enough here 
for loans 2 to 6. And I cant put much weight on the numbers Pounds to Pocket has provided as it 
hasnt provided enough  information for me to understand how it calculated  them. And having looked 
for myself at what I think proportionate checks wouldve  shown Im not persuaded they are accurate.   
Whilst I can see it obtained  information  from Miss G and looked at credit reference data, as Ive 
explained, I think it ought to have done more than it did when Miss G applied for her second loan. And 
I cant  see that it did anything differently here. Given the circumstances, I think it should  have 
gathered a more comprehensive picture of Miss Gs financial  affairs, including taking steps to 
independently verify the information it received from her about her financial situation.  I dont think it 
did this. Miss G went on to borrow  four more loans from Pounds to Pocket  in quick succession. I cant  
see that her situation changed over this time and so I think  the lender ought to have continued  to 
gather a more comprehensive picture of her finances each time.  
So I need to think about what Pounds to Pocket wouldve seen if it had carried out proportionate 
checks.
Ref: DRN58212619what I think proportionate checks would most likely  have  shown
Miss G has provided  some information about her financial circumstances including  her bank  
statements. I accept that this might not be exactly what Pounds to Pocket  wouldve seen at the time.  
But I think it wouldve found out similar  information if it had made proportionate checks. And it said in 
its final response that it could request bank statements and similar information  at some times, 
although I cant see that it did this here. So I think its reasonable to rely on this information
Looking at Miss Gs bank  statements I can see that there was a small  amount of variation from the 
income and expenditure  that Pounds to Pocket recorded about Miss G. But I wont provide full details 
here as there are more significant factors to consider. 
But at the time Pounds to Pocket approved loans  2 to 6 Miss Gs bank account shows she was 
experiencing financial difficulty. This is firstly because over this time she borrowed and repaid 
amounts other short  term lenders. Although  this wasnt always regular or for large amounts. 
And by loan 2, I think its likely that proportionate checks wouldve also shown Pounds  to Pocket that 
a substantial portion of Miss Gs income was going on gambling. For example, as our adjudicator  
outlined, Miss G spent not far short of £4,000 in the month on what appears to be gambling 
transactions before  loan 2 was approved.  And around £1,000  before it approved loan 4.  
I think  that Pounds to Pocket wouldve found out this information if it had made  proportionate checks. 
And I think Pounds to Pocket wouldve  seen Miss G wouldnt  have been able repay the loans in a 
sustainable way. So I think that Pounds to Pocket shouldnt have given loans 2 to 6 to Miss G and I 
think shes lost out as a result of this.
did the overall pattern of lending increase Miss Gs indebtedness in a way that was 
unsustainable or otherwise harmful?
Ive also looked at the overall  pattern of lending.  Ive looked to see if there was a point at which  
Pounds to Pocket  should  reasonably have seen that further lending was unsustainable, or otherwise 
harmful. And so Pounds to Pocket should  have  realised  that it shouldnt have provided any further 
lending. Given the particular circumstances of Miss Gs case, I think  that this point was reached by 
loan 3. 
I say this because the amounts Miss G was borrowing were generally  increasing. Miss G had been 
repaying loans to Pounds to Pocket  almost  constantly for over two and a half years.  And these  were 
multiple instalment loans  which are, by definition, taken  over a longer term than a typical payday loan, 
but they were still high-interest products  intended to be taken over the short-term only.  Pounds to 
Pockets decision  to continually and repeatedly lend to her meant that she was in effect paying large  
amounts of interest to service this debt over an extended period. 
I think  that Miss G also lost out because  Pounds to Pocket continued to provide borrowing  from loan 3 
onwards because:
these  loans had the effect of unfairly  prolonging  Miss Gs indebtedness by allowing her to 
take expensive credit  over a period of time that was much greater than the initial agreements. 
Miss G borrowed just over £5,250  over a four year period. But she paid just under  £3,500 in 
interest to access this credit;  and
the loans, and refinances, were likely to have had negative implications on Miss Gs ability  to 
access mainstream credit and so kept her in the market for these high-cost  loans
So Im also upholding Miss Gs complaint about loans  3 to 6 because  the overall pattern of lending  
increased her indebtedness in a way that was unsustainable or otherwise harmful and shes lost out 
as a result.
Ref: DRN582126110did Pounds  to Pocket act unfairly or unreasonably  in some other way?
Ive carefully thought about  everything provided. Having  done  so, Ive not seen anything  here that 
leads me to conclude Pounds to Pocket acted unfairly  or unreasonably towards  Miss G in some other 
way.  
Ref: DRN5821261