K820x#14complaint
Ms S complains that AXA France IARD (AXA) mis-sold her a payment protection  insurance  
(PPI) policy on a hire purchase agreement.
Its been agreed in this case that AXA should accept responsibility for the complaint. To keep 
things simple, Ill refer to AXA as the seller in my decision.
background
In 1997, Ms S took out a hire purchase agreement in a Dixons  store  to pay for electrical 
goods she was buying. At the same  time she applied for PPI. AXA says that the PPI 
premiums charged on her account  whilst  it was open totalled  £32.16.
The PPI would have  paid her monthly  repayments for up to twelve months if Ms S couldnt 
work because of an accident,  sickness  or unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld. Ms S disagreed with the 
adjudicators view, so the case has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website  and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.  Having done so, Im not upholding it for 
reasons that Ill explain.
AXA has provided a copy of the credit  agreement which Ms S signed. Theres a section on 
this agreement headed Protection  For Your Payments. And I can see that theres a pre-
printed cross in the box provided next to the words Yes, I want  my Account covered by 
Payment Protection  Insurance  I think its most likely that this cross  was keyed in following 
a discussion with a store representative about the PPI, during which  Ms S agreed  to take it. I 
think the completed form would then have been  printed  off and Ms S asked to read and sign 
it to show that she was in agreement  with its contents.
So whilst I can appreciate  why Ms S may not remember this now  well over twenty years 
later - I think its most  likely that she actively agreed to take the PPI policy out at the time,  
knowing she had a choice.
Ms S says she was advised to take out the PPI. But AXA says no advice would have been 
given. And from what I know about how these policies were  sold in stores at about  this time, 
I dont think that this would have been  an advised  sale. So this means  that AXA didnt need 
to ensure that the PPI policy was suitable  for Ms S, given her circumstances at the time. But 
it did still need to ensure  that Ms S was given  enough information for her to decide if she 
wanted to take it out. I think its likely that the information Ms S was given about the PPI 
policy could have been better  than it was. But I dont think  that better information would have 
changed her mind about taking it. I say this because:
She appears to have  been eligible for the policy and not affected by any of its main 
exclusions or limitations.
Ref: DRN52748742Ms S says she didnt  need the cover  because she was eligible for generous  sick pay 
from her employer. She also says that she could have relied on her savings, together  
with support from her family, if she wasnt able to work for some time. But this policy 
would have paid out in addition  to any other  means  she might have had available  to her. 
And she chose to take the PPI, which makes  me think  she valued  this type of protection. 
So I think its most likely that she would have thought it was worth  paying for the extra  
security the policy gave her if things  went wrong.
I havent seen  anything which makes me think the monthly premiums would have been 
unaffordable for Ms S.
So from what Ive seen,  I dont think that Ms S has lost out because of anything that AXA did 
wrong when it sold her this PPI policy.
Ive thought carefully about the points made  by Ms S representative  in response to our 
adjudicators view. But none of these change my mind about not upholding this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im not upholding this complaint against AXA France  IARD.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 December  2019.
Simon Furse
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5274874