K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain  that Lifetime Financial Management Ltd sold them term assurance 
policies to protect their mortgage and told them they were  compulsory  as their mortgage 
application would be rejected if they didnt have life cover.
background
In 2009, Mr and Mrs M sought advice  from Lifetime  Financial Management about their 
mortgage. They were  looking for a better  interest rate and to borrow  some  extra  money for 
home improvements. 
They both already life and critical illness insurance,  but this didnt give them enough  cover  
for the new mortgage  amount. So Lifetime Financial Management recommended  that they 
should each take a single life level term assurance  policy with critical illness cover to match 
the amount and duration of the mortgage.
In 2018, Mr and Mrs M complained that the policies had been  mis-sold to them as they felt 
theyd been led to believe that not taking the cover could jeopardise their mortgage  
application being accepted.
Lifetime Financial Management  said its advisor  hadnt implied that not taking out the 
recommended life cover would have an adverse effect on Mr and Mrs Ms mortgage 
application. It said their mortgage offer also included wording that said they didnt need to 
take out insurance through it or with the lender.
One of our adjudicators looked  at the complaint but couldnt  see anything to suggest that Mr 
and Mrs M were told they had to take out their policies. And he thought the recommendation 
for them to have life and critical illness  cover for their mortgage was reasonable. 
But he didnt  think Mr and Mrs M had been  sold the most appropriate type of cover for their 
circumstances. He thought they shouldve been  advised to start a joint life decreasing term 
assurance policy instead. The adjudicator recommended  that Lifetime  Financial 
Management should compare the difference in premiums Mr and Mrs M paid with what  they 
wouldve paid if they had a joint life decreasing term policy and refund this with interest.
Lifetime Financial Management  didnt accept the adjudicators  findings.  It said the two single 
policies effectively gave  Mr and Mrs M double the cover and so represented better value for 
money. The suitability  letter  set out that the policies  had been arranged  on a level basis and 
this was so the extra  cover  could give security for the surviving dependants. Mr and Mrs M 
had confirmed at the time that the premiums were  affordable and they have maintained 
these over the years as the policies are still in place. In summary, Lifetime Financial 
Management said clients go through a natural change  of requirements during the sales 
process, when their initial thoughts and preferences are challenged and reviewed, which  can 
lead to a change in priorities, and it believes this is what  happened for Mr and Mrs M.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN53575302These policies were recommended to Mr and Mrs M during a time when they were reviewing 
the interest rate on their existing mortgage and wanting to take out a further advance to pay 
for some home improvements.  I do appreciate that Mr and Mrs M recall being  told that their 
mortgage application was more likely to be approved  if they have this cover. But I havent 
seen any indication that it was a specific requirement of their lending. Their  mortgage offer 
says that only buildings insurance  was a condition, but this didnt  have to be taken out with 
either the lender or Lifetime Financial Management.
Mr and Mrs M had a joint mortgage on a repayment basis  so I dont think  it was an 
unreasonable recommendation for them to look to protect their ability to repay that mortgage 
if either of them was to die or be diagnosed with a critical illness.  
However, this could be achieved with a joint life decreasing term assurance policy with 
critical illness cover. Unlike the level term policies they were  sold, the cover of a decreasing 
term policy is designed to gradually go down over the term in line with the capital owed on a 
repayment mortgage. 
The fact find completed  in relation to the advice about their protection  needs says this was to 
Review  life & CIC to protect whole mortgage for a competitive premium. In relation to their 
budget for this, its noted that Mr and Mrs M wanted  the Cheapest cost for comprehensive 
policy to protect whole mortgage.
Looking at this together,  I think its reasonable to conclude that overall  costs  were a 
consideration for Mr and Mrs M. They were looking for a better  mortgage  interest  rate, 
increasing their borrowing  and wanted the cheapest cost and a competitive premium for a 
comprehensive policy to protect this borrowing.
I can see that the reasons for the advisors recommendation have been explained in the 
suitability letter, and this includes the reasons why level and single life policies were selected 
as being right for Mr and Mrs M. It says The protection  has been arranged on a level basis 
and whilst the loan reduces it will leave extra cover that will provide extra  security  for the 
surviving dependents.
It also says I have recommended single policies as opposed to a joint policy, as this affords  
twice the level of cover for a nominal  increase  in premiums.  It will also mean that a single 
level of cover will remain in the event of an individual claim. I have shown you the costs of a 
comparable joint policy and you have confirmed  that you are happy to proceed on this 
basis.
I do appreciate what Lifetime  Financial  Management has said in relation to this, and I 
acknowledge that Mr and Mrs M have maintained the premiums for their policies in the 
intervening years, choosing to keep the cover. 
However, Ive taken into account  what Mr and Mrs M were  looking for from the advice  the 
cheapest way to give them protection for their mortgage amount over its 15 year term. 
Although they may have been  able to afford to pay the premiums  for the recommended  
policies, Im not persuaded that these were the most  appropriate way of them  achieving  what 
they wanted or that they had a specific need  for the additional amount of cover having 
separate level policies gave them. 
I think Mr and Mrs M shouldve been recommended to take out a joint life decreasing  term 
assurance policy with critical illness cover to match the details of their mortgage.
Ref: DRN53575303my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. Lifetime Financial Management Ltd should 
calculate the difference between the premiums paid into the two single life and critical illness  
policies and the premiums payable to a competitively priced joint life policy  up to this time.  
The difference should be refunded to Mr and Mrs M and simple interest at 8% per year 
should be added to each premium from when  each payment was made until settlement. 
Lifetime Financial Management  Ltd should  also set up a new policy  for the rest of the 
correct term. The amount of life and critical illness cover should  start at what  it would have 
now been if the policy had been set up correctly from the start.   
This shouldnt cost more  than the competitively priced policy  used in the above  calculation. 
If it does,  a temporary annuity should  be set up to cover  the difference  to the end of the 
term. Alternatively, the capitalised value for buying the annuity  could be paid as a lump 
sum.
If Lifetime Financial Management  Ltd decides  that tax is payable  on the interest, it should 
send a tax deduction certificate to Mr and Mrs M. They may then reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  15 March  2019.
Cathy Bovan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5357530