K820x#14complaint
Miss G is unhappy with the way Zenith  Insurance  Plc handled her claim.
background
Miss G had a motor insurance  policy with Zenith.  Unfortunately, she was involved in two 
accidents a few days apart. Miss G is unhappy because although she had two accidents, 
she only received  one pay out from her insurer. Miss G said she should have received one 
for each  accident.  Further, Miss G said she should not have had to pay the remaining 
monthly payments  for her insurance policy because her car was deemed  a write-off and she 
was no longer able to drive it. Miss G also said that Zenith should reimburse her for the 
increased cost of her new insurance premiums for her new car.
Zenith said it paid Miss Gs first claim and that her car was deemed a total loss because it 
was beyond economical repair. It said that after this, her policy was downgraded to a third-
party policy  meaning she was not comprehensively covered for the second accident.  It 
also said that because  it had paid Miss G the market value of her car, she was not entitled  to 
a further pay out. 
Our investigator said Zenith had done nothing  wrong. She explained  Miss G was only over 
entitled to receive  the market value of her car and that because this was paid, she must  
continue to pay all remaining premiums due under  that policy.  The investigator also noted  
that whilst  the liability  of both accidents  is in dispute,  they will be logged  as fault claims, and 
therefore Miss G is being charge an inflated price for her new policy.   
Miss G didnt  agree. In summary she said;
Both accidents were  not her fault  yet shes having to pay increased  premiums 
which is unfair. Miss G said Zenith should  be recovering costs from both third-party 
insurers;
There were  two losses  as she was hit twice  and so she believes it fair that shes 
effectively paid twice;
Its been months since the first accident  yet its still on-going  because  liability  hasnt 
been decided;
She shouldnt have had to pay then remaining premiums because she no longer  had 
the car;
Shes worried that her no claims history  will be affected moving  forward.
And so, its for me to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I wont be upholding 
Miss Gs complaint. Ill explain why.
The first accident Miss G was involved in prompted  Zenith to pay her the market value of her 
vehicle. It did this because her car was deemed  a total loss as it would not have been 
economical to repair.  In other words, it would have cost Zenith  too much to repair  the 
damage sustained.  I take on board Miss Gs arguments that her car had only sustained light 
damage from the first accident and that it was still driveable. But she still received the full 
Ref: DRN59744432benefit of her comprehensive insurance cover and received a pay out and so Zenith does 
not need to pay her anything else. 
Zenith, in its letter to Miss G about the first accident, said that once it had paid her for the 
loss of her car, itd arrange to collect  it. This is a normal industry standard  because after an 
insurer pays a total loss claim it becomes the owner of the salvage. And so, although Zenith 
allowed Miss G to continue to use the car whilst it dealt with her first claim, after receiving 
the settlement,  she would no longer  be the cars  owner.
The issue  here, however,  is that a few days later Miss G had another  accident   which  I note 
she also disputed liability for. This happened  during the time Zenith  was handling the first 
claim, however after the second accident, it was reported the car was no longer driveable. I 
think itd be helpful  to explain that the cars status,  in Zeniths view, remained a total loss 
because it was still classified uneconomical  to repair . And so, although for Miss G there 
was a marked difference in its condition following the second  accident, that didnt  necessarily 
impact Zeniths outlook in the same  way.
A few days  later, Zenith paid Miss G the market value of her car, less her excess  for the first 
accident and arranged collection of the salvage. Its important to note that Miss Gs policy,  
following her first claim, was downgraded to third party cover. This is usual practice  following  
a total loss claim and is detailed  within the policy terms. It makes little difference to Miss Gs 
situation though, because  she was only entitled to receive the market value of her vehicle. 
And as this is what she received following her first accident, I would not expect  Zenith to pay 
her anything else.  
I should highlight  that the third-party cover  was still beneficial to her as the other  driver  
involved in the second accident  has also disputed liability and is seeking a personal injury  
claim against Miss G  which Zenith is handling.  And because  Miss G has made a claim, 
shes received the full benefit of her policy and therefore its fair that she settles all 
outstanding payments  as explained in the terms;
if you make  any claims under  your policy then the outstanding amount under this agreement  
will become  payable, subject to us providing you with any necessary noticed
Miss G had two months worth of payments left on her policy  when she reported both 
accidents and so she must pay them.  
Miss G has made several other arguments  about the liability  determination of both claims. 
Ive carefully considered  these, and I should  explain  that Im unable  to make a finding about 
liability. That is to say that when Zenith makes a decision about it, the ombudsman is unable  
to challenge it. But I note Zenith  has not yet reached a determination. Miss G has made  
comments about the time its taking to do this, but Ive not considered  that as part of this 
complaint. Should  Miss G want to complain about this, then shell need to raise  it first with 
Zenith. 
Whilst a claim  is on-going, its usual for the claim to be logged as a fault claim and so, 
although I accept  Miss Gs arguments  about the inflated cost of her new policy,  this is to be 
expected given the status of both claims.  Im also mindful  of Miss Gs concerns about her no 
claims status. I understand  she chose to protect her no claims, meaning that if its decided 
that these accidents are non-fault  claims, then this should be reinstated. But if not, then 
Zenith wont be doing anything wrong should  it decide not to reinstate it. 
Ref: DRN59744433my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I do not uphold Miss Gs complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 December 2019.
Scott Slade
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5974443