K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains that Barclays  Bank  UK PLC (Barclays) did not follow his instructions to 
downgrade a packaged  bank account  to an ordinary account, and so he has paid fees for an 
account he wasnt able to use.
background
Mr D took out an Additions Plus Account (APA)  with Barclays in February  2007.
Barclays migrated his account to a fee free current account with fee paying tech and travel 
packs in January 2017.
Mr D downgraded his account to a fee free one in December  2018.
In April 2014, Mr D emigrated  to another country and has not returned  to the UK.
Mr D says that he instructed Barclays to downgrade his APA to a fee free account when he 
emigrated, and Barclays did not do so. As a result, he says he paid fees each month for 
benefits he couldnt use from April 2014 to December 2018 when the account was 
downgraded.
Our adjudicator looked into this and didnt  uphold Mr Ds complaint. Mr D disagrees  so the 
complaint has come  to me to decide.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. And Ive used this approach to 
help me decide  Mr Ds complaint.
To be clear the complaint  Im considering  is about  Barclays not downgrading Mr Ds account 
to a fee free one in 2014, and it is not about  the sale of the APA in February  2007.
I dont doubt Mr Ds honest recollections  about  what happened when he emigrated in April 
2014, but I havent found in his favour  on this complaint and Ill explain why.
Mr D says that he asked  Barclays to downgrade the APA to a fee free account  in 2014. He 
says this was because he wouldnt have been able to use the benefits in his new location.  
And I accept  that the terms and conditions of the benefits mostly required him to be in the 
UK.
In cases of this sort, this service asks the bank to send any details it holds of 
communications with the consumer concerned. I have seen such records on many  other  
cases, some  of which have gone in favour of the consumer. So, I have found them  to 
credible as evidence.
In this case Barclays has done a search  and provided me their records. Their records  show 
no evidence of Mr D contacting them to request his account is downgraded. Their  records  
also show no evidence of a request  from Mr D to send  his correspondence to his new 
address overseas.
Ref: DRN57456062So, I find it more likely  than not that Mr D didnt make these requests, although  I can 
understand that he may think he did.
Barclays has also provided evidence  of his APA account record. This shows  there were 
substantial credits coming into the account and mortgage payments going out from 2014 to 
2108. It also clearly shows the account  fee going  out each month.
As this account activity  was significant, I think its more likely than not that Mr D or someone 
on his behalf was monitoring the account.  And to do so Mr D or someone  on his behalf  
wouldve needed to see statements in some form. In my view its more likely than not that 
these statements would  have shown the address the account was registered at, the 
branding of the account and the fee being  paid.
So, while I know Mr D will be disappointed, for the reasons given above, I cant say its more 
likely than not he did ask Barclays  to change his account in any way or that Barclays  did 
anything wrong  as I would need  to if I were to uphold his complaint.
For completeness, our adjudicator referred to the account change in 2017  to a fee free 
account with fee paying  tech and travel  packs.  Barclays has provided  evidence that it wrote 
to Mr Ds account address  twice,  before  and after the change and I think  its more likely than 
not that at least  one of these was received at the address. So, for the same reasons Ive 
given above, I dont think Barclays did anything wrong in this account  change.
 
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ds complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 August 2020.
Richard Hill
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5745606