K821x#15complaint
Ms R and Mr H complain  about Lloyds Bank PLCs refusal to clear  a cheque. Ms R has 
brought this complaint to our service.
background
Ms R and Mr H live overseas. They said that they had written a cheque,  to be drawn on their 
Lloyds account  and paid into an account they held at a bank  which is local to them.  But 
Lloyds had refused  to honour the cheque.  It said that it needed them  to complete new 
signature forms. But Ms R said that all of their previous cheques had cleared, so she didnt 
understand why this was suddenly a problem. 
Lloyds wrote to Ms R and Mr H twice. The first time it wrote,  it said that it was sorry for 
calling them very late. And it paid £100 to make up for that. It said that it didnt  know what 
had happened  to their cheque, and asked them to provide further information about  the 
cheque so that Lloyds could look into this. It suggested that in future  they might like to move 
money using internet  banking or phone  banking, as that would be much quicker.
Ms R said that they didnt  want internet  or phone banking with Lloyds.
Then Lloyds  wrote again, and said that it wouldnt clear their cheque until it received new 
signature forms for Ms R or Mr H. It explained why it hadnt refused their cheques in the 
past. Lloyds said that it had sent Ms R and Mr H signature forms to complete. It said it 
couldnt send  them by email, because that wasnt secure. So it had sent those forms by post, 
which meant that they took some time to be received. It didnt think  it had been asked to 
send those forms out previously. Lloyds said that it would  be quicker to move  the money 
either using  phone banking, or internet banking, but it knew that Ms R and Mr H didnt want 
to use that. 
Lloyds also said that it knew that that Ms R and Mr H would like forms to set up new 
standing orders, but it couldnt process  those forms until it had a valid and up to date 
signature on file for them both. So it hadnt  sent those out yet. Lloyds didnt think it had done  
anything wrong. 
Our investigator didnt  uphold this complaint. She said that she knew that there was initially  
some confusion in this case, because Lloyds couldnt locate the cheque  on its system.  And it 
had told Ms R that Mr H wasnt on the account.  It had also called Ms R and Mr H late, when 
they had asked it not to do that. But she thought that the £100 that Lloyds had paid to make 
up for this was reasonable in the circumstances. 
Our investigator said she knew that Ms R and Mr H had previously sent in other forms to 
Lloyds, which they had signed,  so they didnt know why they had to sign particular forms. But 
she noted that the forms that they were being  asked  to return identified them in a different 
way to the previous times they had used their signatures. She also noted  the very high value 
of the cheque on this occasion.  She didnt  think  it was unreasonable for Lloyds to ask Ms R 
and Mr H to sign this. 
Our investigator said that shed checked, and Lloyds couldnt send the forms by email, 
because email isnt secure. 
Ref: DRN55844462Our investigator thought that this was a fair outcome in this case, and she didnt think that 
Lloyds had to do any more. 
Ms R wrote to disagree. She said that Lloyds at first said that Ms R and Mr Hs other bank 
had refused the cheque.  Then it said that Mr H's signature shouldnt  be on the cheque, 
because he wasnt on the account. It was only after Ms R had pointed out that Mr H had 
been on the account for around 30 years, that Lloyds gave a different reason for refusing  the 
cheque. And Ms R said that they had already asked Lloyds to issue  the new signature forms 
for them to sign, but Lloyds took a long time to do that. 
Ms R said that many  cheques had been cashed from their account over the years,  so they 
didnt see how any of this could be true. And she said that Lloyds  had kept changing its mind 
about what had gone wrong.  She also said that Lloyds hadnt explained to her what had 
gone wrong, and hadnt  sent her any forms. She said that Lloyds couldnt prove they were  
sent. She still thought that Lloyds  couldve emailed her the forms, and they couldve then 
been posted back to the UK if that was necessary for security reasons. She wanted to know  
what Lloyds was now asking them  to do, in order  for their money to be transferred. 
Ms R said that she and Mr H didnt want the £100  that Lloyds had offered in compensation. 
They wanted  that to be taken back out of their account. And Ms R said that she felt that this 
was being done to force them to close  their account.
It looked as if Ms R hadnt received  the most recent  letter from Lloyds, or the signature forms 
it needed her and Mr H to complete. So our investigator emailed those to Ms R. Ms R wrote 
to Lloyds to say that it couldve emailed  those in the first place. And she said that Lloyds 
hadnt told her what she needed to send  with the forms.  She also said that this letter was the 
first time that she had been  given a reason why previous cheques  had cleared.  She wanted  
Lloyds to give her much  more detail  on that.
 
Our investigator also sent Ms R details of the proof of ID that Lloyds required. Ms R sent us 
a letter  summarising  this complaint, and setting out in more detail the impact it had had on 
her and Mr H. She said that theyd  had to spend a significant amount of time trying  to sort 
this issue out, and they had been  forced to cash in savings instead  of using the money that 
they had in the Lloyds  account. She said that although it had cost a lot of money, she had 
now sent this letter  and the completed forms by tracked mail to Lloyds. She then contacted 
us to say that this had been  received and signed  for by Lloyds, but there  had been  no 
contact to say that the issue on the account had been sorted out. 
Lloyds wrote to Ms R and Mr H, confirming that the new signature forms had been received, 
and were now held by the bank. Our investigator forwarded this by email to Ms R and Mr H. 
They said that they still didnt know whether they could access their account. They  wanted  to 
know whether they could  now write cheques on their account, and if so, would their previous 
cheque be honoured, or did they have  to start again? They also wanted  to know whether 
Lloyds would repay all their expenses, and pay appropriate compensation. 
Our investigator said that Lloyds had told her that they should be able to represent the 
cheque now. She said that her view was that the compensation that Lloyds had already paid 
was enough to make up for what had gone wrong in this case.  She hadnt changed her mind  
about that, but she said that if Ms R sent evidence of any additional costs, she would ask 
Lloyds about those.
Ref: DRN55844463Ms R also said that a new cheque had been written, and Lloyds had refused that too. That is 
now the subject  of a fresh  complaint by Ms R and Mr H. The £100 in compensation which 
had been paid into their account was removed, and this complaint was passed to me for a 
final decision. 
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I proposed  to uphold it in 
part. This is what I said then: 
-For the reasons  that our investigator explained, I only considered the refusal  of the first 
cheque in this decision. I was aware  a second cheque  had also been refused. But I was 
also aware that Lloyds  hadnt yet had a chance to investigate what had gone wrong 
there. I agreed with our investigator that any problems with this second cheque should  
be treated as a separate complaint. 
-Ms R told us about a number of mistakes that Lloyds  made  when it first refused to pay 
their cheque. There did seem to have been a considerable amount of confusion over 
why the cheque was refused. I said Id come  back to that point.
-I thought Lloyds had now provided a clear explanation for why the cheque  was refused. 
It didnt have the right signature details for Ms R and Mr H. I didnt know why it didnt 
have those, but I thought it was reasonable for Lloyds  to want  to be particularly careful 
with a cheque  of this size. So I thought it was reasonable for Lloyds to want to make sure 
that it was either Mr H or Ms R who had signed the cheque.  I didnt think  Lloyds did 
anything wrong  when it refused to clear a cheque in these circumstances.
-I did think Lloyds shouldve been  able to give Ms R a clear explanation of why the 
cheque was refused  rather  earlier than it did. It shouldnt have introduced  additional 
confusion, about  who was on the account.  I also thought  that Lloyds shouldve respected  
Ms R and Mr Hs request about  times  to contact them, particularly given  the health 
issues that Ms R told us about. I said Id bear that in mind when I thought about 
compensation. 
-I thought that there was then further confusion, because Ms R and Mr H didnt receive 
the letter and signature mandate forms that Lloyds  sent to them.  I knew that Ms R simply 
didnt believe that was sent. But I hadnt  seen anything to make  me think that. 
-Ms R had asked for the signature  mandate forms to be sent by email. Lloyds said it 
couldnt do that, for security reasons. I wasnt sure why it wouldnt want  blank forms to be 
sent by email. And when our investigator  asked if she could send them  by email, Lloyds 
had no objection to that. 
-I thought that if there was no problem with our investigator sending these forms by email,  
then Lloyds couldve done so too. I also noted that, although  Lloyds apparently sent 
these forms to Ms R and Mr H with a note of the ID it would require to accompany  them,  
it then sent us a different, and more  detailed, set of ID requirements. Fortunately, Ms R 
hadnt yet returned  the documents, and she was able to include this additional  ID. 
-Lloyds now has the right,  validated signatures for Ms R and Mr H. But I thought it had 
caused some delays in sorting  out this problem, and also caused some  unnecessary  
Ref: DRN55844464confusion. For those reasons, I thought it should  pay Ms R and Mr H £250  in 
compensation. 
-I knew that Ms R and Mr H thought that Lloyds should pay them  a lot more. Ms R told us 
that they had lost a lot of interest,  because they had to cash in some savings instead of 
using the money in their Lloyds account. But I didnt  think that I could say that the only 
reason that Ms R and Mr H cashed  in this savings account was because of delays 
caused by Lloyds. 
-Firstly, I noted  that Lloyds had repeatedly suggested that Ms R and Mr H could use 
internet banking or phone banking. That would give them  much quicker access to their 
money. They are adamant that they dont wish to do that. But operating  an account 
solely by post,  as they have  chosen to do, would inevitably mean that transfers take 
longer, and problems,  when  they do crop up, take a lot longer to resolve. That was even 
more of an issue in this case,  because post takes a long time to reach Ms R and Mr H. I 
didnt think that was Lloyds fault. 
-I also noted that Ms R and Mr H had to pay the costs of calls to Lloyds,  and of postage.  
And I knew that these  costs were somewhat higher,  because of where Ms R and Mr H 
live. But that wasnt  Lloydss fault either. I didnt think it was reasonable to ask Lloyds to 
pay additional costs  in this case, because Ms R and Mr H were operating a UK account  
by post from overseas. 
I invited the parties  to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Lloyds and Ms R and Mr H both replied.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I havent changed my mind.
Ms R and Mr H told us that they hadnt heard anything from Lloyds about  the second  cheque 
which had been  refused.  They said they have decided to close their account with Lloyds.
Ms R and Mr H wrote  to set out their thoughts on my provisional  decision. They  said that 
their overseas bank  had done all the work on proving that the cheque had been refused, and 
Lloyds wouldnt believe that at first. Lloyds has now accepted  what it did, but denies 
responsibility. Ms R and Mr H said that the only person who told them why this cheque  
hadnt cleared  when  others had was our investigator. And Ms R and Mr H said they still 
didnt know the detail of Lloyds rules  on that, because Lloyds wouldnt tell them.  
Ms R and Mr H said that theyd made clear to Lloyds that late evening calls werent  
acceptable. And they said that Lloyds had given a number of reasons for not honouring their 
cheque. They said that Lloyds had told them  that they would be reimbursed for sending  their 
signature forms by recorded delivery,  but they hadnt been.  And they said that they didnt 
have phone or internet banking because the account had only been set up for a specific,  
limited purpose.  So theyd  never  had a need  or a use for internet banking. And they said that 
they had never been asked to make  a transfer  of the cheque  amount by either internet 
banking or phone banking, but they were  asked to change the account to internet or phone  
banking to suit Lloyds. 
Ref: DRN55844465Ms R and Mr H said theyd had no choice but to cash  in other savings, because Lloyds didnt 
release their money. And they said that all their funds were now being withheld by Lloyds. 
They mentioned problems with another cheque, which they said was cleared after Lloyds 
had told them it had been destroyed. 
Ms R and Mr H sent us evidence of costs to them of the cheque being refused, and interest 
theyd lost when  they had cashed in overseas savings. 
Ive considered what Ms R and Mr H have  said carefully. They  have mentioned further 
problems with a different  cheque. Our service hasnt investigated that issue, and I dont think 
it would  be fair to Lloyds  to delay a resolution  on this complaint now to cover that. So I wont 
deal with that here.
Its clear that Ms R and Mr H remain unhappy  with how Lloyds  is managing their account.  
They think  that Lloyds  has only suggested  that they enrol for internet or telephone banking  to 
make its job easier. But I think that Lloyds  has seen a number of practical problems which  
Ms R and Mr H are facing, because they are operating a UK account from overseas by post, 
and it has suggested  that their account  could be operated  more  easily  if they had either 
phone or internet banking. I dont think that Lloyds has made  this suggestion  solely to suit 
itself. And, as I said in my provisional  decision,  I think its possible that Ms R and Mr H 
couldve avoided having to cash in their overseas savings if they had set up internet or 
phone banking. So I still dont  think  I can ask Lloyds to pay Ms R and Mr H everything they 
say theyve lost.
Ms R and Mr H also said that they wanted further details of Lloyds security procedures,  to 
understand exactly which cheques they could expect to clear,  and which  would not. Lloyds 
has said its not willing to share that level of information about  the banks security procedures  
with them.  I wouldnt expect Lloyds  to explain its security and fraud prevention measures in 
detail to its customers, because they would be much less effective if people  knew  that sort of 
detail. So I dont think that Lloyds has to give Ms R and Mr H that information.
Ms R and Mr H said that Lloyds had let them  down  with its investigation  into why their 
cheque didnt clear.  It had promised refunds that they didnt get. And it had rung them  too 
late, although theyd specifically asked  it not to. I agree  that Lloyds has provided  a poor 
service to Ms R and Mr H, and thats  why Ive asked it to pay £250 in compensation to them.
Lloyds said it had requested that details of the Banks procedures  regarding the processing 
of cheques remain confidential and werent  disclosed. It said it wanted  to make sure that 
sensitive business  information wasnt released into the public domain. It said that was why it 
couldnt tell Ms R and Mr H why this cheque didnt clear, when others had. It didnt think that 
I shouldve told Ms R and Mr H that, and that I shouldnt include it in my decision. 
Ive contacted Lloyds to explain  that it had already told Ms R and Mr H why this cheque 
didnt clear, in a letter dated 21 May. But as Lloyds has, quite reasonably, suggested that 
this information  shouldnt be shared more widely, that wont be included  in my published 
decision. 
Lloyds said that it agreed  the service it had provided  to Ms R and Mr H could have been 
better. So it accepted my recommendation to pay them  £250  to cover their expenses and 
compensate them for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Ref: DRN55844466my final decision
My final decision is that Lloyds Bank Plc must pay Ms R and Mr H £250.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms R and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  8 February  2019.
Esther Absalom-Gough
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5584446