K821x#15Complaint
Mr R has complained about Amtrust Europe  Limiteds (Amtrust) handling  of his insurance 
claim. He says Amtrusts loss adjuster decided incorrectly that his open-plan living  area 
wasnt a single room,  but two rooms  comprising the lounge and dining room. Mr R says 
Amtrust agreed to meet the cost of the carpet for the whole room but are now unfairly 
refusing to meet the cost of the wallpaper  for the whole room.
Background
The background to this complaint is explained in the provisional  decision I issued  on 10 
February 2020. A copy of that provisional decision is attached at the end of this decision.
In Mr Rs response to my provisional  decision he said:
if the break in the wallpaper Amtrust is referring  to, is the archway, then it doesnt 
make sense  to suggest the wallpaper is interrupted by the archway, but the carpet  isnt; 
the wallpaper is laid around  the base line and above the archway  adjacent  to the ceiling 
in the same way the carpet  is laid around the base  of the break  of the archway;  and 
as Amtrust have agreed  to relay the carpet  for the entire  room,  despite the carpet  being  
fitted around the break of the archway, then they also ought  to cover all of the wallpaper 
being replaced.
Amtrust responded  to say that they would  agree  to pay 50% of the costs of replacing the 
wallpaper in the diner part of the open-plan room, but they would  look to apply a deduction  
for the pre-incident condition  of the dcor. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also thought  about  the points Mr R 
and Amtrust  have made. 
None of the comments provided  by the parties  constitute new evidence  or arguments. In my 
provisional decision I addressed in detail,  Mr Rs concerns about the carpet being replaced 
throughout the whole  of the open-plan room, but the wallpaper only being  replaced in the 
lounge part of the room. His re-statement of that element of his complaint  hasnt caused  me 
to change my mind.
As I said in my provisional decision,  the policy terms dont cover replacing a matching  set, in 
fact they exclude  cover  for any undamaged parts, even if they form part of the same  design. 
However, I provisionally decided that it would be fair and reasonable for Amtrust to pay 50% 
of the cost of the replacement of the wallpaper  in the diner, to compensate Mr R for the loss 
of match  that would  result  from having only the lounge part of the room  re-wallpapered. Mr R 
could then choose to either put that compensation towards re-wallpapering the diner  part of 
the room or take it as compensation for having to live with a loss of match.
I remain of the view that this is a fair resolution  to Mr Rs complaint. 
Amtrust disagree and say they would look to apply a deduction for the pre-incident  condition 
of the dcor. But again, I addressed this in my provisional decision, and I remain of the view 
that it isnt fair or reasonable for Amtrust,  at this late stage, to seek to rely on a term of the 
Ref: DRN54312402policy terms and conditions that they chose  to not apply when the decision was made to 
accept Mr Rs claim. I remain of the view that its fair and reasonable for Amtrust  to pay 50% 
of the cost of the replacement of the wallpaper  in the diner, to compensate Mr R for the loss 
of match  that would  result  from having only the lounge part of the room  re-wallpapered. 
So, I uphold  Mr Rs complaint and require Amtrust to cover 50% of the cost of re-
wallpapering the diner (and 50% of the cost of redecorating the ceiling in the diner if thats  
required to provide a clean  repair),  in addition to the cover theyve already agreed  to provide, 
to fairly settle Mr Rs claim.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out in this decision, and my provisional decision (attached) my final 
decision is that I uphold  this complaint and require Amtrust Europe Limited to cover 50% of 
the cost of re-wallpapering the diner  (and 50% of the cost of redecorating the diner ceiling if 
necessary) in addition  to the cover  theyve already agreed to provide to Mr R, to fairly settle 
his claim.  I make  no other  award against Amtrust Europe  Limited. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 April 2020. 
Carolyn Harwood
ombudsman
copy provisional decision
complaint
Mr R has complained about  Amtrust Europe Limiteds  (Amtrust)  handling of his insurance  claim. He 
says Amtrusts  loss adjuster decided incorrectly  that his open-plan living area wasnt a single  room, 
but two rooms  comprising the lounge  and dining room.  Mr R says Amtrust agreed to meet the cost of 
Ref: DRN54312403the carpet for the whole room but are now unfairly refusing to meet the cost of the wallpaper for the 
whole room.
background
Mr R discovered a leaking  radiator in the lounge  part of his open-plan living room (which  I will refer to 
as his lounge) on Tuesday  5 December  2017 which flooded half of the lounge floor. He arranged  for 
a plumber to repair the leaking radiator. The plumbers report said the leak was caused by rust in the 
radiator that wasnt visible.
Amtrust received an independent inspection report on 23 January 2018 which confirmed the carpet 
would require replacement due to the extent of the damage.  They appointed loss adjusters on 26 
March 2018, who met with Mr R and concluded that the escape  of water wasnt sudden. They  said it 
was probable  that water  had been slowly  dripping from the radiator over a period of time. By the time 
Mr R had realised  the carpet was wet the water  had leached out into the centre of the lounge,  so it 
was difficult for the loss adjusters to determine exactly when the radiator would have  failed.  
Amtrust agreed to pay for the replacement  of the carpet in both the lounge and the dining room  part of 
the open-plan area (which  I will refer to as the diner).  But Amtrust declined to cover the cost of 
replacing the wallpaper in the diner. They said the carpet ran through  the two rooms with no natural 
break between the areas, but the wallpaper  had a natural break by the centre wall / door way.
Mr R complained to Amtrust on 29 May 2018 about delays in having his claim settled,  and the 
settlement amount Amtrust offered for the repair works to the property.
Amtrust issued their final response  on 11 July 2018. With regard to delays they offered Mr R £100 to 
compensate him for several avoidable delays. However,  Amtrust declined to cover the cost of 
replacing the wallpaper in the diner. They referred to policy wording  which excludes cover for: the 
cost of replacing or repairing  any undamaged parts of the buildings  which form part of a pair, set, 
suite or part of a common design or function when the loss or damage is restricted  to a clearly  
identifiable area or to a specific part. Amtrust clarified that theyd agreed to cover the carpet in both 
rooms as there was no door bar in place to separate the areas, so the carpet was laid in one single 
piece. If that hadnt been the case, Amtrust say they would have just covered replacement of the 
section of the carpet  in the lounge. 
Mr R didnt accept Amtrusts proposed resolution to his complaint so brought  it to us for investigation.
Our investigator looked into Mr Rs complaint and on 18 January 2019 issued his view concluding that 
Amtrust should also cover  the cost of replacing  the wallpaper in the diner. He said that as Amtrust 
were happy  to conclude the carpet ran through as one piece, it was fair to consider the lounge and 
diner as one room, and therefore Amtrust should cover the replacement  of the wallpaper in both the 
diner and lounge. 
Amtrust didnt  accept our investigators view. They disagreed that the wallpaper,  like the carpet runs 
through as one piece, saying that its many  pieces of wallpaper which are applied to the walls. 
Amtrust also said theres a clear break in the areas of wallpaper as evidenced by the photos taken  by 
the loss adjuster. In addition, Amtrust said the photographs  taken by the loss adjuster  show marking  / 
staining on the 15-year-old wallpaper in the lounge and diner,  which were  not caused  by the escape 
of water. They felt theyd  already acted reasonably by not applying  the condition  which would  have 
permitted them to take an amount off the full cost of repair for wear and tear. 
Amtrust requested an ombudsmans decision on the complaint. 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to provisionally decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Ref: DRN54312404Its not in dispute that damage was caused to the lounge  by an escape of water.  Its also not in 
dispute that Mr Rs policy provides cover for this under certain circumstances. What remains  for me to 
decide is whether Amtrusts decision to decline  to cover the cost of re-wallpapering  the diner is in line 
with the terms and conditions  of Mr Rs policy, and whether that decision is fair and reasonable  in all 
the circumstances.  
I appreciate Mr Rs argument that because the wallpaper runs to the entire room, to all purposes its 
one room  and refurbishing only part of the room  would look out of place. But just because  this might 
look out of place,  that doesnt mean its necessarily  fair for Amtrust to cover the cost of wallpapering 
the entire room.  
Amtrust says the policy  terms  and conditions  clearly  state they wont pay the cost of repairing any 
undamaged parts of the buildings which  form part of a set or part of a common design  or function,  
when the loss or damage is restricted to a clearly identifiable area. Amtrust further says that the 
damage here is restricted to a clearly  identifiable area, being the lounge.
It isnt in dispute that the damage occurred in the lounge.  The loss adjusters recommended  the 
replacement of the carpet,  wallpaper  and ceiling decoration to repair the damage in the lounge.  
Amtrust says ordinarily it wouldnt redecorate a ceiling to repair damage to a wall. However, because  
of the way the wallpaper  was laid, in stripping  the wallpaper, the ceiling would be damaged. So, to 
provide a clean repair to the lounge, Amtrust agreed to re-decorate the walls and ceiling.  They also 
agreed to replace the carpet throughout the lounge and diner, because it is currently laid in one piece 
with no break. So, the question that remains  for me to decide  is whether  Amtrust should also cover 
the replacement of the wallpaper in the diner to fairly settle  Mr Rs claim.
I think  its clear that the lounge  is a separate area to the diner,  and the wallpaper in the lounge can be 
replaced without damaging  the wallpaper in the diner, as an archway separates the two areas. And as 
the diner wasnt damaged by the escape of water, it seems on a plain reading of the policy  terms and 
conditions, re-wallpapering the diner  wouldnt  be covered  by the policy.
However, I also need to consider whether this application  of the policy terms and conditions to Mr Rs 
circumstances, would  lead to an unfair outcome  for him. So, the question I have to answer is whether 
its fair and reasonable for Mr R, in repairing  the damage in the lounge, to only have the lounge  area 
of the open plan room  re-wallpapered. Mr R says it isnt fair because the room  to all intents and 
purposes is one room,  and the wallpaper can be seen clearly from each end of the room. He believes 
that having  two different decorative finishes  in the open plan room  would leave the house in a worse  
decorative position than it was in before the damage took place, so that wouldnt be a fair way to 
settle the claim. 
Having carefully considered all of the arguments and evidence provided  by the parties, Im currently of 
the view that the wallpaper in the lounge and the diner  is a matching  set. However,  the policy terms 
dont require Amtrust to cover undamaged  parts  of a matching set, in fact, they exclude  cover in those  
circumstances. But I dont think  that gives a fair outcome to Mr R, in these circumstances. 
Before the damage occurred, the open-plan  room  was decorated as one room.  If it had been 
decorated in two different  styles, then it may have been fair for the cost of only re-wallpapering  the 
lounge to be covered. However, thats not the case here.
Where a customer has to put up with a loss of match going forward (as Mr R would  here where only 
the lounge part of the open-plan room would  be re-decorated) our approach is that the insurer should  
pay for the damaged  item,  and then compensate the customer for having to put up with the loss of 
match going forward.  In this case, I think fair compensation would be 50% of the cost of replacing the 
wallpaper in the diner part of the open-plan room and 50% of the cost of redecorating the ceiling  in 
the diner if thats required  to provide a clean repair.  Mr R can then use that money to put towards 
replacing the wallpaper in that room, or he can keep the money and put up with the loss of match. 
Ref: DRN54312405So, Im currently minded to uphold Mr Rs complaint and require Amtrust to cover 50% of the cost of 
re-wallpapering the diner (and 50% of the cost of redecorating the ceiling in the diner if thats required 
to provide a clean repair),  in addition to the cover theyve already agreed to provide, to fairly settle Mr 
Rs claim.
Theres one final point that Id like to address in this provisional  decision. Amtrust says that the photos 
in the loss adjusters report showed stains and marks on the 15-year-old  wallpaper that werent 
caused by the escape of water. Amtrust has suggested that theyve already been more than 
reasonable because  they didnt use the condition requiring the buildings  to be in a good state of repair 
immediately prior to the loss or damage occurring,  to reduce the amount payable  under the claim. 
However, as Amtrust hasnt relied on this condition  to reduce the amount payable  under  the claim,  
that doesnt form part of the complaint Im considering so I wont be making any findings on that point 
in this provisional decision. 
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that Im currently minded to uphold this complaint and require Amtrust 
Europe Limited  to cover  50% of the cost of re-wallpapering the diner,  (and redecorating the diner 
ceiling if necessary) in addition to the cover  theyve  already agreed to provide to Mr R, to fairly settle 
his claim.
I now invite  the parties to provide me with any additional information or arguments theyd like me to 
consider before I issue my final decision  on this complaint.
Carolyn Harwood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5431240