K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that Tesco Personal Finance  Plc trading as Tesco  Bank has incorrectly 
charged him a cash transaction fee.
background
Mr Bs Tesco credit  card account  was linked to another account  he held with a company I 
will call C. He says he was charged  a cash transaction fee by Tesco  when he used his 
account to make a payment to an investment company  I will call H. Mr B says he didnt 
notice the fee at the time but has been charged  interest as a result which is unfair.
Mr B says he is aware that C changed the way in which it reported merchant codes to Tesco 
but he wasnt charged the transaction fee in the month prior. He says Tesco  should  have 
told him about the change and would like the transaction fee and interest refunded  to him.
Tesco says certain  transactions such as this have  always been classed as cash  transactions  
and so liable  for a cash transaction  fee. It says changes made by C have meant it can now 
correctly identify these  sorts of transactions and so hasnt made a mistake  here.  Tesco says 
the account terms and conditions  allow it charge a fee for these types of transactions.
Mr B doesnt  accept that view and brought his complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and thought Tesco  hadnt made a mistake  or 
acted unfairly. The investigator thought the account terms and conditions allowed Tesco to 
make a charge  for these  sorts of transactions.
Mr B didnt accept that view and said in summary  that Tesco told him no fee would apply  for 
these sorts  of transactions and questions  why his wife whom  brought an identical complaint 
had been offered a gesture of goodwill.
I asked both sides for further information.  In summary I asked Tesco  for details of any calls 
between it and Mr B about  this issue and about  this issue of consistency.
Tesco says it doesnt have details of any contact  between it and Mr B and says its entitled to 
review each case on its own merits.
Mr B says he has received information  from C that says Tesco  will start charging a 
transaction fee in October 2019  in this type of case.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to a similar 
overall view as the investigator. I realise Mr B will be disappointed  by my decision and I 
appreciate how strongly he feels about this issue.
I have looked  at the account terms and conditions which  I think that Mr B would have agreed 
to when the account was opened.  And I can see that Tesco  makes  clear that it will treat 
certain transactions as cash transactions which then attract  a fee. There  is no dispute that H 
is an investment company  and so Im satisfied that in line with those terms and conditions  
Tesco is entitled to charge a transaction fee and so hasnt made a mistake or acted  unfairly 
by doing so.
Ref: DRN56928342I appreciate that Tesco didnt  charge such a fee in August 2018 but I think it has reasonably 
explained why it didnt do so. I dont think that it follows  that Mr B should have assumed that 
a future  charge  would  not be made as the problem appeared to be with the information 
supplied by C and not through any fault of Tesco.
I also appreciate that Mr B says he spoke to Tesco about this issue before  the first payment 
to H but was given incorrect information. Tesco says there wasnt  any such contact and Mr B 
hasnt provided  me with any further details of when that conversation  took place or for 
example any evidence from his telephone provider about it. So in those circumstances I 
cant be sure that such a call took place or what if any discussions took place. In any event I 
think the terms and conditions are clear  about  this issue.
 I have listened  to the call between the parties that took place some six months after the 
interest was charged. And I dont think that Mr B told Tesco  at that time that he had 
previously spoken  to it and had been  told that transaction  fees wouldnt apply in these 
circumstances. If such  a conversation had taken place then I would have reasonably  
expected Mr B to have  referred back to it. Im satisfied that during the call Mr Bs main  point 
was that a purchase to H was not in his view a cash transaction. I have explained why I dont 
think that was the case.
I accept that Tesco has dealt differently with Mr Bs wifes complaint by making a gesture  of 
goodwill payment to her. So I appreciate Mr Bs frustration with that decision. I accept that 
Tesco is entitled to treat each complaint separately but I would have  expected it to have 
looked at the complaints together and consider its response consistently. So whilst I cant 
fairly order Tesco to pay Mr B a gesture of goodwill  payment as I dont think its done 
anything wrong  I hope  it will look again at that issue of consistency.
Overall Im satisfied Tesco has acted in line with the account terms and conditions  and 
hasnt made  a mistake  or acted unfairly. I dont think it matters  what  C may now be saying  
about the issue as I think  Tesco was entitled  to make the decision it did as I have explained. 
For those reasons I cant fairly order Tesco to repay  the fee charged or any interest applied 
to Mr Bs account.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 January 2020.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5692834