K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs A complain  that their mortgage  broker London and Country  Mortgages  Ltd failed 
to pass on information  to the prospective lender which caused delays in exchanging 
contracts, and cost them additional solicitors fees.
To resolve  their complaint  they want L&C to pay the additional fees and compensate them  
for the delays and the stress caused.
background 
Mr and Mrs A took a mortgage  with lender S pursuant to a recommendation dated  
9 April 2018 from their broker L&C and a mortgage  offer from S dated 20 April 2018.
The L&C recommendation included:
You have chosen  to use your own solicitor  to carry out the conveyancing work necessary on 
your mortgage. Please  be aware that lenders maintain panels of solicitors  that they are 
willing to deal with and I strongly urge that you confirm with your chosen solicitor that they 
can act for the lender I have  recommended.
Following completion of the mortgage  Mr and Mrs A complained  to L&C about incorrect  
information and delays, which they said had cost them additional  solicitors  fees plus at least 
three weeks of delay in exchanging contracts.
L&C responded that it had submitted an application  to S on 9 April 2018, with 
Mr and Mrs As chosen solicitors showing as G solicitors. Mr and Mrs A then said they were 
instructing W solicitors, not G. However  L&C said that for reasons unknown  to L&C this 
change hadnt  gone onto Ss system. S had issued a mortgage  offer on 23 April but on 
9 May Mr and Mrs A said W hadnt  received this.
L&C had spoken to S who confirmed the offer had been issued to G. S wouldnt be able to 
amend the solicitors to W, as they werent on S's approved  legal panel  and couldnt  be 
added to it. L&C had told Mr and Mrs A there were two options:
if you want  to continue with this lender, you are going to have to use a firm on their 
panel and switch. If you do switch, you can send everything across to the new solicitors. 
I imagine you may have paid for searches, and you can send these across  to the new 
solicitors. They generally need  an environmental  search, drainage and water and local 
authority search  so if some are done they can use these;
alternatively if you really dont want to swap, I can recommend another  lender whom  W 
can act for.
L&C said Mr and Mrs A had responded suggesting the option of dual representation 
between W solicitors and another  legal firm, as after speaking  to S direct, they had 
confirmed this was an alternative way in which the application could proceed.  L&C had 
provided Mr and Mrs A with a list of solicitors who were on Ss panel for them to choose 
from, and they had confirmed on 17 May that they would be proceeding with W and G. S had 
issued a revised offer on 31 May.
Ref: DRN54306662L&C said that the issue had arisen  owing to W not being on Ss approved legal panel and 
that they were  unable  to add them on. When Mr and Mrs A completed the application  form 
on 9 April, they confirmed the solicitors as G and this was subsequently passed on to S. L&C 
went on to say:
When you made [L&C] aware of the correct acting  solicitors  on 10 April, [it] did note this 
change, but for reasons  unknown this did not pull through onto Ss system and so they were 
unaware of the change. As such when the mortgage  offer was issued on 23 April,  this was 
on the basis that W were the acting legal firm.
This doesnt actually  make sense and I think L&C must  have meant G.
L&C acknowledged  that it should have followed this change up with S to make sure that its 
system detailed the correct acting firm, however  this wouldnt have affected the ultimate  
outcome. No matter  at what  point the solicitors  details  were asked to be amended,  W 
werent on Ss legal  panel and couldnt be added. So Mr and Mrs A wouldnt have been able 
to use them  to act solely on the purchase transaction,  although  the delays associated with 
arranging the dual representation would most  likely have arisen prior to the offer being 
issued, rather than afterwards.
L&C said:
I am sorry that the issues with the solicitors has been a cause  of frustration for you and you 
have incurred additional legal costs because of this, however I cannot agree that this is the 
fault of L&C.  When  you completed the application  form,  you confirmed the solicitors as G 
and so the application was submitted on this basis. Additionally, our recommendation letter  
of 9 April was clear that where you are instructing your own choice of solicitors, it is your 
responsibility to make  sure that they can act for the lender recommended.
. The application was submitted based on the initial information provided by you, including  
a solicitors firm that was on Ss approved panel, and when our staff became  aware  of the 
fact that the offer had not been  sent to the correct solicitors, they sought to rectify this 
straight away.
Nevertheless, in hindsight L&C should  have followed  up with S following the amendment  to 
the solicitors details, and so in recognition of that we would like to offer you £50 as a gesture 
of goodwill  by way of apology.
Mr and Mrs A werent happy  with this and brought their complaint to our service.  They  felt 
that L&C had caused additional expense and delays  through  both a lack of initial  information 
provided about Ss restrictions over which solicitors they could use and its error  in failing to 
ensure that the solicitor details had gone through to S.
Our adjudicator said L&C hadnt been able to provide any evidence that it had updated Ss 
portal on 10 April 2018 following  Mr and Mrs As call to say they were instructing  W not G. 
The adjudicator had viewed the portal  and couldnt  see any evidence to suggest  S had 
received an instruction for the change of solicitors.  He therefore thought it likely the portal 
wasnt updated. L&C had provided  notes to confirm it had received Mr and Mrs As 
instruction, but this wasnt an indication that it had updated Ss portal at the time. 
Having reviewed S's portal notes,  the adjudicator could see S still required Ws address from 
L&C before the offer could be issued. L&C provided  this to S on 29 May 2018. The 
Ref: DRN54306663adjudicator thought L&C could have forwarded  this information to S sooner, given that S had 
requested it on 21, 22 and 26 May 2018. 
The recommendation issued to Mr and Mrs A on 9 April 2018 did explain they should confirm 
with their chosen solicitors that they could  act for the lender recommended.  Therefore the 
adjudicator accepted Mr and Mrs A had a responsibility to check this.
To resolve  the complaint  fairly the adjudicator  thought L&C should offer an additional  £50, to 
bring the total compensation to £100, and refund half the fees paid to G. 
L&C didnt agree and asked for the case to be referred to an ombudsman. It said the fact 
that the note hadnt uploaded  correctly  would by its very nature mean  S wouldnt receive  it. 
However it didnt mean that it wasnt sent.  Equally, the fact that it didnt upload correctly  
would also mean  that L&C couldnt  evidence it.
I took a different view of the complaint to the adjudicator. So I decided to issue  a provisional  
decision, setting  out my view of the case and inviting further comments. Both parties have 
now responded and so I issue  my final decision.
my provisional decision
In my provisional decision,  I said:
It isnt necessary for a purchaser and a mortgagee  to be represented  by the same  solicitors, 
and the easiest course might have been  for W to act for Mr and Mrs A and for solicitors on 
Ss panel (such as G) to act for S on the mortgage.  Instead, Mr and Mrs A opted for dual  
representation, which means both G and W acting for Mr and Mrs A.
And Gs letter to Mr and Mrs A of 18 May 2018, despite its reference  to acting for the lender, 
states that G would  be acting  for Mr and Mrs A. It refers  to a leaflet setting out the 
agreement between Mr and Mrs A and G relating to the work G would do for Mr and Mrs A, 
and refers to the work  which we will be carrying out for you.
Gs letter doesnt say it would be acting for S and theres no evidence that S actually 
appointed G to act for it. Mr and Mrs A say in their email to our service  dated 
18 December 2018 that they appointed  G to act for S. But that wasnt  possible. Only S could 
appoint solicitors to act for it. From Gs letter of 18 May its apparent that G thought it was 
acting for Mr and Mrs A. 
That said,  I think its likely that S was content with the position  on the basis that one of its 
panel solicitors was acting for Mr and Mrs A, which was the usual position, and the 
transaction then went ahead.
If Ws details had been updated to Ss portal, whether or not they pulled through,  I would  
expect there  to have  been some evidence of that in the systems of L&C or S. But nothing 
has been produced, although it was known from the adjudicators findings that this was a 
vital point.
So I think L&C's failure to update the portal  was the cause of the delay which  followed  the 
mortgage application. If that had been done promptly, the fact that W wasnt on Ss panel  
would have been raised sooner than it was.
Ref: DRN54306664But that wasnt the cause of needing  two firms of solicitors. What  caused the need for G to 
become involved  was Mr and Mrs A's failure  to check  with W that they were on the panel, as 
L&C had strongly advised them  to do in its recommendation. That would  have come  to light 
sooner if the portal had been  updated,  but that failure wasnt  itself the cause.
It isnt part of the duties of a mortgage broker to deal with the appointment of solicitors to act 
for the borrower  and the lender. If Mr and Mrs A had done what  L&C recommended, they 
wouldnt have instructed W, G would have remained on Ss portal as their solicitors, and the 
transaction would  have  proceeded without difficulty.
For these reasons I dont  propose to order L&C to pay any part of the fees of G.
The adjudicator also proposed an increase from £50 to £100 in the compensation for not 
following up with S following the amendment to the solicitors details. L&C accepted in its 
response to the adjudicator that it could understand this, and I agree its fair and 
reasonable.
the responses to my provisional  decision
Both parties  responded to my provisional decision. 
L&C said it had nothing  further to add. 
Mr and Mrs A didnt  accept the provisional decision.  They felt L&C had received  a 
substantial fee for sloppy  work which caused them  stress and costs which could have  been  
avoided. They would  like to revert to the adjudicators  recommendation.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In relation to sloppy work, I said in my provisional  decision  that I thought L&Cs failure to 
update the portal was the cause of the delay which followed the mortgage  application.  But I 
also said that this wasnt the cause of needing  two firms  of solicitors. What caused  the need  
for G to become involved,  and the additional  costs  of that, was Mr and Mrs As failure to 
check with W that they were on the panel.
Mr and Mrs As response doesnt deal with this point, and Im therefore not persuaded to 
depart from my provisional decision.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part and order  London and Country Mortgages 
Ltd to pay to Mr and Mrs A £100  compensation for the delay, trouble and upset caused to 
them.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision  before  10 September 2020.
Edward Callaghan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5430666