K821x#15complaint
Ms M and Mr C complain about  the way their mortgage lender, Lloyds Bank Plc, has 
treated them  since  April 2018. Ms M has managed  the complaint throughout.
Ms M says Lloyds has failed to provide support and help when she reached out to it 
following a change in her situation. Ms M told Lloyds she wasnt going to be able to make 
her full mortgage repayments while  she sold her property. Ms M says shes asked  for an 
interest only payment  arrangement and a payment holiday but Lloyds said it couldnt  offer 
these for various reasons.  Ms M says Lloyds  has caused  her considerable stress and 
upset at what has already  been  a very difficult time for her.
Ms Ms asked that Lloyds  agree to accept interest  only mortgage payments while 
her property is sold, and shed like compensation for the upset Lloyds has caused 
her.
background
Ms M and Mr C have a capital repayment  mortgage with Lloyds. In April 2018 Ms M 
contacted Lloyds. She and Mr C had separated and they were having financial difficulties. 
Mr C was no longer living  in the property, he was very unwell and he was unable to work.  
Ms M had recently had surgery and was looking after her three young children in the 
mortgaged property which was also the family home. Ms M was exploring  options to 
return to work.
Ms M told Lloyds that, following the breakdown  of her marriage and in light of Mr Cs 
situation, she wasnt going to be able to make  the mortgage repayments of around £4,000 
per month. Ms M accepted her position wasnt going  to improve such  that she would be 
able to pay the full contractual monthly payment (CMP) on her own.  Ms M and Mr C had 
agreed to sell the property  and Ms M planned  to buy a smaller home for her and her 
children to live in with her part of the equity in the house.
Ms M asked Lloyds to help, initially asking for a payment holiday. Ms M says she was told 
this wasnt possible because she was selling her property. Ms M says she was also told at 
a later date that she couldnt convert the mortgage to interest only. Lloyds said it wouldnt 
do this because new mortgage regulations meant  that she needed a repayment  strategy  
to have an interest only mortgage. Ms M says she was told she needed to come back  
once she was in arrears and then Lloyds  might be able to help.
Ms M tried to speak to a mortgage advisor  at a local branch but struggled  to get an 
appointment. When she did speak to an advisor, there  were  problems exploring options 
and again she was told there  was little help available.
Ms M says she complained to Lloyds  in May 2018 but it didnt respond to her concerns 
until it sent a final response on 16 August 2018.  It didnt uphold Ms Ms complaint 
saying it was right to have  not offered her a payment holiday or an interest only 
mortgage because  she didnt have a repayment  vehicle.
Ms M brought her complaint to us. Our investigator looked into her concerns. She 
thought that Lloyds  could  have done more to help Ms M and that it would be appropriate  
for the mortgage to be put on an interest  only basis for 12 months to allow the sale of the 
property to complete.  Ms M had said her father would help pay the interest payments on 
Ref: DRN59024342the mortgage until the property was sold, so our investigator thought this would be 
financially affordable  for Ms M.
Lloyds responded to say it couldnt  have given Ms M an interest  only concession as it 
no longer offers these as an option for customers who are struggling to pay their 
mortgage. However, while this complaint has been  with us, Lloyds has now offered to 
agree to Ms M and Mr C having a 12 month arrangement where they pay £1150 per 
month. This is a payment  arrangement where,  in effect, Lloyds has agreed for 
Ms M and Mr C to pay the amount of interest  chargeable  on the mortgage each month, 
and no payment towards the capital balance  for a year. Its also agreed to hold 
collection activities, including letters and calls for the same period of time to give 
Ms M and Mr C the chance to sell their property  without  the additional pressure of the 
threat of legal action.  Lloyds has also said that it may be able to help Ms M and Mr C to 
sell the property through its assisted sale programme.
Our investigator thought  this offer was reasonable. Ms M was disappointed  and felt that 
we hadnt taken into account  the mortgage  regulations in our response.  She felt wed 
overlooked Lloyds responsibilities under this regulation. Ms M said shed felt harassed 
by Lloyds actions  over the past nine months  or so. Ms M asked that an ombudsman look 
at her complaint again and reach  a final decision on the matter.
my provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision dated 28 June  2019  setting out my thoughts on the complaint 
from the evidence  available  to me.
I said:
Im pleased to see that Lloyds has now made its offer to agree an out of policy  payment 
arrangement. This has the same overall effect as agreeing an interest only concession,  in 
that it lets Ms M and Mr C pay an amount equivalent  to a pure interest payment each 
month for the next 12 months. But I dont think Lloyds offering this arrangement  now goes 
far enough.
Ms M said that shes  disappointed  that we havent  considered the effect that Lloyds 
actions have had on her and whether its breached mortgage regulation in the way its 
behaved towards her.
Ive thought carefully about the interaction between Lloyds and Ms M. Ive also 
considered contact with Mr C to take into account the wider circumstances of this specific 
case. Ive taken into account mortgage regulation, legislation and good industry practice 
in reaching my decision. I havent  referred to the specific parts of mortgage regulation in 
my response, but Id like to reassure Ms M that I have considered  all of her comments on 
the subject and how this relates to her complaint.
From the evidence presented to me to date, I consider  that Lloyds actions have  caused  
Ms M and Mr C unnecessary  upset, worry and inconvenience. I think it should have 
done more, and sooner, to help Ms M when  she reached out to it in April 2018.
Ms M acted quickly, and told her mortgage lender that she was in trouble. Such  pro-
active contact from a customer  who needs help should be encouraged by their lender, 
and yet Ms M says she was told by Lloyds that it couldnt help her until she was in 
Ref: DRN59024343arrears. That seems  very poor customer service to me, and it isnt what I would expect a 
lender to do in such a situation.  I also dont think the regulator  would  consider  this to be 
best practice. I can see why Ms M felt increasingly  desperate as she tried a number of 
times to speak to someone at Lloyds who would engage with her specific  circumstances.
Lloyds has said it seeks to be consistent  but tailored to the individual  when  considering 
ways that it can help consumers struggling to pay their mortgage. Its policy also says that 
it should prevent  further pressure. Unfortunately its interactions with Ms M had the 
reverse effect. It seems to me, from Ms Ms experience of interacting with Lloyds, that the 
members of staff she spoke to quoted limitations  on what could be done, rather  than 
exploring pro-active  suggestions of support or offering  to make things easier for her.
One such example  of this is Ms Ms difficulty when she wanted  to speak to a mortgage  
advisor in a branch. Ms M says she had to go to branch on 30 April 2018, while recovering 
from surgery, to be told no one could see her that day. She had to return  the next day to 
discuss what could be done  to help her with a mortgage advisor. This is one of a number 
of instances Ms M has mentioned of the impact that Lloyds process and customer service 
had on her. I also sympathise with Ms M when she says she was upset  and uncomfortable 
when Lloyds asked  her to discuss  her financial situation during the day in front of her 
children.
Lloyds didnt handle  Ms Ms concerns well either.  It seems to have overlooked  her 
complaint made in May 2018. And when  it did respond in August, its final response is very 
high level and doesnt seem to engage with the issues  shes  raised.
The final response  says Lloyds isnt able to help by switching Ms Ms mortgage to interest 
only because of the increased mortgage  regulation introduced in 2014. I disagree with 
Lloyds interpretation  of this regulation.  Lloyds  appears to have applied this regulation  as if 
Ms M was applying for a new interest  only mortgage in 2018. Ms M was asking for 
forbearance with an existing mortgage, which as far as Im aware was taken out before 
these regulations were  introduced. And so I dont think the regulations that Lloyds cited as 
a reason for not agreeing  an interest  only mortgage concession  applied.
Lloyds is able to consider an interest  only concession as a forbearance measure for its
mortgage customers, without the need for an affordability assessment or repayment  
vehicle, under the regulations introduced in 2014.  I think  the reason Lloyds didnt consider 
this option was because its policy is not to offer interest only concessions  to customers. But 
this wasnt the explanation  given  to Ms M, even  after she complained  about  this. And I think  
Lloyds should  have considered whether  that was the right way of helping them 
notwithstanding its policy  as the rules  require it to do, and as its now done.
Ms M asked Lloyds for help in April 2018.  She asked that it agree to put the mortgage on an 
interest only basis while she sold the property. That is, in effect, what Lloyds has now 
offered to do as an exception to its policy. I consider that Lloyds should  have looked at the 
specific circumstances of Ms M and Mr C, and agreed this action much sooner. I think if it 
had, this would have prevented a great deal of upset  for Ms M, and Mr C, over the past 
year.
I consider its reasonable that Lloyds  pay Ms M and Mr C £1,000 for the upset caused to 
them by its poor customer  service and its failure to offer support that was sensible in 
their particular financial situation.
Ref: DRN59024344Im aware that Ms M and Mr C are still trying  to sell the property. Im mindful that these are 
difficult market conditions.  The property  in question is also at the top end of the market,  in 
a rural location and may take time to sell. I dont need to remind Ms M and Mr C that while 
Lloyds has agreed  to accept lower payments for 12 months, arrears on the mortgage  will 
continue to accrue.  With every month  that passes, there is a higher mortgage balance to 
be repaid to Lloyds  when the property  is sold. Ms M and Mr C should think  carefully  about  
their financial  situation and look to repay  Lloyds in full before this 12 month  arrangement 
expires.
responses to my provisional  decision
Ms M replied to say she accepted my provisional  findings. 
Lloyds replied saying  it considered the evidence had been  misconstrued. Lloyds didnt think  
there was evidence that Ms M had ever been  told she would have to go into arrears before 
Lloyds would help her. Lloyds asked me to look again at what  evidence  there  was that 
proved Ms Ms claim that this had happened.
Lloyds said the lack of contact was because Ms M and Mr C hadnt been in touch  with them,  
not because Lloyds wouldnt help them.
Lloyds said the complaint  was not logged until 1 August 2018 and theres no evidence  a 
complaint should  have  been logged any sooner. And, Lloyds also considers the hold of 
collection activity it has placed now is effectively the same thing as has happened  by Ms M 
bringing her complaint to us anyway. Lloyds  asked me to think  again about  whether it was 
fair to award Ms M any compensation.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  In particular Ive thought carefully about 
the further comments made by Lloyds, and Ive listened to call recordings from the time 
Ms M and Mr C first started  to ask Lloyds  for help in April and May 2018.  
I can see why Lloyds  has challenged  whether  Ms M was told it couldnt  do anything  to help 
before the mortgage was in arrears.  Having listened  to the above  calls Im satisfied that this 
wasnt Lloyds message. In fact, Mr C called  Lloyds on 14 April 2018 because it had called 
him. In this call, in mid-April, Lloyds  asked Mr C what  was happening and whether there was 
anything it needed  to be aware of. Lloyds had reached out to Mr C because it was 
concerned that some  mortgage payments had been returned before being  paid later in the 
same month. Lloyds asked whether there were financial difficulties or a change  in 
circumstance that it could be aware  of and how it could help. 
However, I can see why Ms Ms experience  would  have felt very different. During  the call 
Ms M had with Lloyds  on 1 May 2018, she is told that Lloyds cant  send a form to set up a 
hold on legal action  until the payment on 1 May 2018 has been  missed. She was told the 
mortgage needed to be technically in arrears (if only by one payment for one day) before 
this form could be sent. The reason given for this is because this form is sent by the 
collections function at the bank and so can only be sent out for a mortgage account  in 
arrears. The call handler also says Lloyds process doesnt allow for this form to be emailed 
or posted first class. Ms Ms mortgage  wasnt in arrears on 1 May 2018 and so Lloyds said it 
couldnt send  her the form yet. The call handler  says she will request it the next day.
Ref: DRN59024345Lloyds explained  to Ms M why it wouldnt send the form sooner. However,  Ive thought  about  
Ms Ms position at that time, trying to sort out what should happen  next with the mortgage. I 
can see why she would  have felt frustrated by this. I can appreciate the practical reasons for 
Lloyds making this decision but Im mindful  of how this would  feel to Ms M and the upset  this 
would cause in the wider  circumstances of this case.
Overall Im satisfied that Lloyds didnt tell Ms M that it couldnt  do anything to help until the 
mortgage was in arrears.  However, I think the call on 1 May 2018 could have been handled 
better. I can see why Ms M would have  been worried  about where  this left her going forward  
with paying the mortgage having managed to get the account  on hold for one month, and 
hoping she would later receive a form in the post where she could try to get legal action put 
on hold for three months while she tried to sell her home.
Ive thought about what Lloyds has said about the compensation that Ive awarded. Lloyds 
has said it thinks no compensation should  be paid and that it hasnt acted unfairly in the way 
it treated Ms M and Mr C. Having thought carefully  about the wider  circumstances of this 
case, I still consider  that my previous award is fair and reasonable to resolve  this complaint.
I still think Lloyds should have been open to agreeing an interest  only concession to allow  
Ms Ms father to pay the interest  on the mortgage while Ms M and Mr C sold the property. It 
has now offered this while this complaint has been with us, but I think it could and should 
have offered this before. Lloyds has said that it doesnt offer interest only concessions any 
more. But I think it should be considering  what might  help its customers in financial difficulty 
on a case by case basis. In this instance, Ms Ms father will pay the interest on the mortgage 
while the property  is sold. That seems an agreeable way forward  for all parties in the short to 
medium term.
Lloyds has also said that by Ms M making a complaint to us, and Lloyds agreeing  to put a 
hold on legal  action  while we look into things, this is effectively the same thing as if it had 
agreed to put a hold on legal action for Ms M for a year in the first place. I dont agree. 
Ms M made  her complaint  as she felt Lloyds hadnt given fair consideration to an interest 
only concession on the mortgage. It is only by escalating her complaint to us that Lloyds  
then reviewed her case and reached  an agreement on a payment  arrangement  tailored for 
her particular circumstances. I dont think the last year or so would have been  easy for 
Ms M, or Mr C. Im persuaded that this complaint against Lloyds, and the uncertainty  of what 
that might  mean for her and her family, would be incredibly upsetting for Ms M. If Lloyds had 
agreed to an interest only arrangement before much of this additional upset, worry and 
inconvenience could  have been  avoided. I still consider that a compensation payment of 
£1,000 is fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances.
my final decision
My final decision is to uphold this complaint against Lloyds Bank  Plc. To settle the matter I 
direct Lloyds Bank Plc to:
-    honour its offer to let Ms M and Mr C pay £1,150 per month for the next twelve  
months (from the date of my final decision);
-    honour its offer to hold on all legal action and collection  activity over this twelve 
month period  (subject to Ms M and Mr C maintaining the payments of £1,150  per month  
during this time); and
Ref: DRN59024346-    pay Ms M and Mr C £1,000  for the upset caused  by its actions.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  30 September 2019.
Emma Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5902434