K821x#15complaint
Mrs J says Financial  Insurance  Company Limited mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy. 
background
Mrs J took out a PPI policy with a store card in 2002. She paid a monthly  amount for the 
policy. Its been agreed in this case  that FICL, as the insurer, should take responsibility for 
the complaint.  To keep things simple,  Ill refer to FICL as the seller in my decision.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. FICL disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, so the 
complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Js case.  
Having done this, Ive decided to uphold Mrs Js complaint. Ill explain why. 
FICL didnt  recommend the policy to Mrs J so it didnt have to make sure the PPI was right 
for her. But it did have  to make sure she had enough information so she could make a 
choice about whether  she wanted the policy  or not. And I dont think it gave Mrs J enough 
information.
Mrs J has told us that at the time she was sold the policy,  she had a pre-existing  medical 
condition, and I havent seen anything to persuade  me that Mrs J didnt have the condition. I 
think this is important because previous,  existing  and related conditions  are excluded from 
the policy 
Based on what Ive seen,  I dont  think Mrs J would have been able to make a successful 
claim for the condition she had suffered  from previously. I think  Mrs J wouldve seen this 
condition as a likely  reason she might  want  to make a claim under the policy. I dont think 
Mrs J wouldve bought  this policy if shed understood that she wouldnt be able to claim for it. 
So I think shes lost out because of what FICL did wrong. 
So, for the reasons mentioned above,  I uphold Mrs Js complaint.  
putting things right
FICL should put Mrs J in the position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI. The policy  
should be cancelled,  if it hasnt been  cancelled already, and FICL should:
Pay Mrs J the amount she paid each month for the PPI
Ref: DRN51252642Add simple interest to each payment from when she paid it until she gets it back. The 
rate of interest is 8% a year .
If Mrs J made a successful claim under the PPI policy, FICL can take off what she got for 
the claim from the amount it owes her.
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires  FICL to take off tax from this interest. FICL must give Mrs J a certificate 
showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mrs Js complaint.
Financial Insurance  Company Limited should  put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 July 2019.
 
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5125264