K820x#14complaint
Mrs D says she was mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) with an Etam store card 
she took out in 1996. The credit facility was provided  by a high street bank, but a company 
called Financial Insurance Company  Limited is responsible for answering Mrs Ds complaint. 
Ill therefore refer to FICL throughout this final decision.  
background
The store card was taken  out in a store and obtained by filling  out an application  leaflet. PPI 
was added on to the card and Mrs D says she doesnt remember  ever agreeing to it.
Our adjudicator has assessed this complaint and already provided a view that it shouldnt  be 
upheld. Mrs D disagreed  and so its been passed  to me for an ombudsmans  final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.  
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ds complaint.
Weve seen a number of very similar sales to this one and weve  spoken  at length to the 
company involved  to gain an understanding of the processes that were  generally used. So 
we now know consumers  were asked to fill out a form which was part of a wider  leaflet-
based application. The terms and conditions of the PPI were  included in what  the applicant 
was given to complete.  
I was sent the agreement  Mrs D filled out when she took out the card and PPI. I can see 
there was a section  on the application  leaflet about  PPI. This invited her to either  tick - or 
leave blank - an option  box to have PPI cover. 
Mrs Ds form was ticked so I think this suggests that she probably did want  PPI when she 
applied for her card. Because I also think she wouldve had access to the terms and 
conditions as Ive described above,  I think she consented to the PPI cover.  I think  shed have 
been equally  free to not have asked  for the PPI. Mrs D signed the application  form.
FICL provided a non-advised sale. This means it needed only to provide enough  clear  
information for Mrs D to decide  for herself  whether she wanted the cover. I think  FICL could 
have set out the information about  the PPI on the leaflet in a better way, but overall I do think 
Mrs D had access to enough information  to allow her to make an informed decision. 
Looking at the type of work  she did, I think Mrs D may have had some sickness protection.  
But Im afraid I dont think her level of protection affects whether the policy  was of use.
Ive also checked  that Mrs D was eligible for the cover and not caught by any of the major 
exclusions we tend to see in some of these policies. The cost of the PPI offered was 
relatively expensive,  but the benefits the policy offered gave more protection than most 
credit cards. For example, if shed become unable to work or lost her job, the PPI wouldve 
Ref: DRN58196582paid off 15% of her outstanding store card balance each month until she returned to work  or 
until all the balance was returned to zero. These benefits wouldve been  in addition to any 
other means  Mrs D had in place  at the time.
So although  I cant say why Mrs D decided to select this cover when she applied for the 
card, I think the PPI policy was something  that would have been of use to her. I think this 
could explain why she chose it on the form.
For me to uphold Mrs Ds complaint, Id need  to think it was more likely that she wasnt given 
an option or there were other serious  flaws in the way the policy was sold.  Instead,  what Ive 
seen makes me think Mrs D specifically selected  the PPI and had access nearby to the 
information she needed about the PPI policy and its rules. And I dont think  theres  evidence  
that any better  or more   information  wouldve changed how Mrs D acted. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ds complaint and I dont require Financial 
Insurance Company Limited  to do anything.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs D to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 March  2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5819658