K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs G have complained that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) mis-sold them 
mortgage payment  protection insurance (MPPI).
background
Mr and Mrs G took out a mortgage with Nationwide in 1980.  Some  years  later in 1988,       
Mr and Mrs G took out an MPPI  policy. Both parties are not certain where this policy was 
sold or who was covered  by it, whether either  Mr or Mrs G were  covered or both.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint because she thought Mr and Mrs G didnt meet  the 
eligibility criteria  within  the policy sold to them in 1988.
Nationwide have agreed to refund premiums paid by Mr and Mrs G up to 1992, when it says 
in recent  correspondence, Mr and Mrs G took out a new MPPI policy. Mr and Mrs G dont 
agree and believe they only had one policy that they took out from 1988. Our adjudicator 
agreed with this and felt the policy more likely was amended in 1992  rather  than it be a new 
policy sold to Mr and Mrs G. She thinks Nationwide should refund  all premiums paid by      
Mr and Mrs G on the cover provided, starting  in 1988 and continuing on after 1992.
Nationwide doesnt  agree with the adjudicators conclusion and thinks it should  only pay 
premiums back  to Mr and Mrs G up to 1992.  It has asked that an ombudsman  make  a final 
decision. So this complaint has been passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Gs case.
Ive decided to uphold Mr and Mrs Gs complaint  for the following reasons:
I have looked  at all of the information provided  by both parties  and I am persuaded       
Mr and Mrs G were not eligible  to benefit from the policy  when they were sold it in 1988.
I have come to this conclusion because I can see in an MPPI leaflet from March 1988 
under the heading  eligibility;  it says This scheme  is open  to any new Nationwide Anglia  
Borrower.
This means to be eligible to claim benefit  Mr and Mrs G would  have had to be new 
customers, under the terms given in Nationwides leaflet. Mr and Mrs G were  at that time 
existing customers having obtained  their mortgage several years previously in 1980.
I think it is more  likely Mr and Mrs G would have been put off from having  the policy if 
they were given clearer terms by Nationwide about the policies eligibility criteria. So I 
think Mr and Mrs G have lost out because of what Nationwide  did wrong here.  
Nationwide has already offered to pay Mr and Mrs G their premiums  back  from the date they 
took the policy in 1988 to 1992  when  it says they took out a new policy. Mr and Mrs G say 
Ref: DRN55750482they didnt take out a new policy at that point and were only sold 1 policy in 1988 and so 
should have all of the premiums back that they have paid. So as both parties dont agree I 
have looked into this. 
There is very little information  regarding what happened in 1992, and although Nationwide  
says it sold Mr and Mrs G a new policy it has not been able to provide any documentation to 
support what it has said. Mr and Mrs G also say they cannot  remember  taking out any credit  
in 1992 such as a remortgage or a further  advance so they dont believe the policy  they took 
out in 1988 ended as such.
I have read Nationwides final response letter sent to Mr and Mrs G in September  2018  and 
within it, it states additional cover  of £250 was then added later to the account in 1992 
and cover continued to run. It also said in its business file to our service  it is feasible that 
the MPC was a continuation of the MPP  policy and started straight after the MPP ended.
It has been difficult to consider what did happen  in 1992, due to a lack of documentation 
although this is understandable due to the many years that have passed.  Mr and Mrs G have 
said they cannot recall  taking  out any additional borrowing in 1992. There is also a lack of 
supporting documentation from Nationwide to support what it says along with the comments  
it initially made about the policy. So I think on balance, the MPPI  policy  is more  likely to have 
been amended  in 1992 to include additional  cover rather  than be a new policy.  So I think  
Nationwide should  pay fair compensation to include  all premiums paid by Mr and Mrs G 
beyond 1992 and up to the point the policy was cancelled.
fair compensation
Nationwide should  put Mr and Mrs G in the financial position theyd be in now if they hadnt 
taken out PPI. It needs to pay Mr and Mrs G:
The total monthly premiums Mr and Mrs G paid for the policy, and
Interest at 8% per annum simple on each of the premiums from the date each was paid 
to the date of settlement. 
If Mr and Mrs G made a successful claim under the PPI policy,  Nationwide  can take off 
what she got for the claim from the amount it owes them.
Nationwide should tell Mr and Mrs G what its done to work  out A and B.
Nationwide must  pay the compensation within 28 days  of the date on which  we tell it    
Mr and Mrs G accepts my final decision.  If it pays later than this it must also pay interest 
on the compensation from the date of my final decision  to the date of payment at 8% a 
year simple.
If Nationwide has already repaid any commission amount to Mr and Mrs G that relates to 
this PPI sale, that sum can be deducted by Nationwide from the redress shown above.
 If Nationwide  considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs  to withhold income 
tax from that interest, it should tell Mr and Mrs G how much its taken off. It should also give 
Mr and Mrs G a tax deduction certificate  if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs  if appropriate.
my final decision
Ref: DRN55750483For the reasons  Ive explained, Ive decided to uphold  Mr and Mrs Gs complaint, and require 
Nationwide Building  Society to pay Mr and Mrs G fair compensation as outlined above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  3 July 2019.
Mark Richardson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5575048