complaint
Mrs R complains that National  Westminster  Bank  Plc has allowed payments to be made 
from her cash  ISA without her authority.
background
Mrs R says that in 2018 she noticed that about £4,000 was missing from her account 
which ends in number  916. She remembers giving  £1,000 to her son in 2014 or 2015.  
But she wasnt sure if that came from her ISA or current  account.  She says she wouldnt 
have taken out any other money.
NatWest said it wouldnt  be refunding any of the withdrawals.  It said that a member of staff 
in branch had discussed these at length with Mrs R and her daughter. The cash  
withdrawals had been made using her debit card and PIN to confirm her identity at the 
branch counter.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint be upheld.  He set out all the 
transactions from Mrs Rs ISA between February  2014 and the time that the account  was 
closed in August  2018. He said that there  were a number  of cash  withdrawals. Mrs R said 
she hadnt lost her card. The withdrawals were made  in branch. Although she suspected 
a particular member of male staff of taking her money each withdrawal was processed by 
a different member of staff. And she was identified each time.  He also went  through  the 
other transfers from her ISA which had been made at a machine in branch. These  had all 
gone to accounts in Mrs Rs name, so the money  had been  retained by her. NatWest had 
shown it had been sending paper statements to Mrs Rs address and that none  had been  
returned.
Mrs R didnt agree and wanted her complaint to be reviewed. She said that she doesnt 
understand where her money  has gone  and why our investigator says it remains. She never 
intended to move money from her ISA. She doesnt understand a transfer of £12,000 the 
investigator had referred to. And she said she only spent £1,000  from the ISA during the 
time she had it. Mrs R said she hadnt  received statements. She still suspected a member  of 
staff who reacted oddly  when she mentioned  this, and she couldnt see why statements on 
her accounts  had been ordered by the branch too.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to take into account the Payment  Services  Regulations 2009 and 2017 in considering  
this complaint. These state that a payment can only be authorised  if it was consented  to. So,
Ref: DRN5356353its not enough for it to be authenticated, say with a card and PIN. And if they werent 
authorised Mrs R wouldnt generally  be responsible for them.
Im satisfied based on the available  evidence that these payments were authenticated.  
When money was withdrawn at the counter the chip on Mrs Rs debit card was read and the 
PIN entered.  So called  screen based transfers at a machine  in branch would also have 
needed the card and PIN. Those records dont exist now but Im going  to say a bit more  
below about what  I think generally about  those transfers.
Our investigator did as I mentioned above give a list of the payments from Mrs Rs ISA. I 
dont intend to repeat that here and I agree that this was the relevant list having  looked at all 
her statements.  Notably  there were five cash withdrawals over the period which came to
£3,750. Thats in line with the amount  that Mrs R says was missing.  And it is these 
withdrawals that NatWest focussed on when it looked into her complaint.
There were also some  internal transfers  to her other  accounts. I think  that these have 
confused things. Thats especially because one of the transfers  of £12,000  was made  to a 
new cash ISA in Mrs Rs name  ending in account  number 700 and opened on 23 
September 2014. That was the day after the
£12,000 was paid into her existing ISA. And that account ending 700 has since been closed 
and most  of the funds then transferred to account  ending 407 which  is another of her 
savings accounts.  This is why our investigator  said these funds remained with NatWest. And 
I agree  with him that there would be no benefit to a fraudster of moving money in 2014 to 
another account which wasnt accessed until years later.  I can also see that the other 
transfers from her ISA went to her main current account. One of these for £1,000  in October 
2015 was then withdrawn from her current account  on the same date. That might  be the one 
she remembers making for her son.
Mrs R thinks that a member of staff has taken  money from her account. She thinks  that her 
PIN could  have been seen when she entered it as the member of staff didnt look away.
And its possible it could  have been seen  in this way. But that doesnt explain how a 
member of staff would have obtained  her card each  time too and then returned it to her 
without her noticing. Shes clear she retained  that in her possession. And each of the cash  
withdrawals has been shown to have been processed by a different member of staff based 
on the transaction logs.
The first was in February 2014 and the last in March 2018. Someone who did have  access  
to Mrs Rs account would most likely have taken the money as quickly as possible 
expecting this would be detected.
NatWest says that it has been sending Mrs R copies  of her statements in the post. I cant  
resolve why she says she didnt receive them. These ought  reasonably  to have  drawn her 
attention to what was happening much earlier.
Mrs R has had a number  of accounts with NatWest.  The payments in question happened 
up to six years ago. I dont doubt she has genuine concerns and believed that shed left 
more money in this cash ISA. Ive looked  at the evidence about this and how payments 
were made. Having done so, Im not persuaded that Mrs R didnt consent  to the payments 
at the time. And my conclusion is that these were  most likely authorised by her. So, I know  
Im going  to disappoint Mrs R when I say that I dont  have  a basis  to require NatWest to 
refund any money  to her.
Ref: DRN5356353my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  22 November  2020.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5356353