K820x#14complaint
Mr P is unhappy with the way Inter Partner  Assistance  SA (IPA)  handled his claim under  
his home  emergency  insurance.
background
In February 2019  Mr P contacted his home  insurer about a leak in his home. His insurer put 
him through  to IPA who provides the home  emergency cover element of his policy.  IPA sent 
out an engineer   but the engineer explained that they couldnt do the required work 
because they were a heating  engineer and this required a plumber.  Mr P explained that he 
then experienced  a poor level of customer service  trying to organise  for someone to repair 
the issue. IPA sent out a plumber to sort out the issue, however the plumber said that 
access to the leaking  pipe was blocked and it would require contractors to create access  for 
the problem to be repaired. Mr P explained  he was without water for this time.
IPA offered  Mr P £250 towards alternative  accommodation whilst it found  the contractors to 
gain access to the leak. However  Mr P then instructed  his own plumber who found the issue  
and repaired  it.
Mr P complained that IPA didnt send competent  contractors  which  caused a delay. He 
explained he had to take two days off work to be in and the issue  should have been  repaired 
if IPA sent the right contractor to start with. He explained that as his plumber  accessed  and 
repaired the issue, it shouldve been done at the start by IPAs contractors. So Mr P wanted  
compensation for loss or earnings, costs and distress  and inconvenience.
Our investigator didnt  uphold Mr Ps complaint. He did ask whether IPA had reimbursed 
Mr P the rest of his home emergency cover limit and, after Mr P sent an invoice, IPA paid the 
remaining limit to him. But overall  our investigator explained that IPA sent out contractors  
based on what Mr P had told them when he made the claim. He also explained that if a 
contractor didnt feel they could safely do the work,  then it was right for them  to refer to other 
contractors. The investigator  also felt that it was Mr Ps choice to then instruct his own 
plumber rather than wait for the contractors to make  access  and repair  the leak. So he didnt 
think IPA had done anything wrong.
Mr P disagreed. He said he still believed  IPA shouldve sent out a contractor that could do 
everything on the first call out, and that in any event the first contractor should have told the 
second contractor  that access  was required. Mr P also said that IPA wouldnt have paid him 
the remainder of his claim limit if the investigator hadnt have asked them to. So he asked for 
an ombudsmans decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding this 
complaint. Ill explain  why.
Contractors
Ive looked at the contact notes that IPA has provided and can see that Mr P originally 
reported that the leak was coming  from a hot water pipe. IPA sent a heating  engineer  out to 
repair the problem  as they believed  it may be related  to the boiler.  Ive not seen anything  to 
suggest that IPA knew at the time that the issue would require a plumber who could access  
Ref: DRN54673742the mains. I do understand Mr Ps point  that a heating engineer  should  also be a plumber. 
But Im not an expert in this area, and if the engineer felt that the issue  was beyond their 
remit of expertise as the leak wasnt in the place they had been told then I think  it was fair for 
them to explain they couldnt help. Whilst it was unfortunate, I dont think  IPA did anything  
wrong here.
Ive also considered Mr Ps point  that that first contractor should  have  informed the second 
about the access issue. I agree that this would have been helpful,  but the first contractor 
decided they couldnt do the job and so a plumber  was sent in. It was this plumber who then 
assessed the situation and felt that access  needed  to be made by contractors first. Overall it 
doesnt appear that this was a simple  issue, and I dont think that IPA has done anything  
wrong here.  The contractor didnt  feel they could gain access  safely without assistance, and 
IPA immediately attempted  to find the assistance  required, as well as offering Mr P some 
money to claim for alternative accommodation. But Mr P decided he wanted  to instruct  
someone himself and go through his home insurance.
Whilst the plumber  Mr P instructed was able to access the leak and complete the repair, I 
dont think this means IPAs contractors  were wrong to say they couldnt  access the leak 
without assistance.  The contractors were sent to find and stop a leak, but if expertise were 
required to access the leaking  pipe then I dont think it is fair to say that the contractors 
werent competent.
Financial Loss
Mr P explained that he had to take two days off work  to be there for the contractors  who 
didnt repair  the leak. I understand  that this must  have been frustrating, but Mr Ps policy has 
an exclusion  which says that time off work  will not be covered. And as I dont think it was 
IPAs fault that the issue wasnt repaired by the first two contractors I dont think it would be 
fair or reasonable  to ask it to pay Mr P for these days.
I can understand that this has been  a frustrating experience for Mr P, but IPA sent out 
contractors to attempt  to find and fix the leak. The contractors  explained  why they werent 
able to do this. So I dont think IPA has done something wrong. I can see that it has 
reimbursed Mr P for the remaining limit on his cover   as IPA applied the call out fees to his 
cover limit. And even  if IPA provided  the contractor to gain access these call out fees would 
still be applied, so I dont  think  Mr P is in any different  position  than if he hadnt instructed his 
own plumber. So I dont  think  it needs  to do anything more. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 October  2019.
Charlotte Wilson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5467374