K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs H bring  this complaint, with the consent  of the Official Receiver in relation to 
Mr Hs bankruptcy. They  complain about two secured business loans they took out with The 
Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) in 2008 and 2009. 
Mr and Mrs H say the properties they bought  with the loans were hugely  over-valued,  and 
RBS is responsible for that. Following the sale of the mortgaged  properties, a shortfall was 
left of almost  £200,000.  
Mr and Mrs H also say RBS handled their case badly overall. In particular, its communication  
with them  was poor, and it took too long to sell their properties, running  up costs in the 
meantime. 
background
In 2008, Mr and Mrs H bought a new-build property on a holiday development to be used as 
a holiday let and, around a year later, they bought another. They took advice from a broker,  
and on their advice  financed both purchases by way of business  term loans  with RBS. 
The 2008  loan  which Ill call loan  1  was for £94,860 over a 25-year term. The 2009  loan 
 which  Ill call loan 2  was for £92,295,  also over a 25-year term. The properties  the loans 
were secured on were  valued at £124,000 and £120,000 respectively.  
Mr and Mrs H say they never made enough  from letting the properties to cover the costs of 
owning them. In early  2014, Mr Hs business  went into liquidation and Mr and Mrs H were  
struggling financially. They were  in arrears with the loan payments, and also had arrears  of 
around £18,000 with the property management company for ground rent and service 
charges. In 2015,  Mr H was made  bankrupt.
RBS saw the rent and service charge arrears  as a risk to its security  as the lease could be 
forfeit if they werent paid  so it paid them. In late 2014, because  of the arrears on the 
loans, RBS sent Mr and Mrs H formal demands  for repayment of both loans. No repayment 
plans were agreed and, in July 2015,  RBS appointed Law of Property  Act receivers  to 
manage the properties. 
In September  2015, the receivers  arranged for both properties to be valued. Both were 
valued at £27,000, with a recommended asking  price of £35,000. In early  2016, the 
properties were put on the market, for £40,000 each. The property Mr and Mrs H had bought 
with loan 1 was sold for £36,250 in July 2016,  and the property bought with loan 2 sold for 
£33,000 in January 2017.
Soon afterwards, debt recovery  agents  acting for RBS wrote to Mrs H saying they may take 
court action if she didnt  arrange to pay a debt of just over £180,000. Mrs H asked what this 
was all about. She said she had heard nothing from RBS about  the loans in question for two 
years, and she had had no information  about the sale of the properties or how she had come  
to owe as much as RBS appeared  to be claiming. She asked  for details of what the debt was 
made up of and how the properties had come  to be sold for what  must have been  far less 
than she and Mr H had paid for them. She also said the properties must have been valued  
wrongly when the loans  were agreed.
Ref: DRN59727502RBS said it had instructed  an independent surveyor to value the properties before it granted 
the loans. It was entitled rely on the surveyors valuations.  However,  given the amounts the 
properties sold for, it now thought the original  valuations might have been  wrong   but it was 
too late to do anything about that  and the recent marketing and sale of the properties had 
been appropriate.
RBS also said the fees and charges it had added to the loans were correct,  and included the 
costs of the receivers it had appointed. It accepted it hadnt told Mrs H about the shortfall 
following the sale of the properties,  or that it was instructing solicitors to recover  the debt. It 
apologised, sent Mrs H £250, and said it would waive solicitors fees charged since  February 
2017  which is when it had appointed solicitors to recover  the debt.
Mrs H wasnt happy with this or about  the initial valuations which she said RBS had now 
accepted were wrong and which she and Mr H had paid for and relied on. Mr and Mrs H 
didnt accept that the values of the properties  could have fallen by more than 70% in just 7-8 
years  given improvements on the site and rises  in prices in the wider  property  market.
One of our investigators  looked into the matter. He concluded that we could consider this 
complaint, even though the loans  had been  taken out and the original valuations  done some  
ten years  earlier, in 2008 and 2009.  RBS agreed. The investigator also concluded that RBS 
had done enough to put things right by paying Mrs H £250 compensation and waiving some 
fees. He didnt consider he could hold it responsible for what had turned out to be a bad 
investment. 
Mr and Mrs H asked for a review. They said they still thought  the initial valuations on the 
properties  which they had paid for and on which they had relied  were negligent, and that 
they had been poorly  treated overall.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear that Mr and Mrs H are in a difficult situation and they feel very strongly about this 
matter. They  have  explained the circumstances  in which they came to buy the properties in 
question here and take out the loans. They think the whole set-up is suspicious,  with RBS 
financing the property development and many  of the property purchases on the site. I can 
assure them Ive read everything theyve said  including about the wider circumstances. My 
remit, however, is to consider their complaint about RBS on its individual  merits. Its not for 
me to make a finding about any overall involvement RBS might have had with the 
development or other  borrowers.
Ill deal with Mr and Mrs Hs main complaint point  first and then move  on to the others.
the initial valuations
Mr and Mrs H say the properties were wildly over-valued, they paid for the valuations and 
they relied on them  and they consider RBS responsible for the resulting  losses.
The properties were  valued at significantly more  in 2008 and 2009 than they were just a few 
years later in 2015. Importantly, though,  the purpose of the valuations wasnt  to satisfy  Mr 
and Mrs H of the value of what  they were buying.  And in instructing the valuations RBS 
Ref: DRN59727503wasnt acting for Mr and Mrs H  even though Mr and Mrs H paid for them.  The valuations 
were for RBS, so it could  decide whether and on what terms it would lend. It was for Mr and 
Mrs H to instruct their own surveyor if they wanted their own valuation.
I would expect RBS to have instructed a suitably  qualified surveyor   such as a surveyor 
registered with the Royal Institute of Chartered  Surveyors (RICS)  to carry out the 
valuation. Im satisfied that RBS did that. The surveyor here was registered with RICS. So I 
find RBS was entitled to rely on the valuation  in deciding  to lend to Mr and Mrs H. This 
doesnt mean it takes on liability for the surveyors valuation  or what  he put in his report, and 
I dont have the power to consider a complaint about  the surveyor.
I must also bear in mind that Mr and Mrs H were buy-to-let investors. As such, they would  
generally be expected to be more  commercially astute than a consumer buying a residential 
property to live in. The Court of Appeal has held that a lenders surveyor owes no duty of 
care to a buy-to-let investor  (Scullion v Bank  of Scotland [2011] EWCA Civ 693).
Mr and Mrs H have referred  to protection they believe  they should receive under the 
Consumer Rights Act 2015. The Act doesnt apply  here  firstly because they entered into 
the contracts  before the Act came  into force,  but also because, as Ive said,  they werent  
acting as consumers  in taking out these loans. They were  a partnership  taking  out business 
loans. This was a commercial transaction.
For these reasons, I cant uphold this complaint  on the basis  that RBS is responsible for the 
valuations of the properties at the outset. RBS instructed an appropriately qualified  surveyor 
and relied on their valuations for its own purposes in deciding  whether to lend. It didnt lead 
Mr and Mrs H to believe that the valuations were for their benefit  as well, or that they could 
rely on them in deciding whether to make these  investments. Thats  what Id expect a lender  
to do.
communication
Mr and Mrs H have said there was a general lack of communication from RBS and its 
agents, and they were  kept in the dark about  what was going on. RBS has accepted there 
were failings and has paid £250 to Mrs H and waived  some fees.
Ive looked carefully  at RBSs records of contact with Mr and Mrs H. I think  it gave them  
enough notice  of the action it might take if repayment arrangements  couldnt be agreed  and 
that they would have  to pay any resulting costs. It also wrote to Mr and Mrs H in July and 
August 2015,  telling them it had appointed  Law of Property Act receivers to take control of 
the properties and oversee their management and sale, and providing  the receivers  contact 
details. The terms of the loans entitled  RBS to appoint receivers  and to add the resulting 
costs to the loans.
There are notes of various calls on RBSs records, including one from Mrs H following 
receipt of its August  2015  letter about the appointment of receivers.  Its records  say Mrs H 
told it she had also spoken  to the receivers. There is also a note of a call with Mr H in 
January 2016,  in which he said he was unhappy with the price the properties were  being 
marketed at.
Overall, I think RBS made Mr and Mrs H aware of what  was happening, and I dont think  
there was unreasonable delay in instructing receivers or putting the properties on the 
market. I should add that receivers appointed under the Law of Property  Act 1925  (as the 
Ref: DRN59727504receivers were  here)  act for the borrower  rather than for the lender (under s.109 of the Act). 
Theyre not covered  by the Financial Ombudsman  Service. So if Mr and Mrs H are unhappy 
with the receivers  actions, they would  need  to take that up with them.
I think there was a lack of contact following the sale of the properties, but RBS has done 
enough to put right the costs arising from that and the impact  on Mrs H. 
costs and the sale of the properties
RBS paid various costs  involved  in maintaining and protecting the properties,  including  
ground rent, service charges, and insurance.  This was to protect its security as far as 
possible, and the loan terms provided for this. RBS was entitled  to recover those costs  from 
Mrs H (but not from Mr H because of his bankruptcy), along with legal  and receivers  costs. I 
havent seen anything to indicate that RBS has charged Mrs H for anything it shouldnt  have. 
It has explained that it applied the various costs  and fees to the loan with the lowest interest 
rate, and the sale proceeds of both properties  to the loan with the highest interest  rate, so 
Mrs H hasnt been disadvantaged as a result of the way in which the credits and debits have 
been applied.
In selling the properties, RBS should have tried to get the best possible price for them, but 
also to sell them as quickly as reasonably possible to stop arrears and costs mounting up. 
Both properties went on the market in January 2016. One took around  six months for a sale 
to complete and the other a year. 
I think RBS acted reasonably in the sales. The properties were independently valued and 
marketed. They were  marketed at slightly higher prices than those on the latest valuations in 
an attempt to get more for them, and there were some negotiations with buyers which 
pushed up the sale price of one the properties. The receivers correspondence with RBS 
shows that the restrictions on use of the properties as holiday homes and the high service 
charges affected  the sale prices. There were some  price reductions, and delays caused by 
buyers withdrawing offers. Its apparent that other similar properties  were selling for similar 
amounts at the time.  Mr and Mrs H have also said they think the properties true value was 
around the amount they went  on to sell for.
Overall, I find RBS did what it could to get the best price for the properties, and I dont think  it 
took an unreasonably long time to sell them in the circumstances.  
conclusion
I recognise that Mr and Mrs Hs buy-to-let investments didnt turn out as they had hoped. 
But, for the reasons Ive explained  and given the limits on my jurisdiction, I cant fairly require 
RBS to compensate  them  or write  off any of the debt.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 April 2021.
Janet Millington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5972750