K820x#14complaint
S, a business partnership  run by two partners,  has complained about  how its bank HSBC UK 
Bank Plc (the bank) responded to requests for help when S experienced financial  
difficulties. 
background
One of the partners suffered a serious injury.  S was in debt to the bank and anticipated 
problems in meeting  repayments in the months  ahead. So S asked the bank for help. 
S wasnt happy with how the bank responded to its requests and complained.  The bank 
didnt think it had acted  wrongly, except in one respect for which  it paid S £200  
compensation. S didnt accept this was enough  and came to the ombudsman service.
Our investigator didnt  uphold Ss complaint. In brief, he concluded the bank had been 
sympathetic and had provided help to S in its difficulties and paid adequate compensation 
for its shortcomings. He thought the bank was entitled to payment of the debt arrears and to 
take the steps required to achieve this. 
S didnt  accept the investigators conclusions. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im sorry to disappoint S but Ive come to 
broadly the same conclusions as the investigator and for similar reasons. Theres  little I wish 
to add.
I dont minimise the difficulties the partners have  faced. But part of fairness  is, I feel, to look 
at things in the round.  While the bank  was guilty of some shortcomings - for which I too think  
fair compensation has already been paid  the bank was overall sympathetic to S and 
indeed agreed  to set up three concessionary payment plans, which involved charges and 
interest being waived and collections calls ceasing. Its only fair to set this in the balance  
against the respects in which the bank  fell short of what might reasonably have been 
expected.
On the latter  point, I think fairness  also involves not setting impossibly high standards. The 
question I ask in these situations  is whether the bank acted reasonably  towards S, not 
whether it acted perfectly at all times.  On the whole, I think  the bank  treated  S 
sympathetically and well, and I dont think any further compensation is due.
As the investigator  noted, the bank paid compensation for certain misleading information 
given to S. I think that was right and fair. Like the investigator, I too think  this compensation 
suffices for any other instances  where the bank  fell short in its dealings with S. 
my final decision
I consider HSBC UK Bank  Plc has already paid S enough compensation. I dont uphold Ss 
complaint. 
Ref: DRN58822932Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 March  2020.
Roger Yeomans
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5882293