K820x#14complaint
Mr Es complaint is that the trading platform for his Financial Spreads  (FS)   an appointed 
representative (and trading name) of FINSA Europe Ltd. (FINSA)   trading account unfairly 
prevented him from closing two trades  on 6 July 2015 despite  the availability of a market 
(and prices)  to do so. FINSA  says the platform operated  fairly  and as it was supposed to, 
based on its terms of service and given  the state  of the market on the day.
background
Mr E has explained as follows:
He held two German DAX based short positions  which he sought to close in the 
morning of 6 July, when the available prices were in favour of the positions.
Between three and four minutes  after the market opened  he made  his first attempt 
on the platform to close  the positions;  his trade was suspended, pending execution, 
and then a message  was returned to say it could not be executed;  the available 
prices remained in favour of the positions (and actually some  points better  than 
before) so he made a second trade  attempt,  but had the same experience.
He then telephoned FS to have the matter addressed.  The delay this caused  is at the 
crux of his complaint. Time was lost in the course of him having to call FS, get 
identified and give instructions to execute  his orders  and to compound this, he then 
learnt that the official he had spoken  to had not performed  the execution  he said he 
had. By the time his orders were  eventually executed, the price had gone against  his 
positions and he had lost money.
There was a liquid market for his trades  at the relevant times; that market was not 
extraordinarily volatile  or disrupted  in any way; there was no reason why his online 
trades should not have been executed when he placed them and at the price(s) he 
sought to match  (or at the nearest available price(s))  FS was required to do this 
under section 6.5 of its terms of service;  his trades should have been treated in a 
manner akin to stop loss orders; in the alternative, he should  have been given online 
price requotes for them; and if, as FS/FINSA  has since suggested, there  were  issues 
with online executions  at the time the platform should have signposted  him to place 
trades by telephone  (in which case he would have saved time by placing a telephone 
trade(s) at the outset)   the platform did not do that.
FS platform was unfit for purpose;  and evidence of trading activity undertaken by FS 
competitors at the relevant time shows  that those other  firms platforms would have 
executed his trades.
FINSAs position  based on FS response to the matter in 2015 and then a response to the 
complaint in 2019  is mainly as follows:
Mr E had an execution only trading account  and he agreed to the relevant terms of 
service in the course of opening  it.
The result  of the Greek debt bailout  referendum was declared  on 6 July 2015; the 
result produced the potential exit of Greece  from the European Union and market 
uncertainty in this context; it meant  the opening  of markets (including the DAX index) 
on this date was not normal   as the markets  reacted to this news event;  the DAX 
index opened  with notable volatility on this day and its first three minutes  of trading 
showed a price range across nearly 80 points; prices were available  so the 
situation did not warrant greying out the market on its platform   but they were 
Ref: DRN58712562moving so fast and in a wide range that trades could not be reliably executed without  
manual verification of accurate execution prices, hence Mr Es platform experience.
Mr Es reference to section 6.5 and to the notion  of executing trades at the nearest 
available price  did not apply to his trade;  his online trade(s) was placed  to be 
executed at a particular price on a fill or kill basis, whereby a trade is either 
executed at the set price or, if that price  is not available, it is rejected; that this did not 
allow for price slippage; the price(s) set in his online  trade(s) was not replicated in the 
underlying, due to volatility  and the wide price range, at the time(s) it was placed.
Its audit trail shows that, in terms of timings, there was a total of five minutes of 
waiting time on Mr Es part before he eventually closed the two trades; his closure 
instructions were not clear when he telephoned FS on the day.
The relevant  terms of service support FS/FINSAs position.
One of our investigators  looked into the complaint.  He considered  FINSAs points to be 
broadly plausible but queried further about  evidence of the platform  prices at the exact times 
Mr E placed  his online trades and about  the dramatic price movements it referred to. FINSA 
said it no longer had the relevant price  feed record, due to the passage of time (around  five 
years) since the event. It provided  tick data for the DAX index (the relevant time period on 
6 July 2015)  from a Liquidity Provider which showed price differences of up to 36.5 points 
per second  which would have been 18 times  its price tolerance level of two points per 
second  hence the need for manual price verification as it explained.
The investigator accepted FINSAs explanation  and concluded that the complaint should not 
be upheld. He noted that no stop loss had been set by Mr E so the comparison he made in 
this respect was not fair. He also referred to provisions in the terms of service stating that 
trades are executed  if market conditions permit and that trades might not be executed  where 
the underlying  market  is disrupted.
Mr E disagreed with this outcome.  In the main,  he argued that after the first three minutes of 
the markets opening the tick data evidence did not show the volatility  and dramatic price  
range asserted by FINSA;  that the alleged price tolerance level of two points per second is 
not stated in the terms of service; that reference  to the term about  market disruption is 
misguided because  the market was not disrupted (and, at best, the term is unclear so it 
should therefore be interpreted in his favour); that section  6.5 remains most relevant to (and 
supportive of) his complaint.
The matter  was referred to an ombudsman.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
A number  of key points  and issues have been  addressed in the complaint thus far. My 
conclusions on them (and the complaint) are as follows:
Mr E is correct  in saying that the tick data evidence does not show  dramatic  volatility  
or a dramatic price range  in the way that FINSA described  after three minutes of 
market opening;  that the terms of service do not state the price tolerance  policy  of 
two points per second; that the platform did not signpost him to place his trade by 
telephone; and that an interpretation of section 6.5 is that it describes execution of 
Ref: DRN58712563trades at nearest  available  prices. However,  for the reasons given  below, none  of 
these points establish merit in his complaint.
We have been given a copy of the telephone call recording that features Mr E calling 
FS after his two failed  online  trading  attempts.  We have also been given a 
spreadsheet record showing that his first online trading attempt  was at 3 minutes  55 
seconds after the market opened  and his second attempt was at 4 minutes 49 
seconds after the market opened.  
During the call, first, Mr E identified his account  and referred to his difficulty in 
executing the trades  online (initially some of what he says is inaudible then he is 
clearer and can be heard referring to one of the trades  later he refers  to having 
more than one to close); he was told that volatility at the opening  of the market  had 
put prices beyond FS price tolerance, hence  the lack of online execution, and that 
this had affected others; he was given the option of trying again online or taking a 
quote during the telephone call; he opted  to try again online whilst he was on the call; 
the FS official then confirmed that his attempt (for one of the two trades)  was 
successful; the official  also pointed out to him that the position already had a linked 
stop order attached to it so in Mr Es earlier attempt to close it that order was 
triggered and was awaiting a fill (based on its setting); the call then ends, without    
Mr E referring to or seeking  assistance  with the second position; it is also noteworthy  
that there appeared to be a lack of urgency to trade on his part  that is, the sort of 
urgency that can be expected from a pursuit  to trade  at a particular time and price  
level  during the call, he did not accept the officials offer to quote/deal over the 
phone (and instead  chose  to make a third attempt  online,  despite the two earlier 
unsuccessful attempts) and he did not seek the officials  help with the second trade 
(it appears that he executed that online after the call).
The price tolerance  policy needed  not have been  explicitly within  the terms of service  
in order to exist and in order to have  been legitimately applied. FS was entitled to an 
internal operational (including  dealing)  protocol, policy and/or practice and to apply 
them in the course  of its business. Its terms of service were unlikely to reflect all 
aspects of its day to day operations and the management of those operations.  The 
price tolerance policy appears  to have sat in this context  and, in the absence of 
conflict between the policy  and the terms relied  upon and agreed to by Mr E, I do not 
consider it unreasonable. The policy sought to address  FS operation in the event of 
volatile or unreliable  prices and that was a reasonable thing to do.
As Mr E has argued, the market began to settle  by the time it passed its third and 
fourth minutes. The tick data evidence  supports  this. However,  as the official told him 
during the call, the lack of online  execution was the platforms  reaction to the 
dramatic volatility and price range (and therefore  price unreliability) from the opening 
of the market. That dramatic volatility and price range   as described by FINSA and 
supported by the tick data evidence (and additional evidence from Bloomberg that 
was submitted)  happened from the opening  of the market and for the next two to 
three minutes. FS fairly took measures  to ensure online  dealing did not take place if 
online prices were  unreliable. 
On balance, I do not consider it implausible  or unreasonable that the measures 
limiting online execution for the first two to three  minutes of the market  and for good 
(proven) reasons  during this period   continued  into the late third and fourth minutes, 
even though the market  had begun to settle in this latter  period. It can now be said, 
with hindsight, that the market began to settle (for a period) from the late third minute 
however this would  not have been  known or certain at the time  so, as it appears, 
the  measures  quite reasonably extended to the latter period.
The balance of evidence   including the telephone  recording  also shows that the 
order setting for Mr Es trades contributed to the difficulty he faced in closing them. 
Ref: DRN58712564He did not dispute the officials comment in this respect  during  the telephone call 
recording  so, on balance, I consider  that he understood the point the official  was 
making. This is broadly consistent with FINSAs  complaint rebuttal point in which it 
says pricing for the trades could not be slipped due to their order  price setting(s). In 
this context, Mr Es reference  to section 6.5 becomes  redundant, as the notion  of 
nearest available price  appears to have been  inapplicable  to his trades.
I have not seen evidence that FS platform should have sign-posted Mr E to 
telephone dealing. As FINSA said, prices were  available  but they were volatile at 
opening, so it does not appear that the platform was defunct.  It should also be noted 
that, as mentioned above, Mr E used the platform (eventually) to execute  both trades 
 when prices appear to have become reliable and less volatile.
FS was not bound by how its competitors were  executing trades at the relevant time. 
I understand Mr Es comparison in this respect  but it does not establish merit in his 
complaint.
Overall, on balance and for the reasons given above  I am not persuaded to uphold Mr Es 
complaint.
my final decision
I do not uphold  the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im 
required to ask Mr E to accept or reject my decision before 12 July 2020.
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN5871256