K820x#14complaint
Mr S is unhappy that American International Group UK Limited (AIG)  refused to give cover  
under his travel insurance policy for his pre-existing medical conditions.
background
Ms S had a joint packaged bank account  with his wife. They  paid a monthly  fee and received 
a number of benefits, which included annual  travel insurance through AIG. Early  last year 
Mr S says he received  a letter  that mentioned the insurance, so he called AIG to check  on 
his cover.  He and his wife completed the medical  screening process, each  disclosing  one or 
more existing medical conditions. AIG subsequently  confirmed  that both Mr S and his wife 
were eligible  for the policy. But, while it would provide cover for Ms Ss medical conditions,  it 
would not cover any claims arising from Mr Ss existing medical conditions.
AIG said the risk posed by the number of medical  conditions Mr S had declared was over its 
acceptable scoring threshold, and this meant  none of his conditions could be covered. Nor was 
there an option for Mr S to pay an additional  premium in order  to get cover for those conditions.
Mr S wasnt  happy with AIGs explanation  and asked us to look into his complaint. But our 
investigator didnt  think  AIG had treated  Mr S unfairly. He disagreed,  so the complaint has 
come to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding it and 
Ill explain  why.
I should also note that Mr S has made  quite detailed  submission to us about  his complaint 
and has criticised the investigator  for not addressing all of his questions. With that in mind, if 
I havent commented on a particular point,  this doesnt mean I havent  considered  it. Im not 
required to respond  to each and every  question, but instead Ive concentrated on the main  
issues and what I believe to be the crux of the complaint.
When deciding how much to charge for their policies or whether to offer cover at all, insurers  
will assess how likely it is their policyholders will make a claim and how much they might 
have to pay out. And each insurer will go about that in its own way. 
We dont interfere with how an insurer assesses risk or determines which  risks its willing to 
take, so long as theres nothing which suggests  its treating  a particular customer  or group of 
customers unfairly or differently to the rest of its customers. I should also confirm that AIG 
doesnt need to share  with Mr S the background behind, or justify why, its made certain  
decisions about those  risks or the agreement it reached with the bank to offer cover  to its 
packaged account holders. This type of information  is commercially sensitive. But AIG has 
shared information  with me about its underwriting criteria and am satisfied that its been  
applied correctly in Mr Ss case.  I should also point out that the rules under which we 
operate (set out in the DISP section  of the Financial  Conduct Authoritys handbook) allow  me 
to accept evidence  in confidence.
Ref: DRN57579742As AIG explained  to Mr S, its decision to offer cover for existing medical  conditions  works on 
an accumulative basis and the evidence Ive seen shows that the number  of conditions he 
declared exceeded their tolerance. His wife, on the other hand, declared  only one medical 
condition and AIG were  willing to cover any claims arising from that. 
I appreciate Mr S says his medical conditions were  either historic  or under control with 
medication. And other  insurers may have  been  willing to offer him full cover.  But that doesnt  
mean AIG shouldve offered to cover him. As Ive said, they have set a point at which  they 
believe the risk of cover to be too high and Im satisfied Mr S has been treated no less 
favourably than any other customer in similar circumstances. 
Once AIG were made aware  of Ms Ss medical  conditions it confirmed what  cover was 
available and gave  him the choice about  whether or not to continue with the policy. Mr S 
says AIGs policy is worthless and it would have been irresponsible to go on holiday without  
cover for his medical conditions. But, as AIG explained, the policy  provided cover  for other 
things. I also note Mr S says he already had cover elsewhere and had never tried to claim on 
this policy  as he says he didnt know it existed until he received the recent letter  that 
prompted him to contact  AIG. Ultimately,  it was for Mr S to decide whether he was happy 
with the cover AIG was offering or whether  he wanted to seek more comprehensive cover 
elsewhere. If he remains unhappy that hes been  paying for a packaged bank account which 
afforded a travel  insurance policy that he didnt value, then that might be a complaint we can 
consider separately  against the bank.
Mr S also says its unfair that, when applying for insurance in future,. he will now have to 
declare that hes been declined cover, or had exclusions  applied. But I think AIG made clear, 
before Mr S gave them permission to undertake the medical screening, that they were  not 
guaranteed to offer full cover. He wont have to declare  in future  that he has had cover 
declined because that hasnt happened in this case. And whether or not hell have to 
disclose the exclusions  depends on what questions he gets asked when he applied  for 
insurance in future, which can vary between insurers. What is likely is that hell have to 
disclose any medical  conditions he still suffers from or for which he is being treated. Thats 
fairly standard when applying for travel insurance   the Consumer Insurance Disclosure and 
Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA) sets out the insurers and customers roles  and includes 
the customers responsibility to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when 
applying for insurance.
In light of the above, I dont think AIG acted  inappropriately or that its actions  unfairly 
disadvantaged Mr S in any way.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 May 2020.
Ruth Hersey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5757974