K820x#14complaint
Ms A says Financial Insurance  Company  Limited  (FICL) mis-sold her a regular payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy to cover her store  card repayments.
background
Ms A took out a store  card, sometime after in 2002  Ms A was sold a PPI policy over the 
phone to cover her card repayments. The policy cost £1 per £100  of the balance on Ms As 
store card. A successful  claim on the policy wouldve paid 15% of the outstanding balance 
on the store card if Ms A was unable to work due to accident or sickness  or lost her job. The 
benefit would continue to be paid until Ms A returned to work.
Our adjudicator didnt  think Ms As complaint  should  be upheld because  she thought the 
policy wouldve provided a useful benefit  to Ms A.
Ms A disagrees. She says it was added without her knowledge or consent.   
So the complaint has come  to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint  weve  set out our general approach to
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding
this case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Ms As complaint.
The sale took place  over 15 years ago so unsurprisingly  there  is very little information 
available from the time of sale. So Ive had to proceed on the basis of what information  I 
have and what I think is most likely to have happened.
FICL had to make it clear to Ms A that she had a choice in taking the policy.  The policy  was 
sold over the phone.  From what we know of FICLs sales process and call scripts I think  its 
likely that the sales  adviser wouldve explained  to Ms A she had a choice in taking the policy.  
And because the policy  was sold after the store card was taken out I think its likely Ms A 
wouldve known she had a choice in taking it and the policy was taken because  she chose to 
take it.
I dont think FICL advised Ms A to buy the policy. What this means  is that FICL didnt 
recommend PPI to Ms A, they just gave her information about  PPI. This information needed 
to be given in a way that was clear, fair and not misleading so she could make an informed 
choice about buying PPI.
Ref: DRN53521752I cant say whether FICL gave all the information as they shouldve.  That being  said even if 
FICL did give all the information  Ms A needed to make an informed choice on taking out the 
policy, I think she wouldve still taken the policy because at the time of sale:
Ms A was eligible  for the PPI and it doesnt look like she wouldve been  caught by any of 
the main exclusions  in the terms and conditions of the policy  which couldve made  it 
difficult to make  a successful claim.
At the time of the sale Ms A says she had a good  level of sick pay and her partner 
wouldve been  able to help with the repayments  if she couldnt  work or lost her job. But 
theres no guarantee her partner would be able to help and the policy  wouldve paid out 
on top of this and her sick pay. So I think the policy  wouldve provided  a useful benefit 
for Ms A in her circumstances.  
Theres nothing to suggest the policy wasnt affordable to Ms A and if she no longer 
wanted the policy she was able to cancel it. 
So I dont  think it wouldve made a difference in how the information was given to Ms A on 
the PPI. I think she wouldve still taken out the PPI policy  as it suited her needs and was of 
value to her.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained I do not uphold Ms As complaint against Financial Insurance 
Company Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 September  2019.  
Caroline Davies
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5352175