K821x#15complaint
Mr B complains about the way Advanced Payment Solutions Limited  handled things when 
he tried unsuccessfully  to make a cash machine withdrawal. Advanced  Payment Solutions 
Limited trades as Cashplus.  
background
Mr B tried to withdraw £250 from a cash machine on the evening of 3 May. He said the cash  
wasnt released and so he contacted Cashplus.  He was told that he would have to wait until 
the cash machine  operator (which wasnt Cashplus) had got in touch. Mr B explained that he 
was blind and that he needed the money  to pay for his accommodation. 
Cashplus told Mr B that he would need to complete a dispute form before it could reclaim the 
money. He was given  a number to contact to discuss what arrangements Cashplus should 
put in place to ensure that he could continue to operate his account, given his different 
needs. 
In the meantime, Mr B contacted this service,  and we asked Cashplus to look into things. By 
this point, Mr B had contacted Cashplus several  times. 
On 21 June Cashplus refunded the transaction, and paid Mr B a small amount  in recognition 
of the trouble hes been put to. Cashplus itself received the money back  from the cash  
machine operator  a few weeks later. Mr B didnt think  though that Cashplus had done 
enough and one of our investigators considered what had happened. 
Since the money had by then been  refunded, the investigator focused on the way Cashplus 
had dealt with Mr B during his telephone calls. Having listened to them, she didnt  feel that 
the calls had been handled at all well. Mr B was, she said, clearly distressed at having  lost 
the money he needed to pay his rent, and explained that he was homeless and without food. 
She felt that Cashplus could have tried to speed  up the process. 
During the calls Mr B felt he was being discriminated against, as Cashplus was asking him to 
complete forms. The response was that, as hed signed up to online banking,  that wasnt  the 
case. He was also told that hed need  to get someone to help him complete the forms if he 
couldnt do that himself.  The investigator  noted too that many  of the call notes didnt reflect  
what had happened  in the calls.
The investigator recommended  that Cashplus pay Mr B a further £300 in recognition of the 
distress hed suffered.  
Cashplus didnt agree to the investigators  recommendation. It said that it was receiving 
emails from Mr B about the complaint, so it wasnt unreasonable to provide him with 
information by email about how he could  obtain  further assistance with his accessibility 
needs. It pointed  out that Mr B had only opened the account less than a month  earlier,  so it 
hadnt had the opportunity to discuss his needs. As Cashplus didnt accept the investigators 
recommendations, the case was passed to me to determine  as the final stage in our 
process.         
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN52331652I understand Cashpluss point that it refunded the payment before getting confirmation  from 
the cash machine  owner that it would  itself repay  the money. That meant  that Mr B got his 
money back a little sooner than might otherwise  have been the case. And I think Cashplus 
was entitled to check what had happened at the cash machine before agreeing to anything; 
that required the cooperation of the cash machine operator. 
But I agree  with the investigator that Cashplus seemed a little inflexible in its approach. It 
could have started the dispute process without a form sooner  than it did, and it wasnt  
flexible either in its approach to Mr Bs accessibility needs. And I share  the investigators 
view about the manner of some  of the telephone exchanges.
I do think that a further payment is warranted here.  And, whilst I take the view that the 
investigators recommendation was a little on the generous side,  Im not minded to change it. 
my final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that, in order to resolve Mr Bs complaint, Advanced  
Payment Solutions Limited should pay him a further £300. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or reject my decision before 
30 November 2019.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5233165