K821x#15complaint
Mr A complains that Southern Rock Insurance Company Limited paid another drivers claim 
made on his motor insurance policy. Hes also unhappy with its level of service.  He wants his 
No Claims Discount (NCD) restored and compensation  for his time and trouble pursuing  the 
complaint. 
background
Mr A was involved  in an accident  with another  driver.  But he said Southern Rock hadnt 
sufficiently investigated  the other drivers  claim  for damage and personal injuries  before  
settling the claim. This had affected his NCD and potential future premiums. He was also 
unhappy that Southern  Rock hadnt kept him informed  about the claim. 
Southern Rock apologised for not keeping Mr A updated but it said this hadnt  affected the 
outcome of his claim. It said it had challenged aspects of the other drivers claim and settled 
it on the best possible terms, as it was entitled to do under the policy  terms and conditions.  
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld.  She thought Southern 
Rock had rejected  part of the other drivers  claim as fraudulent. So she thought  it should  
have challenged  the exaggerated claim and not doing this had potentially prejudiced Mr A. 
She thought  Southern Rock should  either  restore Mr As NCD. Or, if hed made a claim for 
his damages,  then it should give him a letter saying that it had incurred costs through not 
properly defending the claim and also record this on external databases.  She also thought  
Southern Rock should pay Mr A £150 compensation for the trouble and upset caused by its 
handling of his claim.
Southern Rock replied that it had considered the fraud allegations  carefully. It thought there  
was insufficient  evidence to risk taking the case to court. It asked for an ombudsmans 
review, so the complaint had come to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The accident  circumstances  were that Mr A ran into the back  of another drivers  car at 
moderate speed. The other  driver had braked and Mr A didnt  see this in time due to the low 
sun. Southern Rock  told Mr A that due to the accident circumstances, he would be held at 
fault. I cant see that Mr A objected to this. But Mr A was unhappy with two aspects of how 
Southern Rock dealt with the other drivers  claim. 
The other driver had had another  accident three days before the collision and Mr A thought 
some claimed for damage could be related to this. And there was a personal injury claim for 
a passenger in the other drivers car but Mr A said no passenger  was present. 
Southern Rock explained to Mr A that its entitled under the terms and conditions of its policy 
with Mr A to take over, defend, or settle a claim as it sees fit. Mr A has to follow  its advice in 
connection with the settlement of his claim, whether he agrees with the outcome or not. This 
is a common term in motor insurance policies and I dont find it unusual. Insurers  are entitled  to 
take a commercial decision about whether its reasonable to contest a third party  claim or 
better to compromise.
Ref: DRN50002192A firm of solicitors brought claims against Mr A for personal injuries for a passenger  and the 
driver. Mr A was able to provide dash cam footage of the accident and the following events. 
Southern Rock agreed to settle  the other  drivers reasonable costs and his personal injuries  
on a pre-med basis. But it said it was clear that there was only one person in the car. It said 
it was prepared to plead  fraud if the case went to court.  This wasnt challenged by the 
solicitors and the remaining claim was paid on a without prejudice basis. 
Southern Rock said there was no evidence that the other driver knew that the solicitors had 
made a claim for a passenger. But as they shared a surname and the claims were made on 
the same  date then I think this is a questionable conclusion. I think it would be reasonable to 
conclude that the other  driver knew  about  the passenger claim made by the same solicitors 
on the same  date. 
Our approach, in line with the relevant law, is that when a claim is exaggerated  then the 
insurer can refuse to pay all of the claim, even that which was genuine.
I think Southern  Rocks  file notes show that it had established that the passenger claim  
wasnt true and so this was an exaggerated claim. So wed expect Southern Rock to then 
challenge the entire claim. But it didnt do this. Instead it settled the other  drivers claim for 
the loss of his car, taking into account  pre-existing damage, and it offered a settlement  for 
personal injuries. In doing this it saved costs,  but I think  this prejudiced  Mr As position. 
I think Southern  Rock should have  defended  the claim  against Mr A on the basis  of it being 
an exaggerated  claim. By not doing this, I think it potentially  deprived  Mr A of having the 
claim removed from his insurance record and the adverse impact on his NCD.
In response to the investigators view, Southern Rock said that it had reviewed the dash cam 
footage and it didnt show Mr A looking  inside  the car. So it thought a court would question 
how he knew there was no passenger. But Southern Rocks file notes say that Mr A did look 
directly into the open door of the car. And I can see this in the dash cam footage. Mr A had 
been clear from the start of the claim that there was no passenger  and he was prepared  to 
go to court.  So Im not convinced by Southern Rocks argument. 
I think Southern  Rock made an error  by not properly defending the claim and it should put 
things right for Mr A. From what I can see, Mr A didnt make  a claim for his own repairs. So I 
think Southern  Rock should restore his NCD. If Mr A did make a claim, then I think Southern 
Rock should provide him with a letter saying that it has incurred costs  due to its error in not 
properly defending the claim, and so this shouldnt be disclosable to future insurers. I think it 
should add a note to the Claims and Underwriting Exchange (CUE) to this effect.  
Mr A has been caused trouble and upset  by Southern Rocks handling of his claim.  I think  it 
should pay him £150 compensation for the poor service its provided. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Southern  Rock  Insurance Company 
Limited to do the following:
1.If Mr A has not made a claim,  reinstate Mr As NCD, and provide him with a letter he can 
show future insurers saying that it incurred costs  due to not properly defending the claim 
and note this on CUE.  
Ref: DRN500021932.Pay Mr A £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by its poor 
service. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 April 2020.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5000219