K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains that Bank of Scotland Plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) sent an aggressive 
field agent to his property and rejected his complaint  about the conduct of the agent. He 
wants compensation and the agent  to receive  further training.
background
Mr W had a mortgage and got into arrears.  Halifax  sent a field agent  to his property to 
discuss the matter in July 2017. Mr W said that the agent was aggressive  by placing his foot 
in the door when it was opened, causing his partner to step back. Mr W said both himself 
and his partner  felt intimidated and complained  to Halifax. It didnt receive the complaint  until 
April 2018. Mr W also said that the agent  had claimed to have visited on another  day, but 
hadnt.
Halifax said that it couldnt investigate the actions of the agent as he wasnt  their employee, 
and referred that issue to the agents employer. But it sent £200  compensation for the 
trouble and upset  caused by its failure to respond to Mr Ws letters sent before April 2018. It 
also dealt with other issues which werent raised with this service. Halifax  later told Mr W that 
the agents employer had told it when  Halifax contacted it about  the complaint that it thought 
the agent wouldnt remember the visit after several  months.
Mr W complained  to us, saying that he was further upset by Halifaxs response to his 
complaint and the handling of his complaint  generally. The adjudicators view was that 
Halifax wasnt responsible  for the actions of the agent as he wasnt their employee. Further, 
he didnt think the agents employers response was unreasonable. The adjudicator noted 
the agents employer did investigate and said that the agents notes made at the time 
contradicted Mr Ws account. The adjudicator  said if Mr W did have  CCTV as he stated, he 
should send it to the agents employer. The complaint wasnt  upheld as he didnt think  that 
Halifax had acted unfairly.
Mr W disagreed.  He said that Halifax was responsible for the actions of its agents. He said 
that he did complain  to the agents employers in July 2017, and it responded. The 
adjudicator said Mr W needed to provide more evidence of what happened.  Mr W wanted 
Halifax to pay the costs of providing more evidence; the adjudicator  refused to direct this. 
Mr W didnt provide more evidence supporting his allegations.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im not able to consider specifically the 
complaint about  complaints handling as this isnt a regulated activity  that falls within  the 
jurisdiction of this service. But I can look at whether Halifax has generally acted fairly and 
reasonably, which might include points connected to complaints handling.
The core of Mr Ws complaint is about the actions of the field agent. Halifax is correct to say 
that as the agent wasnt its employee, it would  need to ask the agents  employer to deal with 
the matter. But that isnt the end of the story. The agent was acting as Halifaxs  agent and 
therefore it may bear some responsibility  for his actions. 
Ref: DRN54610962On receipt of the complaint by Halifax, several months after the visit had been made, Halifax 
notified the agents employer. It wasnt unreasonable for the agents employer to point  out 
that it was unlikely that the agent  would still remember the visit. Mr W says that he has 
evidence that he complained direct  to the agents employer in July 2017, but hasnt provided  
it. In any event, as I can only deal with Halifax, when it became aware in April 2018, time had 
passed but it promptly raised the issue with the agents employer. This is fair and 
reasonable.
Even on Mr Ws own account, the agent put his foot in the door to have a conversation;  this 
isnt unusual and unlikely to be memorable for a field agent.  Mr W says that the agent was 
aggressive, but has given no more detail  than a foot in the door and his partner stepping  
back as a result. Mr W says he has CCTV to show this but hasnt produced it. If there was 
verbal aggression,  that hasnt been reported  by Mr W at any time. 
The agents  notes made at the time (so before Mr W complained) simply say that the door 
was opened by a female  and Mr W was there,  but declined to come  to the door.  I place 
weight on this note as its written at the time and prepared to brief Halifax on progress. 
Mr Ws account is that his female  partner  opened the door and Mr W forced  it shut. Mr W 
didnt discuss his debt with the agent. The agents note appears to be consistent with 
Mr Ws account, other than theres no mention of the agent  being aggressive. But if the 
agent had been aggressive,  I accept its very unlikely  that he wouldve said so in his report.  
But what  Mr W has described isnt in my view aggressive, though its assertive.
Given the information given to Halifax and this service by Mr W, and the response from the 
agents employer,  I dont think Halifax has acted unfairly or unreasonably. It raised the issue 
with the agents employer,  considered the response, and concluded no further action with 
the agents employer (bearing in mind  that Halifax cant  do anything with the agent  direct as 
he wasnt its employee) was required.  It appears that the field agents visit was 
unsuccessful, but it isnt unusual for consumers  to be unhappy about such  visits.
I note that theres  a record of the agent  trying to visit Mr W previously.  I dont  have sufficient 
evidence to find that the agent was a liar and that he didnt visit, or that Halifax  was 
responsible.
Halifax has sent £200 compensation for the trouble and upset caused by its delays in 
responding to Mr W. Money  never truly compensates  for trouble and upset. I note Mr W is 
more upset about the field agent, something for which I havent found Halifax to be at fault. 
In all the circumstances, I think £200 for the delay  in responding to Mr W is fair and 
reasonable.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint and leave it up to Mr W whether to 
accept the £200 compensation offered by Bank of Scotland Plc. Under the rules  of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or reject my decision 
before 8 May 2019.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5461096