K822xcomplaint
Mr R is unhappy about the service  provided by TSB Bank plc in relation to his business bank 
account. 
background 
Mr R is the sole director of his company. He says that he couldnt access his TSB bank  
account for around  a week in late April 2018 because of IT problems it was experiencing at 
the time.  Mr R says that he spent several  hours  trying to contact TSB by telephone but often 
he couldnt get through. When he did get through, he says he was promised call backs  but 
these didnt happen. 
Mr R says that because  he didnt have access to his bank account he wasnt able to settle 
two or three payments  that were due. He says that this caused him embarrassment because 
he had to ring his clients and tell them that they werent going to be paid on time. 
Mr R says that hes lost out financially because he couldnt access his account.  He says that 
he spent time queuing  up at the branch and was late for a business  meeting because he 
was trying to resolve matters with TSB. Mr R says that his business relies on him following 
up on leads and spending time generating interest  and that the time he spent  corresponding 
with TSB took him away from doing  this.   
TSB agrees that there was some disruption  in Mr R being able to access  his business 
account because  of a system upgrade. It says that as part of its investigation,  it checked  
whether Mr R was using his personal  bank account  to cover the required payments out of his 
business bank  account but it cant see any evidence of this. Mr R says that he had no 
access to either his personal or business  account at that time. 
TSB asked  if Mr R suffered  any direct financial loss because he couldnt access his business 
account and Mr R has said that whilst there  was no direct financial loss, there was the loss 
of opportunity to secure business  because  of the time he spent visiting and talking to TSB. 
An investigator here upheld the complaint. TSB agreed and offered to pay Mr R £500 
comprised of £250 for trouble and upset caused and £250 for the time taken to resolve the 
issue. Mr R disagreed and says that he should  be awarded more  so the case has come to 
me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
conclusion reached  by the investigator and Ill explain why. 
Its clear that TSB was experiencing some IT problems  and Mr R was affected  by this. And 
so its right that TSB should compensate Mr R for the impact it had on him being able to 
operate his business. 
Mr R says that he spent several hours on the telephone trying to resolve  matters  with TSB 
and visited the branch  multiple times. Im aware  TSBs phone lines would have been busier 
than usual during  this period and I accept that repeatedly  trying  to get through  would have 
caused Mr R some frustration and inconvenience  particularly because  he had payments 
Ref: DRN51809222which were due and he was concerned about  the reputational impact of not doing so on 
time. Ive also taken into account  that trying to resolve matters with TSB would have taken  
Mr R away from his business. 
Having done so, I consider that a compensation award of £500 is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. I say this because whilst I agree that Mr R couldnt access  his business 
account online for around a week, this was a relatively short period. Mr R also says that he 
suffered no direct financial loss as a result. Further, Ive checked Mr Rs personal  and 
business bank  accounts for the period he was without access and I can see that whilst Mr R 
didnt make online payments from his business account (because he couldnt), he was still 
able to use his personal account  to withdraw  cash and make payments.  
Mr R has brought this complaint in his capacity  as a director of a company. A limited 
company is a separate legal entity  from the people  who run it so ordinarily we wouldnt 
compensate directors personally  for distress. But I am empowered to make an award for 
inconvenience caused to Mr Rs company because Mr R couldnt access his business 
account  and Ive taken  into account  that the inconvenience would likely have been  greater  
on him because he was a sole director. Having considered everything, Im satisfied that 
£500 is fair compensation for the inconvenience  caused to Mr Rs business. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. If it hasnt already, TSB Bank Plc should pay 
Mr R £500 in recognition of the inconvenience  caused to his business.   
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 April 2019.
Reena Anand
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5180922