K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains that Nationwide  Building Society  incorrectly applied  a default on his credit 
card account.
background
Mr G has a credit card with Nationwide. In mid 2017, he found  himself in financial difficulties 
and he spoke with Nationwide about  this. He was out of work and wanted to talk about his 
options, as he wanted to avoid his account  defaulting. 
Mr G was initially told that a hold would be placed  on his account until he could start making 
payments again.  But he received letters about  the arrears and a default notice. He felt hed 
been given the wrong  information about Nationwides processes, as he was told different 
things when he spoke  to its advisors.
He found his account was blocked and complained about this. But he was told this was 
because the arrears on his account  had built up and exceeded his credit limit. He felt hed 
tried to maintain  contact  with Nationwide throughout as he wanted  to prevent it registering a 
default.
Nationwide acknowledged  that Mr G had been given wrong information in a call in 
September 2017 as he shouldve been  told he needed to make  payments each month  in line 
with his statements. Nationwide paid Mr G £75 in compensation to recognise  this, and then a 
further £75 for the delay in responding to his complaint. 
Nationwide agreed  a nil payment plan for six months with Mr G in January 2018,  and sent 
him notice  that his account would default  if the arrears werent  cleared within 28 days.  But 
Nationwide found  that that Mr G had been wrongly  told a default could be avoided  as long as 
he cleared any missed repayments  by the end of the agreed plan, when the notice  had 
already been sent to him. It apologised and sent him a cheque for £50. However, Nationwide 
said the information recorded on Mr Gs credit file had been accurate and the default  had 
been registered correctly.
One of our adjudicators looked  at the complaint but didnt think  it should be upheld.  She said 
that although Mr G had been  given  some incorrect information, she was satisfied he was told 
that a default would register on his credit file when the nil payment plan was agreed  in 
January 2018.  She said that Nationwide  has a duty to record  a true, accurate reflection of an 
account activity  to credit reference agencies and said it had applied  the default  in 
accordance with the terms  and conditions of the credit card. 
Mr G didnt accept the adjudicators findings and asked for his complaint to be reviewed. He 
said hed been  given the wrong information  about  when payments  would  need  to be made  
by, and hed made a payment in December 2017 which  wouldve reset the arrears. If 
Nationwide had confirmed  that a condition  of the six months nil payment plan was that a 
default applied  would  be applied, then he wouldnt have accepted  it. The payment plan took 
a number of weeks  to arrange and he was charged an additional months interest  because  of 
this and he thinks this should be refunded. 
Mr G feels that Nationwide  has fallen  short in its conduct and dealing with his financial 
difficulties and this has resulted in his default being incorrectly  applied.
Ref: DRN56312332my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive carefully reviewed all the detailed information  Mr G has provided about what happened, 
and Ive listened to the recordings of his phone calls with Nationwide  about his financial 
difficulties. I do appreciate that he looked  to keep it informed  about his situation  and that he 
wanted to avoid the default being registered on his account.
And Nationwide has acknowledged the times  that Mr G was given  the wrong information 
during these calls about  what payments would be required. 
Ive looked over the history of Mr Gs credit card account and compared this with the times 
he spoke to Nationwide.  I can see that he made a payment in July 2017  before he spoke to 
Nationwide in September 2017 to let it know  why he had missed making his required 
monthly repayments. At this stage, I understand that it agreed to stop any calls to him about 
the arrears and to waive late payments fees for a month on the basis  that Mr G would  be in a 
position to clear the arrears by November. His account history shows  no fees or interest 
were charged for October.  A Default  Notice was sent to him at that time. Although he didnt 
make a payment  to this, Nationwide didnt register the default as Mr G had agreed to clear 
the arrears. 
Mr G spoke to Nationwide again  in December 2017 but I havent seen that a payment plan 
was agreed at that time,  as it was left that Mr G would call back. I can see that he made a 
payment of £300,  but that wasnt  enough  to clear  the arrears that had built up.
I can also see from the history that late payment fees were charged in December  and 
January (before the nil payment plan was agreed)  but that no interest was applied after 
November. The two payments of £75 were both applied to reduce Mr Gs credit card balance  
but, after the late payment fee from January, no further interest  or fees show  until Mr G 
repaid his balance in August 2018.  So I cant see that he was charged additional fees or 
interest during  the time the payment plan was set up or because of the way in which his 
statement dates fell.
I know that Mr G wanted to try and avoid the default registering and Ive listened  to the call 
from January 2018 where the nil payment plan was discussed and the advisor put this 
forward to be considered and processed. And I agree with the adjudicator that its clear that 
Mr Gs account would default because no payments would be made. A further Default Notice 
was then sent to Mr G. The notice specifies the nature of the breach of the agreement; what 
action is required to remedy it; the amount to be paid and the date this should  be paid by. 
And I understand that Mr G was sent a separate letter  referring to the agreed  repayment  
plan and setting  out that a default would  be reported  if payment  under  the notice isnt made.
If theres been an arrangement that a consumer may pay reduced amounts towards a debt 
then thatll be reflected in their credit report. But a repayment arrangement doesnt mean that 
the contractual repayments due under the original agreement have changed. 
Nationwide had accepted that Mr G wasnt given  the correct  information about what 
payments to make in September  2017, but the default hadnt been registered at that time.  It 
credited his account with £75 to recognise  the mistake with what  he was told. 
Ref: DRN56312333And the default  had already been issued when  Nationwides advisor mis-read the related 
notes and told Mr G he could avoid  it if he cleared  any missed  payments by the end of the 
agreed repayment plan. 
Taking everything into account,  despite the instances of mis-communication in the phone  
conversations, I think Nationwide took sufficient  steps to make  sure Mr G was aware of the 
arrears on his credit card balance and that his nil payment arrangement  would result in a 
default being registered. 
It reduced his credit  card balance by a total of £150 to recognise the wrong information and 
the delay in addressing his complaint, and sent him a cheque  for £50 to apologise for being 
told the default could be avoided when  it had already been issued. Overall,  I think thats 
reasonable in the circumstances. 
I do appreciate Mr Gs strength of feeling  and I understand what  hes said about the impact 
adverse information  on his credit history may have. But I dont think  Nationwide  should  be 
required to make any amendments to his credit  file when this reflects how hes managed his 
credit card account. Nationwide has a responsibility  to report  accurate and up-to-date 
information to credit reference agencies, and I think thats what it has done here. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 February  2019.
Cathy Bovan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5631233