K821x#15complaint
Mrs H has complained that Indigo Michael  Limited (trading as Safety Net Credit (SNC)) 
irresponsibly provided her with an unaffordable Safety Net facility  in 2014.
background
Mrs H approached SNC for a Safety Net facility  in 2014. This was a running credit account  
where a consumer could either request funds up to their credit limit, or funds would be 
deposited into their bank account once  their account balance  fell below a safety net 
amount of the customers choosing. 
Mrs H was initially given a facility  with a £250 credit limit in December 2014. Her limit was 
increased to following amounts  on the following dates:
 £290 in June 2015
 £350 in July 2015
 £430 in September 2015
 £510 in October  2015
 £610 in November 2015
 £490 in March 2016
 £610 also in March 2016
 £680 in July 2016
One of our adjudicators looked  at Mrs Hs complaint. He thought  the checks SNC carried out 
before granting  this facility werent proportionate as the information it uncovered shouldve 
prompted it to ask further questions. He also thought  that if SNC had got answers to these 
further questions  it wouldve  seen it shouldnt have given Mrs H this facility.  SNC disagreed  
and asked for an ombudsman to look at the case.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice  at the time the loans were  offered.
Having carefully thought  about everything  Ive been  provided with, Im upholding Mrs Hs 
complaint. Id like to explain the reasons  for my decision.
the relevant regulations in place  at the time Mrs H was given his Safety Net facility 
I think it would be helpful for me to start by explaining that SNC  gave Mrs H this facility when 
it was regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). And the relevant regulatory 
rules in place at the time were  set out in the Consumer Credit  Sourcebook  (CONC)  section 
of the FCA Handbook of rules and guidance.
Section 5.2.1(2) of CONC set out what a lender needed to do before agreeing to give a 
consumer a loan of this type.  And it says a firm had to consider the potential for the 
commitments under  the regulated credit agreement to adversely impact the customers 
financial situation  as well as the ability of the customer  to make repayments  as they fall due 
over the life of the regulated credit agreement, or for such  an agreement  which  is an open-
Ref: DRN56295742end agreement (like Mrs Hs Safety Net facility) , to make payments within a reasonable 
period.
CONC 5.2 also includes some guidance  on the sorts  of things a lender  needs to bear in 
mind when considering  its obligations  under CONC 5.2.1.  Section 5.2.4(2) says a firm 
should consider  what  is appropriate in any particular circumstances dependent on, for 
example, the type and amount of credit  being  sought and the potential  risks to the customer.  
The risk of credit not being sustainable directly  relates to the amount of credit  granted and 
the total charge for credit relative to the customers financial  situation.
And CONC 5.3 contains further guidance on what  a lender should bear in mind when 
thinking about affordability. CONC 5.3.1(1) says In making the creditworthiness assessment 
or the assessment required by CONC 5.2.2R (1), a firm should  take into account more than 
assessing the customers ability to repay the credit ..
CONC 5.3.1(2) then says The creditworthiness assessment and the assessment required 
by CONC 5.2.2R (1) should include the firm taking reasonable steps to assess  the 
customers ability to meet repayments under  a regulated credit  agreement in a sustainable 
manner without the customer incurring financial difficulties or experiencing significant 
adverse consequences..
In practice all of this meant that a lender  had to take proportionate steps to ensure a 
consumer wouldve been able to repay what they were borrowing in a sustainable  manner 
without it adversely impacting on their financial situation. Put simply the lender  had to gather 
enough information so that it could make an informed decision on the lending.
Although the guidance  didnt set out compulsory checks it did list a number of things a lender 
could take into account before agreeing to lend. The key thing was that it required a lenders 
checks to be proportionate.  And any checks  had to take into account a number of different 
things, such as how much was being  lent and when what was being  borrowed was due to be 
repaid.
Ive kept all of this in mind  when thinking about whether SNC did what it needed to before 
agreeing to Mrs Hs Safety Net facility. As explained, Mrs H was given what was an open-
ended credit facility. So overall I think that this means the checks  SNC carried out had to 
provide enough for it to be able to understand whether Mrs H would be able to both service  
and then repay her facility  within a reasonable period of time.
why I think SNC needed to do more before agreeing  to give Mrs H his Safety Net facility
SNC says it reviewed Mrs Hs bank transaction data for the three months prior to the facility 
being approved.  And having done so it was satisfied  Mrs H wasnt experiencing difficulty  
meeting her existing commitments. It combined this information with credit checks  and 
decided that Mrs H would be able to maintain the facility she was offered.
Having carefully thought  about everything  provided, I think that SNC needed to do more 
before granting  Mrs H his Safety Net facility. I dont enough think  it is enough to simply 
obtain information and a lender has to react to what it is seeing in a proportionate manner. In 
this case, SNCs checks wouldve shown that substantial sums of money were being  
transferred from the account it was monitoring to others in Mrs Hs name.  And it seems to 
me that a number  of payments to debt management  companies were incorrectly  categorised  
by SNCs monitoring system too.
Ref: DRN56295743To be clear, I dont think that a lender needs to ask a consumer for access to all of their 
accounts before agreeing to grant them credit. But where a lender is aware that such  a 
significant proportion  of a consumers incoming  funds are being  transferred to other 
accounts and there  are other flags in the transaction data obtained, I think it is proportionate 
to carry out further  enquiries into these other accounts. 
Given the amount  of money being  transferred and the sheer number of unanswered 
questions present in Mrs H transaction data, I think that SNC shouldve  asked Mrs H for 
more information  in order to find out what was happening. 
what I think SNC wouldve  most likely found out if it had asked further questions  
Even though  I think that SNC  shouldve asked Mrs H further  questions  before giving this 
facility this doesnt, on its own, mean Mrs Hs complaint  should  be upheld.  After all if further 
checks wouldve simply shown SNC that Mrs H would most likely have been able to repay  
her Safety Net facility within a reasonable period of time (and so there  was no reason why 
SNC shouldnt have lent to Mrs H), then further  enquiries wouldnt have made  a difference. 
This is because Mrs H wont  have lost out because of SNCs failure to carry out 
proportionate checks and thered be no reason  for me to uphold  the complaint. 
But if further checks would most  likely have shown Mrs H was unlikely to have been able to 
repay this facility then SNC wouldve seen that it shouldnt  have  lent to her. And this would 
mean that Mrs H lost out because of SNCs failure  to carry out proportionate checks. So 
thered be grounds  to uphold Mrs Hs complaint.    
As proportionate  checks werent carried out I cant know what  exactly they would have  
shown. But Mrs H has provided us with more information on her financial circumstances. So 
Ive been able to get a picture  of what her financial circumstances were like. 
Of course I accept this isnt perfect as different checks show different  things.  And just 
because something  shows up in the information Mrs H has provided it doesnt  mean  it 
wouldve shown up in any extra checks SNC mightve carried out. But what  Mrs H has 
provided is the best indication I have of his financial  circumstances at the time of the 
application. And in the absence of anything else I think its perfectly  reasonable to rely on it. 
Ive carefully looked through everything Mrs Hs provided and Ive also thought  about  
everything both parties have said. Having done  so, I dont think Mrs H had the capacity to 
take on his Safety Net facility. As explained, based  on what SNC had seen,  I think  that 
proportionate checks wouldve  extended  into finding  out about more  about the transactions  
in Mrs Hs account rather than simply adding up the credits received and deducting  any 
outgoings.
I think if such checks had been  carried out at that time they wouldve shown that Mrs H was 
already in debt management plans on a significant number of existing credit  commitments.  
And such checks would also have shown that Mrs H was a regular user of high-cost short  
term credit. I think that if SNC had found this out, as it wouldve done if it had carried  out 
proportionate checks, it wouldnt have lent to Mrs H. 
I say this because  it wouldve been  clear that Mrs H existing problems repaying a number  of 
different creditors meant that she was unlikely to have been able to sustainably repay this 
facility without suffering  adverse financial consequences.   
Ref: DRN56295744Overall I think  not only did SNC  fail to carry out proportionate  checks before giving Mrs H her 
Safety Net facility,  but that Mrs H also lost out as a result of this.
what SNC  should do to put things  right
To put things right for Mrs H, SNC should:
refund all the interest and charges applied to Mrs Hs Safety Net facility; and
add interest at 8% per year simple  on the above interest and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement ;
remove any adverse information recorded on Mrs Hs credit  file as a result of this facility 
having been given to him.
I understand that Mrs H has an outstanding balance remaining on her Safety Net facility. If 
after having  removed all the interest  and charges  applied from the outset, an outstanding 
balance remains, SNC can deduct this from the amount it now needs to pay Mrs H. 
HM Revenue & Customs requires SNC to take off tax from this interest. SNC must give    
Mrs H a certificate showing  how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im upholding  Mrs Hs complaint.  Indigo  Michael  Limited 
(trading as Safety Net Credit) should pay Mrs H compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 February  2019.
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5629574