K821x#15complaint
Mr Ls complaint against National  Westminster Bank Plc (Natwest) is that it didnt do enough 
to protect  him when  he was a victim  of impersonation fraud.
background
In May 2018, Mr L was a victim of identity theft,  and an account was opened with Natwest  
fraudulently in his name. Mr L is unhappy that Natwest then pursued him for the outstanding 
debt. 
Mr L says he didnt  open the account and after Natwest passed this account to debt 
collection agencies his credit score was adversely affected. He explained  he had difficulty 
applying for a mortgage and faced other problems, as hes self-employed.
Mr L complained to Natwest initially, and when he didnt get a satisfactory answer he came  
to our service.
Our Investigator  looked  into matters, and concluded  Natwest hadnt treated Mr L fairly, so he 
upheld the complaint and recommended  that it:-
-Remove the account from Mr Ls name  and amend  his credit file accordingly.
-Cease all collection activity in relation to this account (and instruct any debt 
collection agencies to do the same).
-Pay Mr L £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Natwest accepted  this, but Mr L didnt. He felt it wasnt  enough to make up for what hed 
been through, and he remained very concerned as to why it had been possible in the first 
place for Natwest to have  been fooled  by the fraudster. So he asked for an ombudsmans  
review.
I carefully reviewed all the evidence, and agreed that the complaint  should be upheld.  And I 
was pleased to note that Natwest  had also agreed to this. But I felt that £200  wasnt enough 
to compensate Mr L for the significant time,  worry, reputational and health damage  involved. 
So in a provisional decision I asked Natwest to increase  compensation to £500, and it 
agreed to do so. 
However, while Mr L didnt reject this offer, he said he still had questions and concerns about 
how Natwest had been able to open  an account  in this name, when the application  wasnt 
genuine.
As no agreement could be reached, the complaints come to me for a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree that Natwest hasnt  done enough to assist  Mr L, and I think it should 
pay him compensation. 
Ref: DRN55781332I appreciate that Natwest has already agreed  to pay the £500  I recommended  in my 
provisional decision, as well as taking the other remedial  steps  to do with the fraudulent 
account. But Mr L didnt  accept as he felt he still had unanswered questions.
While our service  has done its best to address  Mr Ls concerns, were not a forensic service, 
and providing  answers  to every question isnt what we do. Were a free and informal  
alternative to the courts. Our remit it to assess all the available  evidence  and ensure that 
customers have been treated  fairly.  And where  we find they havent been, its to recommend 
what redress we feel is sufficient and appropriate  to put things  right. And thats  what our 
Investigator and I have  done. Its now accepted that the account wasnt opened by Mr L, and 
that a false passport was used. And the details provided for an existing third party bank 
account also werent correct. We also know that Natwest had some concerns about  the 
legitimacy of the account application from an early  stage.  
So while I understand Mr L still feels vulnerable about what  happened to him, and has 
outstanding questions, I do hope  he appreciates that weve tried to answer  all that we can. I 
know this incidents been reported to the police, and they are perhaps  the better agency to 
take these questions to. Its clear  that whoever committed this fraud knew a lot about  Mr L.
To conclude,  I believe that asking  Natwest  to take the remedial steps regarding  the account,  
and to pay him compensation of £500,  is a fair outcome for both  parties. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. To resolve matters, Im asking National 
Westminster Bank Plc to:-
-Remove the account from Mr Ls name  and amend  his credit file accordingly.
-Immediately cease  all collection activity in relation to this account (and instruct 
any debt collection agencies to do the same).
-Pay Mr L £500 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 June  2020.
.
Ashley L B More
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5578133