K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M have  complained about  Society  of Lloyds (SOL) refusal to pay their claim on 
their agricultural vehicle  insurance policy.
Reference to SOL includes their agents.
In bringing this complaint, Mr and Mrs M have been assisted by their broker as well as their 
son. But, for ease  of reference, I will refer to comments made by the broker and their son as 
being those of Mr and Mrs M.
background
On 16 November 2017, one of Mr and Mrs Ms employees was driving a tractor which was 
towing a large slurry tanker.  The right hand side wheel on the tanker fell off after the stub 
axle broke. The tanker fell onto its side and suffered further damage.  Mr and Mrs M claimed 
on their policy for the damage.
SOL asked an engineer to examine the tanker.  The engineer confirmed  that the stub axle 
had broken off. His opinion  was that the wheel bearing had worn to the point that it had 
broken up causing  the wheel to become dislodged from the stub axle which  caused  it to 
break. SOL said the incident was as a result  of wear and tear and a lack of maintenance of 
the tanker.
Mr and Mrs M didnt  agree with SOL. They said the tanker had been properly maintained 
and that the damage wasnt caused  by wear and tear. They also asked  an engineer to 
inspect the tanker.  Their  engineer, like the engineer  instructed by SOL, said the axle had 
broken, but he said there was nothing to suggest that this is down to wear and tear. 
SOL didnt pay the claim. They said that an insured  event hadnt caused  the damage  and 
that the policy didnt cover wear and tear or mechanical breakage.
Mr and Mrs M brought their complaint  to our service. One of our adjudicators felt that SOL 
hadnt dealt with Mr and Mrs M fairly. She suggested that SOL should  pay the claim together 
with interest. As SOL didnt agree  with our adjudicator, the complaint was passed  to me to 
decide.
I issued a provisional decision on 2 September 2019. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I appreciate  this will be 
disappointing for Mr and Mrs M, but Im not intending  to uphold their complaint. Ill 
explain why.
Ive considered all of Mr and Mrs Ms points carefully. But, in this decision,  I will focus 
on what I consider to be the key issues. My role is to decide if SOL have dealt with 
Mr and Mrs M in a fair and reasonable way and in line with the policy.
Both parties  accept that there was a mechanical  breakage in that the right hand  side 
stub axle broke causing the wheel to fall off. The main dispute is over what caused 
the breakage.  SOL said it was due to wear and tear because the tanker wasnt  
Ref: DRN55618862properly maintained. Mr and Mrs M said it wasnt down to wear and tear as up until a 
few weeks before the incident the tanker  had been  checked and maintained.
While most  of the parties attention has been  focused on whether or not the cause of 
the breakage  was due to wear and tear, for the reasons I go on to explain I think  
thats something of a red herring and that the policy simply doesn't  cover  the claim. 
I think it would be helpful to look at what the policy says.  Section 2 of the policy says 
SOL will cover damage caused by accidental or malicious damage Under the 
heading of Exceptions to section 2 the policy says this section of your insurance 
does not cover the following 3. Wear  and tear. 4. Failures,  breakdowns  or 
breakages of mechanical, electrical, electronic or computer equipment.
The tanker suffered  damaged while it was being driven on a road.  There  is no 
suggestion that it was involved in an accident with a physical object, such as another  
vehicle, or that it was struck by anything.  And the policy  doesn't cover damage 
caused by Failures, breakdowns or breakages of mechanical, electrical, electronic or 
computer equipment. 
Its not in dispute  the damage  to the tanker was accidental. But both engineers agree 
that the tanker suffered  a mechanical breakage, namely the stub axle broke off. But 
theres a lack of explanation as to the cause of that, such as a collision  with another 
object. I therefore  think  the damage  was caused by a mechanical breakdown and as 
such isn't covered by the policy. Whether  or not that breakage was caused by wear 
and tear or some other form of mechanical failure doesnt, in my opinion,  change the 
position. Mr and Mrs M havent provided  any evidence  to show that the damage was 
caused by anything other than a mechanical failure. They  have speculated that the 
driver may have been speeding  and the road may have been bumpy, or that the 
tankers wheel  may have  hit a curb. But that is only speculation and there is no direct 
evidence of the sort of incident  that their policy covers. So I think  SOL were 
reasonable in refusing the claim.
The parties were invited to comment on my findings. SOL accepted my provisional findings. 
But Mr and Mrs M didnt comment.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, my findings remain  the 
same. 
Ref: DRN55618863my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  18 October  2019.  
Mehmet Osman   
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5561886