K821x#15complaint
Business Gs complaint  is about  a key facts document  (KFD) produced  by Strathearn 
Insurance Services Limited  (SISL) in relation to insurance provided as part of an investment 
it made. In summary, Business G says it relied  on the KFD, which  SISL provided as part of 
the literature relating  to the investment. It says SISL failed to disclose material information 
and provide appropriate risk warnings in the KFD. It says if the disclosures  had been  made  
and the warnings given, it would  not have made the investment.  On this basis, Business G 
feels SISL is responsible  for the loss it suffered by making the investment. 
background
Business G is a member  of IPIN Global  Prospects Network (IPIN). This is an investment 
network which aims to provide property investment opportunities to its members. The 
investment opportunities were typically to fund property developments such as hotels, 
student accommodation and residential care homes by way of a cash deposit. The deposits 
were initially  sent to a law firm to be held within an escrow account.  The developer then 
would draw the money down, when needed, to finance the project.  The property units would 
be sold by the developer  before a set date and the investor would get the money they 
deposited back, along with a share of any profits from the sale of the development. 
IPIN marketed its schemes as having  secure exit strategies (SES).  A key characteristic  
of this was protection offered to the investors.  This involved the money invested being  held 
in the escrow account until an insurance policy was taken out by the property  developer to 
protect the invested  funds. Once  the insurance  was taken  out, the developer was able to 
access the money. If a project failed or the developer  defaulted, the investors - who were 
named as the beneficiaries of the insurance contract - could claim  any difference  between  
the deposit paid and any money already returned  to them from the insurer. The insurance 
was called a Property  Deposit Bond  (the bond). 
Business G invested  in Scheme A in January 2013  (although the bond schedule  confirming  
the insurance provided by the bond  is dated November 2013). An insurer based in Nevis in 
the West Indies, Northern & Western Insurance Company (NWIC) underwrote the 
insurance provided by the bond. The literature provided by IPIN in relation  to the investment 
included the following:  
The SES application at the [Scheme A] uses a Property Deposit Bond to protect 100% of the 
deposit funds  invested by SES investors in the event that the developer defaults upon  his 
obligations within the applicable purchase agreements.
The Property Deposit  Bond  is arranged on behalf  of the developer  by Strathearn  Insurance  
Services Limited. Due to the regulated nature of the product offered any direct  questions relating 
specifically to the bond aspect of the SES offering should be directed to Strathearn Insurance.
Please see Key Facts  document issued  by Strathearn  Insurance overleaf.
 
The Key Facts document is the KFD, and it included the following:  
Strathearn Insurance is a specialised  advisory  services company dedicated to residential 
and commercial real estate markets. The company's  solutions are supported by leading  
international specialty insurance groups.
Is Strathearn Insurance regulated?
Ref: DRN54214532Strathearn Insurance operates with FSA Registration number 514675. You can check  this on 
the FSA's Register  by visiting  the FSA's website  www.fsa.gov.uk register or by contacting 
the FSA on +44 (0) 845 606 1234.
Whose products do Strathearn  offer?
In relation to [Scheme  A] SES application Strathearn Insurance only offer a product from a 
single international insurance company.
What services will Strathearn Insurance provide  you with?  
Strathearn Insurance recommends that you accept this policy,  as it is designed to work  
specifically with the investment proposal  developed for IPIN SES investors. Strathearn  
Insurance does  not offer advice on the SES investment  proposal,  the associated  contracts  or 
their interpretation.
You are recommended  to obtain  independent legal advice on all associated  contracts, and 
the duties, responsibilities  and obligations of the parties to the contracts.
How is Strathearn  Insurance paid?  
Strathearn Insurance is paid through  a commission payment from the insurer. This amounts 
to approximately  11% of the premium paid by the developer on your behalf.  The insurer  has 
a Managing General Agent in the UK who also receives a commission payment paid by the 
developer.
Who owns Strathearn Insurance? 
Strathearn Capital  Ltd owns 100% of the Strathearn  Insurance  Limited  share capital. No 
insurer owns any share in Strathearn Insurance or its parent company.
Is Strathearn  Insurance covered by the Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS)?
Strathearn Insurance is covered by the FSCS. You may be entitled to compensation from 
the scheme if Strathearn cannot meet their obligations. This depends on the type of 
business and the circumstances of the claim. Insurance advising and arranging  is covered 
for a maximum of 90% of the claim,  without any upper  limit. Further  information about 
compensation scheme arrangements  is available  from the FSCS.
Business G was due to receive a repayment of its money after a fixed period of time, but this 
didnt happen.  Business  G attempted to make a claim on the insurance  provided by the bond 
but discovered NWIC had gone into liquidation  on 16 January 2015. Business  G was told by 
the liquidator of NWIC that there  was little chance  of a claim on the bond  being honoured. 
Business G complained to SISL. It said the KFD had recommended  it take the insurance 
provided by the bond, and it based  its decision  to invest  solely  on this recommendation, and 
the facts that had been disclosed about  the bond.  It said there  was no mention in the KFD 
that the insurer was not FCA regulated or covered by the Financial Services  Compensation 
Scheme (FSCS).
Ref: DRN54214533SISL did not respond to Business Gs complaint, so it referred the complaint to this service.  
After Business Gs complaint was referred  to us, SISL objected to us considering it, as it did 
not consider the complaint to be within our jurisdiction. 
I issued a provisional decision in January 2019.  I was satisfied that Business Gs complaint 
was one I could  look at. Turning to the merits of the complaint, my provisional finding  was 
that the KFD was not clear or fair, and was misleading. I also thought it did not pay regard to 
Business Gs interests. I found that it was reasonable for Business G to rely on the KFD and 
that it likely  did rely on it. And that if the KFD had been clear,  fair, and not misleading, and 
had SISL acted in Business Gs best interests,  it would not have gone ahead  and made the 
investment. A copy of my provisional findings  is attached, and forms part of this decision. 
Business G said it accepted my provisional  decision.  
SISL did not accept  the provisional decision. Its representative said, in summary:
On the matter of jurisdiction, SISL  recognises  that this has been  considered  by this 
service in the jurisdiction  decision  in a similar case. Notwithstanding  this, it does not 
accept that Business  G falls within the ordinary  meaning of a client. There was no 
retainer of SISL by Business G and no remuneration was paid by Business G to 
SISL.
The context of the investment needs to be taken into account. The members of the 
IPIN network tend to be high net worth  / sophisticated investors who are familiar 
with property club type investments. SISL  understood that the IPIN members had 
self-certified to IPIN that they were  aware of the risks of making investments of this 
nature and they invested via IPIN because they sought a high rate of return, 
something which is inevitably associated  with increased level of risk.
The investors typically received advice from other  parties including their lawyers, 
IPIN and potentially, independent financial advisers and that is something that 
needed to be taken into account.  
The provisional decision appears to regard the KFD as if it had either been a policy 
summary or key features document  as defined the FCA Handbook. It is actually 
Initial Disclosure Document and should  be treated as such. It is unfair to judge it 
against the standard of another type of document which  it never purported to be.
It cannot be said that Business G relied on the KFD as it appears  quite  possible  that 
if the same bond had been in place and it was told of the bond but the KFD had not 
been present,  it would still have gone  ahead with the investment.
Each investor was required to sign their acceptance of the surety  bond  and the 
providers name  and address were displayed on the document the investor  signed.
SISLs representative also questioned whether  Business  G was a microenterprise, and 
therefore eligible  to bring a complaint to us. In response to this, the representative  was given 
copies of the evidence I relied on when concluding  in my provisional decision that Business 
G was an eligible complainant. This was acknowledged by the representative.  
Ref: DRN54214534my findings
Ive first reconsidered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide whether  this 
complaint is one I can look at.  Having  done  so, I see no reason to depart from the 
conclusions I reached in my provisional decision.  
can we consider  the complaint?
As I explained in my provisional decision,  SISL  had objected to this service  considering  this 
complaint, and a number  of others  similar  to it. It said Business G wasnt  its customer, the 
deposit protection insurance wasnt a regulated product and that it did not carry out any 
regulated activity.  
This was considered  at length by us in another similar case and SISL  recognises  that the 
jurisdiction issues that are relevant to this case have  been considered in the jurisdiction 
decision in that case. So I do not want to repeat those  findings  here.  I remain of the view that 
this complaint is within our jurisdiction  for the reasons I mentioned in my provisional 
decision. I will however  address  the points raised  by SISL following my provisional decision.  
SISL says that Business G does not fall within the ordinary meaning of a client, there  was no 
retainer of SISL by the consumer and no remuneration was paid by it to SISL.
Our powers to consider  complaints are set out in the Financial  Services and Markets Act
2000 (FSMA) and in rules,  known as the Dispute Resolution Rules (DISP) written by the 
FCA in accordance with the powers it derives  from FSMA.  
DISP2.7.1R  says:
A complaint  may only be dealt with under the Financial Ombudsman Service if it is brought 
by or on behalf of an eligible complainant.
An eligible complainant  is defined by DISP 2.7.3R as a person that is a micro-
enterprise, which means  "an enterprise which: (a) employs fewer than 10 persons; and (b) 
has a turnover or annual balance  sheet  that does not exceed €2 million
I am satisfied Business  G was a micro-enterprise  at the time of referring this complaint  to us. 
Its turnover did not exceed  €2 million, and it had less than 10 employees. 
DISP  2.7.6R  says:
To be an eligible  complainant a person  must also have a complaint which arises from 
matters relevant to one or more of the following relationships with the respondent:
(1)the complainant  is (or was)  a customer..  of the respondent
(2)the complainant  is (or was)  a potential customer of the respondent
     ..
(5) the complainant  is a person for whose benefit a contract of insurance was taken 
out or was intended to be taken out with or through the respondent 
Ref: DRN54214535Business G was a beneficiary under a contract of insurance. And for the reasons already  
explained, I am satisfied  that the contract of insurance was taken through SISL. So I 
consider that Business G is an eligible complainant under DISP  2.7.6(5)R.
It may be that no remuneration was paid directly  by Business G but often insurance brokers  
are paid commission by the insurer and that is what happened here. SISL  was paid 
commission by the insurer NWIC.  As stated in the KFD the commission  was paid by the 
developer to NWIC. As I understand  it, the premium for the policy  was a percentage of the 
deposit paid by Business G and, of this, some was retained by NWIC and some was paid as 
commission to SISL.  
In addition, I also consider  that Business G is an eligible complainant  under DISP  2.7.6(2)R. 
It may be that there  was no retainer of SISL by Business  G but I am satisfied that it was a 
potential customer of SISL and therefore an eligible complainant under the DISP  rules.   
SISL in its capacity as a regulated insurance intermediary offered its services to potential 
customers. It said in the KFD:
Due to the regulated nature of the product offered, any direct  questions  relating  specifically 
to the bond aspect of the SES offering should be directed to Strathearn Insurance using 
the contact  details below .
And:
 The FSA requires you to be provided with this information. Use this information  to 
decide if our services are right for you
It also referred  to our service  in the event  of any complaint  and to the FSCS  in the 
event  SISL  could  not meet  its obligations.  Thus  I am satisfied  that SISL  saw the 
recipients  of the KFD of the specific  schemes  as its potential  customers.  
It may be that Business G did not eventually approach SISL  but SISL made its services 
available to it in its capacity as the regulated  firm. And as noted  earlier,  SISL was paid 
commission in relation to the deposits  made, whether or not the respective investors 
contacted it. 
Taking all of this into account,  it is my view that Business G was a potential customer of 
SISL and therefore eligible complainant under DISP 2.7.6(2)R as well. 
I have therefore  reconsidered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide whats  fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done  so, I see no reason to 
depart from the conclusions I reached  in my provisional decision on this either.  I will detail 
my reconsideration of things below. 
relevant considerations
Having reconsidered  what are the relevant considerations,  I remain of the view that they are 
as set out in my provisional decision. For completion, I have set them  out again below. 
I am required to determine this complaint  on the basis of what I consider to be fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances. When considering what  is fair and reasonable, I am 
required to take into account relevant law and regulations; regulator's rules, guidance and 
Ref: DRN54214536standards, and codes  of practice;  and, where appropriate, what  I consider to have  been  
good industry practice at the time.
The KFD was clearly  intended as the source of information about  the bond  for potential 
customers thinking about investing  in Scheme A.  And Im satisfied that SISL knew this. 
The FCA handbook  sets out the Principles which are a general statement of the fundamental 
obligations of the firms it regulates, such as SISL.
Principle 7 says:
A firm must pay due regard to the information  needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear  fair and not misleading"
Client is defined as a customer and it includes potential  client (and so potential  
customer). So SISL had an obligation to ensure that it communicated information in a 
way that was clear, fair and not misleading.
I consider that Principle  6 is also relevant here.  That says: "A firm must pay due regard to 
the interests of its customers  and treat them  fairly. As SISL knew that potential  customers  
were being  referred  to the KFD for information about the bond it had to consider the interests 
of those potential  customers.
was the information SISL provided  clear, fair, and not misleading and did it pay regard  
to Business Gs interests?
For the reasons  given  in my provisional decision,  I remain of the view that the information 
SISL provided in the KFD was not clear or fair, and was misleading. 
SISL says that what it provided was an Initial Disclosure Document. But the KFD was 
referred to as a key facts document by SISL itself on more than occasion. The literature 
provided by IPIN also refers to it as a key facts document and not as an Initial  Disclosure 
Document.   
In any event, as I explained  in the provisional decision, the KFD was clearly  intended as 
the source of information about  the bond  for potential customers thinking  about investing 
in the schemes  and SISL was aware  of that. So I consider that SISL had an obligation to 
ensure that this communication  was clear, fair and not misleading.
what is the impact of this?
Having concluded  that the KFD was not clear  or fair, and was misleading, I need  to 
reconsider how much  reliance Business G placed on this document before  it decided  to 
make the investment.
For the reasons  set out in my provisional  decision I think it is reasonable to conclude  that 
Business G looked  at the KFD, and relied on it when it decided  to proceed with the 
investment in Scheme  A.
SISL says that members  of the IPIN network were frequently high net worth / sophisticated 
investors who were familiar with property club  type investments. It says that they were 
aware of the risks they were taking and had sufficient advice to make  informed decision. 
Ref: DRN54214537SISL has also said that investors  typically received  advice from other parties including  
their lawyers, IPIN and potentially other  independent  financial advisers,  and that is 
something the investigator failed to take into account. 
As previously mentioned,  in the marketing literature IPIN clearly directed the potential 
investors towards SISL for information  about the bond and not to other professionals. 
As I understand it, IPIN was concerned  that it or other related companies should not 
provide information  or advice in relation to the insurance as they were  not authorised by 
the FCA in that regard.  This was why SISL  was brought  in to handle that part of the 
scheme. 
Also, as noted  earlier, the KFD recommended that consumers seek  independent advice 
on the investment  proposals and contract. However for information  about the bond they 
were directed to seek information from SISL.  
Given all this, it seems  to me that the clear  intention was that SISL was responsible for 
providing information about the bond, and that it was understood that investors would 
rely on this information.  I have seen no evidence to show Business G relied on anything  
other than the KFD when  considering the bond, as part of its overall consideration of the 
investment. And Business  G was not, in my view, an investor of some knowledge and 
experience of investments of the type of Scheme A. But even if it was, I do not think that 
means it was not entitled to rely on the KFD  in particular  the recommendation that it 
accept the policy from the specialist insurance broker,  SISL.  
I think it also needs to be made clear  that I am considering a complaint against SISL, 
not any other party. And I need to decide what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of that complaint. If I decide  SISL has done something wrong and, but 
for that, the investment would not have  gone  ahead, it may be fair to ask SISL  to 
compensate Business G for the investment loss even if other parties  were  involved. And 
I am satisfied it is fair to do that in the circumstances of this complaint. 
SISL has also argued that Business  G would  still have  invested even if the KFD had not 
been provided, simply in the knowledge  that a deposit bond was in place. I think  it 
unlikely that Business G would have proceeded without knowing any details of the bond 
 it was those details, provided  by SISL, which I think gave it the assurance  it needed  to 
proceed.  As  I mentioned  in my provisional  findings, I am satisfied Business G was 
looking for a low risk investment. And I think it unlikely it would have concluded  the 
investment was low risk without the details provided in the KFD  it was those details 
rather than the existence of the bond per se which gave Business G the assurances it 
would have been looking for. 
SISL has also pointed  us to the bond schedule that was signed  by the investors.  It says 
that the schedule provided the name and address of the insurance company and so 
Business G ought  to have known that the insurer was an overseas insurer. I accept 
Business G may have  been aware NWIC was based  overseas. But I do not think that 
means that it was not entitled to reply on the assurances given in the KFD by SISL, 
particularly given the KFD formed part of the pre-sale  literature,  whereas  the schedule  
was not given to Business G until after it had invested. 
For completeness, I should again confirm that although I am referring to the insurance in the 
context of the overall investment in Scheme A, it is the role played  by the bond and the 
information provided in relation to the bond  which was the key consideration here. My 
Ref: DRN54214538consideration was focused on the information provided by SISL  in the form of the KFD, as that 
is the basis of Business  Gs complaint.  
summary
In summary,  for the reasons given here and in my provisional decision,  I find that:
When Business G decided to invest in the property scheme it was looking for a low risk 
investment. 
The underlying  investments  in properties offered potential for growth  but they carried  
higher risk of capital  loss. That would most likely  have not suited Business Gs risk 
appetite. However  security of capital was provided  through  the bond. 
I am satisfied that Business G would have  wanted to consider the information provided  in 
relation to the bond before deciding to invest in Scheme A. It was directed to look at 
SISLs KFD for information about  the bond,  and says it did this. So I consider it 
reasonable to conclude  that it relied on that information along with SISLs 
recommendation that it accept the policy  in deciding to invest  in the scheme. 
SISL knew or ought to have known that it was the KFD potential investors were directed 
to for information about the bond. So it had an obligation to ensure that the KFD was 
clear, fair and not misleading. For the reasons already explained, the KFD did not 
provide clear, fair and not misleading  information about the bond.
The scheme failed  and NWIC has been  liquidated. Business G has suffered a loss as a 
result. I consider  it more likely than not that had SISL provided clear,  fair and not 
misleading information about the risks involved with the bond,  it would not have invested  
in the schemes.  So it is fair that SISL compensate  it for the loss.
fair compensation
In assessing what would  be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put 
Business G in the position it would have  been  in but for SISL's failure.
For the reasons  I have  explained above,  it is my conclusion that, if it were not for the failings 
of SISL, Business G would likely not have invested in Scheme A.  So Business G should be 
put in the position  it likely would be, had it not made the investment. 
I am satisfied Business  G was looking to invest its money, so I think  it would have invested 
elsewhere, but with capital protection. It is not possible to say precisely what  it would have 
done differently.  But I am satisfied that what I have set out below is fair, given its objective 
for growth  with little risk.
To compensate Business  G fairly, SISL should calculate the position Business G would now 
be in if its investment had produced a return matching  the average rate for fixed rate bonds 
with 12 to 17 months maturity as published by the Bank of England.
I have chosen  this method of compensation because in my view the average  rate would be a 
fair measure, given Business Gs objective.  It does  not mean that Business G would have 
invested only in a fixed rate bond. It is the sort of investment return  a consumer could have 
obtained with little risk to capital.
Ref: DRN54214539To calculate compensation, SISL should  work out what the amount Business G invested in 
Scheme A would be worth at the date of this decision, had it received a return  matching the 
average rate for fixed rate bonds  with 12 to 17 months maturity as published by the Bank of 
England. 
Any amount  received by Business G from the scheme should be deducted from the fair value 
at the point it was actually  paid so it ceases to accrue  any return  in the calculation from that 
point on.
I understand Business G has received one payment from the administrators of Scheme A. It 
should confirm  this, and the exact  amount received, to allow  SISL to carry out the 
calculation.  
I do not believe Business  Gs investment in Scheme  A has any realisable value currently. So 
no allowance should be made for value of the investment when making  the calculation. SISL 
can however, in return for the compensation, ask Business G to undertake to pay to it any 
future returns it receives in relation to the investment. Business G should agree to give this 
undertaking, if it is asked  to. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  my decision is that this complaint should be upheld. Strathearn  
Insurance Services Limited  should calculate and pay compensation as described above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Business G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  3 May 2019.
John Pattinson
ombudsman
my provisional  findings
As mentioned,  SISL has previously  objected  to us considering this complaint.  In short, it has said 
Business G wasnt its customer, and that the bond wasnt a regulated product.  
Ref: DRN542145310SISLs objections were  considered at length by us in another similar case. I understand SISL accepts  
the jurisdiction  issues that are relevant to this case have been considered  in the jurisdiction  decision 
in that case, and that we do have jurisdiction to consider complaints such as Business Gs. So I will 
not consider jurisdiction in detail here. However,  for completion, I confirm  I am satisfied that Business  
Gs complaint is within our jurisdiction. In summary, I am satisfied that that Business  G is an eligible 
complainant, the bond is a contract of insurance  and that SISL carried out the regulated activity  of 
arranging (bringing about)  deals in investments and/or  making arrangements with a view to 
transactions in investments.
I have therefore considered  all the available  evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
I am required to determine  this complaint on the basis of what I consider to be fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances.  When  considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into 
account relevant law and regulations; regulator's rules, guidance and standards, and codes of 
practice; and, where  appropriate,  what  I consider to have  been good industry  practice at the time.
The KFD was clearly intended as the source of information about the bond for potential  customers  
thinking about  investing  in Scheme  A.  And Im satisfied that SISL knew this. 
The FCA handbook sets out the Principles  which are a general statement  of the fundamental 
obligations of the firms it regulates, such as SISL.
Principle 7 says:
"A firm must  pay due regard to the information needs  of its clients,  and communicate information to 
them in a way which is clear  fair and not misleading"
Client is defined as a customer and it includes potential client (and so potential  customer). So SISL 
had an obligation  to ensure  that it communicated  information  in a way that was clear,  fair and not 
misleading.
I consider that Principle  6 is also relevant here. That says: "A firm must pay due regard  to the 
interests of its customers  and treat them fairly. As SISL  knew that potential  customers  were  being  
referred to the KFD for information about the bond it had to consider the interests of those potential 
customers.
was the information  SISL provided clear, fair, and not misleading and did it pay regard to 
Business Gs interests?
Business G says it was not. It says:
SISL did not disclose the name of the insurer.
SISL did not disclose that the insurer was based in Nevis, and therefore not regulated by the 
FCA.
SISL did not make  clear that, in the event the insurer  defaulted, customers would not have 
recourse to the FSCS.
Having considered  everything, I am minded to agree that the information  provided in the key facts  
document was not clear  or fair, and was misleading.  
There is no mention in the key facts  that the insurer  was NWIC. The document does  not say that 
NWIC was not regulated by the FCA. And there was no warning that should  NWIC fail to meet its 
obligations, consumers  would be unable to claim their losses under the FSCS. 
Ref: DRN542145311Also, considering that this was the document that the potential customers were referred  to in the 
marketing literature for an explanation of the bond, it would be reasonable to expect  that it explained  
the key terms and conditions of the policy. But that wasnt the case.
So I do not think the KFD was clear  it omitted key information. And I think  it was unfair  to omit that 
information, and misleading. Acting fairly  and reasonably, SISL  should  have ensured the KFD was 
clear, fair, and not misleading by including this key information. 
SISL has also provided us with a copy of what is described as an Amended  particulars of Claim.  This 
appears to relate  to a claim made before the high court against a law firm,  about some of the IPIN 
schemes. This suggests that at around the time when  SISL produced the KFD of Scheme A there was 
publicly available information that raised serious  concerns about  the appropriateness of NWIC as the 
bond provider and whether  NWIC would be willing and able to honour its obligations under  the bond. It 
mentions that a simple  Google  search at the time would have  revealed that it had been reported that 
NWIC had failed to pay claims. 
The KFD said:  "Strathearn Insurance recommends  that you accept this policy, as it is designed to work  
specifically with the investment proposal  developed for IPIN SES investors".
I do not think  it was fair, or in the best interests of Business G, to make such a recommendation 
without carrying  out some  checks on NWIC, and highlighting the potential  risks.  Acting fairly  and 
reasonably, SISL should have balanced its recommendation to potential customers to accept the 
policy with explanation of the potential risks. If it was known at the time that NWIC might be in 
difficulty, it would have been fair to include a warning  about this potential risk in the KFD.  
what is the impact of this?
Business G says it relied solely on the key facts  document  before making its decision  to invest. 
Business G is a family business, which  has expanded from specialising in joinery, to become a property 
developer/investor in the region where its based.  Before  becoming involved with IPIN, Business G says 
it only put its spare money into bank or building  society accounts. It says when it invested in Scheme A 
it was looking for good returns, which involved  low risk and minimal involvement  by it, and it had initially  
found IPINs literature online. 
Scheme A was marketed as offering security and low risk exposure and it is clear from the 
promotional literature that the protection offered through the bond was a key selling point to convince 
potential customers that the scheme did indeed offer these features.  As Business G was seeking a 
low risk investment, I think the protection offered by the bond in relation to Scheme A would have 
been very important to it. 
IPIN directed  Business  G, and other consumers  like it, to SISLs KFD for information about the insurer 
and the insurance. 
The literature clearly  portrays  SISL as the entity that potential investors  needed  to look to for 
information about the bond. SISL also portrayed itself in the KFD as a specialised advisory  services 
company dedicated to residential  and commercial  real estate markets. SISL  also said The 
companys solutions are supported by leading international speciality  insurance groups . So it is clear 
SISL was portrayed to potential customers as an expert. 
In the KFD SISL  also told the potential  customers that they should  accept the policy as it was designed 
to work  specifically  with the investment proposal  developed for IPIN SES investors ".
SISL also referred separately to the insurance  and the overall investment proposition in the KFD. In 
doing this I consider it was drawing a distinction  between the insurance part of the scheme and the 
rest if the investment,  to highlight that it was tasked  with providing information  about  the insurance.
Ref: DRN542145312Given its objective and circumstances, I am persuaded that Business G would not have considered 
investing in Scheme  A without the protection offered by the bond. As mentioned, that was key to 
Scheme A having the low risk that Business G was seeking, and the protection  of the insurance would 
likely have been very important to it. 
I accept Business G relied on the KFD when making  the decision to invest, and I think  it was 
reasonable for it to do so. I think in the light of the assurance of the recommendation of the policy  
from the FCA regulated  expert,  SISL,  Business G had no cause to make any further enquiries about  
the insurer.  I think it was content to make the investment, in the knowledge there was insurance to 
protect it if things went wrong. And, to be clear, although I am referring to the insurance in the context  
of the overall investment in Scheme A, it is the role played by the bond and the information provided  
in relation to the bond which is the key consideration here. My consideration is focused  on the 
information provided  by SISL in the form of the KFD, as that is the basis of Business  Gs complaint. 
So I think SISLs failure to make the KFD clear, fair and not misleading, and failure  to consider the 
interests of potential  customers  such as Business  G, has had a significant  impact. I am satisfied  that, 
but for this, Business G would not have made the investment. Had the KFD been clear, fair and not 
misleading, and had consideration been given to interests of potential  customers  such  as Business  G, 
I think  Business  G would  have  been aware of a number of risks.  Crucially, it would have  had cause to 
question whether the investment was indeed low risk. I think that its awareness of the risks SISL 
ought to have  disclosed would have led it to conclude the risk associated with the investment was 
higher than it was prepared to accept.  So I think that would have led Business  G to conclude it should 
not make the investment. 
I understand Business  G had invested in two other IPIN schemes before this one. Those investments  
also later failed, as the Scheme A investment did. But the investments had only been made  a short while 
before this one (February 2013 and August 2013) and there  was no suggestion at the time of the 
investment in Scheme  A of there being any problem with either of these investments. SISL had produced 
identical key facts documents for each of these  investments and theyd each been described to Business 
G as having the low level of risk it was seeking. So I do not think  Business  Gs experience of making or 
holding those  investments gave it any reason  not to rely on the KFD when making  the investment  in 
Scheme A. 
So, if it were not for the failings of SISL,  I dont think that Business G would have invested in Scheme 
A.  It is therefore fair for SISL to compensate Business G for the loss it suffered  through  making the 
investment. 
Ref: DRN5421453