K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that Lloyds Bank  Plc unfairly  placed adverse information on his credit  
record.
background
Mr C lived in the UK for several  months in 2016.  During that time he had a Lloyds Bank 
account. But when  he left the UK he didnt think to close it. It had a negative  balance at the 
time. When he returned to the UK at the beginning of 2018 he went  into a local branch of 
Lloyds and asked  if he could reopen  his account. He says the person he spoke to was very 
rude and sent him away after telling him he owed Lloyds £87. Hes now found out this has 
had a negative  effect on his credit  score. He says this was an innocent  mistake and he 
wants Lloyds to remove the adverse information  it sent to the credit  reference agencies 
(CRAs).
Lloyds said there were periods of time when Mr Cs account went into unplanned overdraft 
and it was transferred  to its Collections department  at the end of September  2016. The bank 
sent out a formal demand at the end of November  2016. And Mr Cs account  was then 
transferred to its Recoveries department. Lloyds has now written off the balance  as a bad 
debt. It said it didnt  have  any evidence to suggest  Mr C had told it he had moved from the 
address hed given Lloyds.  So it didnt  think it should remove any adverse information from 
his credit record. It apologised for the poor customer service  he experienced in branch  and 
paid him £50 compensation.
The adjudicator thought  Lloyds had dealt with Mr Cs complaint  fairly. She could see itd sent 
him a number of letters  about the outstanding balance on his account. And it had sent those 
letters to the last address Mr C had given it. So she didnt think it was the banks fault he 
didnt get those letters. Although the bank didnt  default Mr Cs account it did send adverse 
information about his account history to the CRAs.  And as it has an obligation to do that, she 
explained to Mr C she couldnt ask it to remove that information.
Mr C was disappointed  with her opinion. He thought it was unfair in light of his lack of 
experience with the UK banking system.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
conclusion as the adjudicator for very similar reasons.
Mr C says his lack of experience with the UKs banking systems  should be taken into 
account. But it seems to me that there are some  fundamental responsibilities  about  having a 
bank account  that arent unique to one particular banking  system. Mr C had a credit balance 
on his bank account when he stopped using it. He said he wasnt aware of this. But its an 
individuals responsibility to monitor their bank account. So I cant fairly say his lack of 
awareness of the balance  on his account was the fault of Lloyds. And its an individuals 
responsibility to make  sure their bank has an up to date address. It doesnt  appear that Mr C 
did this. Lloyds sent its letters to the last address it had on its records. So Im satisfied it did 
all it could to notify Mr C about the implications  of having a negative balance on his account.
Ref: DRN54230902Banks have a duty to send accurate information  about the credit  history of any account to 
the CRAs.  Lloyds complied with its obligation to do this. So I cant  fairly ask it to remove the 
adverse information.  
Lloyds didnt give Mr C a good service when he went into a local branch. Its apologised and 
paid him £50. I think thats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.
I know Mr C will be disappointed with my decision but for the reasons Ive given Im not 
going to ask Lloyds to do anything more.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 February  2020.
Linda Freestone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5423090