K820x#14complaint
Mr C has complained that Everyday Loans  Limited  mis-sold him a loan payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr C was sold the PPI at the same time as arranging the loan in January 2011.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr C disagrees with the adjudicators view and 
so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Cs complaint and Ill explain why.
Mr C says he was led to believe that taking out the PPI would assist  with his application for 
the loan. Looking at the paperwork from the sale, the loan agreement has a separate  section 
for PPI. There were boxes  to tick to either request  or decline the PPI. The box to request  the 
PPI has been  ticked.  In that section there is also a statement  that says:  This insurance is 
optional. 
Everyday Loans  sold a number of different types of insurance and I can see that Mr C 
declined three  other types of cover. The sale paperwork  includes a record  of the discussion 
about Mr Cs circumstances and his insurance  needs. It is noted that the advisors 
recommendation is: Life to cover  the loan in the event of death. Accident and sickness as 
this loan is over 24 months as customer only receives full pay for 6 months and redundancy 
as not covered by state as has been  affected  by redundancy in the past. The statement of 
price document further states  that: The Repayment Protection Insurance is optional  and is 
not a condition of your loan with Everyday Lending Limited.
Ive thought carefully about what Mr C has said about being  pressured into buying  the PPI. 
Ive also thought about what  hes said about  not taking out PPI on numerous other loans. 
However, from the layout  and wording of the sales documentation, I consider its most likely 
that Mr C would have  known he had a choice  about buying the policy. He also felt able to 
decline the other forms of insurance that were  on offer. On balance, I find that Mr C probably 
decided to buy the PPI, knowing  that he had a choice about doing so.
Everyday Loans  advised Mr C to take out the policy. Therefore, in recommending  the PPI to 
him, it needed to ensure that it met Mr Cs needs. And from what  I know  of Mr Cs 
circumstances at the time, it was suitable for him.
Mr Cs employer would have given  him six months full pay if he was off sick. But the policy  
would have paid out in addition to any sick pay and potentially for longer than Mr C would 
have received full pay for.
Ref: DRN56434602Mr C has said that he had an uninterrupted  work history with only two episodes  of minor 
illness, so he was unlikely  to have needed  the policy. But, as Mr C knows  from his job, it is 
the nature  of insurance to provide cover  against  unforeseen events and changes  in 
circumstances. And the policy also provided  cover against unemployment. I appreciate what 
Mr C has said about weighing up the risk for himself but, even with Mr Cs apparent  good 
health at the time and his work benefits,  it didnt make the policy unsuitable. Im satisfied that 
it was reasonable  of Everyday Loans to have recommended the policy to him.
Everyday Loans  also needed to provide Mr C with enough information for him to make an 
informed choice about buying  the policy. I consider that Mr C would have known something 
about the policy  that it would cover his loan repayments if he wasnt  working due to 
accident, sickness or unemployment  because I dont think hed have agreed to it without 
knowing anything at all about it. Its possible that Everyday Loans didnt provide as much  
information as it should have about the policy, particularly the things it didnt cover.  But Mr C 
wasnt affected by any of those things. As I consider he had an interest in the policy  and 
decided to buy it, I dont  think  that further information would have caused him to change his 
mind.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 March  2020.
Carole Clark
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5643460