K820x#14complaint
Miss P complains  Santander UK Plc will not refund some disputed transactions.
background
Miss P travelled abroad in September 2018.   Whilst there, she says she lost her Santander 
debit card.  A loan was then applied  for in her name   approved and paid into her account  
for the sum of £20,000.  There  were then a number  of transactions  carried out which she 
says she did not make.  All transactions were  carried out in the same country where she was 
on holiday  and most were made using her genuine  card and PIN.
Within the period of the disputed transactions, two other loans were applied  for from other 
lenders  again both being paid into her Santander  account.  These  are the basis of 
separate complaints which are being  dealt with by this service.
When Miss P complained  about  both the loan and the transactions to Santander, it 
investigated her complaint  and decided that she had been the victim  of impersonation fraud  
where the loan was concerned.  It listened  to the call during which  the loan was applied  for 
and despite concluding that the person had knowledge of a considerable amount of personal  
information unique  to Miss P, the voice was different to that of Miss P. So, it was able to 
reverse the loan from her account,  close it down and remove  it from her credit file.
However, it concluded that Miss P was liable for the disputed transactions  as they were  all 
made using  her genuine card and PIN.  As  there was no identifiable compromise  of the PIN, 
it concluded Miss P must have authorised the payments.
When Miss P came to this service, our investigator  did not think  she could ask Santander to 
do anymore.  The matter  was then passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint  and based on what  I have seen, I will not 
be asking Santander  to do anymore here. My reasons are very much the same as the 
investigator.
Generally speaking, Santander  can hold Miss P liable  for these transactions if the evidence 
suggests that its more  likely than not that she made or authorised them.   But the relevant 
rules say its not enough for Santander to show that the original  card and PIN were used  it 
must show that Miss P consented  to the payments being made  too.
I am satisfied from the technical evidence that Miss Ps genuine card and PIN were  used  
so I need to decide whether I think the evidence suggests she also consented to the 
payments being  made. I make this decision  on the balance of probabilities   that is, what  I 
think is more likely  than not to have happened.
For the following  reasons,  I have  concluded  that Santander has not been  unfair  in holding 
Miss P liable  for these transactions:
Ref: DRN50568702-there is no plausible explanation as to how Miss Ps PIN had been compromised  
and whilst I accept that this alone  is not sufficient to hold her liable, the other 
circumstances of this complaint taken as a whole make  this a relevant consideration.
-during the period of the disputed transactions, Miss Ps online banking was accessed 
a number of times.  Miss P says she only accessed  it once to transfer  some  money  
to a builder, but the evidence suggests otherwise.  So if, as Miss P says, this wasnt  
her, it means a fraudster would have been  able to access  her online banking too.  Im 
afraid I do not find that to be plausible in the circumstances.
-during these log ins, Miss P would have  seen the change  in her balance  but yet did 
not query these  with Santander.
-the last transaction which Miss P accepts making using her card was on 16th 
September. She does not report the card as lost or stolen until 20th September when 
she is sent a text from Santander  confirming her loan had been approved.  
Considering Miss P had used her card already, I think it is unlikely that she would 
spend the next four days not realising it was missing.  By 20th, all three loans had 
been pain into her account  and all the disputed transactions had already been carried 
out.
Finally, I accept the matter of the loan application has been dealt with and so I am limited to 
what extent I can comment.   What I have seen  is that the person who spoke to Santander 
when the loan was applied for knew a lot of personal  information  about Miss P  including 
online banking information.   In those circumstances, I think Santander acted fairly in 
assuming they were  in fact speaking to Miss P.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 April 2020.
Shazia Ahmed
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5056870