K821x#15complaint
Mr A complains that The Prudential Assurance  Company Limited  (Prudential) told him it 
would be closing a fund he was invested  in via his Retirement Annuity Plan (RAP) and would 
apply a bid/offer  spread when it switched  him to a replacement  fund.  He also complains that 
it failed to fully respond to his queries and subsequent complaint.
background
In September  2018 Prudential wrote to Mr A to say that it was closing its Prudential M&G 
Asian Fund on 23 November 2018.  The letter set out that customers could move into 
another available fund or, if they did not respond, their holding would be moved  to a 
replacement fund, the Prudential Pacific Markets  Fund.
The letter said:
Moving between  funds means  the number of units you have will change. There are 
transactional costs involved. When  we close a fund, we'll sell your units at the market  price, 
and buy units in the replacement fund at the price offered by the fund manager at that time.
Mr A had around £100,000 invested  in the Prudential M&G Asia fund.
From Mr As submissions it appears  he spoke to Prudential several times to check his 
understanding that he would incur a bid/offer spread.  As Mr A did not receive  confirmation  
that, despite the wording in its letter, no bid/offer spread would apply he says he felt the only 
sensible route was to liquidate all my funds in the Plan and transfer to a SIPP  with another  
provider.
Mr A complained to Prudential. He said he would have lost out financially  if he had remained 
with Prudential as a result of the bid/offer spread it would apply. He also noted that the 
recent performance of the replacement fund was poorer  than the closing fund. He said he 
felt the fund was being  closed due to the Prudential M&G demerger.
Mr A also complained about problems he has experienced accessing his online Prudential 
account.
Prudential upheld Mr As complaint  about access to his online account,  MyPru. It offered to 
pay Mr A £150 for the problems he had experienced.
But it said it did not support his complaint in respect of the switching of the funds you were  
invested in. It noted that part of Mr As complaint concerned switching the funds that part of 
your plan was invested in as this would cost you money  in its final response  letter.  But it did 
not provide a response on this point.  It did however,  express  its hope  that the proposed 
replacement fund would achieve better investment returns  than the Prudential  M&G Asian  
Fund.
Mr A wasnt  satisfied with Prudentials response and brought  his complaint to this service.
He said Prudential had not  even attempted to address  most  of the issues that I raised. In 
particular he said it had not addressed his complaint that the switch to the replacement fund 
would incur a bid/offer  spread.
Ref: DRN54933292Mr A said he had queried this in several  phone calls with Prudential  as it was his 
understanding that the value of the replacement fund would face an immediate drop of 5% 
even if he transferred to its Cash Fund. He said that as the current fund value was around  
£100,000 the fall in the value of his holding, as a result of the fund switch,  would be around 
£5,000.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that Mr As complaint should be upheld. She said that 
she felt it was reasonable to expect a difference in fund values  when a fund holding was 
switched. And she said she felt the £150  Prudential had offered Mr A for the problems  he 
experienced accessing his MyPru  account was fair and reasonable.
Mr A didnt accept our investigators view. He raised  a number of points that he felt our 
investigator had not fully considered. In particular, he reiterated his view that Prudential  had 
not acted in his (or any of the fund holders) best interests when it closed its M&G Asia Fund 
and did not offer a cost free transfer  to a replacement fund.
He also said he didnt  think  that Prudential had given clear  and accurate  information to fund 
holders about  the financial cost involved in the sale of their holding in the M&G Asia fund 
and the purchase  of a replacement fund. Mr A reiterated his concern that any switch would 
have incurred a 5% bid/ offer spread.
He noted that our investigator had passed on Prudentials comments that:
There are no explicit  costs  charged  to the customer for the switch (as there  may be if the 
customer chose to switch  themselves,  depending on product). The only cost that could arise 
is based on the price  spread for the underlying assets (if, for instance, the asset of the 
closing fund is priced at bid, and the asset  of the receiving fund is priced  at offer). However, 
there is an argument that, if the underlying assets  have been on those respective bases in 
the run up to our fund closure date,  then our switch transaction (selling  one asset and buying 
another) has not impacted either  asset pricing basis, and so no spread cost has been 
triggered. That is the case with this fund closure  switch for which  our transactions did not 
appear to change the pricing basis of either underlying asset.
Mr A said he found this explanation Gobbledygook.
As Mr A remained unhappy with our investigators view his complaint was passed to me to 
determine. 
Having considered all the available evidence and arguments I reached  a different view to 
that of our investigator.  I issued  my provisional decision on this complaint on 9 June 2020. 
By way of my provisional decision I set out why I considered this complaint  should be upheld  
in part and how I considered the matter should  be fairly settled. I invited the parties to let me 
have any further  information or evidence, if they wished,  before I finally  determined  the 
complaint. 
In my provisional decision I set out my view as follows:
Cost of switching
Prudential wrote to Mr A in September  2018 to say that it was closing its Prudential M&G 
Asian Fund on 23 November 2018.  The letter set out that customers could either chose to 
Ref: DRN54933293move into another  available  fund or, if they did not respond,  their holding would be moved to 
the selected replacement fund, the Prudential Pacific Markets Fund.
The letter said:
Moving between  funds means  the number of units you have will change. There are 
transactional costs involved. When  we close a fund, we'll sell your units at the market  price, 
and buy units in the replacement fund at the price offered by the fund manager at that time.
Mr A, not unreasonably in my view,  understood this to mean that when Prudential  closed its 
M&G Asia fund he could either  switch  to the replacement fund suggested by Prudential  and 
incur a bid/offer  spread  on this switch, or chose  a different fund - again  incurring  a bid/offer 
spread.
Mr A said he queried this in several  calls with Prudential. He said he explained that it was his 
understanding that the value of the replacement fund would face an immediate drop of 5% 
even if he transferred to its Cash Fund. He said that as his holding  in the fund was worth  
around £100,000 the fall in value, as a result of the fund switch, would be around £5,000.
Mr A raised this issue in his complaint to Prudential. But its final response letter did not 
address this aspect  of his complaint.
In an email to this service,  which our investigator  passed on to Mr A, Prudential  said:
There are no explicit  costs  charged  to the customer for the switch (as there  may be if the 
customer chose to switch  themselves,  depending on product). And, the switch  between 
Prudential wrapper funds  is achieved using equivalent prices  (usually  bid to bid), so there is 
no direct  spread cost incurred.
I asked Prudential to explain  how this explanation  was consistent with the letter it sent to 
Mr A in September  2018  that said:
When we close a fund,  we'll sell your units at the market price,  and buy units in the 
replacement fund at the price  offered  by the fund manager at that time.
I noted that Mr A had, not unreasonably,  understood this to mean that there  was a bid/offer 
spread.
I also asked Prudential to set out simple  workings  showing what  the actual reduction, if any, 
in the value of Mr As M&G Asia fund holding would  have  been, if he had transferred into the 
Pacific fund suggested by Prudential.
Unfortunately, despite several requests for clarification on how to carry out this calculation  
Prudential did not provide  this service with a calculation  showing what  the change in the 
value of Mr As holding would have been  if he had gone ahead  with the transfer  from the 
M&G Asia fund to the Pacific Markets fund.
However, Prudential  did provide  a response  on the point I raised in relation to its Terms and 
Conditions. I noted that the terms and conditions set out that fund conversions would be 
carried out on a bid to bid basis. I asked how this was consistent with the letter  it sent to 
Mr A in September  2018.
Ref: DRN54933294I said it wasnt clear  to me that Prudential had treated Mr A fairly as it appeared from the 
letter it sent to him in September  2018 that he would have incurred a bid/offer spread as a 
result of the closure  of the M&G Asia fund.
In March 2020 Prudential provided  the following response to this service:
The project team involved in the closing down of the funds have looked at the 
communication to our customers and do not feel that this was misleading. We feel that Mr A 
has misinterpreted the letter and we are not aware of any other complaints that customers  
have raised regarding the wording on the communication.  We are sorry if Mr A did 
misunderstand this.
The wording  of the letter states 'we'll sell your units at the market  price, and buy units  in the 
replacement fund at the price  offered  by the fund manager at that time, this means  we will 
transact on the prevailing prices as at the point of the switch. The wording does not mean 
that we sell at the bid price and buy at the offer price.  I think in this case, Mr A has 
misinterpreted the word  'offer'  and assumed this meant the offer price. However, there  is 
nothing on the letter that confirms that the switch  would be done on a bid/offer basis.
On the bottom  of our communication, we asked  customers  to contact us if they had any 
questions to come back to us.
Our records show that he called us on 18 October  2018 regarding the closure of these fund 
and we called him back  on 22 October  2018. However at this point he had already 
transferred his benefits out. It therefore  seems he had made this decision  without  initially 
contacting us to clarify this wording. I have attached a copy  of the screen print showing the 
transfer request.
So it appeared that no bid/offer spread would have  applied if Mr A had gone ahead with the 
switch to the Prudential Pacific  Markets Fund.
I very carefully considered whether the misunderstanding about a bid/offer spread was 
caused as a result of Mr A misinterpreting the wording in the letter from Prudential.
I also considered whether  Mr A could reasonably have been  expected  to know  that, despite 
the letter he received from Prudential in September 2018 saying:
When we close a fund,  we'll sell your units at the market price,  and buy units in the 
replacement fund at the price offered  by the fund manager at that time.
(bold is my emphasis) that this wording does not mean that we sell at the bid price and buy 
at the offer price.
Having very carefully  considered this matter,  I said I thought that Mr A had taken reasonable 
steps to check his understanding. I didnt think Prudentials claim that Mr A failed to check  
his understanding was correct.
In particular, I noted that in his letter of complaint to Prudential dated 6 November 2018  Mr A 
said:
My holding of the Asian Fund was approximately £100,000 and a bid/offer spread of the 
Cash Fund was going to cost me a transfer value reduction of approx. £5,000 whether I held 
it for 1 day or till 7 June 2020.
Ref: DRN54933295On reading your information and realising the seriousness of this my only sensible route was 
to liquidate all my funds  in the Plan and transfer to a SIPP  with another provider. I made 
telephone calls to your  company which I understand were recorded.
I was informed that if I still had the Asian  Fund on 23rd November that it would be 
immediately transferred and there was no leeway of even  a few days  during which  the 
money could sit as cash to avoid  this bid/offer spread so I had to deal with this very quickly. I 
arranged in conjunction with [name of stockbroker] for them to send an ORIGO transfer form 
on 18th October to Prudential - which they did and I informed Prudential  of this.
I was phoned  by Prudential on 22nd  October  to be told that there  was no sign of the ORIGO 
form and the transfer could  take a few weeks. I explained that I would be contacting the 
Ombudsman if there was a delay forcing  me to buy into your Cash  Fund.  I phoned [name of 
stockbroker] and they confirmed that they sent the form on 18th October  and they could tell 
that Prudential  had started  working  on it.
I then had another call from Prudential telling  me the value  of the new fund would be the 
same as the old fund.  I quoted the first paragraph of the second page of the letter which 
clearly states this is not the case:  There are transactional costs involved.  When  we close a 
fund, well sell your units at the market price, and buy units in the replacement fund at the 
price offered  by the fund manager  at that time.   I was told this would be checked.
Prudential phoned  and confirmed that ORIGO was in fact received on 18rd October contrary  
to what I had previously been told by them and they were  still unable to confirm re the 
bid/offer spread.
On 23rd October  Prudential phoned and said all was in order and my cash would be with 
[name of stockbroker] the following  day. They would  also notify me about the bid/offer  as 
they wanted to know in case other fund holders were disadvantaged.
As I had registered for MYPRU  I tried to access my account on 24rd and 25th to verify what 
was happening,  but was unable to do so as there was a problem with my account.  I phoned  
your helpline and was told that he could  not access my account either and he could not 
transfer me to the correct department as they had terminated his call when he had tried. He 
requested a call back  to me which he said would happen on 25th or 26th October as this 
instruction could not be ignored.
Prudential phoned  and confirmed that the transfer had happened on 23rd October  of 
£361,352.24 which I then verified with [name  of stockbroker]. I also said I was still awaiting 
the information  about the bid/offer spread.
(bold is my emphasis)
In view of this I said I didnt think it was fair for Prudential to say that Mr A decided to move  
to another provider  without initially contacting  us to clarify this wording. From Mr As 
submissions it appeared that he contacted Prudential on or before 18 October 2018 to clarify 
his understanding of the situation. It also appeared from Mr As submissions that he felt he 
had to deal with this very quickly as he was told that the fund switch, incurring a bid/offer 
spread, would go ahead on 23 November 2018 if he had not transferred his funds away  by 
this date.
Ref: DRN54933296Prudential also appeared to have  caused  Mr A further concern by telling him it had not 
received the ORIGO  transfer form and that the transfer could take a few weeks.  I said I 
thought this led Mr A to think there  was some  risk that the transfer to his new SIPP  provider 
might not go ahead before the 23 November  2018.  Mr A thought he would incur  a further 
bid/offer spread when his holding was encashed, if the transfer  went  ahead after this date.
Having very carefully  considered this matter  my provisional view was that Prudential  did not 
treat Mr A fairly. I said I didnt think it had provided  clear communications.  And I didnt think 
Mr A was at fault for misinterpreting  Prudentials letter saying; we'll sell your units at the 
market price, and buy units in the replacement fund at the price offered  by the fund manager  
at that time.
I said I thought this wording was, at best, confusing  and unclear.
In my view, Prudential should have acted promptly and confirmed that despite the wording in 
its letter no bid/offer  spread would apply.
Instead, when  Mr A contacted Prudential to check his understanding,  it caused Mr A more 
worry when it told him there  was no leeway of even a few days during which  the money 
could sit as cash to avoid this bid/offer spread and wrongly claimed not to have received the 
ORIGO transfer form.
I concluded that the incorrect information Mr A received from Prudential made him think he 
could find himself in a position where  he would incur  a large  bid/offer spread through no fault 
of his own.
My view was that, based on Mr As submissions to this service,  he would not have encashed  
his holdings and moved his pension  pot to a SIPP provider if Prudential  had promptly  
explained that, despite the wording used in its letter dated September 2018, no bid/offer 
spread would be applied to the fund switch when  it closed its M&G Asia fund.
I reached this view as I noted  Mr A said in his complaint to Prudential:
I have had this Policy for many years and have refrained from switching funds because  of 
the associated  costs and I intended keeping the Policy till my 75th birthday.
By your decision to make this change I was going  to make a loss of about  £5000 plus lose 
any potential gain on that amount of money till 2020  due to Out of Market  risks.
In order to expedite  the change and in view of the confused and inaccurate information the 
only sensible  option was to transfer  all my Plan at the Transfer  value though  this entailed 
loss of the bid/offer spread and costs of re-investments in my SIPP.
In order to resolve this matter Mr A said he wanted Prudential to cover the bid/offer spread 
that would  have applied if he:
had invested  immediately in any of the Prudential M&G  Funds again this would have cost 
£379,419.85 (Offer price)  for them to have the same Bid price  of £361,352.24. Therefore to 
have put me back to the same position would require the difference i.e. £18,067.61.
But as Mr A had confirmed that he did not re-buy the funds he held in his RAP,  I said I didnt 
think it would  be fair to ask Prudential to cover the cost of the bid/offer spread Mr A would 
have incurred.
Ref: DRN54933297I was also mindful that Prudential told Mr A that that it didnt think  a bid/offer spread would be 
applied during one of the phone calls he had with it before he transferred his funds to a 
SIPP. I note that Mr A asked Prudential  to double check that this was correct as this was not 
what he understood its September 2018  letter  to say. It appeared that as Prudential failed to 
come back  to Mr A he went ahead with the transfer  of his funds. If Mr A had not transferred 
the funds in his RAP to a SIPP he thought he would incur a 5% bid/offer spread when the 
M&G Asia Fund was closed  a loss of around £5,000 based on the value of his holding in 
the M&G Asia Fund.
Mr A says that having read the September 2018  letter from Prudential about  the closure of 
its M&G Asia Fund and realising the seriousness  of this my only sensible route was to 
liquidate all my funds  in the Plan and transfer  to a SIPP with another  provider.
But I didnt think encashing  all the holdings in his RAP and moving the proceeds  to a SIPP 
was Mr As only sensible route. By doing so, Mr A incurred a bid/offer spread on all the 
holdings in his RAP  Mr A said this has left him over £18,000 out of pocket.
I noted that, if Mr A had left his other funds in place  and switched to another fund offered by 
Prudential when the M&G Asia fund was closed he wouldnt have incurred a bid/offer spread 
on around £260,000 of his RAP holdings.
I said I thought the letter  he received in September 2018 prompted him to re-assess his 
RAP. As Mr A thought he was about to incur a 5% bid/offer spread on one of his holdings he 
decided to move all of his RAP funds  to a SIPP.
But by doing  so, Mr A chose to incur a bid/offer spread  on all his funds. Whereas,  based  on 
his understanding at that time, if he had left his funds in his RAP he thought  he would incur a 
5% bid/offer  spread on his M&G Asia Fund  holding. In view of this I said I thought  Mr A 
chose to incur a bid/offer spread on all the holdings in his RAP so he could transfer to a 
SIPP  and as Id already said, I didnt agree that this was his only sensible  route .
Having carefully considered this matter, I said my provisional decision was that Prudential 
should pay Mr A the difference between  the bid and offer price on his M&G Asia Fund 
holding as at the date Mr A encashed  it. I said this would compensate Mr A for the loss he 
suffered that he thought was unavoidable.
As to Prudentials comments around  the timing of Mr As transfer out to the SIPP,  I very 
carefully considered  the incorrect information Mr A was given when he contacted Prudential 
to check his understanding of its September 2018 letter.  I said that Mr A felt the timescale for 
transferring his RAP funds to a SIPP was very tight if it was to be completed  before the M&G 
Asia fund was closed. In view if this, I said I didnt  think it was reasonable to say that Mr A 
should have waited any longer for Prudential to give him an unambiguous answer about the 
wording in its September 2018 letter.
I also said I thought  Prudential should  pay Mr A a further £500 for the trouble and upset this 
matter had caused him. In particular I said I was mindful of its failure to provide a clear  
explanation to Mr A on this aspect of his complaint despite his numerous requests for clarity. 
I said it was clear from the correspondence  I had seen that Prudential repeatedly failed to 
provide a response on this issue.
access to MyPru
Ref: DRN54933298I said it was not in dispute that Mr A experienced problems accessing his MyPru  account.  I 
said I thought  that the £150 that Prudential had offered Mr A for the inconvenience this had 
caused him was fair and reasonable. As Mr A had not raised any further  points in relation to 
this aspect of his complaint, I said I did not intend to consider this aspect of his complaint 
any further.
wider issues
Mr A also raised a number of points in relation to whether  Prudential  was in breach of 
regulatory requirements. In particular, I noted Mr A had raised  concerns about  whether 
Prudential should  have been allowed to close the M&G Asia fund without first obtaining the 
consent of fund holders.
I said I appreciated the points that Mr A had made, but I was required to determine this 
complaint on its individual merits. I explained that this service doesnt  have  any regulatory or 
enforcement powers.
I said that if Mr A would like to pursue the wider  issues he had raised,  he might wish to 
contact the industry  regulator, the Financial  Conduct  Authority (FCA). If there have been  
breaches of regulatory  requirements the FCA has the authority to investigate  these and, if it 
considers it appropriate,  it has the power to order Prudential to put matters  right for all 
affected customers.
Both Mr A and Prudential  responded to my provisional decision.
Mr A said he was pleased  my provisional  view was that his complaint should  be upheld  in 
part. But he said he was disappointed that I did not think that transferring out all the funds he 
held in his RAP was his only sensible route.
In particular Mr A said:
I would ask - would you consider it sensible to NOT close  all the Funds when I had totally 
lost faith and trust in Prudential for many reasons which I have previously documented and 
they could at any stage have done  a similar  action on each of my other Prudential funds and 
possibly on numerous  occasions if they got away with this one? I did not take the decision 
without considerable thought despite the very tight time schedule because of their threats of 
several weeks being necessary to make any switch   a threat that was also inaccurate but 
presumably made to stop me taking the action.
Mr A also provided additional  background on some  of the points I had covered in my 
provisional decision. I note Mr A has confirmed that Prudential did not tell him that a bid/offer 
spread wouldnt  be applied during a call on 22 October 2018.  Mr A noted  that in his 
submissions to this service he said he was told the value of the new fund would be same as 
the value of the old fund.  As this did not tally with the information  in the letter  he had 
received he asked Prudential to confirm  if this was correct, but it repeatedly failed to do so.
Prudential responded to say that it did not accept my provisional decision.
It said: 
Ref: DRN54933299Our letter in September 2018 wasn't  as clear  as it could've been, but we never stated a 5% 
bid/offer spread would  apply to the switch. Mr A incorrectly assumed this and did not contact 
us until 18 October 2018. I believe at that time, he had already made arrangements  to 
transfer his benefits to [name of stockbroker].
It provided call recordings  of conversations Mr A had with its representatives.
The first call was made  in the afternoon  on 18 October 2018. It noted that in this call Mr A 
asked about how to transfer his funds to a SIPP.  It said it believed that Mr A had already 
made the decision to transfer the funds  into a SIPP at the time and was asking how to 
arrange this transfer. It noted that towards the end of the call Mr A said he was going to 
transfer his funds to a SIPP.
It said it received an ORIGO transfer request later that day. It said it felt this showed it 
was possible that the transfer  process  had already  been looked into before this call. It said it 
felt it was unlikely  that Mr A could have liaised with a SIPP  provider to transfer his funds  so 
quickly. But it accepted  that in the call on 18 October 2018  it was not able to answer Mr As 
question about  why it had said he would incur  a bid/offer spread on a compulsory  fund 
switch.
It said it then called Mr A twice on 22 October 2018.  It said it initially  told Mr A that it hadnt  
receive his ORIGO transfer request as it had been  sent to a different department and it had 
taken a few days  for the transfer to be registered on its systems.
In the second  call of 22 October 2018 , it said it had told Mr A that the fund value of 
£99,000 approx,  would still be switched  into the new fund. Mr A queried this and he felt this 
was different to what our September letter says. It was agreed  we would call him while we 
checked this again and called him the following day. However, again in the call of 22 
October, he was insistent  that the policy was transferred.
On 23 October 2018, Prudential called Mr A again and said it was carrying out some  
calculations to see if he would be disadvantaged as a result of the compulsory fund switch. 
In this call its representative confirmed that the ORIGO transfer was going ahead  and the 
funds would be paid to Mr As new SIPP provider the next day.
Prudential says its representative explained [in relation to the calculations being  carried  
out] that it will not affect the plan anyway.  She said our specialist area were  looking into this 
and feedback to the relevant area to ensure no customers were disadvantaged by this she 
asked if this was OK and that had resolved his concerns. I believe that our call handler was 
looking at the concerns  from a wider point of view to see if any customers were  affected by 
this.
Prudential accepted that it did not provide Mr P with these calculations,  despite having said it 
would do so. But it also said Mr A had not asked  it to stop the transfer while it looked into 
whether the information in letter it sent him in September 2018 was wrong. 
It said:
I would  therefore  disagree that Mr A gave us the opportunity to fully explain this before the 
transfer request  came  through  on 18 October  2018.  We called  Mr A back  on 22 October  
2018 following  his call on 18 October  and at this point he had already  requested  the transfer. 
In the second  call of 22 October we gave him the correct information, he queried  this but the 
transfer was going through before we were  able to fully clarify.
Ref: DRN549332910It confirmed that the value  of Mr As M&G Asian Fund would have been switched into the 
Pacific Markets fund with no bid/offer spread being applied if he had remained with 
Prudential. 
It agreed that Mr A suffered a loss of around £5,000  (the difference between the bid and 
offer price) when his M&G Asia fund was encashed.  It said:
However, I would  reiterate that the customer would not have suffered this financial loss on 
the switch of the funds. I therefore  do not feel that the customer is due to be paid this 
amount as he has not lost out by this value.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I remain of the view that Mr As complaint should be upheld in part. Ill 
explain why.
In its response to my provisional decision Prudential said:
When we close funds  and switch customers to another fund, this switch of funds is obviously 
out of the customer's control, we would therefore not charge for this switch  of funds and it 
would be wrong  to do so.
It is very unfortunate that Prudential  was not able to give this clear, unambiguous message 
to Mr A when he phoned it in October  2018.  Had it done so, I think Mr A would have left his 
funds with Prudential.  This was without doubt  the catalyst for Mr A moving his funds.
In its earlier  responses to this service,  in March 2020 Prudential  said:
The project team involved in the closing down of the funds have looked at the 
communication to our customers and do not feel that this was misleading. We feel that Mr A 
has misinterpreted the letter and we are not aware of any other complaints that customers  
have raised regarding the wording on the communication.  We are sorry if Mr A did 
misunderstand this.
The wording  of the letter states 'we'll sell your units at the market  price, and buy units  in the 
replacement fund at the price  offered  by the fund manager at that time, this means  we will 
transact on the prevailing prices as at the point of the switch. The wording does not mean 
that we sell at the bid price and buy at the offer price.  I think in this case, Mr A has 
misinterpreted the word  'offer'  and assumed this meant the offer price. However, there  is 
nothing on the letter that confirms that the switch  would be done on a bid/offer basis.
On the bottom  of our communication, we asked  the customers  to contact us if they had any 
questions to come back to us.
But Mr A did contact Prudential with his questions.  
Ref: DRN549332911I have listened  to all the call recordings Prudential has provided. Having done so I am 
satisfied that Mr A very clearly explained his concern that he would incur  a 5% bid/offer 
spread due to the compulsory fund switch  in the call on 18 October  2018. He reiterated his 
concerns in the subsequent calls.  At no point during these calls did the representative  
suggest that Mr A might have misinterpreted  its letter or say that the bid/offer spread would 
not be applied.
If, as Prudential has suggested, Mr A had clearly misinterpreted its letter, I think its 
representatives should have explained this was the case. Despite Mr As very clear 
explanation of his concerns none  of the representatives he spoke to were able to correct  this 
misunderstanding. I think this supports  my view that the wording in its letter  wasnt clear, 
even to its own representatives.
I remain of the view that it was not unreasonable for Mr A to have understood the wording in 
Prudentials letter to mean that a bid/offer spread  would be applied on the fund switch.  The 
letter said:
Moving between  funds means  the number of units you have will change. There are 
transactional costs involved. When  we close a fund, we'll sell your units at the market  price, 
and buy units in the replacement fund at the price offered by the fund manager at that time.
I also dont agree with Prudentials  view that Mr A had already decided to move his funds to 
a SIPP  before he called it on 18 October 2018.  In the call Mr A, very reasonably,  asked 
whether it would be possible to transfer  the funds without encashing them  (this is usually 
referred to as an in-specie transfer) and he asked  how he could go about transferring his 
funds to a SIPP. 
If Mr A had already investigated moving  his funds to a SIPP it seems likely he would have 
already known the answer to these  questions.  Likewise Mr A was unaware  of the ORIGO 
platform that could  be used to move  his funds to a new provider until the representative 
mentioned it.
On 22 October Mr A again explained  his concern that, regardless of which fund he was 
switched into, he would  incur a 5% bid/offer spread. Despite this the representative 
reiterated that Mr A would be switched into a new fund if his SIPP  transfer had not been 
completed by the date the fund was closed. I note that the representative repeatedly failed to 
address Mr As concern about the bid/offer spread on the fund switch.  
Having carefully reconsidered  whether the misunderstanding  about a bid/offer spread was 
caused as a result of Mr A misinterpreting the wording in the letter from Prudential I remain 
satisfied that Mr A went to considerable lengths  to check  his understanding  that a bid/offer 
spread would be applied on the fund switch. He very clearly explained his concerns  in the 
phone calls he had with Prudentials  representatives. Unfortunately, for whatever reason, 
Prudential was not able to correct  this misunderstanding.
I have also re-considered whether transferring all the funds he held in his RAP to a SIPP 
was Mr As only sensible route.
I am sympathetic to the position Mr A was in. Having listened to call recordings I think  Mr A 
made every effort to explain his concerns to Prudential. 
Ref: DRN549332912I appreciate that Mr A wanted  to close  all his funds  as he had lost trust in Prudential,  but I 
dont agree that this was the only sensible  way to address his concerns.
Mr A says Prudential could have any stage have  done a similar action on each of my 
other Prudential funds and possibly on numerous  occasions if they got away  with this one?
While I accept that Prudential could have closed other funds  Mr A held, it hadnt said or 
suggested that it was going to do so. So although  I do understand that Mr A was very 
concerned that he would incur a 5% bid/offer spread when the Prudential M&G Asia fund 
was closed I dont  think his only sensible option was to encash all his funds and move his 
pension pot to another provider.
I accept that Mr A didnt  make the decision to move  to the SIPP lightly.  And I agree that due 
to the incorrect information he received from Prudential about the likely timescale for the 
transfer Mr A felt he had to make a decision very quickly. But it remains the case  that by 
choosing to move his pension pot from Prudential to another provider Mr A chose  to incur 
the bid/offer  spread on all the funds  he held with Prudential. And I think to compensate Mr A 
for the bid/offer spread on all of the funds  would be disproportionate.
Mr A says that having read the September 2018  letter from Prudential about  the closure of 
its M&G Asia Fund and realising the seriousness  of this my only sensible route was to 
liquidate all my funds  in the Plan and transfer  to a SIPP with another  provider.
But, by doing  so, Mr A incurred a bid/offer spread  on all the holdings  in his RAP  Mr A says 
this has left him over £18,000 out of pocket.
I remain of the view that the letter  he received in September 2018 prompted  him to re-
assess his RAP. As Mr A thought he was about to incur a 5% bid/offer spread  on one of his 
holdings he decided to move all his RAP funds to a SIPP.
But by doing  so, Mr A chose to incur a bid/offer spread  on all his funds. Whereas,  based  on 
his understanding at that time, if he had left his funds in his RAP he thought  he would incur a 
5% bid/offer  spread on his M&G Asia Fund  holding. So I think Mr A chose to incur a bid/offer 
spread on all the holdings in his RAP so he could transfer to a SIPP  and as Ive said 
above, I dont  agree that this was his only sensible route.
what Prudential must  do to put matters right
Having carefully considered this matter, I think a fair and reasonable outcome would be for 
Prudential to pay Mr A the difference between  the bid and offer price  on his M&G Asia Fund 
holding as at the date Mr A encashed  it. This compensates Mr A for the loss he suffered that 
he thought was unavoidable.
Prudential should  also pay Mr A a further  £500 for the considerable trouble and upset this 
matter has caused  him. In particular, I am mindful  of its failure to provide a clear  explanation 
to Mr A on this aspect of his complaint  despite his numerous requests for clarity. 
my final decision
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 August 2020.
Ref: DRN549332913My decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part. In order to resolve  this matter The 
Prudential Assurance  Company Limited  should pay the compensation as set out above.
Suzannah Stuart
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5493329