K822xcomplaint 
Mr B has complained that Royal  & Sun Alliance Insurance  Plc (RSA) has unfairly increased 
the cost of his pet insurance policy each  year.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In general, the cost of insuring a pet will increase each year as the pet gets older  and the 
cost of medical treatment  rises. Standard pet insurance policies also usually  wont  cover any 
medical conditions  the pet had or had received treatment  for when the policy was taken out 
or renewed.  So ongoing or recurring  medical  conditions wont be covered.
But some pet insurance policies,  like the one Mr B took out, will continue to cover  any 
medical conditions  claimed for in previous years, up to any applicable limits, provided the 
policy is renewed each  year.  These  are sometimes  referred to as lifetime  policies,  as 
ongoing or recurring conditions will continue to be covered for the lifetime  of the pet or until 
the limit for that condition has been  reached, as long as premiums continue to be paid. The 
yearly cost of these policies can go up significantly at renewal, particularly if a claim is made. 
RSA should have made these longer-term cost implications clear  to Mr B. It has accepted 
the information it gave Mr B about the policy wasnt as clear as it should have been. And 
RSA has offered to pay £750 compensation for the trouble and upset hes been  caused as a 
result of this. I think this offer is fair and reasonable compensation in the circumstances of 
Mr Bs complaint.
Mr B has told us hes not happy  with the offer RSA has made because no other insurer  will 
cover his pets pre-existing  conditions  now, so he has no choice but to keep paying the 
increasing premiums if he wants his pet to be covered. He is concerned that the 
compensation offered wont cover the increase in premium at the next renewal.
Businesses are entitled to decide  how much to charge for the insurance cover they provide, 
and I dont have  the power to tell a business  what its insurance should cost.  I would be, in 
effect, determining  or telling a business how it should operate   and thats not my role. So I 
cant say the cost of Mr Bs policy is too high, he should have been charged less for the 
policy or that he should be charged less in the future.
While Mr Bs premium  has seen  significant increases, I havent seen any evidence to 
suggest RSA has treated  him differently to how it would have treated any other  policyholder 
in the same position. So I cant tell RSA to charge him a lower  premium going forwards.
I understand this situation has caused  Mr B a significant amount of distress  as, due to the 
medical condition  his pet now has, he cant find equivalent cover elsewhere. And I recognise 
the likely  continuing  increases in the premium  in future years  mean  he may be forced  to 
cancel the policy.
But the thing RSA did wrong was not give Mr B the information he needed to understand he 
could end up in the position  he now finds himself in. Where I find something has gone  
wrong, Ill look at whats likely  to have happened if it hadnt, to see if a consumer has lost 
out.
Ref: DRN50560792If Mr B hadnt taken a lifetime policy, he wouldve either had no cover at all, and would have 
had to pay for his pets treatment himself, or a reduced level of cover,  where he would still 
have found himself in a situation where his pets conditions  were no longer covered.
I think its unlikely better  information  about  the possible future costs of the policy  would have 
resulted in Mr B having cover for ongoing conditions  at a fixed  or capped premium  this 
type of policy typically  doesnt exist. So it wouldnt be fair for me to put him in this position.  
The compensation RSA has offered recognises  that better information about  the longer-term 
costs of the policy could have avoided  some of the upset and distress  Mr B has experienced. 
It is a significant award and I think it fairly  compensates Mr B for the trouble and upset hes 
been caused.
my final decision
I think Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance  Plcs  offer to pay Mr and Mrs S £750 compensation is 
fair and reasonable. I dont require it to do anything further.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 March 2020.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5056079