K820x#14complaint
Mr D is unhappy that his claim under his property insurance policy for storm damage to his 
roof and water damage to the ceiling below has been declined. Royal & Sun Alliance 
Insurance Plc (RSA) underwrites  the insurance  policy in question and is responsible  for the 
claim decision Mr D is unhappy about.
background
In the autumn of 2018 Mr D made a claim to RSA because  water was coming in through his 
roof. RSA arranged for a surveyor  to inspect  Mr Ds home and determine what  the cause of 
water ingress/damage was. 
The surveyor concluded the water ingress  had been allowed because a slate had become 
detached from the roof. It was stated the slate had deteriorated and broken away  from its 
fixings. It concluded this had happened some  time before  the claim and hadnt happened  in 
the recent inclement weather. The collapsed internal ceiling had been  caused because the 
lats supporting the ceiling  had rotted from long-term exposure to water. 
Mr D is unhappy with the service RSAs  contractors provided. He says the contractor didnt 
go up on the roof and the pictures used in its report were taken by him. Nor did the 
contractor go into the attic area either.  As Mr D was unhappy with, what  he considered  was 
a lack of skill demonstrated in the inspection, he arranged for another  roofer  to inspect the 
roof.
The contractor Mr D brought in to quote  for the damage said  in my professional opinion, 
the damage to Mr [Ds] property is indisputably  due to damage caused by Storm Ali on the 
19th September 2018. The storm dislodged a slate from the roof directly above  his damaged 
ceiling. To further  compound the damage  the slate was positioned at a joint in the roof 
sarking, close to the gutter where  most  of the rain gathers.  The ceiling then took a matter of 
hours to fall in.
When this report was given to RSA, it didnt change  its mind. Mr D was unhappy with that 
decision and complained. 
RSA considered the complaint but continued  to decline  the claim.  It relied  on its surveyors  
opinion about  the damage that the damage  hadnt  happened in a storm and so there was no 
cover available. As Mr D wasnt happy  with RSAs decision, he referred the complaint to this 
service. 
One of our investigators  considered the complaint, but didnt recommend it be upheld.  Whilst 
there had been  a storm at the time of the water ingress into Mr Ds home,  she wasnt 
persuaded the storm was the dominant cause of the damage. This was because the ceiling 
lats had clearly rotted, which wouldnt have happened due to a single, recent  incident  of 
storm. She concluded the storm at the time the ceiling collapsed  had highlighted a problem 
that had existed for some time. 
Mr D didnt accept the investigators opinion and asked  that the complaint be referred  to an 
ombudsman for decision. 
Ref: DRN54203742my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Before doing so I would confirm  that an 
insurance policy such as Mr Ds doesnt  cover everything that can happen to a property. It 
has insured perils listed and unless the damage can be linked to a single incident of an 
insured peril,  the policy wont provide  cover  for that damage.
I think it is accepted  there was a storm the day before the damage to Mr Ds home was 
discovered, so I dont propose  to look further  into that issue. What I have to decide is 
whether the storm  was the cause of the damage to Mr Ds roof and ceiling  below. His expert 
says it was  the storm damaged and dislodged a slate. That allowed a large amount of 
water into the roof void which  caused  his ceiling  to collapse. 
RSAs expert has said that is not the case. It has pointed to the condition of the section  of 
ceiling that collapsed and suggested  the wooden lats had rotted. Looking at the photographs 
of both the remaining ceiling and the debris  below,  it does seem there was rot in the ceiling 
timbers. That would,  as RSA has suggested, indicate the roof had been  leaking for some 
time. 
RSA has also pointed  out that had the slate fallen the day before the damage,  the slates 
exposed when it moved would have had a clean unstained appearance. However, whilst the 
photographs do show  the area to be of a lighter colour, there is also clear staining  from 
exposure to weather. Again,  this would indicate  the slate  in question hadnt  fallen  in the 
storm a day or two before the pictures were taken.  
Whilst I know that this will disappoint Mr D, I am persuaded by the evidence that Storm Ali 
was not responsible for damaging the exterior  of his roof. Rot doesnt  occur quickly  either  
and so it would appear the roof had been leaking for some time before the eventual  ceiling 
collapse. Whilst the water from the storm did lead to the ceiling  collapsing,  given the rot in 
the ceiling, I think  its collapse was inevitable. So the storm simply highlighted existing 
problems with the roof and ceiling. As such,  I cant find the storm was the dominant cause of 
damage to Mr Ds home. So, I dont consider RSA was wrong in declining  the claim as the 
damage was not caused by an insured peril.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules  of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr D to accept  or reject my decision before 
15 June 2020.
Derry Baxter
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5420374