K821x#15complaint
Mr R complains that Barclays  Bank  UK PLC, trading  as Barclaycard, mis-sold him a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. The complaint is brought on his behalf by a 
claims management company.
background
The background to this complaint is set out in my provisional decision dated 4 April 2019, a 
copy of which is attached. I concluded that the complaint  shouldnt  be upheld.  Mr R told us 
he had a pre-existing medical condition but, when we asked his representative for more  
information, it was unable or unwilling  to provide  it. In the absence of any further evidence, 
I couldnt conclude  that Mr R had a pre-existing medical condition when he took out the PPI 
which wouldve affected his decision  to take the policy.  I invited  him and his representative to 
provide further  information or evidence.
His representative acknowledged receipt of my provisional decision,  but no further  
information or evidence was provided.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any fresh information or evidence in response to my 
provisional decision, I find no basis to depart from my earlier conclusions.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont think the PPI policy was mis-sold   so 
Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard, does not have to pay back all of the cost of 
the PPI to Mr R.
But Barclays  Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard, does have to pay back to Mr R any 
commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand 
it has already done this, so I dont plan to award  any further compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 May 2019.
Elizabeth Dawes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN56069002copy of provisional decision
complaint
Mr R complains that Barclays Bank UK Plc, trading as Barclaycard, mis-sold  him a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. The complaint is brought  on his behalf by a claims  management 
company.
background
This complaint is about  a PPI policy  attached to a credit card that Mr R took out in 2006. He applied  
for the card by post and the PPI was sold to him when he phoned  to activate  the card.  The PPI 
covered Mr R if he was unable to work because of accident, sickness or unemployment.
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint should  be upheld,  concluding that Mr R wouldnt 
have been able to make  a successful claim  for an existing  medical condition. The adjudicator  didnt 
think Mr R wouldve taken the policy  if this exclusion had been pointed out to him.
Barclaycard didnt agree so the case has been passed to me.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of 
PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Rs case.
Im not minded to uphold Mr Rs complaint  and Ill explain why.
Mr R took out the PPI when he phoned Barclaycard to activate his credit card.  Barclaycard doesnt 
have a recording  of the phone call which isnt unreasonable or unsurprising given the time thats 
passed. But it has provided us with a copy of the script that, in all likelihood, wouldve  been followed 
by its member of staff. Overall, I think its most likely Barclays made  Mr R aware he had a choice  
about buying the policy and he chose to take it.
Barclaycard recommended the PPI to Mr R, but it doesnt  look as if it was unsuitable for him based on 
what Ive seen  of his circumstances at the time. Hes told us he wouldve only received  statutory sick 
pay if he couldnt  work  due to accident or sickness and that he had no other means  of meeting  his 
credit card repayments. So the PPI couldve been a useful benefit and wouldve  also covered  him if 
hed become  unemployed.
The policy terms say:
We will not pay benefit for a disability that is the result of any of the following:
a pre-existing medical condition. We will not apply  this exclusion if, at the time of the claim,  you have 
been symptom free and not consulted a doctor or received treatment for at least  2 years.
Mr R told us he had a pre-existing medical  condition  but when we asked  his representative for more 
information about this it was either unable  or unwilling to provide  it.
I havent seen enough evidence to persuade  me that Mr R had a pre-existing medical  condition in 
2006. And, if he did, I havent seen evidence  to persuade  me that Mr R would have anticipated  that 
any time off work would likely be due to this condition.
That being the case, I dont  think Mr R wouldve made a different  decision if the pre-existing medical 
terms had been brought to his attention.
Ref: DRN56069003It doesnt  look like Mr R was affected by any of the exclusions or limits on the PPI cover and it looks 
like the PPI was affordable. So I think it unlikely Mr R wouldve made  a different decision if better 
information had been provided.
But Barclaycard has paid back  some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr R because:
 Barclaycard got a high level of commission and profit  share (more  than 50% of the PPI premium)  
- so it should have told Mr R about that. Because Barclaycard  didnt tell Mr R, that was unfair.
 To put that right,  Barclaycard has paid back the amount  of commission and profit share that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that I dont think the PPI policy  was mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK Plc, 
trading as Barclaycard,  does  not have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr R.
But Barclays  Bank  UK Plc, trading as Barclaycard,  does have to pay back  to Mr R any commission  
and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont  plan to award any further compensation.
Elizabeth Dawes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5606900