K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains that Novaloans Ltd (trading as CASH4UNOW.CO.UK)  lent him money that 
he couldnt afford to repay.
background
Mr A took out one loan with CASH4UNOW  in June 2017. The loan was for £150 and was 
repayable in three monthly instalments of about £73 each.
Mr A says he was caught in a spiral of debt,  using one payday  lender to repay another.  Mr A 
wasnt able to make the repayments and entered into a repayment  plan.  
CASH4UNOW says that Mr A told it that his net monthly income was £2,300 with monthly 
outgoings including regular and payday  lending  commitments of £1010.
CASH4UNOW says it carried out adequate checks and provided  details  of the information it 
received. 
The adjudicator didnt recommend that Mr As complaint be upheld.  He thought that 
CASH4UNOWs checks went far enough before agreeing the loan.  The adjudicator thought  
that based on the information Mr A gave,  the loan appeared affordable.
Mr A is unhappy with the adjudicators recommendation.  He says that a basic  credit check 
would have revealed the difficulty  he was in. Mr A has said that a number of other  short term 
loan complaints he has made have been upheld by this service and this complaint is the 
same.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Before agreeing to lend to Mr A, CASH4UNOW had to make  sure that he could afford to 
repay the loan.  Affordability checks should  be proportionate. What is proportionate  depends  
on things like  but not limited  to  the size of the loan,  the repayments,  what  CASH4UNOW 
knew about Mr A, and the things he told it about  his circumstances.
It was early on in Mr As lending history  with CASH4UNOW and the monthly repayments 
represented a very modest proportion of his declared monthly income of more  than £2,300. 
Taking his declared  outgoings into account he had over £1200 disposable income to make 
the repayments of £73. Usually I would  have said that it was reasonable of CASH4UNOW to 
rely on Mr As income figure alone to decide to lend. However, CASH4UNOW also carried 
out credit  checks that revealed outstanding loan and credit  card balances.
CASH4UNOW asked Mr A for details of his living costs  and credit  commitments, including  
payday loans.  The credit commitment figures that CASH4UNOW says Mr A declared dont 
seem at odds with the credit search  results.  
There wasnt any evidence of late or missing payments  on the credit search and no 
suggestion that Mr A was over committed. I consider  it was reasonable of CASH4UNOW to 
have a degree of confidence that Mr A had given it accurate financial information. I wouldnt 
Ref: DRN54520202have expected CASH4UNOW  to go as far as trying to independently verify the financial 
information that Mr A gave by asking to see bank  statements for example. 
Overall, I think CASH4UNOW did enough  to assess whether the loan was affordable. 
Although Mr As true financial situation  was worse than he declared  to CASH4UNOW, I dont 
think what I consider was a proportionate check wouldve revealed this.
Based on what it knew about Mr A, I cant find CASH4UNOW was wrong to agree the loan. It 
follows that I dont  require it to pay compensation or remove any information about  the loan 
from Mr As credit  file. Im sorry  that this is likely to come as a disappointment and I dont 
doubt that Mr A was in difficulty.  But I cant say that this should have been evident to the 
business given  the information he provided and the credit check  carried out.
I cant comment on other complaints Mr A may have  made and each case is different so I 
cant agree  that the complaint should  be upheld because of similar cases.  
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 June  2019.
Emma Boothroyd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5452020