K821x#15complaint
Mr R complains about the standard of work carried out by British Gas Insurance Limited 
(BG) under a HomeCare  Three  Agreement. He says there was a lack of reasonable care 
and skill in the services  provided.
background
There is a detailed background  which I dont  intend to rehearse  in full. I issued a provisional 
decision in September 2020 setting out the main points of the background circumstances. 
Other email  correspondence has taken place and Ive summarised  the main  points  with what 
Mr R says;
Mr R called out BG after a pilot light had gone  out on his boiler. An engineer 
condemned the boiler as unsafe and disconnected it
BG said the engineer had identified a carbon  monoxide spillage from the boiler and 
the combustion chamber was cracked
Parts couldnt  be obtained and so the boiler  couldnt be repaired
Mr R doesnt accept  there was evidence of a spillage, or the chamber was cracked, 
or that parts couldnt be obtained
He says the engineer didnt try to reignite the boiler or take any readings
And he says as other gas appliances were left connected there cant  have been a 
gas leak
BG attended a second time to discuss quotes for a new boiler and a separate 
contract was agreed to install  a new boiler including extras such as a Powerflush 
and magnetic filter  this was separate  to the insurance contract and not covered 
under the policy
The boiler was installed  but neither of the extras were completed,  and BG offered to 
rearrange fitting or credit the amount  back to Mr R
Mr R was unhappy with the pipework installation
He says the engineer told him there was a gas leak, which he found  odd as nothing 
was said by the original engineer
The installing engineer couldnt  take a reading because his meter wasnt working and 
asked for replacement batteries, but this didnt rectify the meter  issue and the 
engineer called the Nation Grid
He says the engineer told him the first engineer who attended and condemned the 
boiler caused the gas leak
He thinks a (leak) reading  of 18mbar is a fabrication
And it was because of the gas leak that required the installation  of new pipes, which 
were installed  on the outside of the property
If the pipe was damaged, it could only have been the installing engineer who caused 
it 
Other work was identified as needing  done which  would be covered by the insurance 
contract, which included a leaking  hot water cylinder necessitating a replacement
Mr R was unhappy with the delay in BG ordering and installing the cylinder, and the 
lack of temporary repair meant he had to continually mop up the leak
Other issues Mr R included in his complaint concern;
Ref: DRN55323822oNational Grids failure to affix a legal notice on a dangerous appliance;  
oan independent engineer instructed by Mr R apparently  saying there cant  
have been a gas leak before the installation engineer  attended as the first 
engineer would have carried out safety  checks; 
othe old pipe work  wasnt capped as it should have been
In my provisional decision I explained  why I was satisfied by the engineers information, on 
the balance of probabilities, that the boiler  combustion chamber  was cracked, which  would 
lead to spillage  and the boiler  being declared unsafe and dangerous. I also said why I was 
persuaded by information from BG that parts for the boiler, which  ceased production in 1988,  
and were obsolete  from 2005 and so unavailable. On this Mr R says parts  can be obtained, 
its just BG cant get them from its supplier, and points to a Which report  about 
misinformation.
I explained what I thought about the hot water cylinder; that BG was responsible for 
misinformation; delays of around five weeks in fitting  the cylinder; missing a scheduled 
appointment; and the consequence of this was that Mr R had to stay on top of the leak by 
mopping it up to prevent  further damage. BG had offered  Mr R £310 compensation to cover 
several issues including the cylinder. But I thought  £500 additional  compensation was fair to 
reflect Mr Rs circumstances of vulnerability  and the distress and inconvenience of having to 
keep on top of the leak in the absence of a temporary repair  being  considered.  
I also explained there were aspects  of the complaint that I couldnt consider, the installation  
of the new boiler  done under a separate contractual agreement. I also included  within  that 
section of the provisional decision  the gas leak at installation. Mr R appears  to accept that I 
cant consider the boiler installation, but he says the gas leak is something covered under 
the insurance agreement and indeed  he says the pipework installation  was a result  of the 
gas leak. 
Ive reflected on what Mr R has said as well as the insurance contract. There is cover  for the 
gas supply pipe, which is defined as the pipe that goes from the gas meter to the gas boiler 
and other  gas appliances.  And so, I wrote to the parties explaining that I could  look at the 
pipework installation after the gas leak had been identified. Mr R says the engineer arrived,  
removed the old boiler and installed the new boiler. And it was shortly after the new boiler 
had been installed  that the engineer  told him there was a gas leak. Mr Rs adamant  this 
engineer could be the only one to have caused  the gas leak and it was on this basis  that 
new pipes were installed.
Mr R has provided further replies, including a copy of a letter  dated  23 February 2020 that he 
obtained from a gas engineer who carried out some work for him. 
my decision  on what I cant consider  
I remain satisfied that the work carried out under the private contract to supply and install  a 
new boiler is not a matter  I can look at. This work was not carried out under a contract of 
insurance and doesnt  fit into the activities that we have jurisdiction to look at. 
As I explained in my provisional decision,  the rules  under which  we operate (Dispute 
Resolution rules (DISP) contained in the FCA Handbook) say that the ombudsman  can 
consider a complaint under the Compulsory Jurisdiction,  which BG is within, if it relates  to an 
act or omission by a firm in carrying on one or more of a list of specified activities  (DISP  
2.3.1). Within that specified  list includes;
Ref: DRN55323823-Effecting contracts of insurance
-Carrying out contracts of insurance
-Assisting in the administration and performance  of a contract of insurance
The boiler was not replaced  as part of the contract  of insurance. From the information  Ive 
seen the replacement boiler work was quoted at £2,537 and Mr R paid a 10% deposit  by 
credit card. This work, which included  a Powerflush and filter, was clearly not part of a 
contract of insurance. And as such, its not an activity against BG that I can consider in this 
complaint.
The insurance contract covers gas leaks like the one apparent  in Mr Rs case. And so, how 
the gas leak was dealt with, including the new pipework, is something that falls within  the 
specified activities. I asked for replies  by 20 November but havent seen a reply from BG.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr R has made many  points and provided various explanations as to why he thinks he is 
right, and why BG has treated him unfairly.  Ive read all the extensive  information, but I do 
not intend to cover absolutely everything  that Mr R has raised or answer every question  he 
wants answered. At its heart, the complaint I can deal with is about the service  BG gave 
under a contract of insurance.  Mr R may have other available avenues to challenge some of 
the issues hes unhappy with, such as but not limited to going to Ofgem  about C. And if he 
considers BG made breaches of consumer protection law then he may consider a legal route 
or indeed  protection available under the Consumer  Credit  Act 1975 if applicable. 
So, without any disrespect to the totality of what Mr R is concerned about, the main points of 
what he disputes for the purposes of this complaint that I can determine,  centre  on the 
following;
whether there was a carbon monoxide spillage
whether the combustion chamber was cracked
whether parts for his boiler were  obsolete
whether there was a gas leak on the day that his boiler was installed
and if there was a gas leak then it could only have  been caused by the engineer 
installing the boiler
And if this engineer  caused the damage to the pipe then he is responsible for putting 
it right rather than installing pipework  on the outside of the building
C did not cap the gas pipe or affix a condemned sticker to the meter
If I cant look at a complaint about C, then its contradictory to use and quote their 
information
Carbon monoxide  spillage and cracked combustion chamber
 
Mr R has sent us documentation which was completed and given to him by BGs  engineer  
when he called for assistance with his boiler. In that documentation it specifically states  that 
there was a crack in the combustion chamber and there had been  a spillage into the room.  
The engineer noted that the boiler  was immediately  dangerous.
Ref: DRN55323824Ive considered what Mr R has told us including that his carbon monoxide alarm  hadnt 
activated and that he examined  the combustion  chamber at some point, but he couldnt  see 
a crack. 
However, I am more  persuaded by the documentation Mr R has sent us that it is more likely 
than not there was a carbon monoxide  spillage and the combustion chamber was cracked.  I 
find the engineers  comments  as recorded at the time more  persuasive given their expertise 
in the relevant field. 
To conclude  that there was neither a spillage or cracked chamber Id need to be satisfied the 
engineers observations were a genuine  mistake,  or they were  intentionally  recorded  
incorrectly. Im not persuaded either  is the case. Although Mr R says his alarm didnt sound, 
I dont find that more persuasive  than the engineers notes recorded at the time. 
Availability of boiler parts
Regarding whether the boiler could be repaired, BG has said the boiler  stopped production 
in 1988 and parts became  obsolete in 2005. On this Mr R says parts  can be obtained, its 
just BG cant get them from its supplier, and points  to a Which report  about misinformation. 
No evidence has been presented to show the parts required for Mr Rs boiler were available 
to BG. And the Which report is not specific to Mr Rs boiler or his particular circumstances. 
BG has been consistent from the outset that parts werent available. Given  the date the 
boiler apparently  ceased production I accept what BG has said that parts were obsolete  from 
2005. Ive thought carefully about Mr Rs point  that parts were available its just BG uses a 
limited supplier route. Its not unusual for businesses like BG to use specific  suppliers, and 
indeed this is a practice  that goes beyond home emergency policies. I cant  rule out 
absolutely that some parts may have been  available. But I dont need to in order to decide 
this point on the balance of probabilities, and I dont  think BG is required to search  every  
website or contact every boiler parts supplier. Had information been  presented  to BG 
showing the availability  of parts I would have expected BG to consider that, but such 
information wasnt available at the time. 
The gas leak
Mr R is adamant that there wasnt a gas leak, and if there was then it was caused by the 
engineer who installed the new boiler. I explained to the parties in an email after my 
provisional decision that I acknowledged  there is no documentary evidence of a reading. The 
crux though  is whether there was a gas leak  and if so, what impact  that had on the pipe 
installation. 
The information Mr R provided  from a company representing (Ill refer to as C) the National 
Grid shows that its engineer attended his property after a report of an internal gas escape. I 
accepted this is most likely to have been reported by the engineer who had installed the new 
boiler under the private contract of works. C said that its engineer  carried out necessary 
checks and found  a leak on the internal pipework. Cs engineer capped the meter outlet to 
make the situation  safe and left the property, apparently within  an hour of first arriving. 
C was acting independently of BG and so C is responsible for its own actions. C pointed out 
to Mr R that it is regulated  by Ofgem and more information is available at 
https://www.ofgem.gov.uk/about-us. So, concerns about what C did, or didnt do cant be 
looked at by us. However, the information Mr R obtained from C and which he has presented 
Ref: DRN55323825to us is material I can take into account  when  reaching my decision. It is information  
recorded by a company who had a representative  attend Mr Rs property.  And Mr R has 
presented that to us.
Mr R has made numerous points about  information  from BG to him which states there was a 
18mbar drop noted by the engineer who had installed the boiler.  I acknowledged  that such  a 
reading isnt available in a documentary  format, other than what  BG has said to Mr R in 
correspondence. And BG has acknowledged that a statement about the duration of the gas 
leak was incorrect and that issue was handled  internally  between the engineer  and his 
manager. However, while I am not satisfied BG has been able to demonstrate  a 18mbar  
drop, I am satisfied on the balance of probabilities that there was a gas leak. 
In reaching my decision that there  was a gas leak I have  taken  into account the information 
Mr R has sent us. This information  includes correspondence from C to Mr R saying that one 
of its engineers attended his property to a report of an internal gas escape. Cs engineer 
found a leak on internal  pipework and capped the meter outlet to make  the situation  safe.  
And as Mr R knows, BG installed  new pipework to facilitate the completion of a safe gas 
supply. Mr R believes the gas leak was a fabrication  but for the reasons Ive explained Im 
not so persuaded. 
If the leak only became  apparent at the installation visit, Mr R asserts  that it could only have 
been caused by the engineer  installing  the boiler. Even if accepting  that, the issue is that it 
was done during installation of a new boiler under a private contract between Mr R and BG. 
It wasnt part of a regulated activity that I have jurisdiction to look at. So, Im not looking at 
how or if the installing engineer caused  the gas leak. I can though,  as Ive explained to the 
parties, look at how the gas leak was dealt with as the insurance agreement covers  dealing 
with a gas leak.
After the gas leak had been  identified  and dealt with the engineer  installed new pipework 
under the insurance contract  and its this new pipework that Mr R is unhappy with. He says 
he was told at the survey  before installation that his existing pipework could be used.  But the 
newly installed pipework is affixed to an outside  wall where  the original pipework wasnt. The 
issue I have to decide is whether his was a reasonable course of action under the insurance 
contract. 
From the information provided, BG has said the leaking pipe wasnt easily accessible. And 
its because of this that new pipework was installed. It seems counter-intuitive to install new 
pipework where that wasnt necessary. And I dont accept the gas leak was fabricated. To do 
so Id have to accept  the engineer and C conspired  to maintain the existence of a non-
existent gas leak. So, Im satisfied there  was a leak, even though theres  no formal reading 
of 18mbar, and BG acted  reasonably by installing new pipework.
Hot water cylinder
BG accepted that it was responsible for some misinformation about where the cylinder  was 
sourced from, some  delays of around 5 weeks  in fitting it and missing a scheduled fitting 
appointment. During this time Mr R has said he had to stay on top of the leak in the cylinder 
to prevent further  damage.  BG has offered Mr R £310 compensation to cover several 
matters aside from the cylinder  issues. 
Given Mr Rs circumstances of vulnerability,  of which BG was aware, I accept what he 
suffered distress and inconvenience in having  to continually keep on top of the leak to 
Ref: DRN55323826prevent further  damage from the water. And BG hasnt put forward  any persuasive reason as 
to why a temporary  repair wasnt at least considered  or attempted. A temporary fix would 
have alleviated the inconvenience  and distress  that Mr R suffered. And if such  a fix couldnt 
have been done, then I think it even  more necessary that BG installed a replacement  as a 
matter of priority. In these  circumstances Im satisfied £500 is fair. From BGs notes it 
appears that part of its compensation offer (£310) included £50 for a missed fitting 
appointment for the cylinder.  Im satisfied £500  in addition to what has already been paid is 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.  And if the £310 hasnt been paid or cashed then 
BG must send that amount to Mr R.
In Mr Rs replies and information there are various  points  hes made which  he thinks  we 
should investigate  further. For example, he says the BGs subcontracted engineer who 
installed the new boiler changed his story  about  the gas leak. 
Having looked  at all the information  weve been  sent, Im not persuaded I need to interrogate  
these aspects beyond  the information weve received to decide what  I consider to be fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances. Theres a significant amount of material  available and 
Im satisfied its sufficient to enable me to reach such a determination. And what was or 
wasnt said between Mr R and the engineer  is not determinative in and of itself. Its a part of 
the evidential  background and for the reasons explained Im satisfied, on the balance of 
probabilities, of the following matters;
-The was a carbon monoxide  spillage
-The combustion chamber was cracked
-Parts werent available to BG
-There was a gas leak
-How that leak was dealt with under the insurance contract was reasonable
-BG didnt  do enough to resolve  the leaking hot water cylinder efficiently and £500 
compensation fairly reflects  the distress and inconvenience caused.
my final decision
My final decision is that I require British Gas Insurance Limited to do the following;
Pay Mr R £500 compensation for distress and inconvenience
oBritish Gas Insurance Limited must pay this compensation within  28 days  of 
the date on which  we tell it Mr R accepts my final decision.  If it pays  later than 
this, it must also pay interest  on the compensation from the date of my final 
decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
If not already  paid or cashed, send Mr R the original £310
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 December  2020.
Sean Hamilton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5532382