K820x#14complaint
Ms F and Mr W complain QIC Europe Ltd have declined their home insurance claim. Ms F 
and Mr W are being represented in their complaint  by U.
background
Ms F and Mr W moved into their property  in 2017. In April 2018  they noticed  their 
Septic Tank was leaking  so they called  out U.  
In their report U said they found  a hole in the wall of the tank, which was allowing effluent to 
leak out, and that the tank was covered  in roots in and around the area of the leak.  They 
said the damage had occurred  accidentally  and this was caused  by an external  and 
identifiable force - the roots.
QICs engineer inspected the tank around  August  2018. They said the likely cause of the 
damage was that the tanks structure  had deteriorated gradually and allowed roots to enter, 
further weakening the structure and allowing it to crumble over a period of time, creating the 
hole. So, as they didnt think the damage happened at a specific time and had happened  
gradually, it wasnt covered. QIC also said U hadnt shown the damage was the result of a 
one-off incident  and that meant it wasnt covered.
So, QIC declined Ms F & Mr Ws claim.
U didnt agree, they said there would have  been a specific point in time when the pressure 
against the tank caused the hole in the tank wall to appear.  U brought 
Ms F and Mr Ws complaint to our service.
Our investigator recommended Ms F and Mr Ws complaint not be upheld.  He said from the 
evidence available  he was persuaded the roots had been growing into the tank for a 
reasonable period of time and were the cause of the damage. So, he thought QIC had acted  
fairly in declining the claim.
U didnt agree with our investigator. The complaint  has now passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding Ms F and Mr Ws complaint, I know this will be 
disappointing to them, but Ill explain why.
QIC provided a number of reasons for declining Ms F and Mr Ws claim. I want to assure 
Ms F and Mr W when  reaching my decision, I considered all of these and all of the points U 
made on their behalf. But Ive focussed my comments  on what I consider to be the heart of 
the issue. I dont  mean this as a discourtesy, more that it reflects  the informal nature of our 
service and my role in it.  
Ref: DRN53795342QIC said Ms F and Mr Ws claim didnt meet their definition of accidental damage.  The policy 
defines accidental  damage as sudden, unexpected and physical damage which happens  at 
a specific time, was not deliberate, was caused  by something external and identifiable
In their report U described the external  and identifiable force  that caused the damage as 
roots. U also said the damage was caused at a specific  point in time when pressure against 
the tank caused the hole to appear.
QIC said the damage occurred gradually  due to the structure deteriorating and allowing roots 
to ingress into the pipe.  
I can see from the photos there is a hole in the tank, so there is physical damage,  and Ive 
not seen anything that suggests the damage was caused deliberately.  So, the matter in 
dispute here is whether the damage was sudden and unexpected or was something  gradual. 
I appreciate the issues caused by the damage  wouldve  presented itself to Ms F and Mr W 
suddenly. But root ingress by nature, is usually something that gradually happens over time.  
QIC provided photos of inside the tank and you can see there  is a large  amount of root 
ingress. QIC referred the photos to an independent specialist who said it was likely the roots 
had been growing in the tank for at least 18 months. I think it is reasonable for QIC to rely on 
this expert  advice about how long the roots had been growing in the tank. The Homebuyers 
report commissioned by Ms F and Mr W before  they purchased the property also made 
recommendations for the maintenance of the tank because of its age and apparent 
condition. Taking these factors into account,  I think the evidence supports that the damage  
hasnt happened  suddenly, so I dont think QIC were  being unreasonable  when concluding 
that the damage was caused  gradually.  And as such it doesnt meet the definition of 
accidental damage  and therefore isnt covered by the policy.
QIC gave a large number  of reasons  as to why the claim wasnt  covered. Generally, Id 
expect an insurer to give clear and straightforward  reasons for their decision- and I think  they 
could have explained their reasons for declining the claim  more  clearly to U. But Im not 
persuaded the impact of this is such that it means  compensation  needs to be paid. And 
overall, as Im satisfied  the policy doesnt  cover  the claim  Ms F and Mr W wanted to make  I 
wont comment further on other reasons provided  by QIC. 
So I dont  think QIC need to do anything resolve this complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Ms F and Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms F and Mr W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  23 May 2020.
Ref: DRN53795343Michael Baronti
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5379534