K820x#14complaint
Miss J says Barclays  Bank UK PLC (trading at the time as the Woolwich)  mis-sold her 
payment protection insurance (PPI).
background
In my provisional decision of 8 October 2019, a copy of which Ive attached to this final 
decision, I explained why I didnt intend  to uphold Miss Js complaint.
Barclays has said it doesnt have  anything to add to my provisional decision. Miss J and her 
representatives havent responded to it. So Miss Js complaint has come  to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account here.
Having done so, and for the reasons given in my provisional decision, Ive decided  not to 
uphold Miss Js complaint. As Ive mentioned, Miss J and her representatives havent  
responded to my decision and Barclays says it has nothing to add. Also, I havent seen 
anything to make me think I should change the conclusions  I set out in it.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  in my provisional decision of 8 October 2019, I dont uphold Miss Js 
complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 January 2020.
Jane Gallacher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN52022122A COPY OF MY PROVISIONAL DECISION OF 8 OCTOBER 2019
complaint
Miss J says Barclays  Bank UK PLC (trading at the time as the Woolwich)  mis-sold her 
payment protection insurance (PPI).
background
Miss J took out a loan with Barclays in 1998 and bought a single premium PPI policy  at the 
same time.
Miss J says, among other things, she didnt  know  PPI was attached to her loan.
The adjudicator who looked at Miss Js complaint upheld  it. He didnt think  there was enough 
evidence to suggest Miss J was given the opportunity  during  the sale to confirm  she wanted 
to take the policy  out. He also noted Miss J didnt have to sign separately for the policy.  He 
thought if she had done, this couldve highlighted it was a separate product.
Barclays disagrees with our adjudicator and so Miss Js complaint has come to me to 
decide.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account here.
Having done so, I dont intend  to uphold Miss Js complaint.  I know  this will disappoint her 
but I hope the reasons  Im about to give explain  why, currently, Ive reached this conclusion.
Barclays needed to make it clear to Miss J she had a choice about PPI and get her 
agreement to it. Our adjudicator didnt think Barclays had done  enough  to show it had done 
either of these things.  On balance, I disagree. This is difficult because, after more than 20 
years, Barclays doesnt have any paperwork  for Miss Js loan or PPI. But it has sent us a 
sample loan agreement it says was in use at the time. This shows  the costs  of the PPI 
separately from those of the loan. And it describes the PPI as optional . I have no reason to 
think Barclays wasnt using this loan agreement,  or something similar, at the time Miss J 
took out her loan and bought the PPI. So I think its more likely than not, based  on this, that 
she agreed to the PPI knowing she had a choice about it.
Barclays says it recommended the PPI to Miss J, so it needed to make  sure it was right for 
her in her circumstances. Based on the policy  details Barclays has sent us and what Miss J 
has told us about  her circumstances, I think it was. I say this because, based on these 
things:
Miss J was eligible  for the policy. She doesnt  appear to have been affected  by its 
main exclusions  or limitations,  for example, about employment status or pre-existing 
medical conditions.  
Ref: DRN52022123Miss J says she had sick pay with her job of between three and six months.  The 
policy wouldve likely paid her loan repayments for at least  a year if she made a 
successful claim.  So I think it couldve provided  Miss J with useful  protection. 
I dont know whether Miss J wouldve got a pro-rata refund if she repaid the loan 
early. If she wouldnt  have,  I dont know whether Miss J was clearly  told about  this. 
So, Ive thought about whether Miss J wouldve made a different decision and not 
bought the policy in these circumstances. Theres nothing  to show me that Miss J 
intended to repay her loan early when she took it out. Or that she told Barclays this. 
So I dont think the cancellation terms wouldve made the recommendation 
unsuitable or made Miss J decide not to buy the policy. 
The policy lasted for the life of the loan.  Its potential  benefits were more  than it cost,  
and nothing suggests Miss J couldnt  afford  it or needed to keep her costs to a 
minimum. 
Barclays also had to give Miss J enough  clear  information about the PPI for her to decide for 
herself if she wanted the policy.  The example loan agreement Ive seen sets out the PPI 
premium, the interest it would accrue,  the total cost of the policy and the monthly instalments 
separately to the cash loan. I think the loan agreement Miss J signed wouldve presented the 
policy costs similarly.  So I think Barclays  did enough  to make the policys costs clear to her. 
But its not clear if Barclays told Miss J everything  else she needed  to know, or how well this 
was explained.  So I think it may not have done  enough here. But for the reasons Ive set out 
above I dont think Miss J wouldve been worse  off as a result. The policy offered her 
valuable cover she didnt  otherwise have, it was affordable and she wasnt affected by the 
main restrictions or exclusions.  So I think even if Barclays  had given her better information 
shed still have bought the policy.
my provisional decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont intend to uphold Miss Js complaint.
Jane Gallacher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5202212