K821x#15complaint
Mr C has complains that esure Insurance Limited  didnt offer him a fair value for his car 
when he claimed  on his car insurance  policy following an accident. 
background
Mr C was offered £8,235  (less the policy excess) by esure after his car was hit by a drunk 
driver on 9 December 2018. Mr C didnt  consider  that this was a fair valuation of his car. He 
said his car was in good condition and was to a high specification,  and the amount  offered 
wouldnt enable him to purchase a similar replacement. 
esure stated  that the valuation given was based on motor trade guides that represent selling 
prices rather than advertised prices. It also said the policy entitles  Mr C to the amount he 
couldve reasonably  sold the car for on the open market before the accident, which is 
referred to as the market value. esure discounted the highest guide price  as it considered  it 
was out of line to the others. 
Mr C said he looked on various car sales websites and said he could only find similar  cars to 
his at a higher price. Mr C also carried out his own research through various guides and 
found higher prices  that he said were based on the purchase prices from dealers. 
Mr C said esure put him in touch with a sourcing company that offered two different 
replacements but he thinks these were not to an equal specification  to his car. Mr C 
considers finding  a similar replacement is limited due the low numbers of high specification  
models available.  
Our investigator did not uphold the complaint initially.  Her view was that esure had acted 
fairly by providing Mr C with a fair market  value based on the motor  trade guides.Mr C 
disagreed with her findings and thinks the motor trade guides are only guides and do not 
value individual  cars. 
Our investigator noted Mr Cs further comments and upon  further  review  considered  esure 
had acted unfairly by discounting the highest  price given by the motor trade guides. She 
thinks esure should provide Mr C with the average  between the highest and lowest  price.  
And esure agreed  to this recommendation,  increasing the settlement by £594 to £8,829. 
Mr C remained  unhappy, he maintains esure  hasnt  provided him with a fair valuation and 
would like a higher offer to replace his car. So the case has been  passed to me to decide.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with our 
investigators view and broadly for the same  reasons, and will explain why. 
The terms and conditions  of Mr Cs policy set out how esure will settle claims. It says we will 
not pay out more  than the market value  of your car at the time of the loss, less the excess. 
Market value is defined  in the terms and conditions, and in this context it means: 
market value - The market value is the amount you could reasonably have expected  to sell 
your car for on the open market immediately before your accident or loss. Our assessment 
Ref: DRN51986852of the value is based on cars of the same make  and model and of a similar age, condition 
and mileage at the time of accident  or loss. This value is based  on research from motor 
trade guides including: Glasss, Parkers  and CAP. This may not be the price you paid when 
you purchased the car.
As our investigator explained, it isnt the role of this service to provide an exact valuation for 
a car. Instead we look at the trade guides ourselves, to see if the insurer has given a fair and 
reasonable valuation thats in line with the terms and conditions of the policy.  We find the 
guides persuasive as theyre based on nationwide research of sales prices. We do consider 
other information, such as adverts,  but generally  find the guides more persuasive  as they 
take account of negotiation from advertised  prices. The guides also take account of the cars  
mileage and optional  extras.  
Our investigator obtained valuations from the available trade  guides.  Her findings were  in 
line with those given  by esure:  
Parkers - £9,759  
Glasss - £8,750 
Cazana £8,917
CAP - £7,900 
The difference between the highest  and lowest valuations and the other two valuations are 
similar. So I dont think its fair to simply discount  the highest  valuation as esure  had initially  
done. Our investigator  contacted Mr C to say esure  has agreed to increase  their offer to 
£8,829 by taking the average of the highest and lowest  valuations  rather than discounting 
the highest. And Im satisfied that this is fair and reasonable  in the circumstances of this 
case. 
I understand Mr C says he cannot  replace  his car with a similar make or model based on the 
valuation given. And he feels that taking  account of the lower valuation  is inappropriate as 
his car was in very good condition. While  I dont  dispute his car was in very good condition,  
the guides do take account of these factors. So I think  it is fair for esure  to offer a valuation 
taking account  of the range of guide prices. My decision is based on what Mr Cs policy says 
it will pay him under these circumstances. And, based on the guides Ive consulted  I find that 
a valuation of £8,829  is fair and reasonable. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I uphold this complaint. I require esure  Insurance Limited to 
pay Mr C £594 in addition  to the £8,235 it has already paid.  So a total of £8,829 less the 
excess stated in the terms and conditions of the policy. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 April 2019.
Martyn Tomkins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN51986853
Ref: DRN5198685