K822xcomplaint
Mr W complains that Close Brothers Limited (CBL) treated him unfairly when it agreed to let 
him reject a car. He would  like CBL to pay £372.63  in costs he incurred as a result. 
And compensation for the delay in resolving  his complaint.
background 
Mr W says he took out a finance agreement with CBL in September  2018. Realising the car 
had a major  fault he says he exercised his right to reject the vehicle within  thirty days.
He says CBL eventually agreed  to rejection of the car. But although it made  him various  
payments in January 2019 it retained money  for two months usage of the car which he feels  
was unfair.  And he says it didnt refund some insurance costs.
Mr W says he has tried to reach an amicable settlement,  offering  to accept less than he feels  
he is due. But he hasnt  been able to reach an agreement with CBL.
CBL said it had allowed  rejection of the car and had offered to cover  any costs  Mr W could 
evidence. It agreed to refund a total of £916.19  to cover the deposit, the cost of an 
inspection report.  And two month  worth  of tax and insurance costs.
Our adjudicator partly upheld Mr Ws complaint. He found it was reasonable that CBL 
retained two months  payments for usage of the car as Mr W completed approximately  2,000  
miles in the car.
In terms of the insurance costs although CBL had refunded some of these he found that 
Mr W incurred  a £50 set up and a £50 cancellation fee that he wouldnt have expected to 
have. And that Mr W would incur another  set up fee taking up insurance if he got another  
car. He felt it was fair that CBL refunded this cost.
In terms of compensation he felt it was fair that CBL paid £200. This was on the basis  that 
he didnt feel that CBL considered the inconvenience Mr W had with the car. Mr W had to 
provide evidence of the fault with the car as he had limited support from the dealership.  And 
there was a delay  in the car being collected.
Mr W accepted this view but CBL didnt
CBL agreed to cover the insurance costs our adjudicator recommended  (£100) but didnt feel 
it was fair to pay compensation. It said it felt it had done as much as it could.
CBL added that refunding insurance  costs  was not a legal requirement. But that it always 
aimed to do this as a gesture of goodwill. It said it had offered to cover any costs Mr H could 
evidence he had incurred.  And had it been  aware  of the set up and cancellation costs it 
would have refunded these when  it refunded  other  costs.
Our adjudicator considered these points.  He put the suggested offer of refunding  only the 
£100 insurance cost to Mr W. Mr W wasnt happy  to accept this. He said he had offered to 
accept £100 months  ago but CBL hadnt taken up his offer.
Our adjudicator didnt  change his opinion of Mr Ws complaint. He explained that the car was 
faulty at the point of sale; Mr W had to evidence the faults even though  this was the 
Ref: DRN52449782business responsibility as the fault occurred within six months.  And there was a significant  
delay of four weeks from when Mr W rejected the car to it being collected 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont think there is any dispute that Mr W had problems  with a car he obtained through  a 
Hire Purchase Agreement with CBL in September  2018. Or that CBL allowed the car to be 
rejected and in doing so made a number of payments  to Mr W. These comprised refunds for 
the deposit, the cost of an inspection report and two months worth of tax and insurance - a 
total of £916.19.
Our adjudicator didnt  feel it was fair for CBL to refund the monthly repayments it retained.  
Mr W accepted our adjudicators view so I dont  feel that is a matter I need to address. 
CBL has agreed to refund the £50 set up and £50 insurance cancellation fee, and Mr W is 
happy with that. So I dont  think that is a matter I need to address either.
In terms of the £200 compensation  our adjudicator recommended and Mr W agreed  with 
CBL says it has done as much as it could and doesnt feel its reasonable to pay this.
I do think Mr W should get some  compensation for the inconvenience.  And I think the £200 
our adjudicator recommended is fair. I agree  with the points our adjudicator made.  Having 
looked at all the information available  to me its clear  Mr W had to evidence the fault himself.  
This was a business  responsibility, not Mr Ws, since the fault occurred within six months of 
having the car. And whilst  I appreciate CBL has refunded the cost of the report I think it was 
inconvenient for Mr W to have to source this.
Also from the customer notes that CBL has given us Mr W made  it clear  there  was a 
problem with the car and wanted  to reject it on 18 October 2018. The matter was finally 
resolved by a final response letter from CBL in January 2019. I appreciate CBL needed 
some information and evidence to support rejection. However its clear from the customer  
notes there  was a delay  in collecting the car, then once collected  on 13 December 2018 a 
further delay in agreeing to the rejection.  
Ref: DRN52449783my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
In full and final settlement  Close  Brother  Limited should:-
-Pay Mr W £100 to cover his insurance  set up and cancellation costs
-Pay Mr W £200 for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 May 2020.
Bridget Makins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5244978