K820x#14complaint
Its been agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL),  as the 
insurer, should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to 
FICL as the seller  in my decision.
Mr B says FICL mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out on a store  account  in 2001.
The policy cost was £1.00 per £100  Mr B owed on his store card.  The policy  would have paid 
15% of the outstanding balance on the card each month if Mr B couldnt work  because he 
had an accident,  was unwell or lost his job. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr B disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaint  has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website  and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Bs case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Bs complaint. Ill explain why.
FICL had to make it clear to Mr B that the policy was optional and get his consent before  PPI 
could be applied to the account. 
FICL says Mr B took out the PPI over the phone. Due to the time that has passed since the 
sale, FICL hasnt been able to provide a recording of the call - I dont think that is surprising. 
So I cant say for certain what was said to Mr B during that phone call. But from what we 
know about the way FICL  sold policies at the time,  I think its more  likely that FICL would 
have asked Mr B for his agreement to add the policy to his account. 
Mr B had already  had the card for several years  before the PPI was added. So I think he 
would have been aware that taking out the PPI wasnt  a condition  of the account. 
So, based on what Ive seen, I think its more  likely  that FICL made it clear the policy was 
optional and Mr B chose to take it out, knowing he could refuse it if he didnt want  it.
FICL has said it didnt recommend the policy to Mr B and, as I havent seen anything  to make 
me think otherwise,  I think thats likely to be right. So it didnt have to check  if the policy  was 
right for him. But FICL did need to make sure it gave Mr B clear enough information about 
the policy to enable  him to decide for himself if he should take the policy.
Its possible  the information FICL gave Mr B about  the PPI wasnt  as clear as it should  have 
been. But even if FICL had given  him better or clearer information, I dont think it would have 
made a difference. I still think he would have  taken out the policy. I say this because  Mr B 
Ref: DRN54030932was eligible for the policy  and he wasnt affected by any of the main limitations to the cover, 
such as having  unusual working  arrangements or a medical condition  of which  he was 
already aware.
Mr B has told us that he would receive full pay for six months if he was too unwell to work. 
But this policy would  have  paid out up to 15% of his outstanding balance  until it was paid off 
or until he returned to work, which would be in addition to any sick pay he would receive.  So 
I think Mr B could  have benefited from having this cover. Mr B has also told us his wife was 
working and could have helped him financially if he had needed it. But Mrs Bs own financial 
circumstances could  have  changed  so that offer of help could not be guaranteed. 
So overall, when  taking everything  into consideration, I dont think Mr B has lost out as a 
result of anything FICL  may have  done  wrong.
my final decision
For the reasons  stated  above, I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 August 2019.
Catherine Langley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5403093