K820x#14complaint
Mr J complains about the charges for damage Volkswagen Financial  Services (UK) Limited     
(VFS) is requiring him to pay following the end of his car hire agreement.
background
Mr J says at the end of his agreement he agreed with VFS that he would return  the car to his 
local dealership.  He says there was a delay  of more than two months before VFS collected it 
from the dealership.  And he says he was later charged nearly £1,000 for damage that wasnt 
present when he returned the car.
So, Mr J says he wants VFS to waive the damage  charges.
VFS says the damage when the car was inspected is clearly evident  and it exceeds the 
tolerances set in the industry standard guidelines  that applied  to Mr Js agreement.  So, it 
says the refurbishment  charges its applied to his account stand.
Our adjudicator thought Mr Js complaint shouldnt be upheld. 
Mr J disagreed with the adjudicators conclusions. He said the car was in perfect order  when 
he returned it. He said someone or many people had used it for three  months before it was 
inspected. And he said VFS shouldve completed a handover when he returned the car.
So, the matters  been referred  to me to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Js complaint and Ill explain why.
Ive reviewed the photos of the various items that VFS says amount  to chargeable damage 
to Mr Js car. And Im satisfied they all fall outside the definition of fair wear and tear, 
according to the industry standard guidelines applicable to his hire agreement  and under  
which the car was inspected.
I note Mr J says VFS shouldve inspected the car as soon as he returned it. But I see he 
didnt respond  to the correspondence it sent him several weeks  before the end of his 
agreement about  the return process.  And I see hes acknowledged he was then left with very 
little time to make the arrangements to return the car. I also note in view of the tight 
timescale VFS agreed  to let him return it to the local dealership, provided he made  the 
arrangements directly with the dealership. So, I dont think  the failure to inspect the car when 
it was returned  was due to any fault on VFS part.
I see Mr J says the car was in perfect order when he returned it. And he says the damage  
mustve resulted from it being  driven  by a person or various people  during the delay of more 
then two months between  him leaving the car at the dealership and it being collected  and 
inspected by VFS.
Ref: DRN52017362Ive taken full account  of Mr Js comments,  but in the absence  of any other  information  
supporting this suggestion, I cant conclude its most  likely the damage was caused  after he 
returned the car. I think its more likely to have happened during the two years it was in his 
possession. 
So, for these reasons  I cant fairly  and reasonably uphold Mr Js complaint.   
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr Js complaint against  Volkswagen Financial Services  (UK) Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 August 2019.                     
Robert Collinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5201736