K820x#14Complaint
Mr H complains that Lloyds Bank  PLC didnt help him to recover  unauthorised debit card 
payments that had been taken from his current account. 
Background
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions are set out in my provisional 
decision dated 2 March 2020  - a copy of which is attached a forms part of this final decision. 
In my provisional decision I explained  that I intended to uphold  Mr Hs complaint and direct 
Lloyds to pay him £250 (less any compensation already paid). I invited Mr H and Lloyds to 
send me an additional comments or information  they wanted me to take into account before I 
made my final decision. 
Both Mr H and Lloyds have responded with additional comments. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H said he agreed with my decision to uphold his complaint  but thought the level of 
compensation should be higher. I appreciate Mr H remains upset  at what happened  but I 
havent been persuaded to increase the award  further. For the reasons I set out in my 
provisional decision, I remain of the view that £250  fairly  reflects  the impact of Lloyds error.  
In response to my provisional decision,  Lloyds  said that it was right to refer Mr H back to the 
merchant in the first instance as that step is set out in the Visa chargeback rules. But Lloyds 
has quoted 11.10.6.2  of the chargeback  rules,  which relates  to Misrepresentation. The 
chargeback rules set out a different process for Cancelled Recurring Transactions. The rules  
under that section  make no mention of referring  the card holder back  to the merchant in the 
first instance. 
Lloyds also says that its unclear whether the merchant would have agreed to a full refund  if 
it had raised a chargeback claim on 11 July 2018 when Mr H first called.  Lloyds says the 
merchant could have  challenged  a full refund, in line with its initial  response to Mr H. Whilst I 
accept the merchant could have initially defended the claim, there are mechanisms in the 
chargeback process  that allow parties  to refer a claim  for arbitration. And, I have to take the 
fact that Mr H was able to successfully obtain  a full refund into account when reaching my 
decision. That indicates a full refund was legitimately owed to Mr H. 
Where information is incomplete or unclear Ill base my decision on the balance  of 
probability. That is, what I consider most likely to have happened based  on all the available  
evidence and information. In this case, I think its more likely than not that Lloyds could have 
successfully obtained  refunds for the disputed recurring transactions  if it had raised a 
chargeback claim for Mr H on 11 September 2018, in line with the refund Mr H was able to 
obtain directly. 
Ive carefully considered  the information  and comments provided by both parties.  I remain of 
the view that this complaint should  be upheld and that Lloyds should pay Mr H £250 for the 
distress and inconvenience its actions caused.  
Ref: DRN51836282My final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint and direct  Lloyds Bank  PLC to pay Mr H £250 
(less any compensation already paid).
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2020.
Marco Manente
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN51836283Copy of provisional decision dated 2 March 2020
Complaint
Mr H complains that Lloyds Bank  P didnt help him to recover unauthorised debit card 
payments that had been taken from his current account. 
Background
On 11 July 2018 Mr H called Lloyds because he had found some regular payments to a 
lottery operator (merchant)  on his bank statements that he hadnt  authorised.  Mr H says he 
asked Lloyds for help recovering the money  hed lost but it told him to contact the merchant 
directly instead. Mr H says he was told that Lloyds would  be able to help if the merchant 
wasnt willing to refund the payments.  
Mr H contacted the merchant and it issued  a partial  refund which  was paid into his account  
on 13 July 2018.  Mr H called Lloyds on the same  day as he wanted to recover  the rest of his 
money. Mr H says Lloyds told him it couldnt  help him recover  the remaining transactions  as 
hed received a partial refund already. 
Mr H has explained that over the following  weeks he spent a lot of time dealing with the 
merchant trying to get a refund and that he had to threaten  legal  action. The final refund  was 
made to Mr Hs account on 9 August 2018. 
Lloyds responded to Mr Hs complaint on 14 August 2018. It said Mr H should  have been 
told Lloyds couldnt  dispute the payments  because  of the Visa card rules. Lloyds offered 
Mr H £100 but he didnt accept and referred  his complaint to our service. 
The investigator who looked at Mr Hs complaint agreed Lloyds had made  mistakes  but 
thought its offer of £100 was fair. Mr H didnt agree and said £100  didnt recognise the length  
of time the issue had gone on, the trouble and upset caused  by having to deal with the 
merchant directly, the incorrect and confusing information hed been given or the service 
provided by Lloyds. Mr H asked to appeal so his complaint has been passed  to me to make 
a decision. 
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
Under the Visa chargeback rules,  a card holder can attempt to claim back recurring  
transactions if they werent authorised. Mr H says he called Lloyds on 11 July 2018 and 
asked for help getting his money  back as he disputed the merchants authority to take 
recurring debit card payments from his account.  Instead of referring Mr H back  to the 
business I think Lloyds  could have started a chargeback claim. 
Mr H was able to deal with the merchant  directly and, over the course of several weeks, 
obtained a full refund of the payments.  I think  the fact Mr H successfully reclaimed the 
transactions indicates a chargeback would most  likely have been successful. 
Ref: DRN51836284Mr H says Lloyds should have helped him reclaim  his funds when he called on 11 July 2018 
and I agree it could  have  started a chargeback at that point. Had Lloyds taken that step, 
Mr H would not have  had to deal with the merchant directly again. I agree with Mr H that he 
was unnecessarily inconvenienced  by being  referred back to the merchant on 11 July 2018. 
In addition, Mr H says that after he was able to secure a partial refund on 13 July 2018  
Lloyds said it couldnt help further  because  hed dealt  with the merchant directly. But, as Ive 
said above, I think Lloyds  could have raised  a chargeback claim on 11 July 2018 instead  of 
referring Mr H to the merchant. Had it done so, the partial refund Mr H was subsequently 
able to obtain wouldnt have impacted Lloyds ability to help with the transactions he wanted  
to dispute. 
Mr H was left to resolve the situation  by himself  and I can see it took around a month to get 
all his money back. I dont  know whether Lloyds would have obtained a refund earlier than 
that. But I am satisfied  that Mr H was caused  a reasonable  amount of trouble and upset by 
having to fight for a full refund from the merchant. Had Lloyds undertaken a chargeback  
claim on 11 July 2018  Mr H would  not have had to deal with the merchant directly. Hes told 
us that he spent hours on the phone, had to send  strongly worded emails and threatened 
legal action in order to get a full refund. I agree with Mr H that the £100 currently  on offer 
doesnt fairly reflect the level of trouble and upset the situation has caused him. 
Ive considered everything that Mr H has told us about the impact of these issues.  I can see 
Lloyds actions did cause  Mr H a reasonable level of inconvenience as he was left to fight for 
a refund without  Lloyds  help. Hes also explained  he thought the advice and service  
provided by Lloyds disputed transaction specialists was poor.  I can see how upset Mr H is at 
being initially  referred back to the merchant only to later be told by Lloyds that his partial  
refund meant it couldnt assist. Im satisfied Lloyds didnt give Mr H a clear  picture  of the 
process involved in reclaiming unauthorised recurring transactions which caused 
considerable frustration.  
Mr H suggests a settlement figure of £2,500 in recognition of the distress and inconvenience  
hes experienced. I understand how upsetting the situation was but I havent found grounds 
to support that level of compensation. The refunds were obtained in around a month  and 
Mr H hasnt lost out financially. I accept that it most  likely took several hours to resolve and 
Ive taken that, along with the difficulties Mr H faced, into account  when  reaching  my 
decision. 
I think the fairest approach is to increase  the award  for the trouble and upset caused to Mr H 
from £100 to £250.  In my view, that level of compensation more fairly  reflects  the impact of 
what happened on Mr H. I understand my decision  may disappoint Mr H but Ive considered 
everything hes told us and think £250  is fair in all the circumstances. 
Ill look at anything further Mr H and Lloyds may wish to send but unless I see anything  that 
changes my mind, my provisional decision is likely  to be that I uphold  this complaint and that 
Lloyds should  increase  the compensation offered to Mr H.
My provisional decision
My provisional decision is that I intend to uphold this complaint and direct  Lloyds  Bank Plc to 
pay Mr H £250 (less  any compensation already paid). 
Ref: DRN51836285Mr H and Lloyds have  until 16 March  2020 to send  me any additional comments  or 
information they would like me to consider before  I make my final decision.  
Marco Manente
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN5183628