K820x#14complaint
Mr A has complained about Insure  The Box Limiteds (ITBL) handling  of his car insurance  
policy. 
During his dealings with ITBL and in bringing his complaint to our service, Mr A has been 
assisted by his father  who has made representations on his behalf. But for ease of reference  
Ill refer to all comments as being those of Mr A.
background
Mr A took out a telematics  (also  known as a black  box) car insurance policy through  ITBL  
on 9 October 2017. He applied for the policy on an online comparison website and then 
called ITBL to complete  the purchase. His policy had a mileage limit of 6,000 miles for the 
policy year.
In March 2018, Mr A complained to ITBL  saying he had been  mis-sold the policy.  He said he 
wasnt told his policy was limited to 6,000  miles  and that he wasnt  advised he could have  
bought a policy with 8,000 or 10,000 miles. He said he also wasnt  told how much buying top 
up miles would cost.
ITBL didnt uphold  Mr As complaint so he brought it to our service. One of our adjudicators 
looked into it. He felt that ITBL had dealt with Mr A fairly. As Mr A didnt agree with our 
adjudicator, the complaint has been passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I appreciate  this will be disappointing for 
Mr A, but Im not going to uphold his complaint. Ill explain  why.
Ive considered all of Mr As points  carefully. But, in this decision, I will focus on what I 
consider to be the key issues. My role is to decide  if ITBL have dealt  with Mr A in a fair and 
reasonable way.
The sale of the policy to Mr A was done  on a non-advised basis.  That means ITBL werent 
obliged to advise  him on what the most  suitable policy was for his needs. ITBL only had to 
provide Mr A with sufficient information  to enable  him to make an informed  decision.  And I 
think they did that. Information was provided  to Mr A by ITBL during the online application 
and the subsequent sales call when he finalised the purchase of the policy.
ITBL have provided me with screen  shots  of the online journey Mr A went  through. While  the 
screenshots arent of Mr As actual  application they show another, identical, application. The 
screenshots show what information Mr A was given.
At the Your Quote stage  Mr A was told: We offer 6,000, 8,000  or 10,000  mile 
comprehensive annual  policy  if you run out of miles you can buy Top Up Miles at anytime. 
The online page  then gave the option  to select the number of miles he wanted and once the 
selection was made  further information  appeared giving the actual cost of buying an 
additional 250 Top Up Miles.  The online information  went on to tell Mr A it is important to 
choose the number of Policy Miles most suitable to you. However you also have the option  
to buy Top Up Miles at anytime should you find you need more.
Ref: DRN56623532So I think that before Mr A called ITBL to finalise  the purchase,  he was given sufficient 
information to make him aware that: the policy was mileage limited; he could choose 
between 6,000,  8,000 or 10,000 miles;  and that if he needed more miles he could buy Top 
Up Miles at a cost to him. He was also told how much it would have  cost him to buy 250 
additional miles.
When Mr A spoke  with ITBL they retrieved his online quote and confirmed the details he had 
given online. They confirmed he had chosen  6,000  miles. I wouldnt have expected  the sales  
agent to have reminded Mr A at that stage of the options of him buying  8,000 or 10,000 
miles because  Mr A had already made  that decision. Almost all insurers  Ive come  across 
ask their policyholders  to confirm the mileage  they expect to drive during the policy  year. 
And most policyholders tend to know  how many  miles they are likely to cover.  In Mr As 
case, as he had already decided on 6,000 miles, I wouldnt have expect the sales agent to 
question that given Mr A knows  how many  miles he needed.
During his discussion  with the sales agent, Mr A was told that any changes he may make to 
his policy  may also affect the premium  and the price of top up miles you buy in the future.  
So I think that ITBL  through  the online application and during the follow  up sales  call gave  
Mr A sufficient information to make  him aware  that he could buy more  miles if he needed. 
And the online information gave  the cost of buying  250 miles. Mr A was also given ample 
opportunity to ask any questions if he wanted to. But I think  at that stage Mr A wasnt 
concerned about  the details of buying more miles because I think  he didnt expect to exceed 
6,000 miles. I think if he did expect to drive more than 6,000 miles he would  have gone  for 
either 8,000 or 10,000.
ITBL told Mr A all his documents  could be accessed  online. They  also sent him a welcome 
letter explaining  that his documents were on his online portal. The documents gave more 
details about his policy and the insurance schedule specifically listed  the costs  of buying 
more miles.  On seeing the information about  his policy, Mr A could have cancelled it shortly  
after its start. But he didnt  raise concerns with ITBL until more  than five months after the 
start of the policy and when he began buying additional miles. 
For the reasons  given,  I dont feel that ITBL  mis-sold  the policy to Mr A. They  gave him 
sufficient information  about the policy to enable him to make an informed decision. He was 
made aware  that he could buy 6,000,  8,000  or 10,000  miles.  He was also made aware  that 
he could by additional miles if he needed to and he was told how much it would cost to buy 
250 additional  miles.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 July 2019.   
Mehmet Osman 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5662353