K821x#15complaint
Mr H and Miss H are unhappy UK Insurance Limited (UKI) didnt  tell Mr H that there was a 
limit on the number of times he could add a temporary driver to his insurance policy.
background
Mr H had an insurance policy with UKI. And UKI allowed him to add drivers to the policy  on a 
temporary basis. Mr H added  his daughter, Miss H, to the policy on six occasions. Four of 
those occasions  were for a 24 hour period,  at no charge, all during  a one week  period.  
When Mr H sought to add his daughter a seventh time UKI told him for the first time that 
there was a limit of seven occasions when  this can be done on the policy. Unhappy  with this 
Mr H and Miss H complained to UKI. 
Mr H said he was told of a 90 day cover  limit and feels strongly that he should have also 
been told about the occasion limit. 
One of our investigators  looked into the complaint.  UKI admitted  that Mr H wasnt  told of both 
limits. But UKI said it isnt a requirement to tell customers  about  them.  So it doesnt think its 
done anything  wrong. Nevertheless,  UKI offered one more occasion as a gesture of 
goodwill. The investigator thought this was fair.
Mr H didnt accept this and asked for an ombudsmans decision. He said if hed been told of 
the occasion limit he wouldnt  have added  Miss H to his policy for just one day at a time.  
After the case had been passed to me for decision, I proposed to the parties  that Mr H be 
credited with three occasions and charged  for a week  of coverage to put things right. But it 
came to light that Mr H had recently added Miss H to his policy on a permanent basis  and 
therefore he didnt  need to add her temporarily anymore this policy year. So to resolve this 
complaint, Mr H said he wanted UKI to permit him the additional occasions he feels  he lost 
out on in the next policy  year, assuming  he renews  his policy  with UKI. 
UKI didnt  agree, but offered Mr H £100 as a gesture of goodwill. Mr H didnt think this was 
enough, so the case is with me for a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive listened to the phone calls UKI 
provided and thought  carefully about  what both parties have said.  Having done so, I 
conclude that UKI couldve  provided  clearer information, but I consider the £100 offered 
sufficient compensation  in the circumstances. 
I understand UKI have said it isnt a requirement  that customers  be told of the temporary 
added driver  limits.  Mr H thinks he shouldve been  told about all restrictions.  I dont consider 
it necessary to resolve the issue of whether there was a disclosure requirement. It might  well 
be that in other situations, non-disclosure  is permissible. But I dont think that is the case  
here. 
This is because regulated  businesses, like UKI, are required to provide their customers  with 
information that is clear, fair and not misleading.  In this case, Mr H was told about  the 90 day 
Ref: DRN54266192cover limit but not told of the seven occasion  restriction. In the specific  circumstances  of this 
complaint, I consider giving him incomplete  information was misleading. I think it would be 
reasonable for one to conclude, in the absence of any indication  otherwise, that the 90 day 
limit was the only limit. 
It seems  this is what Mr H believed.  And he acted accordingly, adding Miss H on four 24 
hour occasions between 1 December  and 7 December. It must have been very disappointing  
to learn that even  though  he had not used anywhere  close  to 90 days  of cover,  he wouldnt 
be able to add his daughter to his policy beyond the seventh occasion.  Especially  since  he 
wasnt told this until the day he arranged the seventh occasion. 
Based on everything  thats been provided, I think had Mr H known about both limitations he 
more likely than not wouldve  opted  to added  Miss H temporarily to his policy  for the entire 
week starting 1 December. This means  that the four occasions would have  been  reduced to 
one, leaving him with three occasions  to use throughout the remainder of his policy  year, not 
including the one offered  as a goodwill gesture.
However, I recognise that he wasnt charged for the times when only 24 hours of cover was 
requested. And if hed arranged for a week of cover, it wouldve been at a cost. And now that 
his daughter had been  added as a permanent  driver, its no longer possible to put Mr H in 
the position he wouldve been in had UKI told him about both restrictions.  Mr H proposed 
having these occasions added to his entitlement the next policy year, if he renews with UKI. 
UKI didnt  accept this and offered £100  as a gesture of goodwill instead. I think  this is 
appropriate in the circumstances. 
There is no guarantee that Mr Hs policy with UKI will be renewed. So I dont think it fair to 
either party to require UKI to offer him extra occasions  it would be against  UKI policy  and 
potentially of no real use to Mr H. But Mr H has been misled and this has caused 
unnecessary stress and confusion. Based on everything thats happened I consider £100 fair 
compensation in these  circumstances. 
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, I uphold Mr Hs complaint against UK Insurance Limited 
and direct it to pay Mr H £100 compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 September 2019.
Jennifer Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5426619