K820x#14complaint
Mr and Ms H say Bank of Scotland Plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold them a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
In 1994 Mr and Ms H bought PPI at the same time as they applied for a mortgage. The 
policy gave them protection against  accident, sickness and unemployment. They paid a 
monthly amount  for it. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Ms H disagreed so the complaint was 
passed to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Our general  approach to complaints about  PPI is on our website and Ive followed it here. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Ms Hs complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr and Ms H say it wasnt clear  the PPI was optional. I cant  know what  was said in the 
meeting but Mr and Ms H signed a separate  PPI application form to confirm they wanted 
to take out PPI, answering a number  of questions to confirm their eligibility.  This form 
also set out the cost of the PPI separately. And I cant find anything  on the form that I 
think could reasonably have led Mr and Ms H to believe they had to have PPI. Overall,  I 
think its most  likely  Halifax made it clear to Mr and Ms H that the PPI was optional,  and 
they agreed to take it out. 
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mr and Ms H. I know  they feel strongly  that they didnt 
need it but I think it seems to have been  right for them  based  on what  Ive seen of their 
circumstances at the time. Mr H cant recall  his sick pay and Ms H was entitled to six 
months full pay and six months half pay if she was sick. But the PPI would have paid 
out in addition to their work benefits  for up to 24 months for all accident  and sickness  
claims. It also gave them up to 12 months redundancy cover. Mr and Ms H had around 
£4,300 in savings at the time of the sale but the PPI would  have  meant they could use 
these to cover other living expenses  whilst  not working, or keep them  intact for their 
future needs. 
Mr and Ms H were  borrowing  quite a large  sum over a long period,  secured on their 
home. So the effects of not keeping  up with the repayments could have been serious for 
them. Overall, given  their circumstances and the benefits of the policy, I think  the PPI 
would have been useful for them if they were  sick, had an accident or lost their job(s).
Its possible  Halifax didnt give Mr and Ms H all the information  they needed before they 
decided to buy PPI. The cost was clear on the PPI application form however, and the 
PPI was competitively priced  and apparently affordable. And Mr and Ms H dont appear 
to have been affected by any of the main exclusions or limitations (such as those 
affecting people with pre-existing medical conditions or on certain types  of employment 
contract). Overall,  I dont think better information  wouldve  changed their decision.
Ref: DRN56160642It follows I dont think Mr and Ms H have lost out because  of any problems with this sale. 
my final decision
My decision  is I dont  uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Ms H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  25 April 2019.
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5616064