K820x#14complaint
Ms A has complained Bank  of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax,  wont refund  a transaction 
she didnt authorise.
background
In 2014 and 2015 Ms A received a couple  of lump  sum payments into her Halifax  account. At 
least one of these   in December 2014   was a pension credit. Ms A had been suffering 
from ill health and was in and out of hospital. During one of her hospital  visits she agreed to 
help out her son financially. She was going to give him £5,500 and allowed  him to use her 
debit card.
In late 2016, after Ms A had started to feel better, she contacted  Halifax. She was concerned  
about a number of transactions in and out of her account in March and April 2015. After  this 
she accepted  shed made three  transfers to her son and one to her sons ex-girlfriend. She 
agreed there  were  some gambling transactions which she knew about as her son had told 
her about  these. She still believed Halifax should  have done  more to identify the disputed 
gambling transactions  especially as shed not allowed her son to spend  £11,500  on her 
debit card.
Ms A brought her complaint to the ombudsman service in 2018. Our investigator believed 
Ms A had given apparent  authority to her son to use her debit card.  This would cover  the 
gambling transaction for £6,000 as well as the individual  three  payments which amounted  to 
£5,500. He also wouldnt have expected Halifax to pick up on what  was going  on.
Ms A disagreed with this outcome. She thought the gambling transactions  were unusual  
when looking at her account use. She felt Halifax had failed in their duty of care not referring 
the transactions to her. Shes  asked  an ombudsman to make a decision on her complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same  conclusion as our investigator  and for roughly similar  
reasons.
Where there is a dispute about what happened, I have based my decision on the balance  of 
probabilities. In other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light 
of the evidence.
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance  and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
The Payment Services Regulations (PSRs) are the relevant law here. These  primarily 
require banks to refund customers  if they didnt make or authorise payments themselves. 
Certain other  circumstances do apply  and where  relevant  I mention these aspects below. So 
when we look at whether  a bank has acted fairly in rejecting someones fraud  complaint,  one 
of the things we consider is whether the customer made  the transactions  themselves or 
Ref: DRN57658732allowed them to be made. If they did, then we generally wouldnt ask the bank to refund 
them.
Im not going  to cover all the points raised in the view in detail. The view of 22 September 
2020 explains the regulations which guide  how we review these cases,  as well as covering 
all the transactions  involved  in this complaint. 
No discourtesy is intended by me not covering all issues. Instead,  Ive focussed on what I 
think are the key matters  here and which impact the decision  Im making. Our rules  allow  me 
to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature  of our service as a free alternative to the 
courts.
The facts  of this complaint  arent  really in dispute.  Ms A gave her debit  card and PIN to her 
son. Shes told us she was allowing  him to use her account for transactions up to £5,500. 
Shes also told us her son was in financial  difficulties so believed he was going  to pay off his 
debts. She was giving  him money as shed recently  got a couple of lump  sum payments and 
felt she could afford to help him out. Mr A chose to spend the money  with a gambling 
company.
In broad terms a bank  is expected to process  payments  and withdrawals that a customer  
authorises it to make,  in accordance with the Payment Services  Regulations  and the terms 
and conditions of the customers account. I have taken that into account when deciding  what 
is fair and reasonable in this case.  
There are circumstances,  irrespective of the payment channel used, where a bank should, in 
my opinion, fairly and reasonably take additional  steps, or make  additional  checks, before 
processing a payment,  or in some cases decline to make a payment altogether, to help 
protect customers from the possibility of financial  harm.   
However its worth considering the context of this complaint. The disputed transaction took 
place in April 2015. This pre-dates industry guidance on this aspect,  which includes the 
British Standards Institutes October  2017 Protecting Customers  from Financial  harm  as a 
result of fraud or financial abuse  Code of Practice.  
Ive looked at the transactions being  made from Ms As account at this time. And whether 
there were any reasons  why Halifax should have  picked  up on what was happening.  But 
overall I dont think there was.
Ms A has said the gambling use was unusual. I agree  in general it was but I can see a 
£2,000 gambling transaction  on 7 April 2015.  Ms A hasnt complained about this transaction.  
But importantly although the merchant was a gambling organisation, Halifax  would also be 
looking at whether there were any issues with the card use. So for example,  were incorrect 
details submitted. But this didnt happen   partly I imagine as Ms A had given her debit  card 
to her son authorising  its use.
Ive also looked  at Ms As own use of her account  at this time. Following receipt of two large  
payments into her account, Ms A had made a number of payments which may not be her 
normal account use. Shed made  a couple of transfers to her son in March and then sent him 
a substantial amount  of money. Ms A went into her Halifax branch on 11 April 2015 to make 
a payment of £21,900 to her son. Theres no question these transactions were authorised.  
Ref: DRN57658733Overall I dont think Halifax  has done anything wrong in not identifying  the gambling  
transactions.
Theres a concept  of apparent authority which relates to the Payment Services Regulations. I 
cant say for sure that Ms A definitively authorised  her son to spend a maximum of £5,500. 
But this matches what  shes told us and I see no reason to dispute her evidence.  But its 
clear her son knew Ms As card details and PIN. 
Under the PSRs,  we consider the issue of the relationship between  the account-holder,  
Ms A, and the person  making the transactions. In this case  thats Ms As son. I think, taking 
into account all the circumstances  of this case, Ms A authorised him to use her debit card:  to 
make some transactions from her account  on his own behalf. I can also see, as highlighted 
above, Ms A had made  other payments to her son.
I dont doubt there may have been an individual transaction which  Ms A didnt authorise:  the 
£6,000 transaction on 15 April. But looking at all the transactions around this time I believe 
she was giving her son apparent  authority  to carry out the transaction she subsequently 
disputed. 
I know Ms A will be deeply disappointed but I wont be asking Halifax  to do anything  further 
as I believe Ms A authorised her son to use her card.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is not to uphold Ms As complaint against Bank 
of Scotland plc, trading  as Halifax.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 March 2021.
Sandra Quinn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5765873