K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a regular premium  payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken 
out in connection with a credit card. Mrs S says Lloyds  Bank  PLC mis-sold her the PPI.
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out sometime  between 1997 and 2000. 
The policy cost no more  than 79p per £100  of the outstanding card balance  and covered 
Mrs S in the event she wasnt working  due to accident, sickness  or unemployment. Following  
a successful claim, it would repay 10% of the outstanding balance at the point  of claim, for 
up to twelve months.
Lloyds says the PPI policy  was cancelled  in August 2001 and no further PPI was charged to 
Mrs S account.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs S disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint comes to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs S case.
This is not an easy complaint to decide;  there  is very little documentary evidence  available 
from the time of the sale, around 20 years  ago. So, I must carefully weigh up the evidence 
available to me when reaching my decision. And having done so, Ive decided  the policy 
wasnt mis-sold.
It appears the PPI policy was sold sometime between  1997 and 2000 when Mrs S took out 
her card. Lloyds hasnt  been able to provide  a copy of any application form that Mrs S may 
have completed at the time and it hasnt  been  able to confirm whether the sales took place 
by post or in a branch. So its very difficult for me to know what happened when Mrs S took 
out the credit card and PPI policy.
I accept it is possible Lloyds didnt  give Mrs S a choice about  taking  PPI. I also accept it is 
possible Lloyds gave  her the impression she had to take it out. But it seems equally likely 
Lloyds gave Mrs S the opportunity to take out the policy or decline it as part of her credit 
card application,  and that she chose to take it out, but has simply forgotten  in the years that 
have now elapsed. And the sample credit card application form that Ive seen  and which 
Lloyds says wouldve  been the same  as the one completed by Mrs S says the PPI was 
optional  a customer  had to select it if they wanted  to purchase it.
This means  Im not persuaded (as I must  be to uphold Mrs S complaint) it is more likely than 
not Lloyds presented the policy to Mrs S as compulsory or that it didnt tell her about  the 
policy at all, or indicated  that it would assist her overall credit card application.  And had she 
chosen not to purchase PPI, or had it been  added  to her account  without either her 
knowledge or her consent, I wouldve expected her to query or challenge this shortly 
afterwards, especially as PPI wouldve appeared on her monthly  credit  card statements for 
several years.
Ref: DRN54499282Lloyds says it wouldve  recommended the PPI to Mrs S so it had to check  that the PPI was 
right for her  and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think  that it 
was. She told us she was in good  health  and she was employed, so she wasnt affected by 
any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover that can sometimes  affect  self-employed  
people or customers with existing medical conditions.  And she seems to have had a need for 
the cover   she had no occupational sick pay or savings.
Taking everything into consideration, I dont think that Mrs S information  needs were fully 
met. However, in this case,  I dont  think  Mrs S suffered detriment as a result. I say this 
because after careful consideration  Ive decided that, on the balance  of probabilities, even 
had she been  fully aware of all aspects  of the policy,  Mrs S is still likely to have taken it out. 
Furthermore, the PPI transactions and costs wouldve appeared on her monthly credit card 
statements, and in the event that the cost was not acceptable to Mrs S, or it became 
unaffordable, she couldve cancelled the policy at any point without penalty.
Ive taken into account all of Mrs S other comments, but these  points dont change  my 
conclusion.
Which means Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs S.
But Lloyds has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs S because:  
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit  share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium)  so it shouldve told Mrs S about that. Because  Lloyds didnt tell Mrs S, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission  and profit  share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mrs S has said but these points dont change my decision.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank  PLC does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mrs S.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have  to pay back to Mrs S any commission and profit  share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done  this, so I dont 
award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs S to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 November  2019.
Andrew Macnamara
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5449928