K820x#14complaint
Mr P has complained that UK Insurance Limited (UKI) failed to respond to a letter  he sent 
to it in early 2018.  In addition he believes UKI has discriminated  against  him because hes 
not British and he feels the £25 compensation UKI paid to him for not responding to his letter  
is insufficient.
background
Mr P previously brought  a complaint to our service  about UKI. In February 2018, while that 
complaint was being considered by an ombudsman, Mr P wrote  to UKI with some queries 
regarding the outstanding  matter. As an ombudsman was in the process of considering the 
complaint UKI didnt  respond to Mr Ps letter. Mr P wrote to UKI again in April chasing a 
response to his February letter.  By this stage  the final decision had been issued by the 
ombudsman and UKI responded to Mr Ps second letter  within a fortnight. Mr P was unhappy  
with the response  he received and called  UKI on 1 May 2018 to complain. 
During the call both Mr P and the representative  he spoke to, became  quite  upset. Mr P 
accused the UKI representative of institutional  racism  saying the issues he was experiencing 
wouldnt have happened if he were British. The representative responded saying this was 
not the case and conversation became quite strained in parts.  Mr P was told by the 
representative that the reason he didnt  receive  a response to the letter he sent in February 
was because both parties were still waiting for instructions from the ombudsman and that 
while this was outstanding there would be no direct communication between UKI and Mr P. 
He said that this was something Mr P wouldve been  aware  of. The rest of the call relates  to 
the issue of the first complaint.  
Just over a week after that phone call Mr P received  UKIs final response letter. It said that, 
while UKI had been waiting  for the decision to be issued  by the ombudsman, it should still 
have acknowledged  the letter sent by Mr P in February.  It also commented on the call itself 
and explained  to Mr P that the person he had spoken to had been  very distressed by the 
way Mr P had spoken to him. It said if Mr P spoke to members  of staff in the same way in the 
future it may decide  to only communicate  with him in writing.  It apologised  for not responding 
to the letter  he had sent in February and offered him £25 compensation. 
Mr P doesnt  think £25 is sufficient. He has referenced  other  complaints that he has made to 
different businesses, which he feels involved less serious issues, where  he was paid 
significantly more compensation. He has said that only offering £25 is a form of institutional 
racism. He has asked  for more money and has told UKI he will continue  to make  complaints 
about it to this service  as he knows it incurs a fee each time he does so. 
One of our investigators  looked into Mr Ps complaint already. She found that while UKI did 
fail to respond to the February 2018 letter the compensation  paid was sufficient.  
Mr P disagreed with her findings  and asked  for an ombudsman to consider his complaint and 
so it has been  passed to me. 
Ref: DRN5567282my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Ive listened to the phone call between  Mr P and the UKI representative and it is clear both 
parties became  upset  very early  on in the call. The representative  explains to Mr P why he 
never received a response to his February 2018 letter and says that this was something  
Mr P shouldve been aware of. Its not unusual  for two parties to a complaint to stop direct 
communication once  the complaint has come to this service to be considered. It is clear  the 
representative thought this had been explained  to Mr P, however UKI have since  confirmed  
that this hadnt  happened.  So the person  Mr P spoke to thought he had been  told something 
he hadnt. And this, in part, is responsible  for the call breaking  down as quickly  as it did.
UKI responded to Mr Ps complaint by apologising  for not responding to his February letter. It 
explained that even if it had thought both parties  were waiting to hear from the ombudsman 
before taking any action  on the matter it wouldve been better for it to have acknowledged  
the letter rather than not responding to it at all. 
Mr P responded by saying as a result  of UKIs failure to respond to his February  letter there 
were delays in resolving the matter being considered  by the ombudsman. However I can see 
the ombudsman  issued their final decision the day after Mr Ps February  letter. The decision 
set out what the ombudsman  felt was a reasonable resolution to the complaint and so I cant  
see how UKIs failure to respond to Mr Ps letter in February had any impact on the 
resolution of his original  complaint. 
Mr P has also said that £25 isnt enough compensation and he has received more money 
from other financial institutions when he made complaints about matters  he believes were  
less serious in nature. He feels that UKIs  decision to offer him, what he believes  is a low 
amount of compensation is indicative of institutional  racism. I cant  comment  on the amount  
of money other institutions may have paid to Mr P in regards  to other  complaints  he made. 
However, having looked into this complaint and considered the time between Mr Ps first 
letter in February,  the ombudsmans decision being issued the day after, and the potential  
impact caused by not UKI responding to the letter immediately, I think  £25 is sufficient in this 
instance. And so I wont be asking  UKI to do any more in relation to Mr Ps complaint about 
his letter.
Mr P has also made a very serious allegation  of institutional racism against  UKI. Having 
reviewed his file in full Im satisfied that UKI didnt discriminate against Mr P in this way. 
However if he wants to pursue the matter further he would need  to bring this aspect of his 
complaint against  UKI to a court of law for consideration. 
Overall I do think  UKI got some things wrong in regards to how it communicated  with Mr P. 
By its own admission it should have  responded to his letter in February 2018 even if it was 
just to confirm receipt and explain  it was waiting for the ombudsmans  decision before 
commenting further. And the person Mr P spoke  to was wrong when he said Mr P was 
aware UKI was waiting  for the decision before communicating with him further. However UKI 
has acknowledged both of these issues and apologised  for them. Mr P has told us UKIs 
failure to respond  to his letter caused him a lot of stress. But I cant see that it had a negative 
impact on the speed at which  the decision was issued or the resolution set out by the 
ombudsman in that decision. So I still think that £25 and an apology is sufficient 
compensation and I wont  be asking UKI to do anymore in relation to this complaint.
Ref: DRN5567282my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 October  2019.
.
Karen Hanlon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5567282