K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2000 online. Mr D says Canada Square Operations Limited (trading as Egg)  mis-sold him 
the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ds case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Egg had to make Mr D aware  that the PPI was optional and gain his consent  before adding it 
to his card. Mr D applied  for his PPI policy  through  an online application at the same time as 
he applied  for a credit card. Egg hasnt been able to show us Mr Ds completed online 
application, so Ive considered what we know more widely  about  how it sold PPI online 
around this time. 
Ive seen screenshots that are likely to be similar  to what Mr D saw at the time of sale, and 
these show an option to accept or decline PPI. So I think its likely Egg gave Mr D the option 
to either  accept or decline the cover  before  continuing with his credit card application.  Egg 
has also given us a copy of the data that was captured from Mr Ds application, I can see 
that the yes box has been selected to confirm he wanted the PPI.
So I think Egg made it clear that the PPI was optional and that Mr D chose to take the policy. 
Considering how long ago the sale took place I think its understandable he cant  remember 
doing so now.
Egg didnt  recommend the PPI to Mr D so it didnt have to check if it was right for him. But it 
did have to make sure Mr D got the information he needed to decide  if it was right for him. 
Its possible the information Egg gave Mr D about  the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it shouldve  
been. Mr D has told us he was entitled  to good sick pay when  he took the policy, had 
redundancy cover, death in service benefit, redundancy benefit and some savings. But the 
PPI would have  paid out in addition to Mr Ds sick pay and for longer. The PPI would also 
have paid out in circumstances that his other cover wouldnt have. 
Based on what Ive seen  of Mr Ds circumstances  at the time it doesnt look like he was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it would have been useful 
for him if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont  think  
better information about the PPI would  have put him off taking out the cover.  
Ive thought about everything Mr D has said including that the rules say we should presume 
Mr D wouldnt  have taken PPI if he was given more information. But I still think  he wouldve 
bought the policy if he had been  given clearer information. So these comments dont change 
my conclusion.
Which means Egg doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr D.
Ref: DRN59990602But Egg has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr D because: 
Egg got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium)  
- so it should have  told Mr D about  that. Because Egg didnt  tell Mr D, that was unfair.  
To put that right, Egg has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Canada Square  Operations Limited does not have to 
pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr D.
But Canada Square Operations  Limited  does have  to pay back to Mr D any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  I understand it has already 
done this, so I dont  award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 October  2019.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5999060