K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that someone transferred money out of his account without his knowledge or 
consent. He is unhappy  Barclays Bank UK PLC wont refund the money.
background
The detailed background to this complaint  is well known to both parties, so Ill only provide a 
brief summary here. In March 2019 three  faster payments totalling £6,134  were  made  from 
Mr Hs account. He contacted Barclays as he didnt  recognise the payments. He says he did 
not make  or authorise them.
Barclays looked at what had happened. It didnt accept the payments were unauthorised. It 
said they were made via Mr Hs device,  through his Barclays  mobile  banking  app (BMB), 
which was logged into using his passcode and from an IP address which matched previous 
genuine payments  and logins. And from what Mr H had told Barclays at the time it was 
unable to see any point  of compromise for his login  details and held him liable. 
Unhappy with Barclays response Mr H brought his complaint to this service, he continued  to 
dispute the payments made  from his account.  He maintained  that he had no knowledge of 
these and that they had not been made  by him  they were  unauthorised. One of our 
investigators looked into Mr Hs complaint, but he didnt uphold it. He was persuaded it was 
more likely than not that Mr H made the payments because there was no plausible point of 
compromise for Mr Hs passcodes, BMB or phone.
Mr H didnt accept our investigators outcome. But he did not ask for his complaint to be 
reviewed by an ombudsman. He stopped communicating  with the investigator and his 
complaint was closed  in November 2019. 
Some months later in April 2020  Mr H contacted the investigator  he explained hed 
stopped communicating with him as his university exam load was intensifying and he wanted  
to focus on this. He now has more time to deal with these matters  and wants  to appeal the 
outcome reached. He provided new information about the circumstances surrounding the 
payments. 
Mr Hs complaint was re-opened and after taking  the new information  into consideration the 
investigator was still of the opinion that Mr H had authorised the payments  as Mr H 
disagreed his complaint was passed  to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, my review of the 
evidence has led me to the same overall conclusions as those  reached  by the investigator 
and for broadly the same reasons.
Firstly, I know  this will be very disappointing  for Mr H as its clear  he has very strong feelings 
about his complaint. But to be clear for Mr H, whilst I can see he has spent a lot of time and 
effort in bringing  his complaint to our service  and has provided detailed  submissions in 
support of it, I wont be setting out my view on every piece of available  evidence, nor am I 
going to provide comment on every point he has made. But Id like to assure him that Ive 
read and considered everything provided  by him in its entirety.    
Ref: DRN51701982My role is to consider the evidence  presented  by both parties  and reach what I think  is an 
independent, fair and reasonable  decision  based on the facts  of the case.  The purpose of 
my decision  is to set out my conclusions and reasons for reaching them.  So, my findings 
focus on what I consider  to be the central issues. 
The regulation that is relevant when considering Mr Hs complaint in relation to the disputed 
payments is the Payment  Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs 2017). In short,  Barclays  is 
generally required to refund  any unauthorised  payments.  Mr H says he didnt make the three 
disputed payments and they are unauthorised. So, my primary concern now is to come to a 
view about whether or not I think Mr H authorised them and whether Barclays  conclusion  
that he did was reasonable. If Im satisfied that Mr H did, then I wouldnt ask Barclays  to 
refund him.
Looking at all the facts of this case,  I cant know for certain exactly  whats happened.  I wasnt 
present at the time the disputed payments were made or when the preceding and ensuing 
events occurred. So, in situations like these I need to decide a case  on what I think is more  
likely than not to have happened. To help me decide this Ive looked at the evidence  of the 
payments, as well as what both Mr H and Barclays have told us. 
As far as I can see Mr Hs case is based heavily on his testimony. I hope Mr H appreciates 
Im unable to uphold a complaint based  solely  on his testimony. As Ive covered above,  I 
have to consider  all the available  evidence. And having done so, there  are some factors  that 
lead me to believe that Mr Hs version  of events is not totally  reliable. Im not persuaded an 
unknown third-party, without Mr Hs consent, made the payments and from what Ive seen I 
also dont think its unreasonable for Barclays to hold Mr H liable. I say the above because;
-Firstly, after reviewing the banks  technical evidence Ive seen the electronic records 
which show a successful  log in, using Mr Hs security details, via his BMB  which 
was registered  to his valid mobile  number. In addition, Barclays  have said Mr Hs 16-
digit card number,  expiry date and CVV was needed  to set up a new payee  mandate.  
Im satisfied,  therefore, that all the transactions were  authenticated.
-Mr H has amended  his version of events several times from when he first reported 
the matter. Im afraid  that this does impact on the credibility of his evidence.
-When Mr H first reported the matter to Barclays, he told it that he didnt recognise,  
authorise or make the payments. Mr H confirmed his mobile phone  and debit card 
were still in his possession, no-one  had access to them,  his mobile phone  also had a 
lock and hed not shared with anyone nor written down details of his phone or BMB 
passcodes. He informed Barclays both passcodes  were different, and he knew these 
by memory. As Barclays couldnt  see a point of compromise as no-one else has 
access to Mr Hs mobile phone or passcodes  it held him liable.
-He later told Barclays and this service the point of compromise couldve been at 
university as he isnt allowed to take his phone into the lab. Mr H said he thinks 
somebody overlooked  him using his phone  whilst at university and accessed his 
phone whilst he was in the lab  making the payments without his knowledge or 
consent. He provided this service with contradictory information to what hed given 
Barclays and said both the passcode for his phone and BMB were the same  so if 
his phone passcode  was compromised, then the BMB could easily have been 
comprised.  
Ref: DRN51701983-Our investigator had previously asked Mr H if he had been approached by anyone or 
seen any adverts  which  may have  asked for access to his account. At the time Mr H 
confirmed he hadnt but more recently  he has asked  this service to re-consider his 
complaint as he now believes he was a victim  of a scam.  He says he was 
embarrassed to tell the truth when he first contacted Barclays  and us  which is the 
reason for the inconsistencies in his testimony. Mr H hasnt been clear about  the 
circumstances, which is understandable given  the time that has passed.  But from 
what he does recall,  in short, he says he met with an individual  in a park for a free 
tutorial on signals  and how to make  money on a cryptocurrency platform. He says the 
third-party did briefly have access to his unlocked phone  and debit card. 
-Ive thought about this carefully,  but Im not persuaded that Mr Hs latter  version of 
events is what happened. He has by his own admission not been truthful and from 
what I can see the change in his version of events  largely appear to coincide with an 
outcome given by either Barclays or our investigator.  He also hasnt provided  any 
evidence of communication between him and the individual he supposedly met for a 
free tutorial. Due to the lack of evidence and unreliability of his testimony I cant place 
much weight  on what Mr H has told us. 
-Mr H has also not been  able to answer  some of the questions asked by our 
investigator with certainty given the time that has passed  and for these reasons 
amongst others Im not satisfied theres a convincing  explanation for how a third-
party couldve obtained  Mr Hs mobile  phone;  passcodes for both his phone  and 
BMB; and his debit  card details  to carry out the disputed payments.
-Additionally, Mr H initially said he didnt  notice the payments until after hed visited a 
branch three days after the payments were made. Our investigator said the evidence  
showed during  this time Mr H had logged into his BMB at least  20 times. He said as 
the account balance was significantly lower,  he wouldve expected  Mr H to have 
noticed and reported  the matter  by phone or when he visited the branch. He 
thought a possible reason for why Mr H didnt  report this as fraud was because he 
recognised the payments. Mr H has since changed his testimony to say he did notice 
the payments  but didnt report them as he thought it was a mistake or error. Im afraid 
I dont find Mr Hs explanation likely.  The payments emptied his account;  the money 
was from his student loan, which he was dependant on to get him through university. 
So, I dont think its unreasonable to think someone in these circumstances faced 
with the prospect of potentially having lost such a significant  amount of money 
wouldve acted sooner to check and make  sure the money was secure rather  than 
waiting three days to report the matter. This doesnt  feel like actions of a person who 
believed theyd been the victim of fraud. So, on balance  I think  its more  likely that 
Mr H didnt report the payments immediately because they were made with his 
knowledge and permission.  
Ref: DRN51701984I note Mr H has argued that Barclays didnt spot and block the activity  on his account as 
unusual and suspicious, I acknowledge that its good  industry practice for banks to have in 
place measures to detect and prevent fraud and financial  abuse. Activity such as a sudden  
increase in spending, changes to the operation of an account, and large value payments 
could be signs of suspicious  transactions which should be verified as genuine with the 
customer. I can see our investigator  whilst still of the opinion that Mr H authorised the 
payments did explain  matters of gross  negligence and what  he thought  wouldve been the 
likely outcome if the conclusion he had reached was different  in that the payments were 
not unauthorised. However, as Im of the opinion these payments were  made  with Mr Hs 
consent - these werent unauthorised - I dont have a basis to find Barclays made  any 
mistake in not flagging  any of them  as suspicious. Because  even if they did, as Im of the 
belief Mr H authorised  the payments, it wouldnt have made a difference  to the outcome.   
I do, taking all the above into consideration think that Mr H probably knows  very much more  
about the payments than he has told this service  or Barclays. And on balance  I think  its 
more likely than not that Mr H authorised and consented to the payments. It follows  that 
Barclays is entitled to hold him liable for them. 
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above, my final decision is that I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 September  2020.
Sonal Matharu 
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN5170198