K822xcomplaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a loan in 
2010. Mr P says Santander UK Plc mis-sold him the PPI. It covered his loan repayments  in 
case he was off work sick or lost his job. Mr P paid for the PPI with a regular monthly 
premium, which  didnt  attract interest.
background
I sent my provisional decision on 16 October  2019. A copy  of my provisional decision is 
attached and forms part of this final decision.
My provisional decision sets out the background of this complaint. It explains why I thought 
Santander had to pay back some of the cost of the PPI, but not all of it.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted  to send me  so long as I received it by 
30 October 2019. But neither Mr P nor Santander have sent me anything new to consider.
 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither side have  sent me any new evidence or arguments. So having  reconsidered the 
case, Ive come to the same conclusion as before  that the policy  was not mis-sold, but that 
Santander has to pay back  some of the cost of the PPI.
what the business needs  to do
Santander has to pay back  to Mr P any commission and profit  share it got that was more 
than 50% of the PPI premium. Santander should  also pay back to Mr P any extra  interest he 
paid because of that.
That means Santander needs  to pay back to Mr P the extra  he paid each  month because  the 
commission and profit share it got was more  than 50% of the cost of PPI. Santander also 
needs to pay Mr P 8%* simple interest  on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr P can claim back the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
Ref: DRN55933722my final decision
The PPI policy was not mis-sold  which means  Santander UK Plc does not have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr P.
But Santander UK Plc does have to pay back to Mr P any commission and profit share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. If it has already done  this, then I dont award 
any further compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 December 2019.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN55933723COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
This complaint is about  a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken  out with a loan in 2010.  
Mr P says Santander UK Plc mis-sold him the PPI. It covered his loan repayments in case he was off 
work sick or lost his job. Mr P paid for the PPI with a regular monthly premium, which didnt attract  
interest.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken  
this into account in deciding  this case.
Based on what Ive seen so far, I dont  think this policy was mis-sold   Ill explain why.
Ive looked carefully at the online sales process from the time of Mr Ps application. It looks like there 
wouldve been  a page for PPI which gave an overview of how the policy worked.  Then it offered the 
choice to take the policy  or turn it down, with both options being equally prominent. It looks like Mr P 
chose PPI.
Mr Ps credit  agreement then had a separate section  for PPI. It reiterated that the policy was optional,  
and set out its cost separately to the cost of the loan itself  it wasnt part and parcel of the loan. Mr P 
signed specifically  to buy the policy, separately  to signing for the loan. So I think that Santander made  
it clear Mr P didnt have to take out PPI and that he chose  to take it  though I can understand why he 
might not remember this after so long.
Santander didnt give Mr P tailored advice about  buying PPI, so it didnt have to check if it was right 
for him. It did have to make sure Mr P got the information  he needed to decide  if it was right for him. 
The credit  agreement  set out the cost of the PPI clearly,  before  Mr P ultimately agreed to it. So I think  
he wouldve understood how much the policy would cost if he chose it.
As our adjudicator  pointed out, Mr P had a pre-existing  medical condition. But this policy  doesnt 
seem to have  excluded pre-existing medical conditions. It only excluded claims for a condition if the 
customer was currently off work  for that condition at the time of the sale. And even then, once the 
customer had returned to work and been symptom-free for 90 days, they could claim if the condition 
caused them  to be off work again.
Its not clear whether Mr P was off work at the time of the sale or not. He said he had an operation 
around January  or February 2010. But this sale was at the very start of February  2010,  so its very 
possible that Mr P only went off work  afterwards.  And so this exclusion may not even be relevant 
here.
Even if Mr P definitely was off work  at the sale,  it looks like Santander wouldve brought  the exclusion 
to his attention.  The screenshots of the sales process show that he wouldve been asked questions 
about his circumstances. One of the questions asked if Mr P was currently off work through  sickness 
or an accident. And if he answered yes, it looks like he wouldve been brought  to a warning page that 
highlighted that he wouldnt be able to make a claim for that condition until hed returned to work and 
been symptom-free for at least 90 days. Then it wouldve asked him if he still wanted to apply for the 
insurance with that in mind  again giving him the choice to say yes or no. So it seems that in order to 
proceed, Mr P wouldve had to confirm  he wanted to go ahead despite knowing about the exclusion.
Ref: DRN55933724So it looks like in this particular case, Santander wouldve brought  the exclusion  to Mr Ps attention  in 
a prominent way at the sale. And Mr P doesnt seem to have  been affected  by any of the other main 
exclusions or limitations.
So Ive not found a reason to say that this policy was mis-sold.
This means  I dont think Santander has to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr P.
But I do think  Santander has to pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr P because:  
Santander got a high level of commission  and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - 
so it should have  told Mr P about that. Because Santander  didnt tell him, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Santander has basically  offered to pay back  the amount  of commission and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think  that offer is fair in this case.
what I think business should do
I think  Santander  has to pay back to Mr P any commission and profit  share it got that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium.  I also think Santander should pay back to Mr P any extra interest he paid 
because of that.
That means Santander should pay back to Mr P the extra he paid each month because  the 
commission and profit share it got was more than 50% of the cost of PPI. Santander should  also pay 
Mr P 8%* simple interest on each payment.
*Businesses have  to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr P can claim back the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
my provisional  decision
I dont think this PPI policy was mis-sold   which would mean  Santander UK Plc does not have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr P.
But I do think  Santander UK Plc has to pay back to Mr P any commission and profit  share it got that 
was more than 50% of the PPI premium. If it has already done this, then I dont plan to award any 
further compensation.
Please could  Mr P and Santander send me any more information or comments  to look at by 30 
October 2019. After that, Ill reconsider the case.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5593372