K820x#14complaint
Mrs P is unhappy about how Ageas Insurance Limited handled  the replacement  vehicle  
element of her motor  insurance policy.
background
Mrs P made a claim under the motor insurance  policy following an accident  in July 2018.  
She was called on 18 July 2018  and told that it was not economical to repair her car. She 
was told that Ageas  would  salvage the car and that she would receive a settlement of 
£3,500.
Mrs P explained she needed the use of a car and asked about car hire. She was informed 
that her policy included replacement car cover and she could have car hire for a short period 
of seven  to thirty days . The call handler told Mrs P he would arrange the car hire with the 
rental company. Mrs P collected the hire car on 20 July 2018, and she says the hire 
company also confirmed the agreement was for up to 30 days.
She received a call from Ageas on 25 July 2018 asking her when she would be returning the 
car, as it said shed had it for seven days.  She said she was surprised as shed been told the 
replacement car was for up to 30 days.  It explained that her policy allowed for a replacement  
car for seven days after a settlement  offer is made, and the offer had been made to Mrs P on 
18 July 2018.
Ageas reviewed the initial call and agreed  that its call handler  hadnt given clear information 
to Mrs P. It explained she was only entitled  to car hire for seven days after it had made its 
settlement offer.  It said this was set out in the replacement vehicle cover  of her motor  policy.  
Mrs P was unhappy, and explained why she needed  the car.
Ageas acknowledged it could have  been  clearer and agreed to extend  the car hire to 31 July 
2018. This was to enable Mrs P to make  alternative  arrangements, and to allow her to meet 
her commitment to attend her sons birthday.
Mrs P was unhappy as shed been  led to believe the replacement  car was available to her 
for up to 30 days. This is what shed been told on the phone, and it was stated in her policy 
documents.
Our investigator looked at the complaint and felt that Ageas didnt need to do anything more  
to resolve the complaint. The case has been  passed to me for a decision because  Mrs P 
disagreed with our investigator.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I have reached the same 
overall conclusions  as the investigator, and for broadly the same reasons.
Mrs P complains that she was clearly  told she had up to 30 days free car hire. She said 
she was never told shed have the replacement car for only one week.
Ive listened to the calls Mrs P had with Ageas, and Ive reviewed the policy  terms. Ill start 
with the policy terms. The policy  provides  a replacement  car on a temporary  basis following 
Ref: DRN58435172an insured  event. The policy  document explains what is covered and what isnt covered. 
The what is covered section confirms that a replacement  car will be provided for up to 30 
continuous days  that is not in doubt.
The section describing what is not covered says:
Any further hire charges due after:
The first 30 days of hire; or
The date on which the insured  car is repaired or replaced: or
The seventh day since receiving  the first settlement offer from your insurer.
It goes on to confirm whichever is earlier  applies.  In this case, this was the seventh  day 
after she received  the offer. So, Ageas was entitled  to ask her to return  the hire car under 
the terms of the policy.
Mrs P says this wasnt clear to her. She said she found it confusing  and I can understand 
why. She was still feeling the impact of the accident, and it was upsetting to be suddenly told 
she was no longer entitled to a hire car. She also points out that it was Ageas who told her 
she was entitled  to the car hire under her policy. Shed accepted  what  Ageas had told her, 
and only looked  at the policy terms after receiving  the call telling her she needed to return 
the hire car.
But while I can understand why she may have found the policy terms unclear, I think they 
reasonably set out what she was entitled  to in the circumstances. A number of different 
criteria are set out, but as they are in the section  what is not covered and because they 
explain what  applies if youve been made an offer by your insurer, I think Mrs P was made 
sufficiently aware of them.
I turn to what Mrs P was told by Ageas in the telephone calls. There  appears to have been 
some confusion about whether Mrs P was entitled  to a courtesy car from the repairer, or a 
hire vehicle from a specific rental  company. This appeared to have been  resolved in the call 
from Ageas  on 18 July 2018  advising  Mrs P that the repairs  were not economical and 
offering her a settlement  of £3500.  She was told in this call that she was entitled to a hire car 
under the policy.  Unfortunately, it was in this call she was told she was entitled  to the car for 
seven to thirty days.
Ive also listened  to the call on 25 July 2018, where Mrs P was told by Ageas that shed need 
to return the hire car. This was a surprise to Mrs P and she was clearly upset. She thought 
shed been provided with a hire car by her insurer for up to 30 days. Shed immediately gone 
out and bought a new car and was waiting for it to arrive. Ageas explained in this call what  
she was actually entitled to under her policy. And when Mrs P explained why she needed the 
car for a little longer,  it agreed to extend the cover  for a further  six days.
The initial advice given by Ageas  was misleading, and it has accepted this. Mrs P says she 
was told by Ageas and the car hire firm that the rental was for up to 30 days, and she 
believes that is what she shouldve been  given.
When something has gone wrong, as it has here,  what I need  to decide is what the business  
needs to do to put things  right. I can understand why Mrs P was upset, but Ageas 
acknowledged its mistake  and explained  the correct position to her. And it allowed her to 
keep the hire car for a further six days so that she could make  alternative arrangements.
Ref: DRN58435173 
My role isnt to punish businesses, but to ensure consumers  are put back  into the position  
that they shouldve been in all along if the error  hadnt happened.  Ageas did this, and I wont 
be asking it to do any more.
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 August 2019.
Gordon Ramsay
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5843517