K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that a used car he acquired  via a conditional sale agreement  with 
Moneybarn No. 1 Limited  wasnt  of satisfactory  quality. 
background
In November 2017 Mr C entered  into a four year conditional sale agreement for a used car. 
The car was seven years old with a mileage of around 57,000. It had passed its MOT  with no 
advisories in October 2017.
Mr C said that on the day he collected  the car he noticed a noise from the engine  which  he 
raised with the dealership. He says he was told to bring the car back  if there were any 
issues.
Shortly after collecting the car Mr C raised  a number of issues  about the car with the 
dealership. Some  of these  were  cosmetic but the dealership said it would look at the 
steering, the vibration, the cars  heater, the seat not locking and the mirror.  Work was carried 
out on the car which the dealership covered.
In December 2017 the car went into limp mode and the engine management light 
illuminated. Mr C called out roadside  assistance. The engineer  who inspected the car said 
there was a problem  with the cars crankshaft. Mr C complained to Moneybarn  about the 
problems hed had with the cars heater, crankshaft, cam shaft and throttle valve.  
Moneybarn said it closed  Mr Cs complaint as the dealership carried  out the necessary 
repairs to the car. It also paid Mr C £100 compensation for loss of the use of the car while it 
was repaired.  However,  the day after the complaint had been closed Moneybarn re-opened 
it as Mr C said he was still having  issues with the car. He said there was a problem with the 
idling of the car.
Moneybarn arranged for the car to be independently  inspected  in February 2018. The 
independent engineer confirmed that there was an erratic idle speed  but went on to conclude 
that, taking into account  the cars  condition  and that it had passed an MOT at a similar 
mileage to that at the point of sale, the car would have  been roadworthy when Mr C acquired 
it.
In May 2018  the dealership replaced  the housing and cleared  the fault codes. No issues 
were found  when the car was test driven.
A few days  later Mr C complained to Moneybarn that the passenger  seat didnt recline. Mr C 
was concerned this was a safety hazard. Moneybarn didnt uphold  Mr Cs complaint. It said 
as the car had passed its MOT in October 2017  and said this wasnt  an inherent fault with 
the car.
Mr C says he chose to voluntary terminate  the agreement in June 2018 and return  the car 
due to the number of times it had needed repair. He said he wasnt  able to make proper use 
of it.
Mr C complained to this service about  the condition  of the car. He said he thought it would 
be fair for Moneybarn to write off the outstanding balance  still owing  on the agreement.  Our 
adjudicator didnt recommend that Mr Cs complaint should be upheld. She said that while it 
Ref: DRN54366832was accepted there had been issues with the car these  had been  fixed by the dealership. 
She also said that looking at the age of the car it wasnt  unreasonable  to expect repair 
issues like the seat not reclining to arise over time.
Mr C disagreed with our adjudicators view and the complaint  was passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under the Consumer  Rights Act 2015  car must  be of satisfactory  quality at the point of 
sale. And satisfactory quality is what a reasonable person would expect taking  into 
account all the relevant  circumstances such as age, condition and mileage of the car. 
Durability is also part of satisfactory  quality as, although no one would expect all the 
components of the car to last forever, they also wouldnt reasonably expect issues to arise  
with the car for a period  of time.
However, if the car wasnt of satisfactory  quality at the point of sale then this doesnt mean 
the consumer  can necessarily reject the car. The retailer would have an opportunity  to repair 
it and if that wasnt successful then the consumer may be able to reject the car. 
Ive seen that Mr C raised a number of issues with the car shortly after he acquired it. Some of 
these were considered to be cosmetic and had arisen due to wear and tear but the dealership 
agreed to fix the cars heater, the steering, vibration, the seat not locking and the mirror. The car 
was then returned to Mr C.
The car went into limp mode a few weeks later due to an issue with the camshaft, crankshaft 
and throttle and was taken back to the dealership for further repairs. Mr C says the repairs to the 
throttle werent correct and thats why there was a continued issue with the cars idling. He 
complained to Moneybarn who arranged for the car to be independently inspected. Mr C told 
Moneybarn he wanted to reject the car.
The independent engineer reported that there was an erratic idle speed evident but that after a 
short time the idling settles down and appeared normal. The engineer reported that there were 
no leaks, overheating, unusual noises or excessive smoke from the exhaust. The engineer said 
there was no definitive proof that the idling had been present at the point of sale and that taking 
into account the car had passed its four previous MOTs the car could be considered as being in 
good condition overall.
The engineer also said the issue with the throttle was minor and could easily be rectified and did 
not impinge on the vehicle being of a satisfactory quality for a vehicle with over 50,000 miles. 
The independent engineer concluded that the car would have been fit for purpose and of 
satisfactory quality at the point of sale.
Ive seen that despite the findings  of the independent engineer the dealership agreed to 
repair the car as a gesture of goodwill and new throttle housing was fitted  and the fault 
codes cleared. I understand that following a test drive no further issues were found.
Mr C then raised a complaint about a passenger seat which  did not recline and was a safety 
issue. Ive seen that the required  part was on back order by the dealership.
Ref: DRN54366833I appreciate that the car had several repairs since Mr C acquired it. And Ive seen that these 
repairs were all undertaken at no cost to Mr C. Looking  at the nature of the fault with the 
idling, even if the dealership hadnt  repaired this correctly the first time I think that rejecting 
the car due to this issue would be disproportionate and unfair.  I accept the opinion of the 
independent engineer that the car was of satisfactory condition  at the time Mr C acquired it. 
The independent engineer said that the idling  problem  didnt affect  the cars roadworthiness. 
I dont think a reasonable person would  expect a used car of that age, mileage and price to 
be entirely fault free so long as it was roadworthy.
Mr C says the car spent  a lot of time in the garage  and so he decided  to voluntarily 
terminate the agreement.  Looking at the recorded mileages available  Ive seen that between  
November 2017  and the inspection in February  2018 Mr C had driven the car for just over 
2,500 miles. This is a little less than average but does show  he was able to use the car.  Mr 
C also said he was provided with a courtesy  car when his was being  repaired.
There is now an issue with the passenger  seat not reclining, but I dont have enough  
evidence to say that was either developing or present at the point of sale. The car was 
around eight years  old so I think a reasonable person would expect repair issues to arise  
from time to time.
So, although  the car hasnt been  fault free, it has been repaired  and Mr C was able to use it. 
For the reasons  given  above Im not upholding Mr Cs complaint and Im not asking 
Moneybarn to do more.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above Im not upholding Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 December  2019.
Jocelyn Griffith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5436683