K820x#14complaint
Miss J complains  that National Westminster Bank Plc is holding her liable for transactions  
totalling £7,800 that she says she neither made  nor authorised. 
background
Miss J has a current account and a savings account with NatWest  and has a card and a PIN 
for each  account.  Miss J transferred the balance on her savings account to her current  
account in November 2017, to leave a nil balance. 
On 14 March 2018 the bank received a phone call requesting a new card and PIN for the 
savings account.  Miss J says the individual wasnt her, but the caller passed  the banks 
security checks  and a new card and PIN were sent to Miss Js home address.
From 27 March to 18 April, a total of £9,800 was transferred  from Miss Js current  account to 
her savings account using the savings account  card. A total of £7,800 was then withdrawn 
from the savings  account  by four bank  counter  withdrawals and eight  ATM transactions.
Miss J reported the transactions  as unauthorised  on 23 April 2018. She says she never  
ordered a new card and PIN and never received them through the post.
NatWest says the individual who phoned the bank to request a new card and PIN was 
Miss J and that she made the withdrawals from the account.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought  it was 
more likely than not that Miss J authorised  the transactions.  She said the genuine card and 
PIN were used for all transactions and that its not clear how a third party could have  
obtained Miss Js security details and intercepted  the card and PIN in the post.  She also 
thought the pattern of transactions didnt match that of a typical fraudster and that Miss J 
would have known  about the transactions ten days before  she reported them as 
unauthorised, because  shed accessed her accounts  online  at that time.
Miss J didnt  agree with our investigators  conclusions. She said, in summary, that 
She accepts  the transactions were  authenticated using the genuine card and PIN.
She cant explain how a third party obtained  her security details  but this doesnt  mean  
it was her who made  the call to order a new card and PIN. She didnt make the phone 
call and she didnt authorise anyone else to. In the call there was a long hesitation in 
providing the PIN  but she knows this off by heart.
Why would she have gone to the trouble of ordering  a new card and PIN when  if it was 
her who made  the withdrawals   she could simply  have done this using her current  
account? Shes never  gone into a branch  to transfer money from her current account 
using her savings account card; she didnt even  know  she could do this.
The banks investigation was negligent  it failed to establish that a new PIN had been 
generated.
Ref: DRN56668272my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I have however reached broadly the same 
conclusions as the investigator did.
Miss J says she didnt make the phone call to the bank on 14 March  when a new savings 
account card and PIN were ordered.  Ive listened to that call and Ive listened  to the call 
when Miss J reported the fraud. I dont think theyre  the same  person. So I dont think  
Miss J made the call on 14 March.
But I do think its more likely than not that she authorised a third party to make the call. I say 
this because theres no other plausible explanation  as to how a third party could have 
obtained her security details. Shes told us she keeps no written record of her PIN or account 
information and Ive not seen anything to suggest her details  were  compromised.
Im satisfied that genuine card and PIN were used for each of the transactions Miss Js 
disputing. If a third party  had ordered the card and PIN without Miss Js authority, its unclear 
how they would have manage  to get hold of them. They were sent separately to Miss Js 
address. So whoever made those transactions must  have been able to acquire both the card 
and PIN. They were properly addressed by the bank, and I think it more likely than not that 
they were safely delivered. And, given what shes told us about  her postal arrangements, 
I think its likely that she received them.
I cant rule out the possibility that someone guessed Miss Js security  information  she told 
us her PIN was easy to remember for her because it meant  something sentimental   and 
then managed to intercept her post, on two occasions. But I think this is less likely than the 
possibility that Miss J herself knew what was happening.
Because Ive found that its likely the Miss J received the card and PIN, it follows that I also 
think she probably carried out the disputed  transactions, or authorised someone else to do 
so.
In coming to that conclusion, Ive taken into account:
the nature  of the transactions
The transactions took place over a period of two weeks. And the first withdrawal didnt take 
place until around  five days after the money  had been transferred to the savings account. 
I would have expected a fraudster to try to withdraw as much  money  as possible in a short a 
period as possible to avoid  detection. The last withdrawal took place on 18 April, but there 
was still a balance  of £2,000 in the account.  I would have expected a fraudster to continue 
withdrawing money until there was a nil balance.
Ref: DRN56668273reporting the transactions as fraudulent
I find it unusual that from November 2017 to the end of February 2018, Miss J regularly 
logged on to her online  banking account.  But in March  and April she only logged on a couple 
of times. But she did use online banking on 3 April 2018. By this point, £5,000  had been  
transferred to her savings  account and £500 had been withdrawn. I would have thought 
shed have noticed that £5,000 was missing  from her current account and that there was a 
balance in her savings account   bearing in mind she hadnt used the savings account since 
November 2017  when it was left with a nil balance. But Miss J didnt report  the transactions 
to NatWest until 23 April.  
Ive also considered Miss Js comments about NatWests fraud investigation. I can see that 
she was told, on more than one occasion,  that a new PIN hadnt  been ordered. This was 
wrong. But this doesnt  make  a difference to my conclusion  on the disputed transactions.  For 
the reasons Ive explained, I think its more likely than not that the transactions  were 
authorised by Miss J.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 November  2019.
Elizabeth Dawes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5666827