K820x#14complaint
Mrs H complain that Bank of Scotland  Plc (trading at the time of sale as Halifax)  mis-sold her 
a mortgage payment protection insurance  (MPPI) policy.
background
Mrs H bought a regular premium MPPI policy in November 1990. She purchased  the policy 
during a meeting with an advisor from Halifax in one of its branches.
Mrs H then took out a further advance in May 1994  and the MPPI policy was amended to 
reflect the higher repayment  amount. The mortgage  ended in July 1999.
Mrs H says she was made to believe she had to have the MPPI  policy  as a requirement of 
having a mortgage. She also says she had enough  in sick pay and other policies at the time 
and didnt need it. She thinks Bank  of Scotland mis-sold the policy  to her.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Mrs Hs complaint.  As they dont agree with the adjudicators  
opinion, the complaint has been passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Hs case.
Ive looked at all of the information provided by both parties and decided not to uphold         
Mrs Hs complaint because of the following  reasons:
Halifax has been unable to provide much of the sales documentation that was used  
at the time of sale. There is little information  available and so I cant be sure how the 
policy was presented by an advisor from Halifax to Mrs H during the meeting  in 1990 
and Ive not been able to see most of the original  sales documentation (such as the 
agreement or application  form).  So its been difficult for me to consider whether     
Mrs H was given a choice or not as to whether she should  have the MPPI policy (or 
whether it was put across that she had to have it as a requirement of having a 
mortgage).
But Im not aware of any known issues with the way Halifax sold these policies  
around this time. And Mrs Hs recollections  are not detailed  about what  happened 
although this is understandable considering the sale took place many years ago. So, 
with these points  in mind, I cannot fairly  conclude  on this occasion that the policy was 
put across by Bank of Scotland as something  Mrs H had to have. I just havent seen 
enough to make  that conclusion. 
Moving on, Halifax has said it recommended the MPPI to Mrs H during  the meeting 
and so, as this puts additional responsibilities on the business,  I will proceed  that this 
was the case.  So as it did recommend  the policy to Mrs H, it had to ensure during the 
sale that the policy was suitable for Mrs Hs needs. 
Ref: DRN55605292After reviewing the very limited information, it doesnt look as if the MPPI policy  was 
unsuitable for Mrs H based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time. Mrs H 
says she had 6 months full and 6 months half sick pay as well as a very good 
redundancy package but the MPPI policy would have paid in addition to any 
provisions she would  have had and for longer. So the benefit  would have been of use 
to Mrs H during a difficult time as she could have used her provisions to pay for other 
expenses. Mrs H has also recently mentioned she could have relied on an income  
protection and life assurance policy but I can see that both were taken out after the 
date of sale of the MPPI policy. I think,  on balance, Mrs H had a need for this cover 
based on her circumstances at the date of sale, for any extended  period of 
unemployment or sickness. I also couldnt  find any other reason such as a significant  
or limiting term that would make the policy  unsuitable for her either.
Halifax has provided some information about the costs relating to the MPPI  policy  
that Mrs H took out but even though it has provided information detailing  the cover  
and how much it cost, I cannot  be sure that these costs were disclosed  to Mrs H in a 
clear and fair way at the time of sale. That said, even if they were disclosed clearly I 
dont think Mrs H would have done anything different and decided  against having the 
policy for the reasons that I have already given for the policy being suitable.
Its possible Halifax didnt point out the main  things the policy  didnt cover. But its 
unlikely Mrs H wouldve been affected by any of these.
I understand this will come as a disappointment  but in conclusion  I do not uphold Mrs Hs 
complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Hs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs H to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 April 2019.
Mark Richardson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5560529