K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains MBNA  Limited hasnt paid back the full amount of compensation he says 
was due to him for the mis-sale of payment  protection insurance (PPI). He also complains 
that in calculating the compensation it has paid, MBNA had made  a number of unreasonable  
assumptions. 
background
I issued a provisional decision in this matter,  which is attached and forms part of my final 
decision. I asked  the parties  to comment on how I was proposing  to resolve the complaint. 
MBNA did not respond. Mr S did reply and he reiterated his position that MBNA should pay 
redress from 1996. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought carefully about what Mr S said in his correspondence, but Im afraid it doesnt 
change my mind. The evidence before me does  not suggest that MBNA  is liable  from 1996.  
And so for the reasons given in my provisional  decision, Im satisfied that MBNA has fairly 
calculated compensation for mis-sold PPI. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  MBNA  Limited  does not have to take any action to put things 
right. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 January 2020. 
Nicola Bowes
ombudsman
Copy of my provisional decision 
complaint
Mr S complains MBNA Limited hasnt paid back the full amount of compensation he says was due to 
him for the mis-sale of payment protection insurance  (PPI). He also complains  that in calculating the 
compensation it has paid, MBNA had made a number of unreasonable assumptions.  
background
Mr S took out a PPI policy  in 1996 alongside a credit card with another business (Business A). In 
1998, Mr Ss account was transferred to MBNA and the PPI cover continued.
Ref: DRN55642522Mr S complained to MBNA the PPI had been mis-sold. MBNA said it would  uphold  the complaint  as a 
gesture of goodwill.  But it also said it wasnt  responsible for paying  compensation before the account 
was transferred to it in November 1998. In its final response letter, it set out how it had calculated  its 
offer of compensation. It also said it couldnt provide an address  to contact Business  A which had 
since been bought and the business disbanded.
Mr S said he thought when MBNA took over from Business  A, it accepted liability  for Mr Ss PPI sale 
and so it should refund the premiums paid before the date it took over. He also said that MBNAs 
compensation offer was based on assumptions that were not reasonable.  
Our adjudicator looked  at this matter and said he didnt think MBNA  needed to do anything more to 
put things right. He said he didnt think MBNA was responsible for any refund before it took over the 
account in November 1998. 
Mr S disagreed with this view. He said that MBNA took over full liability when  it acquired his account 
from Business A in November 1998. He asked for his case to be referred  to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
As I said above, I can see that the parties agree PPI was mis-sold to Mr S. So I dont need to look at 
what happened during  the sale. There are two issues for me to consider.  Firstly,  whether MBNA will 
have to pay compensation for the PPI premiums paid from before the account  was transferred to it. I 
also need to look at whether the assumptions MBNA made to calculate its offer were  fair. 
As things stand, I think the way MBNA has calculated  the redress is fair in this case. I will explain why 
below. 
Compensation before November  1998
When MBNA took over from Business A it has said it acquired the account with the PPI policy in 
place. No new policy  was sold by MBNA. The parties agree that PPI was sold initially  by Business A. 
The question for me is therefore whether MBNA is liable for what  Business  A did before it took over 
the account.  
In relation to its liabilities,  MBNA  would only be responsible for Business  As debts  and liabilities if this 
was something  it had agreed to when it was taking  over Business  As book.  MBNA wouldnt 
automatically take over all of Business As liabilities  that would depend on the terms of any 
agreement between the parties. 
MBNA has told us that it is only liable  for the charges made  once the account  was acquired. On 
balance and in the absence of any further evidence, I cant say that MBNA acquired the debts and 
liabilities of Business A. 
I note that in his response to our adjudicator, Mr S was adamant that MBNA took over full liability  from 
Business A in November 1998. In response to this provisional decision, I would particularly invite Mr S 
to provide us with any evidence he may have  to support what he has told us.  
Subject to any further evidence  the parties provide, I think MBNAs  offer to pay compensation  for mis-
sold PPI premiums from the time it acquired Business A is fair in these  circumstances. 
Ref: DRN55642523Assumptions made by MBNA in calculating Mr S compensation
I can see from its final response letter that when calculating its offer to settle the complaint for mis-
sold PPI, MBNA made some assumptions about Mr S account. In his original complaint to us, Mr S 
said he didnt think those assumptions were  fair. 
If a business  has mis-sold  PPI, I would  expect it to put the consumer back  in the position  they would 
be in if they hadnt had PPI on their account. Effectively,  Id expect it to work out and refund  what the 
consumer had paid for PPI premiums and the extra interest charged because  of those  premiums.  
When the PPI costs  have been taken  off the account,  if a consumer  had paid more than they needed  
to without PPI, Id expect a business to pay 8% a year in simple interest on that amount for the time 
that person was out of pocket. 
Looking at the evidence  provided by MBNA, I can see it has worked  out that Mr S paid £206.65 in PPI 
premiums from when the account was transferred.  MBNA has also calculated  that Mr S paid an extra 
£10.75 interest because of those premiums.  It has offered to refund the cost of the PPI, along  with the 
associated interest. Also, I can see from the final response  letter that MBNA had offered 8% simple 
interest to compensate Mr S for the time he was out of pocket.  
When it calculated the offer, MBNA worked out what Mr S credit card would have looked  like each 
month if he didnt have  a PPI policy. It looked at how much interest was probably  charged because of 
the PPI policy, taking  account of his spending and the payments he made. MBNA assumed that Mr S 
would have made the same  repayments each  month towards  his card unless he made a minimum  
payment or repaid the balance in full. 
Looking at the assumptions MBNA has made, I think they are most likely  fair. I think  its reasonable to 
assume that he would have run his account in the same way without PPI as he did with the cover 
attached. With that in mind,  where Mr S made the minimum payment, I think  its fair for MBNA to 
assume that he would have made  a different but smaller  payment. Thats because his balance would  
have been lower  without PPI  and the required minimum payment would have also been lower.  
As things stand, Im satisfied  that MBNAs  offer is fair and I dont intend to tell it to take a different 
approach. However,  I can see that its offer of compensation was made initially in 2016.  I would expect 
it to recalculate  its offer of 8% simple interest so that it reflects the date that Mr S will receive it.  
my provisional  decision
Subject to any further evidence  I receive  from the parties, my provisional decision is that MBNA 
Limited does  not have  to pay compensation to Mr S before it acquired Business A. And Im minded to 
find that the assumptions  it has made in calculating its offer of compensation are fair. 
I now invite  all parties to submit any further evidence or comments  they wish me to consider by 30 
November 2019 after which  I will issue a final decision.
Nicola Bowes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5564252