K822xcomplaint
Mrs M complains TransUnion  International UK Limited didnt tell her she was going over her 
credit reference search usage allowance, and that as a result  she incurred additional usage 
charges she shouldnt have to pay.
Most of Mrs Ms dealing in this matter have been  with a business  called Callcredit.  Callcredit 
has been taken  over by TransUnion  International UK Limited,  but to keep things simple Ill 
refer only to Callcredit in my decision.
background 
For a number of years  Mrs M had an agreement  with Callcredit  that enabled her to search 
and access the credit reference  data of third parties. Mrs M then provided  this data to her 
customers as part of her business.  
The contract signed by Callcredit  and Mrs M in August  2016  said Mrs M would  pay Callcredit 
a minimum revenue amount for the year, which shed  pay in twelve  monthly instalments  Ill 
call this her usage  allowance. The contract said Callcredit would charge Mrs M a fee for 
each credit report and each value added service  she searched for. It said these  fees would 
be deducted from her usage allowance, and that once shed used up her usage  allowance, 
Callcredit would invoice her each month for any additional searches shed carried out.
Mrs M says Callcredit agreed to tell her in advance when  she was going  over her usage  
allowance, and shes provided emails she says support  this. In one email from October 2017 
Callcredit says As discussed earlier, Ive made a note in my diary to send you your usage 
statistics at the end of each month  to ensure you are kept in the loop and up to date on this 
front.
In June 2018 Callcredit invoiced  Mrs M for additional  usage. In July 2018 Mrs M told it she 
was unhappy  it hadnt been  telling her about this additional usage  in advance, gave it one 
months notice of ending her contract  and asked  about its complaint  process
It seems  Callcredit didnt formally treat what Mrs M had said as a complaint or give her a 
final response letter. But it did agree to end the contract with one months notice instead of 
the three months  set out in the contract, and it agreed Mrs M could make repayments and 
didnt need to pay the invoice all at once.
Mrs M was unhappy shed been left with a large  bill to pay so she contacted our service.  
Callcredit said it thought  our service didnt have the power to consider Mrs Ms complaint, as 
it was about a commercial  contract and it hadnt provided Mrs M with a financial product. 
Our investigator explained we could look into this complaint because we can and do 
consider complaints from commercial entities, and providing credit references was a 
regulated activity. Callcredit  accepted  this and offered to pay Mrs M £250 compensation for 
not referring the concerns  shed  raised in 2018  to its Customer  Relations Team  for 
investigation, and for not sending Mrs M a final response to her complaint.
Our investigator looked into Mrs Ms complaint. He said there  was no dispute shed gone  
over her usage allowance, and that Callcredit  had monitored her usage on an ad hoc basis 
and not as part of their contract. The investigator said Mrs M should pay for her additional 
Ref: DRN50935912usage as shed had the benefit of it. But he agreed Callcredits offer of £250 compensation 
was fair.
Mrs M didnt  agree. She said Callcredit  had agreed  in writing to let her know when her usage 
was going over her allowance, and this was why shed  continued  her contract  with it. And 
that she wasnt liable for the additional  usage  costs, and didnt believe shed done all the 
searches Callcredit  was charging her for. Callcredit  provided a breakdown of the charges, 
which our service passed to Mrs M. 
Mrs M said the breakdown wasnt helpful as it didnt contain search  names and addresses.  
Our service asked Callcredit if it would include this data. It said this was third party  personal  
data and so Mrs M would herself need  to formally request it from Callcredit.
As Mrs M didnt agree with our investigator,  her complaint has been passed to me to make a 
decision. But before  making  my decision,  I wanted to know  more about when Mrs M had 
received usage  statistics  from Callcredit,  and about  whether shed told Callcredit she was 
disputing the searches  it was charging her for.
Mrs M said Callcredit gave her poor customer service and apologised to her for this many 
times in calls  she says there were problems with invoicing  and payments, and Callcredit 
didnt respond  to her queries or let her know when  she was likely to go over her usage 
allowance. To support  this, Mrs M provided  further  emails between her and Callcredit. 
And she said the way Callcredit charged in units made it difficult  to track how much of her 
allowance shed used  and to understand the invoices. Mrs M said she disputed the amount 
of units shed used  and didnt agree she should  have to pay any more than £540. And she 
explained this issue has caused her a lot of distress.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
The emails  Mrs M has provided suggest  Callcredit agreed to let her know  when she was 
likely to go over her usage allowance, as it let her know in February 2015, July 2015 and 
April 2016. And in October 2017  Callcredit specifically told Mrs M it would do this for her, 
though it seems not to have done, which it acknowledges in the email it sent her in 
July 2018. I know  Mrs M places great weight on these emails.  
However, the basis of the relationship between Mrs M and Callcredit is the contract they 
signed - it sets out each partys obligations. It appears Mrs M and Callcredit  signed  a new 
contract each year.  Ive been provided with the contracts signed in 2014  and 2016. Theres  
nothing in those  contracts  about  Callcredit  letting  Mrs M know  when she might be going  over 
her usage  allowance, so Im satisfied this wasnt something it was obliged to do. 
But as Ive said, I think Callcredit did offer this as an additional service to Mrs M. So Ive 
thought about whether Callcredit  provided this often  enough for Mrs M to form a reasonable 
expectation that it would always do this for her. The emails Mrs M has provided  show  that on 
three occasions Callcredit sent her usage statistics together with a warning  she was likely to 
go over her usage allowance. And that in October  2017 it said it would provide this each 
month, though  it didnt,  which  it later acknowledged.  
Ref: DRN50935913I dont think this is enough for me to be able to reasonably say Callcredit became obliged to 
warn Mrs M when  she might be going  over her usage allowance.  Instead, I think  this 
remained an additional service that Callcredit could choose to offer Mrs M, albeit one it didnt 
then deliver. And it seems there  were  also times  Callcredit didnt correctly process Mrs Ms 
Direct Debit or address her queries promptly, based on the emails  shes provided.  I think  that 
would have caused Mrs M some frustration  and inconvenience, which  Ill return to later.
Mrs M needed  to carry out these  searches  as part of her business, so even  if Callcredit had 
warned her she might be going over her usage allowance, I think its likely she would  still 
have continued  carrying out searches. And I think Mrs M has had the benefit of these 
searches and that Callcredit is entitled  to ask her to pay for them  - Ill explain why I say this. 
Based on the contracts between Mrs M and Callcredit, Im satisfied Callcredit was entitled  to 
charge Mrs M for any additional searches she carried out over and above her usage 
allowance - the invoices Ive seen suggest  these charges  currently  stand at £3,045.76. 
Mrs M has recently told our service she doesnt  believe  she used all the additional usage 
Callcredit has charged her for. 
Callcredit gave our service a breakdown  of Mrs Ms usage, which weve  passed  to Mrs M so 
that she can check it against her own records. Mrs M says this breakdown doesnt help her 
check whether the charge of £3,045.76 is correct as it doesnt contain name and address 
data. Callcredit has said Mrs M will need to make a formal  request to it for this information.
Ive thought about whether the charge amount is correct.  In doing so Ive considered:
What Mrs M has told us.
Callcredits breakdown of the additional charges,  though this isnt in Mrs Ms preferred 
format.
The invoices Callcredit sent Mrs M in June, July and August 2018 setting out how many  
credit reference searches  Mrs M carried out that month and the additional charge for 
them.
Emails between Mrs M and Callcredit  in July 2018 in which Callcredit  tells Mrs M there 
will be additional charges in June, July and August and in which Mrs M explains why 
shes unhappy with Callcredit.
If the additional charges werent  correct,  Id have expected Mrs M to dispute  this either in her 
email exchange  with Callcredit in July 2018, or when she first told our service  why she was 
unhappy with Callcredit. But Ive seen  nothing to suggest she did, and Mrs M hasnt provided 
any evidence to support  her belief that the additional charges are incorrect. So on balance I 
think its more likely  than not that the additional charge total is correct. Given  this, I think 
Callcredit is entitled to ask Mrs M to repay these additional charges.
Callcredit says it didnt handle Mrs Ms complaint properly. And as Ive explained, I think 
Callcredit caused Mrs M frustration and inconvenience.  Taking  everything into account, Im 
satisfied the £250 Callcredit  has already offered  Mrs M is fair and reasonable compensation 
for her frustration and inconvenience. So Im not asking  it to do anything  further.
Ref: DRN50935914my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold this complaint. TransUnion International UK Limited 
should pay Mrs M £250 compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 August 2019.
Ailsa Wiltshire
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5093591