K820x#14Complaint
Mr S is unhappy with One Call Insurance Services Limiteds actions  when he renewed his 
car insurance policy with them.
Background
One Call is an insurance broker. Mr S initially took out a car insurance policy  through  
One Call in March  2018. Shortly after taking out the policy a check  was carried  out on the 
Claims and Underwriting Exchange (CUE), which is a central database for storing claims 
and underwriting  information. It showed Mr S made  a claim in August 2014 which was 
closed without a payment  being made, which he hadnt  disclosed.  And the insurer  who was 
providing the policy said they were  unable to cover  Mr S due to this claim. However, 
One Call checked  with the insurer who had put the claim  on CUE and they confirmed there 
wasnt actually a claim by or against  Mr S in August  2014; it was just that thered been 
notification of some sort of incident involving him or his car. In view of this, the insurer  
agreed his policy could carry on until March 2019.
In early March 2019 Mr S was sent a renewal letter from One Call informing him that his 
insurance was up for renewal at the end of the month. And One Call had arranged  a new 
policy with another  insurer. One Call didnt  receive  a response from Mr S before the 
auto-renewal deadline. So, the new policy with the new insurer  started. Mr S received a 
letter on 4 April 2019 from One Call explaining that the new insurer had seen the claim from 
August 2014 as well and that they had updated his file to reflect this. They  also said he 
would need to pay an additional  premium.  And they said the amount payable  was £39. 
Mr S informed One Call that he had already  provided evidence the previous year that he 
didnt make a claim in 2014. And he complained to One Call.
One Call in their final response  letter to Mr S werent particularly clear as to what  they 
thought theyd done wrong. But they seemed to accept theyd done something wrong, as 
they offered  Mr S £75 compensation for the inconvenience theyd caused him.
Mr S wasnt  satisfied with One Calls response, as he thought  £75 wasnt enough 
compensation for the trouble and upset  One Call had caused him. So, he brought his 
complaint to our service. When he brought his complaint to us, he also raised another  
issue - that One Call didnt make  it clear to him that they were changing his insurer  in 
March 2019. And he didnt think  this was appropriate.
Our investigator didnt  think Mr Ss complaint should be upheld.  He said that, whilst 
One Call made an error in not checking  the information they already  had from the previous 
year, they did rectify this quickly. And the investigator thought  the amount theyd offered in 
compensation was fair in the circumstances. He also thought that One Call had made  it clear  
in their renewal letter  from March 2019 that theyd changed Mr Ss insurer. 
Mr S disagreed with our investigator. He reiterated that One Calls compensation offer wasnt  
enough, as theyd upset him and affected his credit rating. And he still wasnt  happy  with 
One Call decision to change his insurer. 
Since our investigator assessed Mr Ss complaint, One Call has confirmed that they did 
uphold Mr S complaint  and explained there was a typo in their final response  letter  which 
indicated theyd rejected it. Theyve also confirmed that theyre happy for me to consider Mr 
Ref: DRN59881012S other issue about changing his insurer.
 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although a number  of issues  have been raised,  this decision only addresses those issues I 
consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. However, Ive given careful consideration 
to all of the submissions made by Mr S before arriving at my decision.
Ill first deal with One Calls actions when Mr Ss policy came up for renewal in 2019.  
One Call is an independent intermediary. So, when they arranged  the new policy for Mr S in 
March 2019, they needed  to provide sufficient information for Mr S to make an informed 
decision about the new policy and in doing  so provide information that was clear,  fair and not 
misleading. So, I think One Call needed to make  it clear to Mr S that his current policy  was 
going to end and that theyd arranged a new one with a different insurer. And they needed to 
give him appropriate information about the policy and premium,  alongside  the premium hed 
paid the previous year. They also needed to make it clear Mr S could shop around for a new 
policy if he wanted to. 
Ive looked at the renewal invitation letter Mr S was sent by One Call on 6 March  2019. 
The first page of the letter clearly  shows Mr S the comparison  between his 2018  premium 
and his new 2019 premium. And goes onto explain what Mr S should do if he wishes to look 
around for other polices. So, Im satisfied  One Call have fulfilled this part of their obligations.  
Mr S has said that One Call didnt notify him that they were changing his insurer. One Call 
wrote to Mr S on 6 March  2019 clearly informing on both page one and three  that his 
renewal policy would  be with a different insurer. I appreciate Mr S doesnt agree with this 
and says he was led to believe that his policy was with his previous insurer. But  based  on 
the document Mr S was sent on 6 March 2019   I dont think  that was the case. Im satisfied 
One Call made this clear. So, I dont  think its appropriate for me to uphold this part of Mr Ss 
complaint. 
Im aware Mr S has commented on the quality  of the new insurer, but its not appropriate for 
me to comment on this. All I can say is that I dont think One Call did anything wrong by 
placing Mr S with the new insurer. And Im satisfied the policy they arranged  was appropriate 
and they provided  him with sufficient clear,  fair and not misleading  information.
However, I think One Calls actions before and after Mr Ss policy came up for renewal were 
wrong. This is because  Mr S was told he needed  to pay an additional  premium  in April 2019  
because the new insurer had found  the August 2014  claim on CUE, when it should have 
already been told this wasnt actually  a claim. 
Firstly, One Calls letter about  the payment of £39 dated 4 April 2019, mentioned he needed  
to pay an additional  premium, but then showed  the additional premium as zero and that only 
an administration fee of £39 was payable.  So, this wasnt clear enough. 
Secondly, One Call already had evidence  from Mr S, showing that he didnt actually make a 
claim in August 2014. And I think they should have flagged this evidence to the new insurer 
before the policy started.  And, having failed to do that, when the new insurer told them  theyd 
discovered an undisclosed claim they should  have pointed it out. And if it had done so, Mr S 
Ref: DRN59881013wouldnt have had to have his record with the insurer amended  and be charged the 
administration fee. And he wouldnt have had the frustration of having the same  problem as 
hed had the previous year. However, although  its not very clear in One Calls final response 
letter, theyve accepted they made an error by not informing the new insurer  that Mr S didnt  
actually make a claim in August 2014.  And theyve removed the administration charge of £39 
to ensure Mr S hasnt  suffered  any financial  loss and offered to pay him Mr S £75 for the 
distress and inconvenience their error caused  him. And I think  this amount is appropriate 
and reflects  the level of distress and inconvenience  Mr S experienced. So, I dont think  its 
appropriate for me to make One Call pay any more.
Finally, Mr S also said that One Calls  failings  have affected his credit  rating.  Weve  asked 
Mr S to show  how they have affected his credit rating,  but hes not provided  anything to 
show this is the case. And Ive not seen anything from One Call to suggest theyve reported 
anything to the credit reference agencies. So, I dont see how Mr S credit rating could have 
been affected.  
I appreciate this isnt the outcome Mr S wanted. But overall, I dont think One Call did 
anything wrong  when it sent out Mr Ss renewal  notice having arranged  a policy with a 
different insurer.  And, whilst its clear that One Call made a mistake  by not informing Mr Ss 
new insurer of the circumstances surrounding the incident recorded on CUE, I think it has 
done enough to put things right. 
My final decision
I am aware  that One Call Insurance Services Limited has made  an offer to pay 
compensation of £75. I conclude that such an offer is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances. My decision is that One Call Insurance Services  Limited should pay Mr S 
£75 if it hasnt already  done so.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 May 2020
Matthew Hamlyn
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN5988101