K821x#15complaint
Ms A complains  about a poor response  by British  Gas Insurance  Limited (BGI)  when she 
called on it under her home emergency insurance policy after her central heating  boiler  
broke down.
background
At 6.00 am on 1 March 2018, Ms A found that her central heating boiler had stopped  working 
leaving her without heating and hot water. At 6.30 am she phoned  BGI. A recorded message 
said she could have  an engineer visit on Saturday  3 March, or could hold to speak to an 
adviser. Hoping for an earlier visit she continued  to hold.  After an hour and a half she was 
cut off.
She called back repeatedly that morning before she was able to speak  to someone.  By then 
all the Saturday  visits had been  taken  and the earliest appointment  was Tuesday 6 March  
2018. The adviser said that if Ms A could find a suitably qualified  engineer  to come and 
attend to the breakdown it would refund the cost up to £199.
Ms A didnt feel confident about  finding  a repairer  who met BGIs  requirements. So she 
accepted the Tuesday appointment. BGIs engineer duly came and repaired the boiler.  Ms A 
complained to BGI about her experience,  and in particular about:
being kept on hold for an hour and a half and then cut off;
having to wait for five days for an engineer to attend during one of the coldest periods 
of the year without  heating and hot water; and
the service she had received after paying  for BGIs top of the range emergency 
cover.
BGI accepted her complaint and apologised to Ms A. It said her breakdown occurred during 
a period of exceptionally extreme weather. This meant there was an increase in calls for its 
services and a reduction in the number of its staff able to come to work.  This affected the 
performance of both its call centres  and its engineers.
BGI said it had given Ms A the option  to employ  a third party to complete the repairs. And as 
compensation it had paid her £50 by bank  transfer, and sent her a further cheque for £35.   
Ms A didnt think this was sufficient in the circumstances. She said waiting to speak to BGI 
on 1 March to get an appointment meant she suffered £126 in lost wages.
Our investigator recommended that this complaint should be upheld. He said he understood 
that the weather had been particularly bad at that time, but Ms A was paying for home 
emergency cover for just this reason. He thought that having  to wait for five days for her 
heating and hot water to be restored would have caused her a lot of distress and discomfort. 
And he understood that arranging for an engineer to attend was something Ms A thought  
she paid BGI to do.
Although Ms A might  have been delayed and stressed by BGIs  poor performance,  he 
couldnt say this meant she couldnt  go to work at all that day. So he couldnt ask it to 
compensate her for a days wages. But he thought it should pay her £250 (inclusive of what  
it had already offered her) as compensation for the five days she spent without heating and 
hot water, and the stress  and inconvenience  BGI had caused  her.
Ref: DRN59676792BGI responded to say, in summary, that it agreed  the level of service it had provided fell 
below the standard it aimed to achieve.  It received vastly more calls than usual during the 
bad weather, and its staff were also hampered by this weather in trying to carry out their 
duties. 
It thought the compensation  it had offered  was reasonable  and didnt  agree that it should 
pay the increased figure the investigator had recommended.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
BGI has explained why it was unable to deliver  the standard of service  Ms A had paid for 
and was entitled to expect. However  the fact remains that this failure caused Ms A distress 
and inconvenience  both in trying to arrange  for an engineers visit and in the five days she 
was without heating  and hot water  during the very cold weather.
I agree  that BGI should compensate her for this, and its fair and reasonable that it pays  her 
£250, inclusive  of the compensation it has already  paid or offered her.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint, and order British Gas Insurance Limited to pay 
Ms A compensation of £250, inclusive of the compensation it has already paid or offered her.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 March 2019.
Lennox Towers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5967679