K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs B are unhappy because AXA PPP Healthcare Limited have declined to pay a 
claim Mr B made on their private health  insurance  policy. 
background
The background to this complaint is set out in my provisional decision. Ive attached  a copy  
and it forms part of my final decision.  
In summary,  Mr B had an operation on his spine in 2018 which  left him paralysed in both 
legs. AXA authorised  physiotherapy  sessions for eight  weeks  but Mr B wanted AXA to pay 
for a further 12 weeks of sessions. He was also unhappy with the service he received overall  
and said that there  had been a number of failings, including not paying out hospital benefit 
and spinal injury  benefit. 
In my provisional decision I said I was intending to uphold Mr Bs complaint and direct AXA 
to put things right by: 
Paying Mr and Mrs B the outstanding  balance  of the hospital cash benefit if it hadnt 
done so already. 8% simple interest should  be added from the date of the claim until 
the date of settlement
Paying Mr and Mrs B a total of £5700 towards the cost of 12 weeks physiotherapy. 
8% simple interest  should  be added from 7 December 2018 until the date of 
settlement
Making a £250 donation to a spinal injuries  charity of Mr and Mrs Bs choice  
Paying Mr and Mrs B a further  £500 compensation to reflect the trouble and upset 
caused by the poor customer service.   
Mr B accepted my provisional decision. Mrs B commented that shed  like AXA to change 
their terms  and conditions  and give her husband a heartfelt apology. 
AXA asked for clarification on the award  to the spinal injurys  charity and the further  award of 
£500. Having  considered  the matter further  AXA responded to say they agreed to cover  the 
additional 12 weeks of sessions. However, they commented that the original decision to 
cover the initial  eight weeks had been a commercial decision. 
They clarified that the cash  benefit  had been  paid in full for the period of time Mr B was in an 
NHS hospital and confirmed  they would pay the £250 donation to a spinal injuries charity of 
Mr and Mrs Bs choice.  However, they didnt agree to pay the further £500 compensation 
because theyd offered  £600 as a gesture of goodwill. 
So I need to make a decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN54501862Mr B accepted my findings. Mrs B added  some further comments. I appreciate that Mrs B 
would like me to direct  AXA to change  their terms and conditions  but thats  not something 
that I can do. My role is to consider individual complaints rather than AXAs wider 
commercial decisions,  such as how it decides  what it will (and wont)  cover.  
Whilst Mrs B has asked  for AXA to send  a further  apology I think that the second final 
response letter has addressed this point  in some detail. So Im not going to direct  AXA to 
send a further letter. 
Ive considered all the points  raised  by AXA in response to my provisional decision.  The key 
issue for me to decide is whether the £500  compensation  I recommended  still ought to be 
awarded in addition to the £600  offered and the charitable donation. I still think  AXA should 
make the additional  payment of £500  because: 
AXA has clarified their position  in relation to the out-patient treatment.  It says that 
they exercised  a commercial judgement to allow Mr B to have the initial  eight weeks 
of physiotherapy  and that no out-patient physiotherapy was covered under  the policy. 
It has however, agreed to pay for the additional  12 weeks of physiotherapy
AXA has explained that the cash benefit wasnt paid to Mr B because his paralysis 
hadnt been caused by an external  trauma or accident. However,  they subsequently 
took a pragmatic view of this. I note that neither phrase is actually defined within  the 
policy summary Ive been provided  with. So, whilst  this was paid to Mr B in 
December 2018, I remain of the view that this decision ought to have been taken at a 
much earlier  point  in time,  bearing  in mind that by that time AXA had been aware of 
Mr Bs circumstances for some  time.  I think this caused  both Mr and Mrs B a 
considerable amount of distress at an already difficult time 
I referred to a call in which Mr B described  feeling persecuted.  AXA said that at a 
later point  in the call Mr B commented  that the advisor had been helpful. However, 
quoting from the notes AXA provided Mr B went on to say it had been torturous 
getting there. Its also clear from the other correspondence  that Mr and Mrs B found 
the overall claims handling a stressful and frustrating experience. AXA acknowledged 
that there were  a number of failings in this case. So this point doesnt change my 
thoughts about the outcome of the complaint. 
I appreciate that AXA has agreed  to pay Mr B £600 plus the donation to the charity of 
their choice.  But I still think  that AXA didnt act as quickly as they ought to have done  
when making a decision about  the hospital  cash benefit, and their pragmatic 
judgement ought to have been  exercised sooner.
There were  also a number of other issues, such as the invoice for the surgery which 
AXA accepts was confusing, and the goodwill gesture being sent to Mr Bs son in 
error. These were  all things  that took up Mr and Mrs Bs time and energy during a 
very emotional and stressful time. Whilst Mr B was still able to access  treatment, 
from the evidence  Ive seen, I dont think AXA offered  the level of support 
Mr and Mrs B needed, at the time they needed it most
Overall, I think the further  award of £500  is justified  in this case which  brings the total 
award for distress  and inconvenience  within the substantial bracket for awards our 
service is permitted  to make. I think thats  fair and reasonable  in the circumstances  of 
this case. 
Ref: DRN54501863putting things right
AXA needs  to put things  right by: 
Paying Mr and Mrs B the outstanding  balance  of the hospital cash benefit if it hasnt 
done so already. 8% simple interest should  be added from the date of the claim until 
the date of settlement*
Paying Mr and Mrs B a total of £5700 towards the cost of 12 weeks physiotherapy. 
8% simple interest  should  be added from 7 December 2018 until the date of 
settlement*
Making a £250 donation to a spinal injuries  charity of Mr and Mrs Bs choice  
Paying Mr and Mrs B a further  £500 compensation to reflect the trouble and upset 
caused by the poor customer service.   
my final decision
Im upholding Mr and Mrs Bs complaint about  AXA PPP Healthcare Limited  and direct  them  
to put things right in the way Ive outlined in my provisional decision, and summarised above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  27 December  2019.
Anna Wilshaw 
ombudsman
*If AXA PPP Healthcare Limited considers  that theyre required by HM Revenue & Customs 
to withhold income  tax from that interest, they should tell Mr and Mrs B how much theyve 
taken off. They should also give Mr and Mrs B a tax deduction certificate if they ask for one, 
so they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN54501864COPY PROVISONAL  DECISION
complaint
Mr and Mrs B are unhappy  because  AXA PPP Healthcare Limited  have declined  to pay a claim Mr B 
made on their private health  insurance policy. 
background
Mr and Mrs B are the beneficiaries of a group  private  medical insurance  policy. In 2018 AXA paid for 
Mr B to have  surgery on his back. The operation  left Mr B paralysed  in both legs which Mr and Mrs B 
explained left them, understandably, very shocked. 
Mr B was transferred  to an NHS specialist spinal  injury  hospital where he spent four months in 
rehabilitation. He recovered some of the sensation and mobility in one leg and since his discharge Mr 
B has attended private appointments  at a neurological physiotherapy unit twice a week.  
Mr and Mrs B told us their key complaint points were:
The length  of time AXA took to help them
 AXA has declined to cover the cost of Mr Bs private physiotherapy on the basis that his 
condition is now chronic rather than acute. Mr and Mrs B say, in summary, that the treating 
team say Mr Bs injury is still in an acute phase and the approach AXA has taken is grossly  
unfair
The rudeness and lack of care shown  by the AXA staff 
AXA has tried to deny responsibility despite their terms and conditions
 
The length  of time they have taken to settle accounts  with the treating practitioners.
In their final response letter AXA confirmed that theyd covered the in-patient treatment for the eligible 
period which was two months and the hospital benefit.  In a further response AXA said theyd since 
approved a further two months of out-patient  treatment and confirmed that Mr and Mrs B didnt need 
to pay a bill of around £18 000 for treatment. They  acknowledged  that Mrs B had been given the 
wrong information  during calls, a letter about the hospital bill had been unclear and the original 
hospital benefit of £600 had incorrectly been paid to 
Mr Bs son. The cheque had been cashed and AXA said they wouldnt seek  to recover this money  by 
way of apology for the service failures theyd identified. They also agreed to pay the hospital cash 
benefit for 180 days. 
Our investigator looked into what happened and upheld  the complaint. She didnt think  
Mr Bs condition should be classed  as chronic  and said that the condition should be treated as acute. 
The investigator recommended  that AXA should pay for Mr Bs treatment from the date he started  
receiving it until the medical expert decides it is no longer required. However, she thought the 
payment of £600 was fair. The investigator  didnt refer to the extended cash benefit offered in the 
second final response letter.  
AXA didnt agree  and referred to the medical evidence  and the policy terms in support of their 
position. They  didnt  agree the condition  ought  to be classed as acute  and pointed out that there was 
no end date to the treatment  plan. Mr and Mrs B didnt  have any further evidence to add. So, I need to 
make a decision.  
Ref: DRN54501865my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
My understanding is that Mr B was transferred from the private facility where hed had the treatment 
to an NHS hospital. During that time he was treated  as an in-patient for four months on the NHS. 
Since then I understand AXA have paid for a total of eight weeks  outpatient physiotherapy. Theyve 
also offered  to pay the hospital benefit for 180 days. This was the money  which was sent, in error, to 
Mr Bs son.   
the relevant policy terms and conditions
The policy terms say that the policy doesnt cover treatment of ongoing,  recurrent  and long-term 
conditions (chronic conditions). It says that the policy  is designed to cover unexpected  illness and 
conditions that respond quickly to treatment (acute conditions). 
A chronic condition is defined as:
A chronic condition is a disease, illness  or injury that has one or more of the following  
characteristics
Needs ongoing  or long-term monitoring through consultations,  examinations, check-
ups or tests 
It needs ongoing or long-term control or relief of symptoms 
It requires  your rehabilitation, or for you to be specially trained to cope with it 
It continues indefinitely 
It has no known cure 
It comes back or is likely to come back 
An acute condition is defined as: 
A disease, illness or injury  that is likely to respond quickly  to treatment that aim to return  you 
to the state of health you were  in immediately  before suffering the disease, illness or injury, or 
that leads to your full recovery. 
The section relating  to rehabilitation confirms that in-patient rehabilitation  is covered for a short period 
for up to 28 days. The term says: 
We do cover in-patient  rehabilitation for a short period but there  are some limits  to our cover. 
We will cover in-patient rehabilitation  for up to 28 days so long as: 
It is part of treatment that is covered by your membership
A specialist in rehabilitation is overseeing  your treatment 
You have  your treatment in a rehabilitation  hospital  or until that is included in your 
directory of hospitals 
The treatment cant be carried out as a day patient  or out-patient  or in another  
suitable location
We have  agreed the costs before you start rehabilitation
If you have  severe  central  nervous  system damage following external  trauma  or accident, we 
will extend  this cover  up to 180 days of in-patient rehabilitation. 
The policy benefits also include a cash  payment of £50 per night, up to maximum of £5000 per policy  
year. This is paid when:
You are admitted for in-patient treatment before midnight 
Ref: DRN54501866We would have  covered  your treatment  if you had had it privately 
We will not take your excess off this cash payment. You can also receive  this cash  
payment if you have  treatment in an NHS  intensive Therapy or Intensive  Care  Unit, 
whether it follows private treatment or not. 
the physiotherapy claim
AXA has a responsibility to handle  claims promptly and fairly. And they shouldnt  reject a claim 
unreasonably. 
I dont think AXA has treated  Mr B fairly  as I dont  think theyve considered  the wider circumstances of 
this case  when deciding what they should cover for Mr B. 
AXA has explained that they have made a commercial  decision  not to pay for out-patient rehabilitation 
for longer  than eight weeks. In their final response letter AXA described this as being the eligible 
period and they explained they had made Mr B aware of this at an early stage  in his treatment 
programme. 
Whilst AXA says it is applying the policy terms, the eight  week eligible period for outpatient  
physiotherapy they are relying on isnt set out in the policy summary  Ive been provided with. As I 
understand it AXAs  position  is that Mr Bs condition became chronic at the point hed received eight 
weeks of outpatient physiotherapy.  Again that isnt set out in the policy so I need to decide  whether  
AXA has acted fairly by using the eight weeks as the eligible period in Mr Bs case. 
Im not persuaded  that was a reasonable  approach  to take in the circumstances  of this case. A report  
from Mr Bs physiotherapist in December  2018 asked AXA to cover Mr B for a further 12 weeks of 
rehabilitative therapy. This was based on the progress hed made within a relatively short  period time.  
The therapist set out in a lot of detail the progress  Mr B had made and why she thought  further 
treatment would be beneficial.  
The report says that Mr B was still in the acute stages  of rehabilitation and that recovery from a spinal  
injury can occur up to two to five years post-surgery.  AXA hasnt  provided any medical evidence  to 
contradict the contents of that report. A further 12 weeks of therapy would have meant that Mr B 
would receive treatment  for around six months after his release from the specialist spinal  unit. I think 
thats a reasonable time frame, in the circumstances  of this case, particularly given  that hed made 
such good progress  as a result of the treatment.
I think  it is fair and reasonable  for AXA to pay for the 12 weeks  treatment specified within  the report  
dated December 2018. I understand  that this is 60 sessions at £95 per hour - a total of £5700. I think 
AXA ought to pay Mr B that amount as I understand hes continued the treatment at his own expense  
and this is the amount he has paid for the treatment.  
However, I dont think it is fair to direct AXA to pay for the rehabilitation on an ongoing basis and I 
dont think it needs to pay for any other treatment Mr B has had since the expiry  of the 12 week period  
Ive outlined above. The policy simply isnt designed to cover chronic conditions and I dont think it 
would have been unreasonable for AXA to conclude that point  had been  reached after 20 weeks (5 
months) of out patient physiotherapy. However,  I think reaching that conclusion at the eight week 
point was unreasonable in the particular circumstances  of this case, given the progress Mr B was 
making, and the medical evidence Ive been provided  with.     
According to the final response letter AXA has now paid a cash benefit to Mr B for a period of 180 
days, on the basis they now agree he met the criteria for in-patient rehabilitation  following  a severe 
central nervous system damage, which I think is reasonable. 
Ref: DRN54501867trouble and upset
Mr and Mrs B didnt receive a good service during the time that they made  the claim. AXA has 
acknowledged that they were given the wrong  information during calls and correspondence  relating to 
an £18 000 medical bill gave conflicting  information about whether Mr B needed to take further action. 
Mr B wasnt sure whether  he was expected to pay this bill and AXA has acknowledged it wasnt clear  
that it was something he didnt need to pay. 
AXA sent a cheque for cash  benefit  of £600 to Mr Bs son in error. The cheque  has been cashed but 
AXA hasnt sought to recover  the money by way of apology.  There were also occasions  where actions 
were taken on Mr Bs sons  account  in error. 
AXA now agrees Mr B met the criteria for in-patient rehabilitation following  a severe central  nervous 
system damage. It is disappointing that it took an escalation to the CEOs office for Mr B to receive  
this benefit as I think it ought  to have  been  clear from an early stage  that he should  have it given the 
circumstances of his case.
These issues took time to sort out and involved making  several phone  calls, writing letters  and a 
complaint, to resolve. The sum involved was also a substantial  amount of money. I also bear in mind 
that all of this caused Mr and Mrs B additional  upset and worry at an already difficult  time. 
Mr B was recovering from a life-changing event which had happened  suddenly and was a great shock 
to him. I think  this was a time in his life when  he most needed AXAs support  and understanding.  
In one of the calls Mr B described feeling  persecuted  by AXA and I think their contact with him could 
have been handled more  empathetically. I can understand why Mr B felt so upset and frustrated given 
the number of issues  that arose. So, Im satisfied AXA have caused Mr B a substantial  amount of 
trouble and upset and Im intending to award  him further compensation, whilst also directing AXA to 
make a charitable donation  on Mr and Mrs Bs behalf. 
putting things right
AXA needs to put things right by: 
Paying Mr and Mrs B the outstanding balance of the hospital cash benefit if it hasnt  done so 
already. 8% simple interest should be added from the date of the claim until the date of 
settlement
Paying Mr and Mrs B a total of £5700 towards the cost of 12 weeks physiotherapy. 8% simple 
interest should be added from 7 December  2018 (the date of the medical report Ive referred 
to) until the date of settlement
Making a £250 donation  to a spinal  injuries charity of Mr and Mrs Bs choice 
Paying Mr and Mrs B a further £500 compensation to reflect the trouble  and upset  caused by 
the poor customer service.  
my provisional  decision
Im intending  to uphold this complaint and direct  AXA PPP Healthcare  Limited to put things right in the 
way Ive outlined above. 
Mr and Mrs B and AXA have until 7 November  2019 to let me know if theres any further information  
theyd like me to consider before I make my final decision. 
Anna Wilshaw
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5450186