K820x#14complaint
Mr D has complained that Aviva Insurance Limited unfairly refused to pay his claim for the 
theft of his car under his motor policy.
background
Mr D and his wife went to buy a second  car for his wife to drive. Whilst completing the 
paperwork for the new car at the garage,  Mr Ds car was stolen, from the garage premises.
He made  a claim to Aviva who came to conclusion  it was more than likely  Mr D had left the 
key in the car. The policy doesnt provide any cover for theft if the key was left in the car. So 
Aviva refused to pay Mr Ds claim.
Mr D appealed but Aviva wouldnt change its stance  so he brought his complaint to us. The 
investigator didnt  think  Aviva had done anything wrong in refusing to pay his claim. Mr D 
didnt agree so Mr Ds complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding this 
complaint. Ill now explain  why.
I appreciate my decision will disappoint Mr D but insurance policies have  exclusions and 
limitations of cover  and here in Mr Ds policy, Aviva doesnt pay a claim for theft when the 
keys are left in or on the car.
From all the evidence to include the accounts  of what  happened  from Mr D, Mrs D and the 
car salesman, it does  seem more likely that the thief saw that Mr D had mistakenly left his 
keys in the car and drove it away.  This is because theres no corroborating  evidence  from 
the car salesman that the thief entered the sales office and took Mr Ds car from the table or 
his jacket as Mr D alleged. 
Therefore as its clear  Mr D bought his car with only one key, that the key must have been 
left in the car. As otherwise, there would be no other way the thief could have driven off in it 
at high speed, as he did. 
Further the police report records that the key was left in the car. I consider this is important,  
as the police were  phoned immediately after the theft occurred and so what was said to the 
police then is more  likely  to be exactly what happened.  Its clear that the police  report says 
the keys were left in the car. In fact throughout the police, the fact that the keys were  left in 
the car was referred to three times. 
My role and the role of this service  is to assess whether Aviva did anything wrong. I dont 
think it did, given the witness evidence of Mr and Mrs D, their interview with the car 
salesman and the contents of the police report.  Its policy clearly  excludes paying a theft 
claim when  the keys appear to have been  left in the car.
Ref: DRN57940162my final decision
So for these reasons, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 July 2020.
Rona Doyle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5794016