K820x#14complaint
Mr I complains that Bank of Scotland  Plc (trading as Halifax)  wont  refund payments made 
on credit  card accounts in his name.  He says he didnt apply for them and that this has 
affected his credit record.
background
Mr I says that three credit cards were fraudulently taken out in his name. One of these is with 
a business distinct  to Bank of Scotland and is being considered separately by this service. 
So there were two card accounts with Bank of Scotland. Mr I says that the first time he knew 
about them  was when he received statements. These showed  spending  of nearly £12,000.  
He doesnt know  how someone got hold of his driving licence to verify the accounts as it 
hadnt been out of his possession. And the letter box at his home  is only used by his 
immediate family members.
Bank of Scotland said it was holding Mr I liable for the spending. This was because the 
cards, PINs and welcome letters were  sent to Mr Is correct address; a person with his 
driving licence  had visited a branch on 22 September 2018 and 3 October 2018 to confirm 
Mr Is identity; and all payments had been made with the genuine  cards  and the correct  
PINs. 
Bank of Scotland has suspended collections activity while the complaint is being considered 
by this service.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint be upheld.  She said that:
-An application for the accounts had been  made  online  on 6 September 2018 using 
personal details  about Mr I. 
-A mobile  number different to the one Mr I had given this service had been used in the 
application. This mobile number  had received texts about the cards being  dispatched  
and messages about the account. But these  texts didnt give a specific  delivery date. 
And Mr I had said his letter box wasnt shared  with any other  property.
-She couldnt see how an unknown person had got all the information necessary to apply 
for the card accounts online; intercepted Mr Is post to obtain the cards and PINs; and 
had access to his driving licence.
-The information from the driving  licence  used twice in a branch matched exactly to the 
one Mr I currently had. She thought it most  likely that the genuine one had been used in 
branch.
-She accepted  that the voice on the recordings of the calls made from the branch on 
those days didnt  sound like Mr I. So she didnt think he was present at the times. But 
she couldnt see how someone couldve had access to the driving  licence on two 
occasions without  him knowing.
-She didnt think that the evidence Mr I had provided about him having his driving licence  
and being in different location on the days of those branch visits made a difference here.
-She thought  it most likely that Mr I had received the cards and PIN numbers and given 
them to someone  else to use. That meant that although  he didnt authorise payments 
himself, he consented  to the use of the cards. 
-Ultimately,  Mr I was responsible for the balances and the impact of payments not being  
made on his credit  record.
Ref: DRN57227682Mr I didnt agree. He said he now realised how common identity fraud was. And he provided 
links to publically available videos about this from social media. Hed never lost his driving  
licence and always had it in his possession. Any previous ones had been cut up and thrown 
away. But he knew it was possible for someone to get hold of a false licence. 
He was unhappy that there was no CCTV from the branch. And he thought  this was 
employee-fraud at Bank of Scotland, but couldnt speculate by whom. Hed provided  the 
following evidence to support what he says:
-A video  showing  him with a new wallet containing his driving licence, timed at 12:26 on 
22 September 2018. 
-Receipts for payments  he made  for goods on 3 October 2018,  between 13:12 and 
13:16.
-A report by a different financial business to a national fraud database  on 4 October 
2018, stating that hed been the victim  of impersonation 
-Text messages from a different financial business on 8 and 9 May 2019  about a 
possible fraud on his account.
Mr I said he cant  see how an unknown third party had passed checks at a branch. And that 
while a member of branch  staff had said that his photograph was a good likeness to that 
person, he didnt make these payments.  He explained that this has caused him great anxiety 
and made  him unwell.  Further, his credit record now shows adverse  information and this will 
affect his ability to get credit in future. 
Finally, he says we should say exactly what happened and why he is liable  - not what  was 
most likely to have  happened.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to take into account the Payment  Services  Regulations 2017 in considering  this 
complaint. These state that a payment service provider bears the risk of sending a payment 
instrument or any security information relating  to it. Ill consider the evidence  about this. And 
a payment can only be authorised if it was consented to. So its not enough for it to be 
authenticated, say with a card and PIN. Where credit is involved, as here on credit cards,  the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974  applies and it states  that a consumer wouldnt be liable for an 
unauthorised payment  unless they consented  to someone else having possession of that 
card. 
So I will be thinking about  the following areas  in looking at his complaint:
-What is the most likely explanation of how these cards were issued and verified?
-Did Mr I either authorise  the payments on the account, or if he didnt then did he allow 
someone else to acquire the cards?
Its not our role to say exactly what happened, but to decide whether Bank of Scotland  can 
reasonably hold Mr I liable for these card accounts  and the payments or not. In doing so, Ill 
be considering  what is most likely on a balance of probabilities. I appreciate thats not what 
Mr I would like, but were not the courts  were  an informal  alternative - and we look at the 
evidence we have  as well as what we think is fair and reasonable. Thats our remit.
Ref: DRN57227683evidence
Having said this, Id like to say a bit more  about  the evidence  here.  And to deal with the 
concerns Mr Is raised about  this. 
I cant use general information and social media  videos  about identity fraud  when deciding  
on Mr Is case.  I accept  as potentially relevant that a different financial business thought hed 
been subject to impersonation  in October  2018.  And that there are more recent reports  of 
possible fraud on a different account. But Im making my decision on the specific evidence in 
this case.
My understanding is that each time a person visited a branch  to verify these particular credit 
card accounts, a call from the branch was made to the central team.  Mr I was thought to 
have spoken to that team and we have recordings of those calls.  But I dont think  Bank  of 
Scotland now knows the branch or branches  involved  to be able to seek  this evidence. And 
even if it did, and there was CCTV, that wouldnt resolve the issue  of whether,  if it wasnt  Mr I 
who visited the branch,  the person who did was acting without his authority.
I know our investigator has made  a similar point when considering Mr Is evidence  about 
what he says he was doing on the branch visit days.  The call from branch on 22 September 
2018 was timed at 12:17. His video showing his new wallet, which  he says was an early  
birthday present, has a date and time stamp of 12.26 that day. But I dont have any way of 
verifying that - or knowing that the driving  licence shown in the wallet  is his current one - all I 
can see is the very top of it. The call on 3 October  2018 is timed as starting at 13:07  and Mr I 
has produced receipts of payments he says he was making from 13:12 to 13:16  that day. 
Again that still doesnt prove  that the person  with the driving licence wasnt  acting  with Mr Is 
permission. Indeed, it makes it less likely  to me that someone couldve taken his driving 
licence from his wallet without him noticing, given he was actively  using his wallet  and 
making payments  at the same  time.   
the credit  cards
I accept that it would be possible for someone  to find out sufficient information to make the 
applications falsely. And that someone applying for three credit  cards at the same time was 
unusual. Also, a mobile number different to that for Mr I was used in the application, which 
also raises suspicion.
But the correct  address  for Mr I was used. And Bank of Scotland  says each application 
generated three pieces of post to that address   so six individual  pieces of mail. Those items 
were a welcome pack, the credit  card and the PIN. And it does seem possible that a third 
party was alerted to the dispatch  of at least some of them by text. But I need to think about 
what was most likely to have happened to this mail. There were  no specific dates  given for 
when these items were  to be delivered.  Mr I accepts that the letterbox in his house is secure. 
And I find it highly unlikely that an unknown third party could  intercept  all six items  not 
knowing in advance when  each would arrive. Had Mr I received any one of those it wouldve 
immediately alerted him to what was happening.  So my finding is that he most likely received 
them and so was aware of the accounts.
the calls from branch
I agree  with our investigator that a review of the voice on those  calls - compared  to that on 
the ones Mr I made when  he complained - suggests that this wasnt Mr I in branch. I also 
Ref: DRN57227684agree though that all the evidence  points to that person having Mr Is genuine  driving licence 
and on the first occasion a copy of his credit  card statement with another business.  
I cant resolve whether  the person who presented himself  looked much like Mr I. But I dont 
see anyway how that person  couldve  taken  his card without him knowing.  And as Im going 
to find that Mr I was involved in what happened, this doesnt make any difference  to whether 
or not he should  be responsible.
who made the payments?
The payments were largely  made  to retailers  some  distance from Mr Is home address and 
started as soon as the cards were  verified.  The pattern suggests the desire to take as much  
money from the card accounts as quickly as possible. The explanation I need  to consider is 
whether an unknown third party had the cards without Mr Is consent.  And I dont find that to 
be most likely.  I say that because of my findings about Mr I receiving the cards  and PINs,  as 
well as the way his driving licence was used to verify them. 
That leaves the possibilities  either  of him making the payments himself, or someone having 
acquired the cards with his consent  doing  so. As it seems someone  else had his driving 
licence with his permission, in my view the explanation of someone acting with his 
knowledge is the most likely one here. 
In summary,  I find on the evidence that its most likely that Mr I was involved  in the way in 
which these payments came about by opening the accounts, and then giving the cards to a 
third party. And while the disputed  payments  were  made using credit  tokens  (credit  cards),as  
Ive found that he allowed someone else to acquire and use them  hes still responsible  for all 
the transactions.
I know Mr I will be very disappointed when I say that I dont think  Bank of Scotland  has acted 
unfairly in holding him liable for these  transactions, and these credit card accounts
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 October  2019.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5722768