K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs P are complaining about  Bank of Scotland Plc because  they say they were  mis-
sold a life insurance policy in 2007.  They say they were led to believe they had to take the 
policy for the loan application they were  making at the time to be successful.
background
In 2007, Mr and Mrs P arranged a further  advance on their Halifax  mortgage. The mortgage 
offer confirms they were borrowing £15,275 on a repayment basis over a term of 19 years 
and seven months. Shortly after this, Mr and Mrs P were  also sold a decreasing term life 
insurance policy to cover  the additional loan. It initially provided  cover of £18,590 for a term 
of 23 years at a cost of £11 per month.  Mr and Mrs P kept the policy until they cancelled  it in 
2018.
Halifax didnt accept  the policy was mis-sold. But it did say it should have told Mr and Mrs P 
sooner that theyd  need to cancel  the policy themselves if their mortgage was repaid early. 
As a result, it offered  to refund all premiums paid since January  2017 and additional 
compensation of £50.
I previously issued my provisional decision explaining why I thought this complaint should be 
partly upheld. An extract is attached and forms part of this decision.
Neither party fully accepted my provisional  decision.  Mr and Mrs P said they only needed  
additional cover  to supplement their existing policy for four years and the compensation 
calculation should  be amended to reflect that. 
Halifax says the sales documentation records Mr and Mrs P wanted  a separate policy to 
cover their further advance. But it does think they should only have been  sold a policy  for a 
term of 20 years and that this is the basis on which compensation  should  be calculated.  It 
also questioned  the amount Ive proposed for Mr and Mrs Ps trouble and upset, saying it 
only offered £50 previously.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having reconsidered the case, including 
the responses to my provisional decision,  my conclusions havent changed.
The figures Mr and Mrs P have provided  indicate the total balance  of their mortgage and 
further advance  had fallen to just under £210,000  (the amount  of cover provided by their 
original policy) by November 2011. This is more than four years after the further advance 
and their second policy began. It was only possible to arrange term insurance policies for a 
whole number of years. So to make sure their full loan was covered for the entire term, I still 
believe a five-year policy to cover  the shortfall  would have been  the most  suitable advice.
Im aware the sales documentation recorded  Mr and Mrs P wanted separate  cover  for their 
further advance, but I think I addressed this point in my provisional decision. Aside from the 
fact Mr and Mrs P have said the documentation isnt an accurate reflection of what  was 
discussed, I think it would have been very easy for the adviser to talk generally about the 
concept of keeping existing and new cover  separate in a way that sounded attractive. But I 
dont think the report shows the adviser  discussed his recommendation would actually mean 
Ref: DRN58277492Mr and Mrs P would soon be over-insured and that what was being  recommended  might  not 
actually be suitable  for them. Without evidence this was brought  to their attention, or that 
they were given comparative costings for the cover they actually needed, I dont think  they 
were in a position  to make an informed decision.
Its with these points  in mind that I dont think Halifaxs proposals  to amend the 
compensation I outlined in my provisional decision are appropriate.
In terms of a payment  for Mr and Mrs Ps trouble and upset,  Halifax  offered £50 in its letter of 
6 February 2018.  I think I initially  thought it had offered a further £50 in its letter of 29 May 
2018. After re-reading  the letter, I can see this was referring to the same £50 it had offered 
previously. I apologise for misunderstanding  the situation and for any confusion caused.
Either way, I dont think theres any dispute the way Mr and Mrs Ps situation was handled 
caused them  unnecessary trouble and upset. Halifax presumably wouldnt have offered 
compensation if that wasnt the case.  The impact this had on them, and therefore the 
amount to award,  can be difficult  to assess. But on balance, I still think a moderate payment 
totalling £100 (or £50 in addition to the amount Halifax offered previously) is fair in the 
circumstances.  
putting things right
To put things right, and for the reasons explained in my provisional decision  and above,  
Halifax should pay Mr and Mrs P compensation of F + G, where:
A = a refund of each  monthly overpayment during  the first five years  of their Halifax  
policy, where the overpayment is calculated the difference between what they 
actually paid for the policy  sold less the amount they would have  paid for a 
decreasing term policy (or equivalent level term policy if decreasing term cover 
wasnt available over a term of five years) providing cover of £18,590  for a term of 
five years;
B = a full refund of each monthly  premium  paid into their Halifax policy  after the first 
five years;
C = simple interest at 8% per year on each  amount being refunded, calculated from 
the date it was paid to the date compensation is paid;
D = A + B + C;
E = any money already refunded in relation to premiums paid since  January 2017;
F = D  E; and
G = £100 for their trouble and upset.
Income tax may be payable on the interest in point C. If Mr and Mrs P have already received 
any of the trouble and upset payment in point G, Halifax wouldnt be required to pay that 
amount again.  So if its already paid £50, it would only need to pay a further  £50 now.
 
Ref: DRN58277493my final decision
My final decision is that I partly uphold this complaint.
If Mr and Mrs P accept  my decision,  Bank  of Scotland plc must pay them  compensation 
calculated using the method set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 April 2019.
Jim Biles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN58277494extract from provisional decision:
my provisional  findings
Mr and Mrs P have made detailed  submissions  in support of their complaint and Ive read and 
considered these carefully. But I havent tried to address every point raised  here. Ive instead 
concentrated on the issues  I think  are central  to the outcome of their complaint. 
Ive also not commented on Mr and Mrs Ps belief  they were  mis-sold other products,  including the 
mortgage further  advance, in 2007.  As far as I can see, these issues werent  part of their original 
complaint. If they want to follow up on their concerns,  theyd need to raise them with Halifax as a 
separate complaint  if they havent  already  done so.
Ive taken account  of what Mr and Mrs P say they were told at the time.  But on their own and without 
additional supporting evidence, I dont think their comments are enough for me to say they were 
misled about  the need to take their policy. I must also take account  of the documentation from the 
time. This includes the mortgage offer dated 24 April 2007, which  says:
9. Insurance
Insurance you must  take out through  Halifax pic.
You do not need to buy any insurance  through Halifax  pic.
I have read what Mr and Mrs P have said about this, but I also dont think  the fact there seems to 
have been a gap between the further advance  and the policy being arranged supports any 
recollection they were led to believe the loan wouldnt  be granted without it.
The above notwithstanding, Mr and Mrs P received advice and the adviser had a responsibility  to 
make sure any recommendation made was suitable for their needs.
With the further advance, Mr and Mrs P were taking on a substantial new commitment. They  had a 
young family and in the circumstances, I think it was reasonable to recommend they have cover in 
place so the mortgage could  be fully repaid if either of them died. But there are issues with the 
particular policy sold to that makes me think it wasnt  entirely suitable  for their needs.
First, the policy was set up for a term of 23 years when the mortgage offer confirms  the further 
advance it was sold to protect had a term of 19 years  and seven months.  This meant  Mr and Mrs P 
paid a higher premium than was necessary  and that they could end up paying for cover for longer 
than they needed it. Given the mortgage was with Halifax, I think the adviser should have been able 
to work  this out.
Second, I dont think Mr and Mrs P needed cover for the full term of the further advance anyway. 
According to the fact find completed by the adviser  in August 2007,  they had a level (not decreasing) 
term insurance policy with another insurer providing £210,000 of life cover for a further 23 years.  This 
was covering their outstanding mortgage (including the further advance) of £228,590  that was set up 
entirely on a repayment basis. 
As the amount of Mr and Mrs Ps mortgage reduced with their monthly payments, theyd fairly quickly 
have been expected to reach  the point  where  their existing policy  covered their mortgage in full. At 
that point,  they wouldnt need additional cover. So again, I think Halifaxs advice led to them paying 
more than was necessary  for the cover they required and for a longer term.
In defence of the sale, Halifaxs complaint response referred to the following comments in the 
advisers suitability report:
Ref: DRN58277495You told me that you do not want to use any existing  cover in the event  of your death to help 
meet this need, as you are only looking to cover your additional borrowing. You are aware 
that using your existing cover may have  reduced the cost, however you did not want to 
include this because this is already being  used  to cover your original mortgage debt.
Mr and Mrs P have said they dont believe this document is an accurate reflection of their discussions 
with the adviser,  but its difficult  for me to know with any certainty what was discussed. 
Either way, I think it would have been very easy for the adviser to talk generally about the concept  of 
keeping existing and new cover separate in a way that sounded attractive. But I dont  think  the report 
shows the adviser  discussed that this recommendation  would actually mean  Mr and Mrs P would 
soon be over-insured and that what was being recommended might not actually be suitable  for them. 
Without evidence this was brought  to their attention, along with alternative costings for the cover they 
actually needed,  I dont think they were in a position to make an informed  decision.
On balance, Im satisfied  it was reasonable to recommend cover for Mr and Mrs Ps mortgage. But 
theres nothing in the sales  documentation  to show they needed cover for other purposes and for the 
reasons Ive explained, I think the advice  they received was unsuitable because  it led to them paying 
more than they needed  to and for a longer period.
putting things  right
The aim of any award I make is to return Mr and Mrs P to the position theyd be in but for the 
unsuitable advice they received. Taking everything into account, I think it was reasonable to 
recommend they have  cover  for the period  there  would  actually be a shortfall  between  their existing 
policy and the amount they owed. 
According to the figures Mr and Mrs P provided to us in their letter of 2 July 2018,  their mortgage  
balance reduced to less than £210,000 (the amount  of cover provided by their original policy)  towards 
the end of 2011  approximately four and a half years after the further advance  was arranged. If 
Halifax hasnt already  seen a copy of this letter, it can ask the investigator for a copy. And if it disputes 
the figures it sets out, it should  let me know so I can consider that further.
On the basis that the life cover shortfall at the time the fact find was written was correctly  recorded  as 
£18,590, I think  a suitable  recommendation would  have  been a decreasing  term insurance  policy with 
cover of £18,590 for a term of five years. If a decreasing policy wasnt available for such  a short term, 
an equivalent level policy would have been a reasonable  alternative. Either  would  have made sure Mr 
and Mrs P had the additional  cover needed to fully repay the mortgage if either of them died before 
they reached the point where  their existing policy covered the outstanding balance on its own.
I can see the issues  raised in their complaint have caused Mr and Mrs P some unnecessary trouble  
and upset. The impact this has had on them,  and therefore the amount of any compensation that 
might be due, is difficult to assess. But in the circumstances, I think the moderate amount of £100 that 
Halifax has already offered  is fair.
To put things right, I currently think Halifax should pay Mr and Mrs P compensation  of F + G, where:
A = a refund  of each  monthly overpayment during the first five years of their Halifax policy,  
where the overpayment is calculated  the difference between what they actually paid for the 
policy sold less the amount they would  have paid for a decreasing (or equivalent  level) term 
policy providing cover  of £18,590 for a term of five years;
B = a full refund of each monthly premium paid into their Halifax  policy  after the first five 
years;
C = simple interest at 8% per year on each amount being refunded, calculated from the date it 
was paid to the date compensation is paid;
Ref: DRN58277496D = A + B + C;
E = any money  already refunded in relation to premiums paid since January 2017;
F = D  E; and
G = £100 for their trouble and upset.
I think  this is a fair outcome  that will put effectively Mr and Mrs P back into the financial position theyd 
now be in if theyd received  suitable advice in 2007.
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that I intend to partly uphold  this complaint. I currently think  Bank of 
Scotland Plc should pay Mr and Mrs P compensation calculated using  the method set out above.
Ref: DRN5827749