K821x#15complaint
Mr B complains that a car he acquired  on a hire purchase agreement  from 
Mercedes-Benz Financial  Services UK Limited  trading as Mercedes-Benz Finance (MBFS)  
isnt of satisfactory quality.
background
Mr B acquired a brand new car in July 2017. It was financed by MBFS through a hire 
purchase agreement.  The cash price of the car was around £84,000 and the finance was 
due to repaid  over 36 months. 
Mr B reported a number  of issues with the car during the first two months. In summary these 
were: various creaks and rattles from different parts of the car, loose pieces  of trim and 
problems with the brakes. The issue he was most  concerned  about  was a vibration  in the car 
when travelling in excess of 80mph (he regularly drives in Europe where these speeds are 
legal).  
The majority of the issues were  rectified  under warranty - albeit after more  than one visit to 
get the repairs completed. However, Mr B says the main issue  still hasnt been fixed. He 
says that when travelling  in excess  of 80mph the car vibrates and he doesnt feel it is safe to 
drive it in those conditions. He says this manufacturing fault is impacting on his enjoyment of 
the car and there have been  several  attempts to fix it already. 
Mr B says that the dealership originally diagnosed  the fault as a wheel  balancing issue. But 
Mr B says this didnt fix it. He was then told the brake discs were  warped and these were 
replaced under warranty. Mr B says the problem still persisted. The dealership looked at the 
car again and said one of the wheels had buckled  possibly due to an impact the car had 
suffered. Mr B says he replaced the wheel but the issue  was still there when he drove the 
car at high speed. Because he says the fault hasnt been fixed,  Mr B wants  to return  the car 
and get a refund.
MBFS agreed the car did have some problems in the first two months. But it says all the 
issues were fixed under  warranty and Mr B was given a courtesy car every  time his car was 
in for repairs. It says Mr B hasnt demonstrated that there is still a problem with the car. It 
said it had offered Mr B the opportunity to have the car inspected by an independent 
engineer but hed declined that offer. 
I sent Mr B and MBFS my provisional  decision on 7 December 2018.  An extract  of that 
decision is copied below:
As Mr B has acquired the car under a hire purchase  agreement, MBFS are the legal owner 
of the car and it supplies the car to Mr B in return for monthly payments. Legislation  in this 
case the Consumer  Rights  Act 2015  implies into the hire purchase  agreement terms about 
the quality of the goods. This means that MBFS are responsible for supplying Mr B with a 
car that is of satisfactory quality. Mr B says the car isnt of satisfactory  quality because  there  
is significant vibration  when  travelling  at high speed  and this makes it unsafe to drive. But 
the latest inspection report that was carried out on a test track showed that the car 
performed normally  and marginally  better  than another car of the same make  and model. 
This latest  report is very detailed and persuasive. Mr B hasnt been able to provide anything  
(other than his own comments about what happens  at high speed) to say the car has a 
Ref: DRN59634012defect or is operating  in an unexpected or unsuitable  way when travelling in excess  of 
70mph. Therefore, taking into consideration what the report says,  combined with the other 
available evidence, I think its more  likely  the car is of satisfactory quality.
Mr B did report  several other issues  with the car early on including  creaks,  rattles,  loose trim 
and brake  problems. But these issues were fixed at no cost to Mr B. So although some or all 
of those things  might have made the car of unsatisfactory quality, a suitable remedy has 
been put in place. And this means the car is now in a satisfactory condition  even if it wasnt  
to begin with. 
Mr B says hes incurred costs and wasted  time over several months in trying to resolve  the 
problems hes had with the car. Hes spent  over £1,000 in total on a new wheel and tyre as 
well as paying for specialist wheel alignment and balances. He says this was only done  
because the dealership insisted the vibration was caused by a buckled wheel. Mr B says 
hes demonstrated that the original  wheel wasnt buckled and has therefore incurred 
unnecessary costs. 
But even if I was to agree with Mr B, I cant fairly say MBFS should  be responsible for 
refunding those costs.  I say this because it wasnt MBFS who diagnosed the problem to be a 
buckled wheel - it was the dealership. The dealership is a separate  legal entity  to MBFS. 
This means  I can only make  an award  against  MBFS for the dealerships  actions in certain  
circumstances  such as where the dealership acted as MBFS agent1 or if, for example, the 
vibration Mr B said he experienced was due to a fault that meant the car was of 
unsatisfactory quality.
From the evidence and information Ive seen, MBFS had no involvement in the diagnosis  
and repairs that were carried out at the dealership. It also wasnt  at MBFS suggestion or 
advice that Mr B take his car to them for inspection  and repair.  Im not suggesting Mr Bs 
actions were unreasonable,  just that MBFS didnt  have  any role in what  happened. Further, 
the work  suggested  by the dealership and costs  incurred  didnt  flow from any breach of 
contract by MBFS (by having supplied goods that were of unsatisfactory  quality). For that 
reason, I cant fairly say MBFS should  cover  the costs Mr B incurred for buying a new wheel 
and tyre and for the wheel alignments and balances he completed in September 2017.
Mr B completed one further  wheel alignment and balance in late December 2017. This was 
after MBFS had got involved and issued a final response to his complaint about the quality of 
the car. In the final response letter MBFS had offered to have  an independent inspection 
carried out on the car at no cost to Mr B. It appears  Mr B declined  this offer.  MBFS didnt ask 
or suggest Mr B carry out any other tests, so I cant fairly say Mr B incurred those final costs 
due to MBFS actions  either. But MBFS has now agreed to cover those costs  in any event  
totalling £382.32. In the circumstances, I think thats  a fair offer.  
Lastly, Mr B says that hes been  without the car for several weeks  since taking possession of 
it. He wants MBFS  to refund four of the monthly  repayments hes made towards the hire 
purchase agreement.  He says this is compensation for the inconvenience, upset and loss 
of/impaired use hes had. MBFS hasnt agreed  to this but has offered £350  compensation for 
the overall inconvenience its actions  have caused. I dont think either resolution is fair here, 
Ill explain  why. 
1 See section  56 of the Consumer  Credit  Act 1974
Ref: DRN59634013The car did spend some time at the dealership  in the first few months because there were 
different faults  reported by Mr B. For the majority of the time the car was in for 
repair/inspection, this was due to the vibration issue being investigated. And as its been 
found not to be a fault/defect, it wouldnt be fair to say MBFS need  to compensate Mr B for 
the time that was being looked into.
Having said that, some of the earlier issues did arguably make  the car of unsatisfactory 
quality (such as the brakes, trim and noises)  and therefore the time those issues  took to 
repair I could ask MBFS to compensate for. But Ive also taken into consideration that when 
the car was in for repair,  Mr B was kept mobile with a courtesy  car. So overall, I think a 
refund of one monthly payment is fair and reasonable to compensate  Mr B for his impaired 
use during the first few months. 
MBFS did also cause significant delays in arranging for an independent  inspection  to be 
carried out after it agreed to complete one. But Ive also considered  that Mr B wasnt  
prevented from using his car during that time, and I dont think  MBFS had to offer this to 
Mr B in the first place. This was because I dont think there was strong enough evidence to 
suggest the car had a fault or defect  - to warrant further enquiry by MBFS. So MBFS were 
doing more than Id have  expected it to at that time, particularly because it wasnt possible to 
legally road test the alleged defect in the UK (albeit they did eventually  find a test track to do 
this on). 
I dont dispute  that Mr B has been  frustrated by the delays by MBFS and hes also gone 
through some inconvenience when the car was in for repairs  in the first few months.  But 
taking into account  all the circumstances, I think the £350 compensation for the delays and 
inconvenience MBFS have offered  is fair compensation  for what happened.  
MBFS said it didnt agree with the decision  in particular the compensation for impaired use 
 but it was willing to accept it in order to bring the complaint to a close.  
Mr B didnt accept the provisional decision. In summary he said:
Although MBFS was a separate legal  entity  to the dealership  they were both 
subsidiaries of the manufacturer. The relationship between MBFS and the dealership 
was therefore  different  to a normal relationship between similar entities. He said 
there is no doubt communication between the two parties would have taken place 
about the repairs. 
The delays in arranging  the testing could have  been avoided as the manufacturer 
owned a racing  track which it could have used.  
The car was brand  new and a premium high performance car and it is reasonable to 
expect it to be fault free and durable. It was sold as being  able to be driven safely  up 
to 155mph and on several occasion the car needed to be returned due to problems. 
He incurred unnecessary costs  due to a misdiagnosis by the supplying  dealer.
The test that was eventually carried out wasnt independent. It also only showed that 
the car performed equally to a similar  one, but that has no bearing on whether the car 
supplied to him was defective.  
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive come to the same 
conclusion I reached  in my provisional decision,  and for broadly the same  reasons. 
However, Ill address  the points Mr B has since  made. 
Ref: DRN59634014Although Mr B feels there  is no doubt  the dealership and MBFS would have communicated 
about the repairs, I havent seen  anything to make me think that happened  or that the 
dealership acted as MBFS agent when diagnosing potential faults. As the dealership is a 
separate legal  entity, MBFS wouldnt have any responsibility for its actions. Therefore the 
reasons for not holding MBFS responsible for any additional  costs are as described in my 
provisional findings (see above).  
I agree  MBFS did delay in arranging the testing (once it had agreed  to do so). But, Ive also 
considered that Mr B continued to have  possession of the car during this time so he wasnt  
prevented from using it. Further, I think MBFS offer of an inspection was more than it 
needed to do as I dont think Mr B had adequately  demonstrated the car he was supplied 
with was of unsatisfactory quality. Overall I think the £350 compensation for delays and 
inconvenience MBFS has offered to pay is fair for any delays caused in these 
circumstances. 
I agree  this was a premium and high performance  car and as such  Mr B should  expect  the 
car to be free from defects. Im satisfied  there  were  some  problems  soon after he took 
possession of the car which  might have made the car of unsatisfactory quality. But those 
issues (as explained in my provisional findings) were remedied at no cost to Mr B. However, 
I think a refund of one monthly payment (£1,075.54)  for the impaired use of the car during 
this time is a fair way to compensate for the problems he experienced. Mr B hasnt  provided  
any new comments which would make me think this part of the award should be increased.  
Mr B says the test that was carried out on the car wasnt independent  and has no bearing on 
whether the car supplied to him was defective.  Whilst  the test may not have been  truly 
independent, it does show the car performed marginally better  than another  one of the same 
make and model under the same test conditions. This suggests there isnt a fault or defect 
with the car supplied  to Mr B. Mr B hasnt provided anything independent either to 
demonstrate the car has a fault or defect.  But the test report does have factual data about 
the performance of the two cars for me to rely on which indicates there isnt a problem with 
the car. For this reason  I think its more  likely  than not the car supplied to Mr B was of 
satisfactory quality (except  for the issues that have already  been  remedied).
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I uphold this complaint  in part and direct 
Mercedes-Benz Financial  Services UK Limited  trading as Mercedes-Benz Finance to:
Pay Mr B £350 compensation for the delays and inconvenience caused. 
Refund £382.32 for the costs incurred  by Mr B.
Refund £1,075.54, representing one monthly rental  payment  for impaired use of the 
car.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 February  2019.
Tero Hiltunen
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5963401