K822xcomplaint
Mrs W is unhappy that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance  Plc (RSA) declined her claim for 
treatment for her dogs  skin condition. 
RSA is the underwriter for the branded pet insurance policy Mrs W took out. As such, it is 
responsible for the decisions made  on her claim and I will refer to it throughout. 
background 
Mrs W arranged  an insurance policy for her dog S to cover the costs of veterinary treatment  
in the event of accident, injury or illness. There was a limit per claim of £3,000 and a claim 
term of a maximum of 12 months.  An excess of £120 was payable  on veterinary fees.
In early May 2017  S was diagnosed with a skin condition and put on medication. Mrs W 
made a claim under  her policy and it was accepted.  So under the terms of the policy, the 
treatment and medication S received  for the skin condition would be covered by the policy  
(minus the appropriate  excess and subject to certain exclusions) until 7 May 2018.
In April 2018 S was suffering from lameness in her back  legs and Mrs W took her to the vet. 
The vet considered it was possible there was an underlying condition  causing the symptoms, 
but some  tests were  necessary to be sure.  Unfortunately, the medication S was on for the 
skin condition would interfere with the tests the vet considered necessary. It was 
recommended that S skin medication be stopped  for a period to allow the tests to be done. 
Unfortunately, S skin condition deteriorated  when  she came off the medication and so she 
was put on a different medication.  This was at the beginning of May 2018.  Mrs W told RSA 
that due to the size of the tablets, S had difficulty taking  the new medication and at the 
beginning of July she was swapped over to taking a liquid form of the drug. 
At this time, Mrs W called  RSA to see if the new medication would  be paid for as it was 
expensive. RSA provided a copy of the call recording. Mrs W told the call handler that S had 
an existing skin condition  and was being  treated  with medication. However, the vet thought 
she might  have another medical condition and because  of that, S medication had been 
changed. She asked  if the new medication would be covered by the policy. It seems the call 
handler didnt  understand  the situation correctly as he appeared to be under the impression 
there was a new skin condition  that was a side effect of the condition S was about to be 
tested for. He confirmed  that RSA would look to cover  the new medication in this situation.
Mrs W decided  to continue with the new treatment for S skin condition. However, when she 
claimed for it, RSA considered it under the existing claim for S skin condition.  As the term of 
that claim had expired  in May 2018,  the new medication wasnt paid for. Mrs W complained.  
RSA was satisfied  it had dealt with the claim correctly. The medication  claimed  for had been  
used to treat the skin condition and so was due to be considered  under that claim, not the 
later one for lameness. However, as a gesture of goodwill,  it offered Mrs W £50, which  she 
accepted and had paid direct to her account  with the vet. 
Mrs W referred her complaint to this service. She is unhappy that the new medication wasnt  
paid for as it was only necessary because of the investigations into the cause of the 
lameness  it should be paid for under that claim.
Ref: DRN58144752One of our investigators  considered the complaint. As part of her investigation she asked 
Mrs W what she would have done  had she been told the medication would be considered  
under the old claim and not paid for. Mrs W indicated  she would have had the treatment,  but 
would have been proactive in findings ways  of funding it  possibly borrowing the money or 
finding additional work to source  the money.
After considering the evidence, the investigator didnt think  RSA had done anything wrong in 
considering the payment of the new medication  under  the existing claim for S skin condition. 
However, she was satisfied that the member of staff at RSA had raised  Mrs Ws 
expectations that the medication would be considered and paid under the new claim. As 
such, the investigator considered what position Mrs W would have been in, had she been 
told the right information   the medication wouldnt be paid for under the new claim. She 
thought Mrs W would have gone ahead with the temporary change  in medication. As such, it 
was suggested  RSA pay Mrs W a further  £100  for the upset  the error it made cased. 
Mrs W didnt accept the investigators findings.  She said if she had known she would have 
had options, including asking the vet if there  was a cheaper alternative medication  that 
would have the same effect.
RSA accepted the investigators view and agreed to pay Mrs W the additional £100 
suggested.
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed  to me to consider.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I would firstly like to express my sympathy  
with Mrs W for the sad passing  of S.
I understand Mrs Ws position that the new medication was only necessary because of the 
investigations needed to see if there was an underlying cause to S new symptoms. 
However, the medication was for S skin condition  and as such, it would only have been 
payable under the claim for that condition. Unfortunately, by the time the new medication 
started the 12 month term for the skin condition claim had ended. I dont think RSA did 
anything wrong  in not paying for the medication  for the skin condition after the beginning of 
May 2018 as that was in line with the terms and conditions of the policy.
That said,  its also clear that Mrs W wasnt given the correct answer when she called  RSA at 
the beginning of July. As I have said above, having  listened to the telephone recording, I 
think the call handler misunderstood what Mrs W had told him and appears to have been 
under the impression the new medication was for a secondary skin condition that was a 
symptom of a different  medical condition. Mrs W was given the wrong  answer about whether 
RSA would cover the cost of the medication. 
When a financial business makes a mistake  a consumer isnt entitled to be placed in the 
position they would have  been in if the error  had been,  in this case, the correct information. 
So we wouldnt automatically ask RSA to pay for the new medication. We will look to 
establish what position the consumer  would likely  have been in had the error not happened. 
In this case, that would  be to place Mrs W in the position she would have been in if she had 
been told at the beginning of July 2018 RSA wouldnt pay for the new medication.
Ref: DRN58144753Mrs W was asked this question  and she said she would  have done ahead with the treatment, 
but she would have been prepared for having to fund the costs  herself.  I also note that whilst 
the vet was about to prescribe the new medication  in a different format  at the time of the 
telephone conversation,  it had prescribed the tablet form some  weeks earlier.  So I am 
satisfied that it is more likely than not that had Mrs W been told RSA wouldnt fund the new 
medication, she would still have decided to go ahead with that course of treatment.
As such,  Mrs W hasnt suffered a financial loss as she would always  have had to pay for the 
new medication herself. However, her expectations  were raised  and subsequently being  told 
the medication wasnt being covered would have been upsetting and inconvenient  as she 
needed to find the funds  to pay the vet. In light of this I agree with our investigator that the 
sum RSA paid as compensation should be increased to £150 (including  the £50 already 
paid).
my final decision
My final decision is that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc should pay Mrs W a further 
£100 for the inconvenience and upset its error caused her. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mrs W to accept or reject  my decision before 
11 December 2019.
Derry Baxter
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5814475