K820x#14complaint
E, an association funded  by subscription,  complains  that Ghana International Bank Plc (GIB) 
has returned subscriptions back to its members  following the closure of its bank account.
background
Subscriptions from its members  are often paid directly to Es bank account. GIB recently 
made the decision to close  this account and gave E notice it intended to do this.
Following the account closure, GIB returned a number of the subscriptions  it received on the 
closed account  to the members who sent them. E says this was wrong  and the payments 
should have been retained  by GIB on a suspense account and a list of returned  items 
provided to it. It also wasnt happy as it said GIB had closed the account  sooner than it 
should have. E complained to GIB about  these issues.
GIB said,  in summary, it closed the account when it received an authority from E and it had 
explained in advance that it would  return any payments it received after closure. 
E wasnt happy with this response and brought the complaint to this service. Our investigator  
said, in summary, she thought GIB had followed the account closure instructions E had 
signed and hadnt acted  unreasonably when it returned any payments it received after this 
date. She also said that she didnt think  GIB needed to provide a list of the payments it had 
returned as these werent payments made by E, but to it.
E didnt  agree with this and asked  for the case to be looked at by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And having  done so, Ive reached the 
same conclusion as the investigator and for similar reasons. I realise E will be disappointed  
by this so Ill explain  my reasoning.
I consider this complaint falls into three distinct areas so Ill deal with these, one by one.
the early account  closure
GIB had given E notice that it intended  to close its account on 27 August 2018. E made 
alternative banking  arrangements. And it signed a form authorising  its new bank to contact 
GIB to arrange the transfer  of the balance and the closure of its accounts.  The new bank 
sent this form to GIB on 18 July 2018  and GIB acted  on it shortly after. I accept  this was 
before the date it said it would close the account  but Im satisfied it only did this after it 
received Es authority  to do so. Im also mindful  that GHIB had already provided  a number of 
extensions to the intended  closure date it advised E of in January 2018. Ive not seen any 
evidence which suggests this early closure  had a material  impact  on E.
So Im not upholding this part of the complaint.
Ref: DRN52926792the return of the payments
When considering  complaints,  in addition to looking at the evidence provided by both parties, 
Ill also take into account relevant legislation and common industry practice.
In this case, theres no requirement for banks to open suspense accounts to hold money  
sent to a closed  account. Its common in the banking industry  for money  received after an 
account closes to be returned to the person who sent it. The bank will normally  have the 
account details  of where the money  came from and will use these to return the payment. 
And thats what happened in this case.  After Es account closed,  GIB used  the account 
details it had for the sender of the money  and returned it to where it came from. Im satisfied 
this was in line with GIBs internal procedures  and with common  industry practice. 
I can see that GIB explained  to E in advance that this was what  would happen. I can also 
see E advised its members of the change in its bank account details, asking them to make 
the appropriate amendments with their banks.
I know E was concerned  that the payments may have got lost when they were returned  but 
theres no evidence  to suggest  this happened. And as E had provided  its members  with its 
new account details,  it would follow that it is up to them to make sure their subscriptions 
were sent to the correct account. GIB simply did what it said it would here by returning  any 
payments made to the closed  account
In summary,  Im satisfied  the actions GIB took were  reasonable in the circumstances. So Im 
not upholding this part of the complaint.
the list of returned  payments
E has complained it wasnt provided with a list of payments that were returned  after the 
account was closed. But Im not persuaded it should have been provided with this 
information. And thats because the payments werent actually made  by E but by its 
members into its account. So if one of its members  thinks they havent  received the returned 
payment it would be for them  to raise the issue, not E. 
Im satisfied GIB hasnt  acted unreasonably in not providing a list of the returned payments 
so Im not upholding  this part of the complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 February  2019.
Paul Phillips
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5292679