K820x#14complaint
Mrs F complains she was mis-sold a reviewable whole of life policy  and critical illness cover 
(the plan) by Zurich Assurance  Ltd in respect of her business. She doesnt understand why 
she was only made  to take out cover and not her business  partner, and shes unhappy that 
the plan didnt cover her for a pre-existing  degenerative back condition.  
background
In 1999, Mrs F was recommended the plan with a £100,000 sum assured, at an initial  cost of 
£28 a month, on a maximum cover  basis. 
At the time Mrs F and her business partner were  the two directors of the business. It was 
noted by the adviser that Mrs F needed the plan in respect of the business  which would 
enable her partner  to buy out her share  in the event of her death or being  diagnosed with a 
specified critical illness. 
The plan was also index  linked and was to be held in trust for the benefit of the business 
partner, although  the details were  to be drawn in due course up by their solicitor.  
One of our adjudicators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld.  In 
summary, he said:
The recommendation was suitable for Mrs F at the time and it met her needs  to 
provide cover.  
In the event of a valid claim the plan would  have paid out and the business could 
continue to operate. 
Mrs Fs partner didnt  need cover because  her partner already  had cover  in place at 
the time.  
There was no evidence that she was told the critical  illness  cover  (CIC)  element 
would cover her pre-existing condition. 
Mrs F wasnt recommended income  protection  if she was unable to work  due to 
injury, sickness  or illness. There must  have  been  a good reason why. 
Mrs F disagreed with the adjudicators conclusions.  In short,  she maintained  the following 
key points:
She was mis-sold the plan as it didnt cover her needs.
Her partner didnt have cover, she does not understand  how the advisor  thought she 
had.
She didnt have permanent total disability cover.
She doesnt believe that the advisor understood her needs  as she was mis-sold an 
endowment policy.    
She cancelled  the plan as soon as she realised her needs werent met. 
As no agreement has been reached the matter  has been passed to me for review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN57143372Having done so, I agree with the adjudicators  conclusions for much the same reasons. On 
the face of the evidence, and on balance, Im satisfied the recommendation was suitable for 
Mrs F. 
But before I explain  further why this is the case,  I think its important for me to note I very 
much recognise the Mrs Fs strength  of feeling  about this matter. 
She has provided detailed  submissions  to support the complaint, which Ive read and 
considered very carefully. However, I hope  she wont take the fact my findings focus on what 
I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail,  as a discourtesy. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address  every  single point raised. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented  by her and Zurich,  and reach what I think is an independent,  fair and 
reasonable decision based  on the facts of the case.  
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I can take into account the relevant law, regulation  
and best industry  practice but Im not bound  by it. Its for me to decide, based on the 
information Ive been given, whats more  likely  than not to have happened.
Theres some confusion  over whether or not we have jurisdiction to consider this complaint. I 
note the business gave  its consent but now seeks to withdraw this consent  on the basis of 
other issues raised by Mrs F. 
We cant generally consider a complaint  if it has been made out of time, unless a business  
consents to us considering the merits of the complaint. Once  consent  is given  it cant  
generally be withdrawn,  thats unless a new complaint  point that is materially  different to the 
original complaint is raised  and the business  hasnt had an opportunity  to consider. In this 
instance, I dont  think this is what has happened, and the complaint falls under the general  
heading of suitability. 
I appreciate Mrs F is unhappy that her pre-existing condition wasnt covered by the plan, but 
Ive seen nothing  to suggest  that she was told her condition was covered. And just because 
the plan didnt cover her for her specific pre-existing  condition, doesnt mean it was mis-sold. 
I appreciate its something Mrs F was likely  to have wanted, but Ive seen nothing  to suggest 
that she wasnt willing to take cover  at all unless the pre-existing condition was covered. 
I note that CIC policies generally provide  cover  for specified critical illnesses  and not for 
every single critical illness that might exist.  And not many insurers provide  cover for pre-
existing conditions, as was the case with Zurich in this case, let alone for pre-existing 
degenerative conditions. 
So this lack of cover wasnt something  that was out the ordinary, and certainly didnt prevent 
Mrs F from still making a claim and the policy from paying out in the event of a valid claim for 
conditions that it did cover.  
Mrs F was perfectly within her rights  to allow the policy to lapse if it wasnt  something that 
she wanted because  her business partner  didnt have the same  cover.  But its also possible 
that with the realisation that her pre-existing condition  wasnt covered and the increasing 
cost of cover it wasnt something Mrs F wanted  to maintain. 
I appreciate Mrs F remains unconvinced,  but I think its more likely than not her partner had 
appropriate cover  in place at the time which meant  additional cover wasnt necessary for her 
Ref: DRN57143373partner. But if Mrs Fs partner subsequently cancelled her cover,  this may be an issue that 
needed to be raised with their solicitor rather than the business. 
It seems  that because Mrs F stopped paying premiums the policy  eventually   when there 
was no value left to pay for life cover  lapsed  without value. Its how these policies generally 
operate and isnt unique  to Zurich.   
Im mindful that an endowment policy sold to Mrs F was found to be mis-sold but this doesnt 
mean the plan is unsuitable. This also isnt evidence that this policy  was also mis-sold. 
Theres simply no link between two separate products  clearly  sold for two separate  
purposes.   
Its likely  Mrs F wasnt recommended a form of income protection because her partner would 
be able to run the business without her whilst she got better, its not entirely clear, but this 
doesnt mean the recommendation  was unsuitable either given  the objective of the cover.  Im 
conscious Mrs F didnt want cover at all because the plan didnt cover her pre-existing 
condition and only stopped paying  the premiums because her business partner didnt have  a 
similar plan.  
If Mrs F has additional  issues that she wants to raise  its likely shell  need  to complain to 
Zurich first and give it an opportunity to consider and respond before considering if shell  
need to refer it to our service. This is of course  no guarantee as to whether  or not the 
complaint has been made in time. 
I appreciate Mrs F will be disappointed Ive reached the same conclusion  as the adjudicator.  
Furthermore, I realise my decision  isnt what she wants to hear.  Whilst I appreciate her 
frustration, Im not persuaded to require  the business to do anything.
On the face of the available evidence, Im unable to uphold this complaint and give Mrs F 
what she wants.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 October  2019.
Dara Islam
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN5714337