K820x#14complaint
Mr B is unhappy with the amount of compensation National Westminster  Bank  Plc (NatWest) 
has offered to settle his complaint about  a mis-sold payment protection insurance  (PPI) 
policy taken out alongside a loan.
background
In December 1995 Mr B took out a loan for £1,000.00 (reference ending  4665) and at the 
same time bought  a PPI policy.  The cost of the policy premium was £91.00  and this was 
added to the amount Mr B borrowed,  so he paid interest at the loan rate on it.
Mr B has complained he was mis-sold the PPI and NatWest has agreed to uphold  his 
complaint. NatWest has offered total compensation  of £244.51 after tax. Mr B isnt happy 
with the amount of compensation. He thinks the compensatory interest  should  be higher as 
the policy was taken out so long ago.  
Our adjudicator said NatWests offer was fair and worked out in line with what  we would 
expect. Mr B still wasnt happy and asked  for an ombudsman to review his complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
NatWest has agreed to uphold Mr Bs complaint  that the PPI was mis-sold. So in this 
decision Im not considering how the PPI came  to be sold to Mr B. Im only looking at 
whether the compensation NatWest  has offered to settle the complaint is fair. 
When a PPI policy has been mis-sold we expect the business to pay back to the consumer 
all the costs paid for the PPI plus some compensatory interest  for being out of pocket. That 
is what NatWest has done in this case.
The loan Mr B took out in 1995  was to be repaid over 12 months.  The premium Mr B paid for 
the PPI was £91.00 and this was added to the amount he borrowed for his own use. So he 
paid interest on this premium over the 12 months the loan was running. The interest he paid 
for the PPI was £8.82, making  the total cost for the PPI £99.82.  
As the policy was mis-sold NatWest needs  to refund this total PPI cost amount, and also pay 
Mr B some compensatory interest for any time he was out of pocket. Whilst he was making 
the repayments to his loan Mr B paid an amount each month for the PPI cost, so each month 
he increased the amount he was out of pocket. By the time the loan ended  he was out of 
pocket for the total costs of the PPI.
I have looked  at the calculations NatWest had provided and can see it has worked  out the 
compensatory interest  to reflect the time and amounts Mr B was out of pocket. To the date of 
calculation in February 2019 the total compensatory interest amount is £144.69 after tax is 
deducted.  Her Majestys  Revenue and Customs required tax to be deducted from the 
compensatory interest  at basic rate and Mr B can request a tax certificate  for the tax 
deducted from NatWest  if he needs one.
Ref: DRN56654192In total the costs Mr B paid for the PPI (99.82) plus the compensatory interest  to the date of 
the calculation  (£144.69  after tax) comes to £244.51. And this is the amount NatWest offered 
to Mr B to settle his complaint.
I think the way NatWest has worked out the compensation,  including  the 8% simple interest 
for being out of pocket is fair. NatWest has said it would update the compensatory  interest  to 
the date of final payment. So if the compensation has not yet been  paid to Mr B, NatWest 
will need  to recalculate  the 8% simple interest to bring this up to date, to the date of final 
payment of the compensation.
I know Mr B has said he thinks  the interest should be more as it is a long time since he 
bought the PPI. But this standard rate of 8% simple  interest (after  1993) is accepted  as a fair 
rate when working out compensatory interest in cases of this sort.
So I think the approach taken and the compensation offered is fair and Im not telling  
NatWest to do anything  different.  
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  set out above the compensation calculated by National Westminster 
Bank Plc for the mis-sold PPI policy is fair. If not yet paid the 8% simple interest will need to 
be updated to the date of final payment to Mr B.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 February  2020.
Christine Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5665419