K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage Mr J held between 2002 and 2016. The mortgage was 
originally taken out with Cheltenham & Gloucester before that business became a trading 
name of Lloyds Bank PLC.  For ease of reference,  Ill refer to the business from hereon  as 
Lloyds. 
The essence  of Mr Js complaint is that he believes Lloyds may have increased its standard 
variable rate (SVR) for some borrowers  (himself  included) in order to cross-subsidise lower  
rates for other borrowers.
background
Mr J was prompted to raise the complaint  after reading a news article  alleging  overcharging 
had taken place.  Initially, we thought we might not be able to look at the complaint under the 
time limits on our rules.  After further  reflection, including considering  an additional 
submission from Mr J, we told Lloyds we thought  the case had been  brought  in time.  Lloyds 
consented to us looking into the merits of Mr Js complaint.
When we did that, the case-handler suggested  there might be some truth in what the news 
article said, but as far as Mr Js specific mortgage account was concerned,  Lloyds hadnt 
overcharged him. Mr J has asked for his complaint to be reviewed  by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments, including  Mr Js email of 
17 April 2019, to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr J, in asking for a review, has focussed  in some  detail on comments by the adjudicator 
that appear to lend support to the news article  alleging  wrongdoing by lenders generally. The 
Financial Ombudsman  Service  has no regulatory function; its not within  my remit to 
investigate or make  findings on alleged industry-wide regulatory breaches  or news  reports of 
them. 
In that context, the adjudicators comments on the news  article were far from helpful.  Thats  
because whilst the article  might have been the trigger  for Mr J bringing his individual 
complaint, it had no bearing  whatsoever on whether the complaint should  succeed or not.
The terms of Mr Js mortgage were  set out in the offer in 2002.  They  said that unless he was 
on a particular product   for example a fixed rate  hed be charged SVR. The offer also said 
that the SVR would always  be Bank of England Base Rate plus 2.00%. Initially,  Mr Js 
mortgage was on fixed rates,  but on 1 October  2009 it reverted to SVR and remained on it 
until redemption in 2016.
Throughout the period Mr Js mortgage  was on SVR, Bank  of England  Base Rate  was 
0.50%, and Lloyds  charged Mr J 2.50%.  Thats entirely consistent with what  the mortgage 
contract allows, and was confirmed in the annual statements Lloyds sent Mr J during the 
relevant period.
Mr J is clearly concerned about the wider issue, and thats his prerogative,  but as I said 
earlier it doesnt fall within my remit. My role is solely to determine wither Lloyds has charged 
Ref: DRN51400712more interest on Mr Js mortgage than the contract allows,  and nothing  else.  For the reasons 
set out above,  Im satisfied it hasnt.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above and below, my final decision is that I dont uphold this 
complaint, or make any order or award  against Lloyds Bank  PLC. My final decision 
concludes this services  consideration of this complaint, which  means Ill not be engaging  in 
any further consideration or discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 August 2019.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5140071