K820x#14complaint
Mrs K has complained to us about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  which she 
was sold with a credit card in 2006. Bank of Scotland  plc has taken responsibility for the sale 
so Ill refer to Bank of Scotland  in this decision.  
background
Our adjudicator assessed this complaint and took the view that the PPI wasnt  mis-sold.  
Mrs K disagreed and so its been passed to me to consider.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.  
Having done this, Ive decided the PPI wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain the reasons for this. 
First of all there were  rules about who could  qualify for the cover under the policy. Based on 
her circumstances, I think Mrs K met these rules. So I think shed have been able to claim on 
the PPI if she needed  to.
Next Ive looked at whether Bank of Scotland made it clear enough to Mrs K that the policy 
was optional. Mrs K told us she wasnt given a clear  choice. Bank of Scotland has sent us a 
copy of the agreement which Mrs K completed. There  was a section which  asked Mrs K 
whether she wanted  to take out the PPI. Mrs K ticked a box and then signed this section. 
Having read this, I think its most likely  that Mrs K would have understood that the policy  was 
optional, because she could have left this section  blank.  So overall, I think Bank of Scotland 
made it sufficiently clear to Mrs K that she didnt  have to take out the PPI.
Next, Bank  of Scotland  didnt  recommend the policy to Mrs K so it wasnt required to check 
that the PPI was right for her. However Bank of Scotland was required to give her 
information that was clear,  fair and not misleading so she could make the decision for herself 
about whether  or not to take out the policy. 
Ive considered the likelihood that Bank of Scotland didnt give Mrs K clear enough 
information about the cost, benefits, main  exclusions  and restrictions of the PPI. Mrs K told 
us she thinks that she didnt need the policy because if she was too ill to work  or was made 
unemployed shed have  been entitled  to full pay for six months  and half pay for the following 
six months. But the cost of the PPI was comparable to the cost of other, similar policies 
available at the time. And Mrs K chose to take it out, so it looks like she wanted  this type of 
cover. 
Ive also considered the possibility that Bank of Scotland didnt point out the main things the 
policy didnt cover. But looking at her circumstances,  Mrs K wouldnt have been affected by 
any of those things.  So on balance, I dont think its likely that better information would have 
dissuaded Mrs K from buying the PPI. And so overall, Ive concluded that this policy 
wasnt mis-sold.
Ref: DRN58009022Which means Bank of Scotland  doesnt have  to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs K. 
But Bank of Scotland has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs K because: 
Bank of Scotland got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium) - so it should have told Mrs K about that. Because Bank  of Scotland  didnt 
tell Mrs K, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Bank of Scotland has paid back the amount of commission  and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think  that is fair in this case.
my final decision
Im sorry  to disappoint Mrs K but the PPI policy wasnt  mis-sold  so Bank  of Scotland  plc 
doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs K.
But Bank of Scotland plc does have  to pay back to Mrs K any commission  and profit  share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand  it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 April 2019.
Katrina Hyde
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5800902