K822xcomplaint
Mr K is unhappy that Clydesdale Bank  Plc (trading as Yorkshire Bank)  had not removed a 
poster advertising a £500 cashback incentive after the mortgage  campaign had closed.
background 
In April 2018 Clydesdale Bank offered a £500  cash back incentive for new customers which 
finished at the end of May 2018. A further campaign began  on the 17 September which  was 
due to finish at the end of October 2018 but this was then extended to 16 November 2018.
Mr K met with the mortgage  advisor on 6 June 2018 and a mortgage  offer was issued  to him 
on 25 June 2018.  His mortgage was completed on 28 November 2018.
Clydesdale Bank  has admitted  it made  an error because  the first campaign was still being 
advertised when  Mr K visited its branch even though it had finished and the second 
campaign hadnt started. 
Although Clydesdale bank had made a mistake  by continuing to advertise this promotion, the 
adjudicator did not think  it was fair to ask them to pay Mr K £500 for something  Mr K did not 
qualify for. Instead  he thought the £100  cheque Clydesdale  had sent to Mr K was fair.
Mr K disagrees. He says he hasnt  cashed  the cheque  Clydesdale sent to him. And as it 
admitted that it was wrongly advertising the product he believes that it should honour  it. He 
thinks keeping the advert  up was misleading.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This service is here to settle  disputes.  It isnt here to punish or fine businesses for errors.
It is agreed by both parties Clydesdale made  a mistake. When a business makes  a mistake 
we dont look to put the consumer in the position he would have been in had the mistake  
been correct.  So our approach wouldnt be to require Clydesdale to pay Mr K £500 as if the 
posters should have  been  left up. Instead  we look to put Mr K into as close a position as 
possible to what he would  have  been  in had the mistake not occurred.  So as if the poster 
hadnt been in the branch  window. And then we consider whether the mistake  caused any 
distress or inconvenience to Mr K.
Ive listened to a call between Mr K and the bank.  Having done so Im satisfied  that Mr K 
knew that he didnt  qualify for the £500  cashback when he applied  for the mortgage. 
Therefore Im satisfied  that Mr K wasnt misled  by the poster. 
I can, however,  understand his irritation that the poster was being displayed  when it 
shouldnt have been displayed. I think that the £100 cheque  was a reasonable response  to 
this irritation. I realise, however, that Mr K hasnt cashed this cheque and the cheque will 
have expired. I therefore asked Clydesdale whether it would send  Mr K another cheque.  It 
has confirmed it has done this. I think this is a reasonable response to Mr Ks concern and I 
wont be asking it to do anything more.
Ref: DRN55802942my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 January 2020.
Nicola Wood 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5580294