K822xcomplaint
Miss T complains about the service Ageas Insurance Limited provided when dealing  with a 
claim on her home insurance policy.
background 
In June 2017 Miss Ts home was severely damaged by fire, so she submitted a claim on her 
home insurance policy. The work to repair and rebuild the house has commenced,  but to 
date hasnt been completed.
Miss T said shes  unhappy with the service she received  because  there was a lack of 
communication and considerable  delays  in settling the claim. So she said shes had to 
appoint a loss assessor  to manage  the claim.  She also found the loss adjuster rude and 
unhelpful.
Ageas apologised for any delays and offered Miss T £300. Miss T didnt feel this recognised  
the distress and inconvenience  caused  to her and so brought her complaint to our service.
An investigator at our service agreed with Miss T and said £300  didnt recognise the distress 
and inconvenience  caused. She recommended  Ageas pay an additional £300 -so a total 
payment of £600.  Ageas agreed with the recommendation. However, Miss T didnt. In 
particular, she was unhappy with the loss adjuster who had been working on her claim.  So 
felt Ageas should  cover the costs  of the loss assessor she appointed and increase the 
compensation offered. Because Miss T didnt agree, the case has come to me for a decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ill be upholding it.
Having seen details  of the fire and pictures  of the damage, I empathise with Miss T and 
understand this incident must  have  been very distressing for her. I recognise this has been 
very stressful for her and caused a great deal of upheaval.  In addition, Miss T has had 
problems with the service  provided by Ageas. Considering Ageas have agreed to the 
investigators recommendation of a further  £300, the question I need to consider is whether 
a total payment of £600 recognises the distress  and inconvenience caused.
Miss T has raised  a number of complaints about the handling of the claim.   Having reviewed  
a timeline of events,  the claims notes and seen  the correspondence between parties I agree 
Ageas handling did cause unnecessary distress  and inconvenience. As this claim had been 
ongoing for nearly one year when Ageas looked into Miss Ts complaint, a great  deal has 
happened. Ive not listed all the errors here,  but some examples.
When Miss T reported the damage  she was left to arrange and pay for the roof to be 
secured herself.  Some boarding was put up on the house to secure it, however some  of this 
came loose and she needed  to arrange for this to be fixed. Ageas has now said it will pay for 
the roof covering, however I would have  expected  this to have  happened  sooner. 
In the fire Miss Ts clothes  were  damaged. And as she had contents cover  she requested a 
payment to buy new clothes. Ageas was still considering  the claim in July and so wasnt  able 
to send Miss T a payment. However the claim  was decided  in early August and I cant see 
Ref: DRN50906652Ageas considered Miss Ts request. A payment for contents wasnt made  until the end of 
September 2017, and so Miss T needed  to pay for clothing herself.  Considering Miss T has 
a limited income, I think this would  have been  very stressful for her. 
As part of Miss Ts claim, a £10 a day disturbance allowance had been authorised. This is to 
cover any extra expenses  a customer incurs because they arent living  in their home. For 
example, to buy prepared food because they cant cook  in their kitchen.  I can see she 
needed to call a number of times to chase these  payments.  She received mixed messages 
as to when payments would be made-for example on one occasion  being told a payment 
would be made  that day, but it took 11 days to be paid and Miss T had to make several calls.
  
Miss T says the loss adjuster was particularly rude and unhelpful.  She needed  to chase 
things up regularly, and he very rarely got back to her. I havent seen any evidence as to 
when the loss adjustor was rude. However I can see things were delayed  on a number of 
occasions and not receiving calls back would have  been very unhelpful,  so Ive taken this 
into account. Delays in communications between the loss adjuster and Ageas will have 
impacted Miss Ts claim.
Ageas has a duty to deal with claims fairly and promptly. And errors such as these meant  in 
some instances it did not act fairly  or promptly. Especially considering Miss T had already 
been through a distressing event and that she had limited income she had to pay for items. 
So I do think  Ageas  should compensate Miss T further for the way its handled the claim. 
The investigator recommended  an additional  £300 in compensation-bringing the total to 
£600. And I think this fairly reflects the distress  and inconvenience caused. 
Miss T has said this incident  has caused her elderly father distress as hes now also worried 
about fires in his home. I can understand it must be distressing for Miss T to see her father 
so worried. However I cant say Ageas has contributed to this distress.  Unfortunately this is a 
product of the initial fire in Miss Ts home.
Miss T says she thinks the payment  for distress and inconvenience  should be more.  Shes  
suggested this might be £10 per day, the same amount she is receiving  as a disturbance 
allowance. As Ive said disturbance allowance, is for the financial loss that is caused when a 
customer isnt able to live in their own home.  Awards  for distress and inconvenience arent 
for financial loss, but to recognise the emotional impact a business poor service  has had. 
When we consider distress and inconvenience  caused by a business we dont make awards 
for each  error made by the business.  Instead,  we look at everything that has happened, the 
impact its had and decide  what fair compensation is, including the time taken to put right 
errors. 
The loss adjuster is the agent of the insurer. This means Ageas is responsible  for the actions 
of the loss adjuster. Miss T chose to appoint her own loss assessor to manage all aspects of 
the claim and the repairs on her behalf. The role of a loss assessor is a separately regulated 
activity. Ageas isnt responsible for the actions  of the loss assessor   the assessors  contract 
is with Miss T only.
We dont usually require  insurers to refund the cost of any professional  representation or 
advice a consumer  has received. This is because we dont generally consider it necessary 
for such costs to be incurred; and there  are other  more cost-effective ways of progressing 
matters such as complaining to the insurer or to this service.
Ref: DRN50906653Miss T made  her claim  in June 2017, and Ageas approved the claim at the beginning of 
August 2017.  I can see Miss T instructed the loss assessor on 14 August 2017. It can take 
businesses some time to approve a claim.  In this case  I can see it was considering  the 
underwriting criteria and completing  forensic  tests to examine the cause of the fire. And its 
usual for this to take some time. I dont think this period of time was considerably  delayed,  or 
delayed enough  to force Miss T to appoint loss assessors. So I wont be asking Ageas to 
pay a part or all of the loss assessors fees.  
my final decision
My final decision is I uphold  the complaint. I direct Ageas Insurance Limited to pay Miss T a 
further £300 to recognise the distress  and inconvenience caused, as well as the £300 
offered previously, if it hasnt done  so already. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Kinjal Vadgama
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5090665