K821x#15complaint
Ms H complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc hasnt  refunded or recovered money  she lost to a
scam.
background
The detailed background to this complaint  is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
an overview of some  key events here.
In 2018 a scammer befriended Ms H on social media and persuaded her to make  four 
payments for what Ms H later realised was a scam investment. 
The relevant  transactions  made  from Ms Hs account are listed  below.
Date Type of transaction Amount (£)
03 October 2018 In branch bank  transfer 15,887.76
12 October 2018 Online bank transfer 25,564.85
18 October 2018 Online bank transfer 30,495.17
01 November 2018 Online bank transfer 25,436.92
Total 97,384.70
HSBC ultimately didnt recover or otherwise  refund to Ms H the money  she lost to the scam.
Remaining unhappy, Ms H referred  her complaint about HSBC  to this service.  As we have
been unable  to resolve the matter informally, the case has been passed  to me for a decision.
I sent Ms H and HSBC  my provisional decision on 18 May 2021 explaining why I was 
minded to uphold  the complaint in part and explaining the compensation I was minded to 
award. 
HSBC responded  to my provisional decision to say it accepts  the settlement I have 
proposed.
Ms H responded to my provisional decision  and asked I consider one further point  she 
says that shortly before she requested the second  payment, she asked HSBC for advice on 
whether she should  expect  to pay tax on what she thought was a genuine investment; she 
says that it would not have been unreasonable for HSBC to use that information to challenge 
her subsequent (second) payment request. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same  conclusions and for the same  reasons as I explained 
in my provisional decision.  I have explained  my reasons again  below,  including some further 
comment where appropriate to respond  to Ms Hs most recent submissions. 
It is common ground that Ms H authorised the scam  payments. She was duped by the 
scammer into instructing  HSBC to make the payments from her HSBC account  for a scam 
investment. The scammer deceived  Ms H into thinking the investment was legitimate. 
Ref: DRN50870652I accept that these were  authorised payments even though Ms H was the victim of a scam.  
So, although  she did not intend  the money to go to a scammer,  under the Payment Services 
Regulations and the terms and conditions  of the account, Ms H is presumed liable for the 
loss in the first instance.
However, taking into account  the law, regulator rules  and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time,  I consider 
HSBC should  fairly  and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made  or received  to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other  signs that 
might indicate that its customers were  at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given  the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.
In some circumstances,  irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks,  before  processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make  a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud.
For branch transactions, those steps may include following the Banking Protocol 
where appropriate.
I am aware  that HSBC considers too high a standard  has been applied  to what is expected  
of it in terms of identifying payments that might  indicate a consumer is at risk of financial 
harm; and it has referred to the Quincecare  duty in support of its argument. I am mindful 
that the courts have interpreted Quincecare  narrowly and the circumstances of this 
complaint are different to that case.
I am also aware of the recent Philipp judgment  where the judge took a different view about  
the Quincecare duty. Im not suggesting the Quincecare duty applies to this case. And 
notwithstanding what the judge said in the context of deciding a narrow point of law, we have 
a duty to resolve complaints based  on what we think is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the case,  taking into account  not just the law, but also regulator rules and 
guidance, relevant  codes  of practice and what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time.
I am mindful  that my fellow ombudsmen and I have referenced  the relevant rules,  codes of 
practice and good  industry practice  at the time in many previous decisions,  both to HSBC 
and published  on our website.
Bearing all of this in mind, I have  considered  whether  HSBC  acted fairly and reasonably  in 
its dealings with Ms H and whether or not it ought  to have prevented the scam.
first payment
Ms H made the first payment of £15,887.76 in branch.  It was an international payment, to a 
new payee, and for a substantial amount  in my opinion,  clearly unusual and 
uncharacteristic for Ms Hs account.  I am satisfied  HSBC ought to have recognised  the 
Ref: DRN50870653payment was unusual  and uncharacteristic  and to have made enquiries with Ms H before  
processing the payment instruction.
HSBC says it wasnt and isnt required to act as an amateur detective. To be clear, Im not 
suggesting Ms H should have  been subjected to an interrogation  merely,  in the 
circumstances, a basic level of questioning  designed to disturb or unearth  a potential fraud 
or scam and establish that Ms H was not at risk of financial  harm.
Given the circumstances of the scam   that Ms H had been befriended on social media, told 
she would  make returns of between 50% to 70% in a matter of weeks, and that she had 
been told by the scammer  to keep the investment secret  I dont think  it would have taken 
much at all, if Ms H had been open  and honest  with HSBC, for HSBC  to have become 
concerned that Ms H was at significant risk of financial  harm.
I understand HSBC  asked  Ms H in branch what the payment was for. Ms H says she told 
HSBC that the payment was for her brother.  HSBC recorded it was for a property purchase.  I 
understand that in later discussions with HSBC,  Ms H referred to previous payments being  
for her family to help with their property. So, I think it is most likely HSBC understood from 
Ms H on 3 October 2018, when she instructed this first payment in branch, that the payment 
was to help her brother  with a property purchase.
HSBC knows that scammers sometimes coach  victims as to what to say to their bank to 
ensure a payment goes through. So I dont think HSBC should have automatically  taken  
what Ms H told it at face value. In this particular instance though,  Im not sufficiently 
persuaded that reasonable  interaction from HSBC would have prevented Ms Hs desire to 
make the payment and to hide from HSBC  the real reason for doing so. I think that even if 
HSBC has asked Ms H some more questions  about the payment and warned her about the 
general prevalence  of fraud and scams, Ms H most likely would still have persisted with her 
cover story to persuade HSBC to put the payment  through. I am therefore  not sufficiently 
persuaded I can say further reasonable intervention from HSBC  would  have made a 
difference or that HSBC  ought reasonably to have prevented  this first payment.
second payment
Ms H made the second payment of £25,564.85 online on 12 October  2018. I understand this 
payment was again an international payment  to a new payee. Ms H was made to understand 
by the scammer  that this was a tax payment required  on her investment  return.
I am satisfied this payment instruction should have  flagged on HSBCs systems for fraud 
checks, and that it did indeed  do so. HSBC has sent us a recording of a call in which  it did 
indeed discuss with Ms H this payment instruction before it was processed. During  this call  
on 12 October 2018  HSBC asked Ms H whether the payment was her payment. From the 
evidence though, it seems  that this is essentially all it did; and that on Ms H answering in the 
affirmative, HSBC processed  the payment. I dont see how this ought  reasonably  to have 
been sufficient  to satisfy  HSBC that the payment  wasnt being  made  as a result of a fraud or 
scam. So I dont think HSBC did enough here  I think that HSBC ought  reasonably  to have 
asked Ms H what the payment was for and for the basic surrounding context.
Ive thought about this very carefully  and I acknowledge this is a difficult decision. I cant be 
sure about  this. And where I cant be sure, I need to make up my mind  on a balance  of 
probabilities  in other words, by deciding  what I think is most likely  based on the available 
information.
Ref: DRN50870654And here  at the time of this second payment instruction  I still think,  on balance, that it is 
most likely Ms H would  have persisted with her cover story or some  variation on it to ensure 
HSBC processed her payment instruction.
In reaching this conclusion I have thought carefully  about the possibility that HSBC  might 
have, with appropriate general  fraud and scams warnings and discussion with Ms H on 
12 October 2018, been able to cause Ms H to think twice and open up about the real reason 
she was making the payment. However, Im just not sufficiently persuaded of this. Three 
days later,  on 15 October 2018, Ms H was to apply for a HSBC loan that she would  
subsequently use to make a third payment to the scammer. And during the call with HSBC  
about the loan application on 16 October  2018,  when  the loan application was approved, 
Ms H said the purpose of the loan was to refurbish her house,  specifically for a loft 
conversion; and she persisted with her cover  story  that the previous payments  were for her 
family to help with a house.
I dont think Ms Hs explanation was particularly clear at times.  But I do think  that the 
evidence suggests  Ms H was still sufficiently won over by the scammer on 12 October 2018 
that, even upon further questions from HSBC, she would have sufficiently maintained  her 
cover story to persuade HSBC to process the payment for her. I also think it ought  to have 
been reasonably foreseeable to Ms H that her doing  so might result in a loss. So overall, 
bearing in mind everything Ive said, Im not persuaded  it would  be fair to hold HSBC  
responsible for Ms Hs loss of the first two payments  to the scam.
Ive thought about what Ms H has said about her prior contact with HSBC  she says that 
she previously asked  HSBC for advice  about this tax payment on what  she thought was a 
genuine investment.  But as Ive explained, Im not satisfied Ms H was open with HSBC  up to 
this point. And whilst  I am aware that Ms H had a webchat and telephone conversation with 
HSBC on 10 October  2018   two days before this second payment  this contact seems to 
have been about Ms Hs wish to apply for a loan. I have not seen persuasive evidence that 
what Ms H said to HSBC then should  change things here. 
third and fourth payments
I am satisfied, however,  that HSBC  reasonably  ought to have prevented Ms Hs third and 
fourth payments, made on 18 October 2018  and 1 November  2018 respectively.
I say this because,  again, I think these payments were unusual  and uncharacteristic;  I think 
HSBC ought to have  given these payments in their own right but also because of Ms Hs 
recent pattern  of payments  contacted Ms H about  the payment instructions before 
processing them, to check Ms H wasnt at risk of financial harm. Evidence from HSBC  notes  
that Ms H requested  from HSBC on 16 October 2018 and 6 November 2018 information 
about recalling  the payment shed made on 12 October 2018  (payment  number two). There  
is a case here to say that this should  have led HSBC to review the previous two payments 
further and that this would have led to the scam  being uncovered  and payments three and 
four prevented. In any case, it is clear that by this stage Ms H was having doubts.
As Ive said already, given the circumstances  of the scam  that Ms H had been befriended 
on social media, told she would make returns of between 50% to 70% in a matter of weeks, 
and that she had been told by the scammer to keep the investment secret  I dont think  it 
would have taken  much at all, if Ms H had been  open with HSBC,  for HSBC to have become  
concerned that Ms H was at significant risk of financial  harm.
Ref: DRN50870655I think by this point  (payment instructions three  and four) Ms H would have been sufficiently 
open with HSBC  following appropriate contact and fraud and scams questions  meaning 
that HSBC ought  to have had significant concerns, before it processed the payments. Ive 
thought carefully  about the possibility  that Ms H may nevertheless have  wished to continue 
with the payments despite HSBCs concerns. I do think, however, that if HSBC had treated 
the payment requests and Ms Hs risk of financial harm with appropriate  seriousness,  
explored the available information  and given Ms H sufficiently strong warnings about 
potential fraud and scams, that it most likely would have caused her to realise that she was 
being duped. In any event, given the level of concern HSBC  ought reasonably  to have had 
at this point, even if Ms H had insisted on the payments  regardless,  HSBC could and should 
have refused to put the payments through until it was satisfied either that Ms H had obtained 
sufficient support or that the investment was indeed legitimate. I appreciate  this isnt a step 
any bank would take lightly given its obligations  to process authorised payments without 
undue delay  but it is an option where a bank  is suspicious and recognises there is a real 
risk of harm. In my view, this would have led to payments three and four not being made at 
that time or at all.
compensation
In light of my conclusions above,  it is not necessary in this case  to consider whether HSBC  
also exercised enough  care and urgency in trying to recover  payments three and four from 
the payee bank before they were irretrievably removed by the scammers. But for the sake of 
completeness, I have considered this, along  with payments one and two. And I am satisfied 
that HSBC did what  it could to recover the funds when Ms H asked it to; and that even if 
HSBC had taken  this action at an earlier point  (for example on 16 October  2018),  this most 
likely would have made no difference.
I have considered whether Ms H should  bear some  responsibility by way of contributory 
negligence (which  might justify a reduction  in compensation). However,  I am satisfied that 
the fair outcome here would be for Ms H to bear the loss herself of payments one and two  
for the reasons Ive explained above.  However, I think it was the failure  of HSBC that really 
caused the loss occasioned by payments three  and four  so I am satisfied that a reduction 
in compensation  for payments three  and four is not appropriate here.
With regards to payment  three (£30,495.17), I understand that Ms H took out an HSBC loan 
of £25,000 to fund this. So I think it is reasonable for Ms H to be compensated on the basis  
that if she hadnt made payment three to the scammer she wouldnt have had or continued 
with the HSBC loan of £25,000  so she wouldnt have needed  to make the monthly 
payments to the loan nor would the loan still be live. Ms H also wouldnt have lost the 
remaining balance (£5,495.17)  from her own funds.
With regards to payment  four (£25,436.92), I understand that Ms H took out a Santander 
loan of £25,000 to fund this. I think fair, reasonable and pragmatic redress regarding this 
payment would be for HSBC to refund to Ms H the payment  of £25,436.92 plus interest at 
8% simple  per year.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold this complaint about HSBC UK Bank  Plc in part  
and I direct HSBC UK Bank Plc to:
Ref: DRN50870656refund  to Ms H the payments she has made  towards  the £25,000 HSBC loan, and 
pay Ms H interest*  on these payments calculated at 8% simple per year from the 
date of the payment to the date of settlement;
repay on Ms Hs behalf  (at no cost to Ms H) the remaining £25,000 HSBC loan;
pay Ms H £5,495.17 (the remaining part of payment three)  plus interest* calculated at 
8% simple per year from the date of loss to the date of settlement;
pay Ms H £25,436.92 plus interest* calculated at 8% simple  per year from the date of 
loss to the date of settlement.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 July 2021.
* If HSBC is legally  required  to deduct tax from the interest then it should send  Ms H a tax deduction  certificate so
she can claim it back  from HMRC if appropriate.
Neil Bridge
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5087065