K821x#15complaint
Mr O says CashEuroNet UK LLC (trading as Quick  Quid) irresponsibly lent to him.
background
This complaint is about 11 payday  loans  Quick Quid provided to Mr O between  June 2015 
and October 2016.  Mr O borrowed amounts ranging between £150 and £1,000, including top 
ups. There were no significant  breaks in Mr Os borrowing. From what  I can see, Mr O repaid 
all his loans, though he struggled to repay  the last loan. 
Our adjudicator upheld  Mr Os complaint in part and thought the loans from loan seven 
onwards shouldnt have been  given. Quick Quid disagreed and the complaint was passed to 
me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Quick Quid needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr O 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Quick Quid should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet  a 
higher repayment  from a particular  level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing  may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Quick Quid was required to establish 
whether Mr O could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether  the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Ref: DRN55156592Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to 
make repayments on time,  while meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without 
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont  be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Os complaint.
Quick Quid asked Mr O for information about his income and expenditure and it carried out 
credit checks. Mr O said he earned about £3,800  a month and his expenditure was around  
£2,125. 
For loans one to six, I cant say that there  was anything in the information  Mr O provided or 
the information Quick Quid shouldve been  aware  of, to say it was wrong  for Quick Quid  to 
have approved these loans.  
Ive also looked  at the overall pattern of Quick Quids  lending  history with Mr O, with a view 
to seeing if there was a point at which Quick  Quid should reasonably have  seen that further 
lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so Quick Quid should have realised 
that it shouldnt  have provided  any further  loans. 
Given the particular  circumstances of Mr Os case, I think that this point was reached by loan 
seven. I say this because:
By loan seven, Mr Os pattern of borrowing suggests that hed become reliant on short-
term loans. This is because hed borrowed seven  times in eight months.  The amounts 
were either about the same or significantly increased. Where he borrowed less, he then 
borrowed a greater  amount. So I dont think these smaller loans showed  that his 
circumstances had improved. 
From  loan seven onwards Mr O was provided with a new loan within a short time of 
settling a previous  one. So Quick  Quid ought to have realised it was more  likely than not 
Mr O was having to borrow further to cover the hole repaying his previous loan was 
leaving in his finances and that Mr Os indebtedness  was increasing unsustainably.
Mr O wasnt  making  any real inroads  to the amount he owed Quick  Quid.  Loan  eleven 
was taken out over a year after Mr Os first. And it was for a larger  amount. Mr O had 
paid large amounts  of interest  to, in effect, service  a debt to Quick Quid  over an 
extended period.
I think that Mr O lost out because Quick  Quid continued to provide borrowing  from loan 
seven onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Os indebtedness by allowing  him to 
take expensive  credit intended  for short-term use over an extended period of time.
Ref: DRN55156593the sheer number  of loans and deferrals was likely to have had negative implications on 
Mr Os ability  to access mainstream  credit and so kept him in the market  for these high-
cost loans.
So Im also upholding  the complaint about loans seven to eleven and Quick  Quid should put 
things right.
putting things right  what Quick Quid  needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr O paid on loans seven to eleven;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement;
the number  of loans taken from loan seven onwards means  any information recorded 
about them  is adverse. So all entries  about  loans seven  to eleven should be removed 
from Mr Os credit  file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Quick Quid to take off tax from this interest. Quick Quid 
must give Mr O a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that Im partially upholding Mr Os 
complaint. I require CashEuroNet UK LLC (trading as Quick  Quid) to pay Mr O 
compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 July 2019.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5515659