K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain  that Bank of Scotland plc (BOS) mis-sold payment protection  
insurance (PPI) to them  alongside a loan in 1990. 
background
The loan was taken  out jointly by Mr and Mrs S and secured on their home. PPI was sold to 
cover Mrs S only.  
Our adjudicator didnt  think this complaint should be upheld. I can see that Mr and Mrs S 
strongly disagree with that view. In summary, when responding to our adjudicator,  they said: 
At the time that PPI was sold, Mr S was in the process of changing jobs and would 
have received a significantly  higher salary in his new role; 
They were both in secure and well paid roles.  They both had six months full pay and 
six months half pay from their employers; 
They were both union members and would  have access  to union benefits.  
Mr and Mrs S sent redacted bank statements showing their salaries. As the parties are not in 
agreement with our adjudicator, the matter has been  passed to me to make a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken that into account  in deciding 
this case. 
I appreciate Mr and Mrs S strength of feeling  that PPI was mis-sold. However, having taken 
careful account of the evidence before me, I havent upheld their complaint. Ill explain why 
below. 
Mr and Mrs S told us that the PPI was sold to them during a meeting. I havent  seen  
anything to suggest they are wrong in their recollection. I can also see from their PPI 
questionnaire that they didnt complain that they werent told they could have refused cover.  
So I think they probably knew the cover  was optional and they didnt have to take it out if 
they didnt want  it. 
BOS advised  Mr and Mrs S to buy this PPI policy. So it had to make sure the cover  was 
suitable for their needs. To help me decide  whether the cover  was suitable, Ive looked at the 
terms and conditions of the PPI. And Ive also thought about what  they told us about  their 
personal circumstances at the time.
I can see that if theyd had to make  a claim on the PPI policy,  Mr and Mrs S mortgage 
repayments would have been  covered for up to 24 months if Mrs S had become unwell or if 
she lost her job. 
I know that Mr and Mrs S say that they didnt need  cover because Mrs S was in secure 
employment. The policy would  have paid out for up to 24 months for each claim, so it 
appears to me that the cover would have lasted  for considerably longer than her full pay. 
Ref: DRN56334252This loan was secured on Mr and Mrs S home and so the consequences if they fell behind  
with their repayments were significant.  
Mrs S told us she was in good health  when the PPI policy was taken out. So I dont  think  
shed have been affected by any of the policys exclusions about medical conditions. I 
havent seen anything unusual about her employment circumstances that would have 
stopped her from being able to make a successful claim if she needed  to. 
Ive thought carefully about what Mr and Mrs S said in respect  of them  both having well paid 
jobs. I can see that they were both working, but I cant say that even with his new salary,  
Mr S salary  would have been sufficient to meet all of their essential expenditure if Mrs S 
became unwell. 
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs S were union members and debt advice and financial 
assistance may have  been available to them. However, it would be unusual for a union to 
make payments towards  a persons mortgage if they became unwell and even if that 
assistance were available, the evidence  doesnt  suggest to me that it is guaranteed. 
I can see that the cost of the PPI premium  was in the region of £4 per month. It appears the 
policy was probably  affordable.  Taking  everything  into account, I think  this recommendation 
probably was suitable  for Mr and Mrs S. 
BOS still had to give Mr and Mrs S enough information  about  the PPI so they could decide 
for themselves whether  it was a good  fit for their needs. This cover  was sold over 25 years  
ago, so I accept its possible that BOS  didnt tell Mr and Mrs S everything it should have 
done about the PPI policy. But Ive set out above  how I think  the PPI policy  could have been 
helpful if Mrs S lost her job. Objectively,  I dont think more or better information about the PPI 
would have put Mr and Mrs S off buying  this policy. 
I appreciate Mr and Mrs S will be very disappointed  with my decision. But for the reasons 
given above, Im afraid I havent upheld their complaint. I dont require BOS to take any 
further action  to put things right. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint about Bank of Scotland plc. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  10 July 2019.  
Nicola Bowes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5633425