K820x#14complaint
Mr R has complained that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) has unfairly turned down his claim 
under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974  (CCA).
background
Mr R, along with his partner, took out a timeshare overseas  in 1991 (the 1991  Timeshare) 
and the following year he purchased a second timeshare from the same  company (the 1992 
Timeshare), so he had two weeks per year he could spend on holiday. Although the 
timeshares were in the names of both Mr R and his partner, the credit card this complaint is 
concerned with is in Mr Rs name only, so Ive referred to him throughout. Mr R explained 
that he had a change in financial  circumstances  and he tried to give up the 1992 Timeshare, 
but the timeshare company became aggressive and refused to return any of the upfront cost.  
Mr R said he stopped  paying anything further  for the 1992 Timeshare and the timeshare 
company eventually stopped asking for anything more, but it also didnt return  his deposit.
Both agreements were similar, in that Mr R paid for the timeshare by paying  a deposit and 
the balance was paid by a mortgage,  which was an interest-bearing loan granted  by the 
timeshare company. The 1991 purchase needed a deposit of $900 followed by monthly 
repayments of $155.85.  The 1992 purchase  needed a deposit of $1,800 followed by monthly 
payments of $130.50.
Mr R felt that the agreements had been misrepresented  as the full contract wording wasnt 
made available to him at the time he took out the timeshares  and he wasnt  given  
information about significant features of the products. Mr R has also said the timeshare 
company misled him about the ease of reselling  the timeshares, as well as any potential 
future value  of them, and he wasnt made aware that the contract was perpetual.
Mr R said he had used his HSBC  credit card to pay for both the timeshare  deposits  and his 
mortgages to the timeshare company. So he complained to HSBC,  saying  it was liable to 
him for a claim for misrepresentation under s.75 CCA. 
Mr R complained to HSBC on 3 February  2017 as he said it was at this time he became 
aware of his potential  claim following a 2015  Spanish court  case that dealt  with poor 
practices in the selling of timeshares. 
One of our investigators  looked at the complaint and didnt think  there was enough evidence  
to show that Mr R used  his credit card to pay for the timeshares. That meant they thought  
HSBC had acted  fairly  in not agreeing with his s.75 CCA claim. 
Mr R sent in some more information  from the time of the sale that he thought showed he had 
used his HSBC  credit card to make the purchase. Our investigator  looked at the new 
evidence and thought it was more  likely  than not that he had used  his credit card. But they 
felt that the Limitation Act 1980  (LA)  applied to any claim Mr R had and that meant  he had 
until 1998 at the latest  to bring  his claim.  As he hadnt brought it in time, they said HSBC  
didnt now need  to look into it.
Mr R disagreed as he said the first time he could have known he might have a claim was in 
2017 when he found out about the Spanish court case. So he asked for the matter to be 
considered again by an ombudsman.
Ref: DRN55970052I considered the complaint and issued  a provisional decision as, having  considered 
everything, I had come  to a different conclusion to our investigator.  I set out my provisional 
findings and asked for both Mr R and HSBC to give me any further  comments or arguments 
before I issued a final decision.
In my provisional decision,  I explained  that I didnt think there  was sufficient evidence for me 
to conclude that Mr R used a HSBC credit  card in the way needed to bring a s.75 CCA 
claim. Having come  to that conclusion, I didnt need to go on to consider whether he made 
his claim to HSBC too late.
When Mr R first brought this complaint to our service, he said he used his credit card to pay 
the mortgage to the timeshare company in 1992  and 1995. But he later clarified this to say 
he used his credit card to pay the deposit  for both timeshares as well as his mortgage 
repayments. So I looked at all of the available documentary  evidence, alongside what Mr R 
said happened, to see whether there was sufficient evidence that he used his HSBC card.
Mr R provided  a document  titled PURCHASE AGREEMENT  for the 1991  Timeshare.  It 
showed the total price was $9,000, which was to be paid with a deposit  of $900 and the 
balance to be paid by a mortgage loan running  for 94 months. This document  didnt state 
whether Mr R used a credit card to pay the deposit,  or used some other form of payment.
There was a separate document dated  3 September  1991 which dealt with the interest-
bearing loan for $8,100  this was called a mortgage and was secured  against the 1991 
Timeshare. The document  had been stamped CANCELLED , but I didnt think  it was clear 
when the loan was paid off.
For the 1992 Timeshare, there was a RECEIPT FOR ESCROW DEPOSIT dated  17 
August 1992.  It showed that $1,975 was paid by credit card for the timeshare and other 
expenses. The receipt didnt set out any of the details about  the credit  card used. 
I noted that there was a further document titled CREDIT CARD AUTHORIZATION  FORM. 
This form was for the payment of mortgage and condominium  association  payments. At the 
top of the form there were  two boxes, one for a new authorisation and one for a change  of 
information  Mr R had ticked  to say this was a change of information.  On the form Mr R 
gave a credit  card number  that correlated with an old Midland Bank credit card, which  was 
subsequently taken over by HSBC. I saw that the expiry date for the card was given as June 
1996 and the form was signed on 25 May 1995.
On 22 December 1995 Mr R wrote to the timeshare provider to say there  had been a change 
to his financial position and he had instructed his bank to stop authorising  payments from his 
credit cards for the timeshare. Mr R gave details of two credit cards,  both had numbers that 
correlate to HSBC  branded  cards.
Unfortunately neither  Mr R nor HSBC was able to provide any statements or other 
documents that clearly show that Mr R used his credit card to pay for the 1991 or 1992 
Timeshares  so I wasnt able to say how much he paid and to which business.
Having looked  at everything, I thought Mr R entered into four agreements with the timeshare 
company over the course  of his dealings. With the 1991 Timeshare there  were  two 
agreements  the first to purchase the 1991 Timeshare for $9,000  and the second to take 
out a loan (called a mortgage) from the timeshare company to pay the balance  of what  was 
Ref: DRN55970053owed to buy the timeshare. Although I hadnt seen a separate  loan document from the 1992 
sale, I thought  it was likely there  were  similar agreements arising from the 1992  Timeshare.
When Mr R first made his claim to HSBC  he said he used his credit card to pay the 
mortgage to the timeshare  company in 1992 and 1995. And when HSBC said it no longer 
had any records of his card purchase history,  Mr R said:
I had no other means  of paying the mortgage, so I am unable to accept  your denial 
on the basis of we do not hold records. The amount  involved,  excluding the deposit, 
is $8,100 plus interest. 
So at this stage  I thought  Mr R was talking  only about the money paid to the mortgage on 
the 1991 Timeshare, not the amount  that had been paid for the deposits for the timeshares.
I couldnt see any documentary evidence that any credit card was used to pay for the 1991 
Timeshare deposit and, when  Mr R first claimed, he talked about  payments made  in 1992 
and 1995 and toward the mortgage repayments. So I couldnt say there was sufficient 
evidence that Mr Rs HSBC card was used for the 1991 Timeshare deposit.
I also wasnt satisfied that Mr Rs card was used for the 1992 Timeshare deposit. I saw that 
the RECEIPT FOR ESCROW  DEPOSIT indicated that a credit  card was used, but it didnt 
set out any of the details of that card. Mr R said that he only ever had one credit  card and he 
would have used  it to make the payments needed as he had no other way of paying for the 
timeshares. But I saw in the letter of 22 December  1995  that Mr R gave two credit card 
numbers, so Im not persuaded that he did only ever have one credit card. Based on the 
evidence available, I wasnt  able to conclude he used a HSBC credit card to pay the deposit  
for the 1992 Timeshare.
The first available  evidence linking Mr Rs HSBC credit card to either of the timeshares was 
in 25 May 1995  when  he provided his card details to the timeshare company for the payment 
of his mortgage and condominium association  payments. And it appeared he authorised this 
card to be used until he withdrew authority in December of that year. I thought  this fit with 
what Mr R said about using his card to pay the mortgage. So I thought about whether hed 
be able to make a s.75 CCA claim if he used his credit card to pay off the mortgages.
Mr R tried to make  a claim under s.75 CCA, saying that HSBC should be held jointly  liable 
for the timeshare providers misrepresentations about the timeshares when  he first took 
them out. S.75(1) CCA reads:
If the debtor  under  a debtor-creditor-supplier  agreement falling within  section 12(b)  
or (c) has, in relation to a transaction financed by the agreement,  any claim against 
the supplier in respect of a misrepresentation or breach of contract, he shall have a 
like claim against the creditor, who, with the supplier,  shall accordingly be jointly  and 
severally liable to the debtor.
If Mr R used his credit  card to pay the timeshare company directly (so not through  an 
intermediary), I thought it possible he could raise a s.75 CCA  claim about a breach of 
contract or misrepresentation about the transaction financed by the card.  So its important to 
know what any card payment was used  towards.
I thought there were  four agreements in place  two agreements to purchase  the 1991  and 
1992 Timeshares and two loan agreements to finance those purchases. I didnt think there 
Ref: DRN55970054was sufficient evidence  to say Mr R used his credit  card to pay the deposits on either of the 
two timeshares, which was the only money paid upfront in 1991  or 1992. If I accepted that 
Mr R used his card to pay either  of the mortgages, I didnt think  that would give rise to the 
s.75 CCA  claim he wished to make, as the card would  have  funded different transactions to 
the ones he complained about  the payments would have funded the mortgage  repayments 
and not the timeshare agreements. It followed, I didnt think HSBC acted unfairly in turning 
down his claim.
I said that I understood Mr R felt it was unfair that, as this all happened so long ago, there 
was no longer the evidence available to show that the payments were made by credit  card.  
He pointed out that he authorised his card to be charged,  that he believed the payments 
were made and that he had no other  means to repay, so the only logical conclusion was that 
his card was used. I understood his frustrations  that HSBC hadnt  been able to provide 
evidence of how he used  his card between 1991 and 1995. But I didnt think it was 
unreasonable or unusual that HSBC  hadnt  been  able to provide statements, given the 
period in question was over 20 years ago and there  was no requirement for HSBC  to keep 
records that go that far back. 
I also thought  about what would happen  if Mr R made a s.75 CCA claim in court.  The burden 
to prove  that he had a valid claim would fall on him. And the fact that Mr R hadnt been  able 
to provide credit card statements or receipts was down to the time that had passed since  he 
said the payments  were  made. I accepted that wasnt his fault,  but neither was it HSBCs 
fault. But I explained that based on what I had seen at that stage, I didnt have the evidence  
to conclude payments  were made  by Mr R using his HSBC  credit card.  Without further 
evidence, I said I wasnt going  to tell HSBC to do anything further.
HSBC responded  to say it had nothing further it wished to add.
Mr R responded to say he didnt  agree  with my provisional decision.  Mr R explained that he 
used the same HSBC  card to pay both the timeshare deposits and the ongoing mortgage 
repayments. He pointed out that the RECEIPT FOR  ESCROW DEPOSIT  document was 
filled out by the timeshare  provider  and, although it set out the type of payment used, it didnt 
allow for details of the actual card used to be recorded. 
Mr R has explained that the two card details given by him in December 1995 referred to 
successive card numbers  relating to one account,  not two separate  cards. He also explained 
that the authorisation form was supplied  by him as the previous one had expired, so he 
needed to give the provider permission  again  to take payments. Mr R also says that he 
disagrees there were  four agreements arising from the two purchases, rather  he only ever 
bought two timeshares from the provider.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I havent  changed  my 
conclusions from my provisional decision.
Before I go on to deal with the points  Mr R raised,  Ill clarify  one part of my previous decision 
 the number of agreements  that were in place.
I think there were two separate agreements in place with each of the purchases  in 1991 and 
1992. In 1991 there  was an agreement to purchase  a timeshare week  and that was paid with 
Ref: DRN55970055a deposit and then the balance was paid using  a loan  the purchase agreement  formed the 
first agreement. But there was a second,  linked agreement entered  into at the same time.  
That was for an interest bearing loan, called a mortgage, which was used to discharge the 
balance on the timeshare. So when Mr R paid a deposit, that went  to the first agreement, 
and when he paid his loan repayments,  that went to the second agreement. I also think  there 
were two similar agreements for the 1992 loan.
The problem that this creates  for Mr Rs claim is that I would need to see evidence that he 
paid for the original  timeshare deposits using  his credit card, and not the loan repayments.  
And for the reasons set out in my provisional decision as quoted  above,  I dont  think  that is 
made out. The transaction that Mr R wishes to complain  about, and the one he says was 
financed by his credit card, was the actual purchase  of the timeshare and not the loan 
agreement. 
I have listened  to what Mr R has said, but I dont think it makes a difference  to the outcome 
of my provisional decision.  Mr R has explained  that the two numbers given by him in 
December 1995  related  to the same  account, whereas I said they showed  there  were  two 
cards. Due to the passage of time, Im unable to come to a firm conclusion  on this point, but 
for the purposes  of this decision Im prepared to accept what  Mr R has said.  But that doesnt 
change the fact that I simply dont have the evidence available  to conclude Mr R used a 
HSBC credit card to pay for the deposits for either timeshare in 1991  or 1992. 
As I said before, the earliest time I have seen any link between a HSBC card and the 
timeshare was in the May 1995 CREDIT CARD AUTHORIZATION FORM.  Ive looked at 
the form and I can see at the top there are two boxes, one marked New Authorization and 
the next saying Change of Information  I can see the change  of information box has been 
ticked. I cant say what the change in information was as it could have  been  any number of 
things, for example  a change of address or a new card. Mr R suggests this form was 
completed as he obtained  a new credit  card number from HSBC  and needed  to supply it to 
the timeshare  company.  
Its possible that, as this form was giving a change of information rather  than a new 
authorisation, the timeshare provider already had Mr Rs card details and didnt need to be 
given fresh authorisation to take a payment. But even if that was the case, this form was for 
the taking of loan repayments. And I dont  think this is enough  for me to be able to conclude 
that Mr R used his HSBC credit card to pay the deposits several  years  earlier.
I do sympathise with Mr R as I understand it is very difficult  to provide evidence from so long 
ago. But I still dont  have  enough evidence to safely conclude he used a HSBC  credit card to 
purchase the timeshares  in 1991  or 1992. So for that reason, Im not going to tell HSBC to 
do anything further.
Ref: DRN55970056my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint against HSBC  UK Bank Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 July 2021.
Mark Hutchings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5597005