K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that Advantage Insurance Company Limited  (Advantage) settled a claim
under his motor  insurance policy for less than his car was worth. He also complains that the
service provided by Advantage throughout the claim wasnt  good enough.
background
Mr H was involved in an accident that resulted in his car being written  off. Advantage settled
the claim for £11,890.  This was after an initial lower  offer that Mr H rejected. Mr H felt that
this offer wasnt a fair reflection of the value as his car had many extras and was still under
the manufacturers warranty.
Mr H was also unhappy with the service he had been provided  by Advantage throughout the
claim. He said it had misinformed  him on certain things and its salvage agent had lost his
personal possessions.
Mr Hs policy  says that it will settle a total loss claim  for the market  value.  The policy  gives
the following  definition  of market value:
The cost of replacing  your car in the United Kingdom at the time the loss or damage
occurred with one of a similar  make, model, age and condition. Publications may be
used which  refer to vehicle values such as Glass's Guide to assess the market value,
with an allowance  being made  for the mileage,  condition and circumstances of
purchase by you.
Advantage didnt  increase the valuation of his vehicle as it felt the offer it had already made
was a fair one. It was unable to determine what had happened with Mr Hs personal
possessions as the salvage agent said the items Mr H had asked to be returned were not in
the car, so Advantage paid Mr H £1,085 to cover  the cost of them  as a gesture of goodwill.
Regarding the service  it had provided Advantage accepted  there had been some
miscommunication and offered  Mr H £50 in recognition of this.
Mr H remained  unhappy with Advantages resolution and so brought his complaint to this
service. The investigator felt that Advantages offer of compensation for the service provided
was fair but felt that the valuation was too low and asked  Advantage to increase its offer to
£12,051. Advantage never responded to the investigators view. Mr H didnt agree, he still
felt that the valuation being placed on his car was too low. He carried out research which  he
believes shows he wouldnt be able to replace his car with another  one of the same
specifications for the amount suggested and so the matter  was passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision on 13 May 2020. In my provisional decision I explained why I 
was minded to not uphold Mr Hs complaint. I invited both parties to let me have anything in 
response they thought was relevant.
Advantage said it had nothing  further  to add.
Mr H didnt respond.
Ref: DRN56679472my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because neither party has anything more to add Ive reached the same conclusions  as set 
out in my provisional  decision and for the same reasons:
Service failings and personal possessions
Mr H feels that the £50 compensation Advantage awarded does not reflect the level of stress
caused to him by its service failings. He says that he spent over ten hours chasing and
managing issues  he had throughout the claim and the amount doesnt reflect the time spent.
Nor does  it reflect the anxiety  caused  by the loss of his personal possessions.
I can see that Advantage initially told Mr H the incorrect  information about how his warranty
may be affected if the car was to be repaired by its network repairer. But it did later give him
the correct information, albeit  the car was written off and so the information  didnt  have an
impact. Mr H said he spent significant  time looking into matters around  this when he thought
the car might be repaired.
All claims  unfortunately  bring with them  a certain degree of disruption  and inconvenience
and this isnt something  we would expect a business  to compensate for but if it gets things
wrong, we do expect it to put things right and compensate where it should, but we dont ask
it to compensate an hourly rate and we only recommend moderate awards. With this in mind
I think the £50 Advantage has offered is fair and what Id expect  for the mistakes  that it
made.
I understand that when Mr H found  that his personal possessions were  missing this wouldve
been distressing  but when Advantage couldnt establish whatd happened  to items he said
were left in the car. It gave Mr H the money to replace  the items as a gesture of good  will.
Im satisfied that Advantage has done enough to resolve this and wont  be asking them to do
any more to resolve this issue.
Valuation
My role is not to value  Mr Hs car, but to make sure Advantage has settled his claim fairly,
reasonably and in line with his policy.
Our approach to assessing a fair market value  takes into account  what  the motor trade
guides say the market  value is. The guides  give a good reflection of the true market  value of
the vehicle.
Advantage had their in-house engineer put a value on the car using the trade guides and his
knowledge of the market.  The engineer considered the guides as well as the extras  that Mr
Hs car included and placed a value of £11,890 on the car. At new, added  extras  can be
expensive and make  a car more desirable but the amount  paid for them doesnt mean a
comparable increase in the market value when second hand.
Our investigator carried out checks on the trade guides, including the extras  and mileage on
Mr Hs car, they returned values of: Glasss £11,750, CAP £12,030  and Cazana  £12,374.  As
Advantages valuation falls within this range, Im satisfied it has placed affair valuation on the
car and settled the claim fairly and in line with the policy  terms.
Ref: DRN56679473my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, my final decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 July 2020.
Amber Mortimer
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN5667947