K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
1996. Mr and Mrs W say Santander UK Plc, trading as Alliance  & Leicester, mis-sold them  
the PPI.
background
Mr and Mrs W took out a PPI policy in 1996  and they paid a monthly  amount for the cover. 
The policy covered them both and would have paid a monthly  benefit  in the event  that either 
of them made a successful claim for accident,  sickness or unemployment. This policy  could 
have paid out for a maximum of 12 months.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold this complaint. Mr and Mrs W disagreed and so the complaint  
has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website  and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ws case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
Santander had to make  it clear the PPI was optional and Mr and Mrs W had to choose to 
take it out. Neither Santander nor Mr and Mrs W have  been able to provide much information  
from the time of the sale. This means  I dont  have any notes to show what discussions may 
have taken place  or any copies  of paperwork that Mr and Mrs W may have seen or signed 
but this isnt surprising considering the length of time that has passed. I also need  to take 
into account that recollections  of a sale from over 22 years  ago may have been affected over 
time.
Ive thought very carefully about this but I havent seen enough to say that its more  likely that 
Santander didnt  make it clear the policy was optional or that Mr and Mrs W didnt agree to 
take it. Im also aware that the PPI appears to have been taken some years after 
Mr and Mrs Ws mortgage began and so I think they would have known this wasnt a 
compulsory insurance. So, in the absence of any information persuading me otherwise, I 
think its more likely  Santander made Mr and Mrs W aware that they had a choice about 
buying the PPI, and they chose to take it.
Santander doesnt have a record of how this policy was sold but has treated it as though it 
recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs W. As this puts a greater responsibility on Santander, 
rather than Mr and Mrs W, Ive also assessed the complaint on the basis  that advice was 
given. This means  Santander had to check that the PPI was right for them  and based on 
what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For example they were 
eligible for the cover and dont appear  to have been affected by the main  exclusions  or 
limitations to the policy,  such  as unusual working arrangements or suffering from a medical 
condition of which  they were already  aware.
Ref: DRN50647252Mr and Mrs W have  told us that they were both entitled to sick pay from their employers if 
they were off work  due to accident or sickness  Mr W said he would receive less than three 
months pay and Mrs W has told us she would receive at least three  months pay. But this 
policy would have paid out for up to 12 months which would be in addition to, and potentially  
for longer than,  their sick pay. And it would provide cover for the same length  of time if they 
were to lose their jobs. While Ive noted that Mrs W did have some  savings,  by having this 
policy she would have  been able to protect these funds or use them to help cover  other  
essential living costs.  So I still think this policy could have provided them with a useful 
benefit.
Its possible the information Santander gave Mr and Mrs W about the PPI wasnt as clear  as 
it shouldve been.  But I think  its more  likely  that they chose to take it out - so it looks  like they 
wanted this type of cover. And it seems  like it would have been useful for them  if something 
went wrong. It also looks  like it was affordable. So I dont  think better information about the 
PPI would have put them off taking out the cover.
So when taking  everything into account,  I dont think Mr and Mrs W have lost out as a result 
of anything  that Santander  may have done wrong.
my final decision
For the reasons  stated  above, I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  4 August  2019. 
Jenny Giles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5064725