K820x#14complaint
Mr Y complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc failed to carry out a transfer of my pension fund of 
circa £949,000 to another account where investments had been booked  for purchase.
He said an investment deal should  have been placed on 3 January 2019, but HSBCs error 
meant the deal wasnt placed until 1 March 2019.  He believes he has lost more  than £40,000  
as a result, and he would  like HSBC to compensate him for that loss.
background
In late 2018, Mr Y was the sole remaining member of a Small Self Administered  Scheme 
(the SSAS  or the trust). Mr Y wanted to wind up the SSAS, and transfer  its assets to his 
own personal pension.  
By December 2018 the only asset  of the SSAS was cash in an HSBC bank account. At 
some point on or before 19 December 2018,  Mr Y gave an instruction for that cash  to be 
transferred out of the HSBC bank  account.  The transfer instruction was resubmitted to 
HSBC on 21 December  2018. 
The transfer was delayed. Theres a dispute about  whose fault that delay was  and that 
dispute forms the basis of this complaint   but everyone agrees that there was in fact a 
delay. 
Mr Y complained about HSBCs failure  to carry out the bank transfer more quickly.
HSBC upheld the complaint in part. It wrote to a representative of the SSAS to say whilst 
there was an error made on our behalf  by not advising you of the rejected payment, it is your 
responsibility to ensure  that there are sufficient funds available  in your account  to cover any 
outgoing payments . 
HSBC said it had arranged for £100  for distress  and inconvenience, plus a further £60 to 
cover fees,  to be credited to the SSASs bank  account. The SSASs  bank statement shows  
that £160 was credited to the account on 18 February 2019.
The funds were eventually transferred  out of the SSASs HSBC bank account on 
28 February 2019. Shortly afterwards, the funds were invested by Old Mutual into Mr Ys 
personal pension.
One of our investigators  looked at the complaint. She thought  that if HSBC  had acted 
properly, the bank transfer  complained about would have taken place by 21 January 2019. 
But she didnt think HSBC  should be responsible for losses suffered after 12 February 2019, 
because that was the date on which HSBC told Mr Y that the transfer hadnt gone  ahead.  
Our investigator recommended that HSBC compensate Mr Y for any losses  he suffered 
between 21 January 2019 and 12 February  2019.  She said it should engage an independent 
actuary to calculate that loss. Finally, she recommended that HSBC pay Mr Y £250  for the 
unnecessary stress it caused him.
Mr Y accepted our investigators opinion, but HSBC did not. The complaint was therefore 
referred to me, to be reviewed independently.  
Ref: DRN54409292I wrote  to both parties to explain why I can only consider the complaint Mr Y has made in his 
capacity as a trustee of the SSAS. In the particular circumstances here, I cant consider any 
complaint Mr Y might make against HSBC  in his capacity as the beneficiary of either  the 
SSAS or his personal pension. That means I can only consider losses suffered by the SSAS 
 and I cant consider  any losses Mr Y might have suffered personally.
I went on to explain why I didnt think it would be fair for me to order  HSBC to make a further 
payment. I said:
As I understand it, the point of the December 2018 bank transfer  was to allow the 
SSAS to be wound up. Nobody had any intention  to invest the SSASs money  so 
nothing HSBC did (or failed to do) could possibly  have  caused the SSAS  to lose out 
on investment opportunities. [Mr Y] may have personally lost out on investment 
opportunities, but that isnt the same thing.
I think HSBC is right to say that it wasnt required to follow the transfer instructions it 
was given in December 2018, because  the trusts bank account had insufficient 
funds. But I also think that if a human being had looked at the account, it would have 
been obvious what had happened  the account  was £30 short,  and the fee was £30, 
which strongly implies that somebody  simply forgot about the fee. HSBC accepts 
that, as a matter  of good customer service, it should  have contacted the trustees  to 
explain that the payment had not gone  ahead. It says that if a particular  staff member 
hadnt been out of the office, that person would have  contacted  the trustees.
I acknowledge that many banks (and other  businesses) operate  with fewer  staff than 
normal over the Christmas  period.  But I dont  accept HSBCs comment that the staff 
members absence meant the issue was out of its control. It may not have had any 
control over whether the individual  staff member was able to work that day, but I see 
no reason why it could  not have arranged for a different staff member to contact  the 
trustees. So I think it is right that HSBC should  pay some  compensation to the 
trustees of the trust. However,  I consider that the £160 it has already paid is fair in 
relation to its failure to tell the trustees  that the payment had not gone  through.
So far as the delay  itself is concerned (as distinct from HSBCs  failure  to tell the 
trustees about the delay), I have only been asked to consider  a complaint about 
HSBC. Even  if I had received complaints about  the other financial businesses 
involved  and even  if those complaints fell within my jurisdiction  it wouldnt be fair 
for me to make findings against any of those businesses without first giving them an 
opportunity to explain what happened. On the other  hand, the fact I have not 
received complaints about the other  businesses does not mean it would be fair for 
me to hold HSBC  responsible for errors  made by other people.
On the face of it, it seems to me unlikely that HSBC was the sole cause of the delay:
If the transfer  instruction  had taken account of the fee in the first place, there 
might not have  been an issue at all.
Given the size of the transaction, and its importance to [Mr Y], I find it 
surprising that nobody appears  to have chased the payment up until mid 
February. Neither Old Mutual nor anybody  else would  have sent contract 
notes, or any other confirmation that the funds had been invested  because 
the funds had not in fact been invested.
Ref: DRN54409293Old Mutual told us that it had no contact from anybody regarding  this case  
between 24 December 2018 (when it says [Mr Ys representative] contacted  it 
to confirm HSBC had released the money  to Old Mutual)  and 12 February 
2019. It said:
We contacted the ceding scheme on 12/02/2019 and we were  
informed they had received the payment instruction from the client  but 
required an actual cheque. They also confirmed that the payment 
would be made  differently  as it is a SSAS.
I dont know exactly what Old Mutual  meant by its comments about requiring 
a cheque or having to make the payment differently, but it seems likely those 
issues would have  caused at least a short delay. 
However, regardless of whether or not I am right about whether HSBC caused  the 
whole of the delay, I can still only award  the losses suffered by the trust. Since the 
trustees dont appear to have had any intention to invest  the trusts  money,  it would 
not be right for me to make an award for investment losses  (or for loss of investment 
opportunity). Similarly,  the trustees do not appear  to have had any intention  to keep 
the trusts  money in an interest bearing  account,  and so the trust did not suffer any 
loss of opportunity  to earn interest.
Overall, I said I thought the £160  HSBC has already paid was fair compensation in respect 
of any losses suffered by the trust as a result of failings by HSBC.
HSBC confirmed that it had received my provisional findings, but it did not provide any 
further comment.
Mr Y and his representative were  understandably disappointed by my provisional findings,  
particularly as our investigator had recommended  that HSBC pay compensation to Mr Y. 
They both consider that HSBC should reimburse  Mr Ys full losses   or at the very least, 
make a significantly increased ex gratia payment. Mr Ys representative also gave further 
reasons as to why he believes HSBCs  error was the cause of the delay in the funds being 
invested.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint   taking into account both parties  
response to my provisional  conclusions. Having done so, I have  come  to the same 
conclusions as I did before, and for the same reasons.
I am sorry  to further disappoint Mr Y, but I remain satisfied that any financial losses  suffered 
here were suffered either by Mr Ys personal pension  or by Mr Y personally  they were  not 
suffered by the SSAS. By December 2018, none  of the trustees  had any intention of 
investing the SSASs money. They did not want  to hold the SSASs  money in an interest 
bearing account either; what  they wanted  to do was move money out of the SSAS and into a 
personal pension  in Mr Ys name.
Ref: DRN54409294That means Im satisfied that, regardless of whether HSBC  made  any errors, HSBC did not 
cause a financial loss to the SSAS.  As a result, it would not be fair for me to order  HSBC  to 
compensate the trustees of the SSAS for financial losses.
HSBC had already  made a payment of £160 to the SSAS in respect of the inconvenience it 
caused to the trustees.  I see no basis on which I could fairly order  HSBC  to increase that 
payment. 
I make  no findings as to whether it would be fair for HSBC to make  a payment to Mr Ys 
personal pension.  For the reasons Ive given  in my previous correspondence with Mr Ys 
representative, I have  no power to consider  that issue. I appreciate  that is very disappointing 
to Mr Y, but I cannot  give myself a jurisdiction that I do not have.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against HSBC  UK Bank Plc. I make no 
award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 December 2020.
Laura Colman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5440929