K820x#14complaint
Mr P1 brings this complaint as Executor of the estate  of his late mother, Mrs P, with the 
consent of the other Executor, who is his brother.  The complaint is that advice given to his 
parents, Mr P2 and Mrs P, by Aviva  Life Services UK Limited (Aviva) to take out a lifetime 
equity release mortgage was unsuitable.  Mr P1 says that, as a result  of false  and fraudulent 
information provided by the adviser,  and a deliberately inflated valuation  from the surveyor, 
Aviva should  write the mortgage off.
background
I will summarise  the background to the complaint briefly. Although there is a considerable 
amount of material in the case file, the events complained about which relate to the 
mortgage (rather than other matters)  can be summarised below.
In September  2004 and October  2004 Mr P2 and Mrs P were given advice by a 
representative of Aviva (then known as Norwich Union) about a lifetime mortgage.  An 
application for a mortgage from Aviva was completed on 14 October  2004.  A letter  of advice  
was sent to Mr P2 and Mrs P dated  19 October 2004. 
On 5 November  2004 Aviva  wrote to Mr P2 and Mrs P explaining that, due to regulatory 
changes, after 31 October 2004,  mortgages would become regulated.  The letter explained  
that any advice  given before 31 October  2004  would be subject to the rules applicable at the 
time of the advice.  But any part of the sale and application process and any documents  
received after 31 October  2004 would be subject to regulation.
A mortgage offer was issued  on 28 October 2004. This was for a loan of £34,650  at a fixed  
interest rate of 7.49%.  As is usual with this type of mortgage, no monthly repayments are 
required to be made by the borrowers;  instead  interest rolls up, and is added to the loan 
balance. The illustration  and the mortgage  offer show examples of the balance outstanding  
on the loan after a number of years. These documents also explain that an early repayment 
charge is payable in certain circumstances, how it will be calculated  and the situations  in 
which no early repayment charge will be applied.
The mortgage completed in December 2004,  after Mr P2 and Mrs P received independent 
legal advice from their own solicitors.
I am sorry  to note that Mr P2 passed  away in September 2017 and that Mrs P died six 
months later. Mrs P only revealed the existence of the mortgage to her sons in December 
2017.
Mr P1 has now brought a complaint that the mortgage was mis-sold. He says that his 
parents never discussed the application  with him or his brother, which  was their prerogative. 
But he has concerns about the way the application  was dealt with.
Aviva didnt uphold  the complaint, so it was brought to us. An adjudicator looked at the 
complaint but was satisfied that the advice was suitable.
Mr P1 disagreed. In summary, he says that the fact-find was inaccurate and contained false 
information. Mr P1 also says that the surveyor fraudulently inflated the valuation of the 
property, which allowed Aviva to lend his parents more money. 
Ref: DRN53629052Mr P1 says that no other options to raise funds were  considered  by the adviser, such  as 
advising his parents to sell a collection of porcelain which Mr P1 says was clearly  on display 
in the room used to conduct the initial  interview between the adviser and his parents. Mr P1 
also says that his parents could have had an interest-free loan from family members,  taken 
out a repayment mortgage, or borrowed less.
Mr P1 is also concerned  that the fact-find  records that his parents were not in receipt  of state  
benefits, when  Mr P2 was receiving Disability Living Allowance and Industrial Injuries 
Allowance. Mr P1 says his father  was unable to write without hand splints, which  would 
clearly have been visible to the adviser. This, Mr P1 says,  should have alerted the adviser  to 
the fact that Mr P2 was receiving disability benefits.
Because Mr P1 didnt accept the adjudicators  findings, the complaint has now been referred 
to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  If the available evidence is incomplete  
and/or contradictory,  we reach our findings on what we consider  is most  likely to have 
happened, on the balance  of probabilities. Thats broadly the same test that the courts  use in 
civil cases.
First, I would like to offer my condolences to Mr P1 and his brother for the loss of their 
parents, within  a few months of each other. I appreciate this has been  a difficult  time for the 
family.
Under our rules,  we can consider a complaint  from a consumer. Mrs P was a consumer,  and 
so met the definition  of an eligible complainant set out in our rules. After the death, her 
eligibility to complain vested in her estate. More importantly  for this complaint, the rules say 
that a complaint may be brought on behalf of an eligible complainant by a person authorised 
by the eligible complainant or authorised by law. In this respect, Mr P1 is bringing the 
complaint on the estates  behalf.
But I must explain that, although  Mr P1 is representing his mothers estate, it is Mr P2 and 
Mrs P who were Avivas customer (or were at the time of the events complained about). 
Mr P1s role is to bring  Mrs Ps complaint  on her estates behalf, in the same  way that other  
consumers might instruct a relative, solicitor  or accountant to represent them  in a complaint. 
But this does not entitle Mr P1 or his brother to air their own grievances  about Aviva,  
because they are not its customer; their role is limited to putting  forward  the estates 
complaint.
I note from the detailed correspondence  that Mr P1 has expressed his own concerns about 
what he perceives to be Avivas failings   and I do not doubt his strength of feeling about 
this. But because Mr P1 and his brother  are not Avivas customers, this final decision is 
limited to consideration of Mrs Ps estates  complaint  about Aviva.
Mr P2 and Mrs P hadnt  complained about the mortgage previously, and it seems that it was 
only when Mr P1 looked closer at his mothers financial  affairs  shortly after she died that a 
complaint was raised with Aviva. So in this final decision I have looked at the sale of the 
mortgage. Without a specific complaint from Mr P2 and Mrs P about it during their lifetimes,  I 
have considered generally  whether  Aviva  did anything wrong when the mortgage  was taken 
out.
Ref: DRN53629053This mortgage straddles the period before mortgages became regulated  and after. The 
advice was given  before regulation and so is covered by the Mortgage  Code.  The mortgage 
completed after 31 October 2004, and so became subject to the Mortgages and Home 
Finance: Conduct  of Business Sourcebook  (MCOB).  This complaint isnt about the 
mortgage as such; its about the advice to take it out.
Equity release  mortgages are designed for elderly customers. When they were first launched 
to the market lenders recognised the potential for family members to complain, years  later,  
that the mortgage was mis-sold.  For that reason, the industry  trade association  for equity 
release mortgages  (known as Safe Home Income Plans (SHIP) in 2004, but known since  
2012 as the Equity Release Council) made sure that businesses offering equity release 
mortgages complied  with stringent selling standards. In 2004  these  were  more rigorous than 
the selling  standards applied by the Mortgage Code.
Before Mr P2 and Mrs P spoke to the adviser  they were  made  aware that Aviva only offered 
its own equity release products. The adviser was under no obligation to give advice about  
any other type of mortgage. This is in line with the selling standards in place at the time 
under the Mortgage Code.
The starting point  in this complaint is the point-of-sale documentation from 2004.  The value 
of such documents  is that theyre contemporaneous;  so they should reflect  what was said 
and agreed at the relevant time. Theyre not fool-proof, of course; its always possible 
information might be recorded  incorrectly; that notion forms much of Mr P1s argument, 
especially to do with Mr P2 and Mrs Ps circumstances at the time. 
Where the consumers have signed to confirm that the information  is accurate, well generally 
attach some weight to it. Its typically more reliable  than peoples  individual recollections (or, 
as here,  the recollections of others) at a distance of time which,  although given in good faith, 
can sometimes be inaccurate or contradictory. 
Mr P1 says that his father  was in receipt of benefits  which werent reflected in the information 
recorded at the time of the application.  He also says alternatives to raise  money   such  as 
selling a valuable  porcelain collection or borrowing from family, interest-free  wasnt  
considered. But Mr P2 and Mrs P signed  a declaration to say all of the information  that had 
been gathered  was correct.
I would not have expected  Avivas adviser to be aware of the value of ornaments in the 
home or suggest  to Mr P2 and Mrs P that they should sell their personal belongings. If Mr P2 
didnt disclose the benefits he was receiving,  the adviser would not have known that the 
information he was being given was inaccurate.
Aviva was entitled to take what Mr P2 and Mrs P said at face value. The adviser certainly 
wasnt obliged to make  further enquiries  (for example of the Department for Work & 
Pensions) to make sure they were telling the truth. Nor was Aviva required to check  with 
Mr P2 and Mrs Ps family that they had told them what they were planning to do. And I note 
that Mr P1 acknowledges  that it was his parents prerogative to keep their finances  private.  
I appreciate Mr P1 has serious concerns about  the accuracy and the amount of detail in 
what Aviva  gathered, but the fact is that Mr P2 and Mrs P gave the information  to Aviva and 
signed a document declaring  it to be accurate.  For Mr P1 to now say that the information 
contained in the fact-find  wasnt true is effectively to challenge the veracity  of what  his 
parents told Aviva in 2004. I can see that dates  of birth were inaccurate on some of the 
Ref: DRN53629054documentation. But Im not persuaded that is indicative of widespread  falsification of the 
documentation, as alleged by Mr P1.
Mr P1 has raised concerns about  the valuation report, and in particular that it contained  
information that he thinks might have  been  falsified or exaggerated. The report  was prepared  
by an independent surveyor, not an employee  of Aviva.  The valuation was for Avivas 
lending purposes  only. If Mr P1 has concerns about the valuation, hell need to take this up 
directly with the surveyor or his professional body. 
All Aviva was required to do was to ensure that the valuation  was carried  out by a 
suitably-qualified  professional. The surveyor was a Fellow of the Royal Institution of 
Chartered Surveyors, and so Im satisfied Aviva was entitled to rely on his professional 
opinion in relation to what he considered to be the value of the property.
Mr P2 and Mrs P were  also given independent  advice by their own solicitors  before they 
committed themselves to the lifetime mortgage.  It was the solicitors  role to ensure  Mr P2 
and Mrs P fully understood the nature and effect  of the lifetime mortgage before they signed 
the documentation. The solicitors provided written confirmation of this to Aviva,  known as a 
SHIP certificate. 
In the circumstances, Im satisfied Aviva was entitled to assume there  were  no concerns 
Mr P2 and Mrs P had about taking out the mortgage   and that any questions  they had 
about it were answered by their solicitors. Otherwise  the solicitors  wouldnt have signed the 
SHIP certificate.  
Im also satisfied that it is unlikely there were any issues around Mr P2 and Mrs Ps capacity 
to understand  or deal with their finances  in 2004. I say this because Mr P1 has confirmed 
that in 2012 his parents  signed Lasting  Powers of Attorney and revised their wills  which 
they could not have  done if they had lacked mental  capacity  at that time.  So  if they had 
sufficient understanding of their financial affairs in 2012, Im persuaded they would also have 
had sufficient mental capacity to understand the equity release mortgage  eight years earlier  
in 2004. I understand Mr P1 has complained separately about the solicitors in relation to the 
Aviva mortgage and the Lasting Powers of Attorney  to the Solicitors Regulation Authority.
Having reviewed the evidence, Im satisfied the mortgage was not mis-sold. I appreciate  this 
isnt the decision  Mr P1 was hoping for. If he rejects  the decision on behalf  of the estate, it 
will not be legally-binding. I note Mr P1 has explained  that his intention is to take legal action 
against both Aviva and the solicitors in relation to this mortgage. Mr P1 might want  to take 
legal advice from a solicitor before embarking on any court  proceedings.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P1, on behalf of 
the estate of Mrs P, to accept or reject my decision before  10 May 2019.
Jan OLeary
ombudsman
Ref: DRN53629055
Ref: DRN5362905