K821x#15complaint
Mr L complained that AvantCredit of UK, Llc (trading as Avantcredit) acted irresponsibly 
when it agreed to lend to him.
background
Mr L took out a two loans with Avantcredit.  This table shows loan details:
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid Number of 
instalmentsAmountMonthly  
repayment*
(approximate)
1 27/06/2016 05/01/2018 36 £3,300 £159
2 01/02/2019 22/03/2019 36 £5,500 £244
When Mr L complained  to Avantcredit,  it didnt uphold his complaint. So Mr L brought  his 
complaint to us to investigate.
Mr L mainly said that Avantcredit didnt  act responsibly when it agreed to lend to him  he 
told us he was struggling with rent, payday loans and a gambling  addiction at the time so this 
lending was unaffordable.  And he was unhappy  with the way Avantcredit had treated him 
when hed contacted it to discuss  payment arrangements. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Mr Ls complaint. She felt that using these loans to pay off 
other debt,  which  is what Mr L told Avantcredit  he planned to use them  for, shouldve  
improved his financial situation as he would pay less for his debt overall.  
Mr L didnt agree and he asked  an ombudsman  to make a decision.
The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
Like the adjudicator, Im not currently thinking about  upholding Mr Ls complaint about  loan 
1. But I am thinking  about coming  to a different decision on loan 2. As things stand, Im 
planning to uphold Mr Ls complaint about loan 2. Ill explain my reasons.
Weve set out our approach to considering unaffordable and irresponsible  lending complaints  
on our website - including the key relevant rules, guidance, good  industry  practice and law. 
And Ive taken all this into account when Ive been thinking about this complaint .
Avantcredit needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. There 
are some key questions I need  to think about when  deciding whats  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of Mr Ls complaint:
Did Avantcredit carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Mr L was in a position  to repay the loan in a way that was sustainable for him?  
Ref: DRN52761492If this didnt happen, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have likely 
shown if theyd been done when  they shouldve been? 
Was Avantcredits lending decision fair?
Did Avantcredit act in any other  way that wasnt fair and reasonable?  
Avantcredit should have carried out an affordability  check with the focus on the borrower. 
This means  that Avantcredit had to look into Mr Ls particular financial situation and think 
about whether  repaying the loan sustainably would lead to difficulties or result in adverse 
consequences for Mr L.
Avantcredit had to carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy  itself that Mr L 
would be able repay the loan sustainably. There was no set list of checks that Avantcredit  
had to do, but it could take into account a number of different things including the loan 
amount, the length of the loan term, the repayment amounts and the borrowers  overall 
financial circumstances.
I think a reasonable  and proportionate check ought  generally be more  thorough:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income)
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income)
the longer  the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit  is 
likely to be greater and a borrower has to make  payments for an extended period).
Avantcredit was required to establish  whether Mr L could sustainably  repay  any lending it 
provided - not just whether  the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence 
calculation. The loan payments being affordable  on this basis might  be an indication a 
borrower could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesn't  automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments,  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  the 
repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make repayments  sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make 
their repayments without borrowing further.
Keeping all this in mind, Ive carefully considered all the information  Ive seen and been told 
and thought about what this means  for Mr Ls complaint. 
Ive looked at each loan in turn and thought about  the key questions I need to address.  
loan 1
Ive seen the information it appears  Avantcredit  recorded about Mr Ls income and 
expenditure when he applied for this loan.  
As far as I can see, Avantcredit worked out that Mr Ls available spending money  after 
paying for his other main  monthly expenses would be around  £314. So it looked  like loan 
Ref: DRN52761493repayments of £159  shouldve been  comfortably affordable - and still leave Mr L with enough 
spare cash for things  like food and transport which I cant see mentioned  anywhere.
Avantcredit also carried out a detailed credit  search when Mr L applied for this loan and Ive 
seen this. This showed Avantcredit that Mr L had been making use of credit, including  
expensive short term loans, for some time. But Mr Ls total credit balance  was shown as less 
than £5,000 when he took out loan 1 and the overall results of the credit  search  dont 
suggest to me that he was having  any significant  problems managing his money at that 
stage.
Avantcredit also asked  to see a bank statement  and I think  that was the right thing to do 
because this was likely  to show information  that wouldve formed  part of what Id expect  
reasonable and proportionate checks for this loan to show.  
But although  Mr L provided a bank statement, it wasnt  taken into account as Avantcredit  
said it wasnt able to see illegible transactions.  
So, given the lender  had asked to see the bank statements,  I think  Avantcredit shouldve  
realised it was potentially  missing important information it shouldve  seen  before  agreeing  
this loan. 
Mr L has mentioned to us he was spending  on gambling, which is something a responsible 
lender should  take into account when thinking about  whether to lend. 
Mr L sent us bank statements which show some gambling spending  and give me an insight  
into his overall financial  circumstances  at the time.  
This is information that I think  Avantcredit would likely have found out through a 
proportionate check before agreeing  to lend. But I dont think that, even if Avantcredit had 
seen this information, it wouldve been enough  for it to decide not to lend.  Thats because  I 
can see that although Mr L was regularly making  payments that he hadnt told Avantcredit 
about, the amounts arent enough on their own to suggest the loan was likely to be 
unaffordable.
On balance, I havent seen enough  overall  to make  me think  that if Avantcredit had done 
reasonable and proportionate checks these wouldve  shown that loan 1 wasnt  likely to be 
sustainably affordable for Mr L. 
I've taken into account that it seems Mr L had told Avantcredit that he intended to use this 
loan for debt consolidation  in other  words,  to pay off other debt in order to help reduce his 
monthly outgoings.
Looking at the details shown on the credit reports Mr L obtained from Avantcredit, it appears  
that around the time Mr L took out this loan, two earlier loans hed been  repaying were 
repaid in full. 
The combined monthly repayments on those  loans had been around £285  per month. So, 
the monthly repayment of £159  on his new loan from Avantcredit meant Mr L was now 
potentially around  £126 better off each month.  
So, I dont think Avantcredits lending decision was unfair in these circumstances. 
Ref: DRN52761494And for these reasons,  Im not upholding Mr Ls complaint  about  loan 1. 
Did Avantcredit act in any other way that wasnt fair and reasonable?  
Our adjudicator didnt  think Avantcredit  had acted  unfairly or unreasonably when Mr L asked 
about setting up a repayment  plan for Loan  1 in March 2017. And based on what I've seen  
so far, I agree.
Theres no call recording available  due to the time thats passed. 
But the call notes suggest that Avantcredit  dealt with Mr Ls queries and gave him 
information on his options, following which theres  a note that payment date changes were 
put in place in May 2017. 
So I cant say the business acted unfairly or didnt respond sympathetically  and positively.
And I think its fair to say that a letter  Avantcredit sent after Mr L had missed  some payments 
on loan 1 was sent in accordance with the terms and conditions of the loan agreement. I 
would expect a business to notify  a borrower  when this happens so that theres  an 
opportunity to look at options to bring the account up to date before the situation worsens 
and it becomes potentially more difficult for a borrower to sort things out. 
Im sorry  that this was upsetting for Mr L. I can completely understand it was a stressful 
situation to be in. 
But, from what Ive seen,  I cant fairly say that Avantcredit acted unreasonably. 
So, I dont plan to ask Avantcredit  to do anything further in relation to this aspect  of Mr Ls 
complaint. 
loan 2
Ive thought carefully about whether Avantcredit  carried out proportionate checks before 
agreeing to lend again.  
From what  I can see, Avantcredit asked  Mr L about his income and expenses and checked 
his credit file. 
Ref: DRN52761495I think its checks should have gone  further.
He applied for a substantial  loan amount  bearing  in mind that his declared income was 
£1,715. And Mr L was expecting to have to make the repayments for the next 3 years or so 
which I think is a lengthy period of time to commit to paying a loan  especially where 
finances might already  be stretched.  
Its not clear to me what expenses Avantcredit considered  or verified  when looking at 
affordability. So Avantcredit  hasnt  shown me that it did the reasonable and proportionate 
checks I think it shouldve done  to satisfy itself that Mr L was in a position to sustainably  
repay another credit commitment of £244  per month for the next 36 months.  
Ive seen Mr Ls bank  statements  from around  this time. It looks to me like his financial 
position hadnt materially changed since he took out loan 1. 
Essentially, Mr L was spending all the money going into his bank account. 
So I dont  think Mr L was in a position  to pay loan 2 on top of his other credit obligations. 
I've taken into account that Mr L told Avantcredit  when  he applied  for loan 2 that the purpose  
of the loan was debt consolidation. Looking at the results of the credit  report  that Avantcredit 
obtained when  it agreed to lend Mr L loan 2, this showed that his total balances already 
outstanding now came to more than £13,000.  
So Avantcredit was aware that Mr Ls overall  indebtedness had gone up very significantly  
since hed taken out loan 1. And it could see that he had opened  12 credit accounts (which  
look to me like unsecured  loans) within the previous 6 months. 
Given this information  and what Avantcredit knew about Mr Ls borrowing history,  I think 
Avantcredit shouldve  been alerted to the fact that Mr Ls plans to use loan 1 for debt 
consolidation didnt  appear to have been  effective in terms of helping  him manage his debt 
or improve his overall financial situation. 
I think this shouldve prompted Avantcredit to make more detailed enquiries  than it has 
shown me it did to try and gain a more comprehensive understanding of Mr Ls financial 
situation so it could be satisfied that providing loan 2 would benefit Mr Ls overall financial 
situation. 
I cant see for instance that Avantcredit  asked Mr L in any detail about which debts he 
intended to use loan 2 to repay. 
Avantcredit hasn t shown me that it knew which ones were to be repaid. 
And the loan was paid into Mr Ls bank account  rather than money  being  sent directly  to 
other creditors. 
So Avantcredit wasnt able to ensure that the money it loaned was used for the purpose  of 
paying off other credit   and it hasnt shown  me how it worked out to what  extent doing this 
wouldve improved Mr Ls overall  financial situation or helped  him manage the evident 
challenges he was facing managing his money  problems.
All of this means  that Avantcredit couldnt have been sure loan 2 wasnt  putting Mr L in a 
worse position by increasing his overall  debts.
Ref: DRN52761496I think that Avantcredit should have  concluded  that it hadnt seen enough information to be 
able to say it was appropriate to provide loan 2 to Mr L. 
I dont think further  checks would have provided  any assurance that Mr L would have been 
able to repay this loan without difficulty. 
I appreciate that he repaid it in full the next month  but Mr L says he borrowed from 
elsewhere in order  to do so and his credit report supports this. 
And so, altogether,  I cant  say that it acted fairly  when it provided loan 2 to Mr L. So Im 
planning to uphold Mr Ls complaint about loan 2.
what the parties said in response to my provisional  decision 
Mr L hasnt commented  further. 
Avantcredit has responded to confirm that it accepts what Ive said in my provisional 
decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  lending - including  all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
For the reasons  I've set out in my provisional decision Im upholding this complaint. 
Avantcredit has confirmed  it is willing to uphold this complaint  so, if it hasnt already, it 
should now take the following steps to put things right.  
putting things right 
A Remove all interest, fees and charges  from loan 2 and treat all the payments Mr L 
made as payments towards the capital.
B As Mr L has made payments above  this capital amount then these should be 
refunded to him along with 8% simple interest per annum* from the date the 
overpayments were made to the date the complaint is settled.  
C Remove any adverse information  Avantcredit recorded on Mr Ls credit file for loan 2.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires AvantCredit to deduct tax from this interest. AvantCredit 
should give Mr L a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if he asks for one.
Ref: DRN52761497my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and direct Avantcredit  Of Uk, Llc to take the steps  I've set out above 
to put things right for Mr L. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 May 2021.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5276149