K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2003. Mr D says Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) mis-sold him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ds case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why: 
Mr D applied for his credit card and PPI online. Barclays  has given us example 
screenshots of the sorts  of questions it says Mr D wouldve been asked in his online 
application. These show customers were given a range of choices  in the PPI section 
including an option to select or decline PPI. This is also in line with what we know  of how 
similar policies  were sold around the time Mr D bought his PPI. Barclays  record  of his 
application shows that Mr D selected the PPI. 
So I think Barclays made it clear  that Mr D didnt have to take out the PPI and that he 
chose to take it out, although given how long ago it was sold,  I can understand why he 
might not remember this now. 
Based on everything Ive seen, I dont think Barclays recommended  the PPI to Mr D so it 
didnt have  to check if it was right for him. But it did have to make sure Mr D got the 
information he needed to decide  if it was right for him. 
Its possible the information Barclays gave Mr D about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But he chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like he wanted this type of 
cover. Based  on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it doesnt look like he 
was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover - so it would have 
been useful for him if something went  wrong.  It also looks  like the PPI was affordable.
Mr D says the insurance was unnecessary as he had three  months full sick pay from his 
employer he couldve relied on to make his repayments. But the PPI policy  wouldve 
paid out on top of any employee benefits he had and for up to 12 months if he was 
unable to work because of accident or sickness. So I think  he couldve found  the policy 
useful. With this in mind,  I dont think better information about  the PPI would have  put 
him off taking out the cover. 
Which means Barclays doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr D. 
But Barclays  has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr D because: 
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr D about that. Because  Barclays  didnt  tell Mr D, that 
was unfair. 
Ref: DRN51002392To put that right, Barclays  has basically paid back the amount of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think  that is fair in this case.
Ive thought carefully about everything Mr D has said  including what hes said about 
Barclays upholding his other complaints and being inconsistent.  I dont know  the details  of 
why Barclays upheld  Mr Ds other complaints, but just because it has done so does not 
mean it is obliged  to uphold this one. Ive looked specifically at this PPI sale and for the 
reasons Ive already explained  I dont  think it was mis-sold. 
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank Plc does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr D. 
But Barclays  Bank Plc does have  to pay back to Mr D any commission and profit share  it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done  this, so I 
wont award any further compensation in this case. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 July 2019.
Gemma Farrell  
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5100239