K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs M say Yorkshire Building  Society mis-sold them a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy in 2003 that was then amended  in 2004 and 2005.
background
Mr and Mrs M took out a PPI policy with a mortgage  in 2003. They paid a monthly amount 
for the policy. The policy only covered Mr M for unemployment.  
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs M disagreed  with the adjudicators  
opinion, so the complaint has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ms case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Ms complaint  for the reasons Ill explain below:
I think Yorkshire made Mr and Mrs M aware  that they had a choice about buying  the 
PPI, and they chose  to take it. I say this because:
oMr and Mrs M took out their initial  mortgage  in 2002. They didnt take PPI at this 
point. This suggests that they would  reasonably  have been aware that PPI was 
optional, separate  to and not a condition of their mortgage. Ive seen a copy of a 
document signed by Mr and Mrs M confirming that they didnt wish to take PPI at 
that point.
oIve also seen a copy of a separate PPI application form from 2003. Mr and 
Mrs M have  signed this form to apply  for the PPI. The benefit selected  was £300 
and the option for unemployment only was selected when there were two other 
options.
oIve seen a copy  of a form from 2004 to alter mortgage payment insurance, 
signed by Mr and Mrs M.
oFor the 2005 amendment Ive also seen  a separate form that again changed the 
benefit amount.
Ive carefully considered  the evidence from the time of sale alongside  what Mr and 
Mrs M have  said about not being aware that they had PPI. But Ive also seen a copy  
of a letter sent to Mr and Mrs M dated  3 October  2005 that refers to a Statement of 
Customer Needs for Mortgage and Insurance. 
Yorkshire say this document is a summary  of what was discussed and it also refers  
to PPI and Mr and Mrs Ms intentions around PPI. 
Mr and Mrs M have  signed this document next to a statement  that states; I confirm 
that I have  read this statement  and acknowledge that it is a true reflection of the 
discussion regarding my mortgage and insurance  requirements.I confirm that I 
wish to proceed on the basis outlined. 
Ref: DRN59571842Ive also noted  that the first 6 months  PPI premiums  were  free. So it seems 
reasonable to assume, that even  in a scenario where Mr and Mrs M signed the 
paperwork not realising  they were  taking PPI, I think that they would reasonably  have 
questioned - much sooner than they did why they were paying for PPI when they 
began to be charged for the premiums.
On balance, I cant fairly say that the PPI wasnt presented as optional  or that Mr and 
Mrs M werent  aware  that theyd taken it out. 
Yorkshire has told us that they didnt make a recommendation for the initial sale of 
PPI in 2003 or in 2004. 
This means  that they still had to give Mr and Mrs M good enough information about  
the PPI so that they could  decide if they wanted to take it out. But it seems  that a 
recommendation was made to take PPI in 2005. 
This is supported by the document Ive referred  to above  the statement of Mr and 
Mrs Ms needs. So, in 2005, not only did Yorkshire  have to give Mr and Mrs M good 
enough information about the policy, but they also had to take reasonable steps  to 
check that the policy was right for them. 
Based on everything  Ive seen the policy seems  to have right for Mr and Mrs M in 
2003 and 2004. For the 2005 sale the recommendation does appear to be suitable 
and the policy right for Mr M. 
I think Yorkshire couldve  explained the cost of the policy better  than it did. But even 
if it had, I think  Mr and Mrs M would  still have bought it. 
Its also possible Yorkshire  didnt  point out the main things the policy didnt cover.  But     
Mr and Mrs M dont  appear to have been  affected by any of those things. 
Which means Yorkshire doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and 
Mrs M.
But Yorkshire will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs M because: 
Yorkshire got a high level of commission and profit share  (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs M about that. Because  Yorkshire didnt tell 
Mr and Mrs M, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Yorkshire has basically offered to pay back  the amount of commission  
and profit share that was above  50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in 
this case.
Ive taken into account Mr and Mrs Ms comments, in particular what theyve said about:
not needing PPI because of their existing means. But this policy could have paid out 
for longer  than their existing means likely would have lasted for. For example, the 
policy could have  paid out for up to 12 months per claim  and although Ive 
considered what  Mrs M has said about earning a reasonable salary  which  could 
manage all of our outgoings, circumstances can change  and Mrs M may not have 
Ref: DRN59571843been in a position to cover all of the mortgage  repayments along with other bills if   
Mr M was made unemployed. 
Ive also noted  that based  on Mr Ms length  of employment when the policy  was 
taken out, its unlikely that he would  have been entitled to very much,  if any 
redundancy; and
not claiming on the policy  in 2011. Although Ive made the finding  that it think  its 
more likely than not that Mr and Mrs M were  aware that they had PPI, they still have 
the option of now speaking to Yorkshire  about  the possibility  of making  a back  dated 
claim on the policy if they wish to. 
But these  points dont  change my decision.  I know that this wont  be the outcome that Mr 
and Mrs M wanted, particularly after waiting for so long on an answer from our Service, but 
I wish them all the best of luck in their future.
what the business needs  to do
Yorkshire has to pay back to Mr and Mrs M any commission and profit  share it got that was 
more than 50% of the PPI premium. Yorkshire  should also pay back  to Mr and Mrs M any 
extra interest they paid because of that.
Yorkshire should pay back to Mr and Mrs M the extra they paid each month because the 
commission and profit share it got was more  than 50% of the cost of PPI. Yorkshire should 
also pay Mr and Mrs M 8%* simple interest  on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr and Mrs M can claim back the tax if they dont pay 
tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Yorkshire  Building Society does not have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs M.
But Yorkshire Building Society does have to pay back  to Mr and Mrs M any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  11 May 2019.
Daniel OShea
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5957184