K821x#15complaint
Mr Rs complained that Aviva Insurance Limited  refused to pay his car insurance claim.
background
Mr R claimed  on his policy after his car broke down. He said it wouldnt start after hed driven 
through a large puddle so hed called out a friend  who was a mechanic to look at it. He said 
the mechanic  told him the damage  had been  caused by the puddle.
Aviva arranged for an engineer to inspect the damage. The engineer didnt think the damage 
had been caused by the water so Aviva turned down Mr Rs claim. Mr R didnt think  that was 
right so Aviva agreed to arrange for an independent  forensic engineer to also inspect his car. 
The forensic engineer  didnt  think the water had damaged the car either.  He thought  the car 
had been tampered with. Aviva turned down Mr Rs claim  and recorded it on a shared fraud  
database. 
Mr R cancelled his policy and complained to Aviva. Aviva said it should have dealt with his 
claim more  quickly and offered him £100  compensation. But it thought  it was right to turn 
down his claim. So Mr R brought his complaint to us. He provided a letter from his mechanic 
that said the damage had been  caused  by driving  through the large puddle of water.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 10 January 2019 where I explained  why I 
wasnt going to interfere with Avivas decision. In that decision I said: 
Mr Rs policy  covers his car for fire, theft and accidental damage.  Hes not covered for 
mechanical or electrical failure. The policy also says Aviva can turn down a claim which is in 
any way dishonest or exaggerated and it may record the information on a fraud database.
Avivas engineer said the air filter was wet but didnt think  the damage had been  caused by 
water. He said the coolant tank was so badly contaminated he wasnt  surprised it had broken 
down. He also said the auxiliary drive  belt was missing which could have caused the 
problems as the belt drives the water pump. He said Mr R said hed taken  off the belt himself 
to try to turn the car over but the engineer didnt think that made  sense as it wouldnt  have  
helped. He suggested removing the cylinder head to determine if thered been water 
damage or cylinder  head failure.
The forensic engineer  said there was heavy corrosion in the combustion unitconsistent 
with a mechanical failure caused by the failure of the cylinder head gasket. He concluded 
there is nothing to suggest the vehicle  had been  driven through flood water.  He provided 
photos of the car to support his report.
Mr Rs mechanic said hed inspected the car and there was water  in the airbox and the 
engine was locked up due to being  driven through the water. On balance  Im more  
persuaded by the reports from Avivas engineer and the forensic engineer  and the 
independent engineer as theyre more  detailed than the information from Mr Rs mechanic, 
and also consistent  with each other. So Im satisfied it was reasonable for Aviva  to turn down 
his claim as it wasnt covered by the policy.
Aviva recorded the details  of the claim on a fraud  database due to inconsistencies in Mr Rs 
account of what  happened.  This included the coolant tank being contaminated with old 
engine oil and Mr R saying hed removed the drive belt to help start the car. Im satisfied 
Ref: DRN52167832theres enough inconsistencies  for Aviva to do this and I dont intend to interfere with its 
decision.
Aviva didnt add any comments to my provisional  findings but Mr R didnt agree. He said he 
hadnt removed  the belt and it must have loosened when he went  through the puddle.  He 
said he didnt attempt  to start his car again and the mechanic came and towed it away.  He 
said it was the mechanic  who removed the belt, not him. 
Mr Rs mechanic also contacted our investigator. He said the car had been  driven  through 
water and that Mr R didnt know anything about  cars and wouldnt have known what  was 
happening with it. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In Avivas letter to Mr R where it turned down his claim it said you advised the garage you 
removed this item yourself. Having reviewed  Avivas engineers report  I can see that where 
he said the repairer  said hed removed the belt,  he meant the mechanic and not Mr R. So I 
accept it was the mechanic who removed the belt rather than Mr R. But that doesnt change  
the outcome of my decision.  
Thats because Avivas  provided two reports that say there  wasnt any evidence  that the car 
was driven through water. Avivas own engineer said it didnt make sense that the mechanic 
had removed the belt to help turn the car over. He said the level of oil contaminant was more 
consistent with head gasket failure  and suggested the cylinder head was removed for further 
investigation. 
The second  inspection was carried out by a forensic  engineer. He also found that the 
damage was consistent with the mechanical failure caused by the failure of the cylinder head 
gasket. He said Avivas engineers findings that the coolant was contaminated and the 
connecting rods not to be bent further conclude that the vehicle hasnt taken on water .
I appreciate Mr Rs mechanic said the damage was caused by the flood  but Im more 
persuaded by the other reports. Thats because Avivas two reports have similar  conclusions  
which suggests theyre more likely to be correct. Also they give more detailed  conclusions 
for their reasoning. 
On balance I think its most likely the car experienced mechanical failure  rather than an 
accident, and thats not covered by the policy. As Im persuaded its most likely  Mr Rs car 
hadnt been in flood  water  Im not going to interfere  with Avivas decision to record  the 
incident on a shared  fraud database.  
I understand Aviva has offered Mr R £100 compensation as it could have arranged the 
inspection sooner. I think thats  fair and reasonable in the circumstances as Im satisfied the 
claim isnt one thats covered and Aviva needed to look into what  happened.  
Ref: DRN52167833my final decision
Aviva Insurance Limited offered Mr R £100  to compensate  for his distress and 
inconvenience. I conclude  thats  fair and reasonable in all the circumstances so my final 
decision is that Aviva Insurance Limited  should  pay Mr R £100 if it hasnt already done so. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 March  2019.
Sarann Taylor
ombudsman
 
Ref: DRN5216783