K820x#14complaint
Miss W is unhappy  with the increases in premiums  on her home insurance with 
Aviva Insurance Limited.  
background 
Miss Ws home insurance policy started  in 2012. She says the cost of the premium  
escalated out of control over the years  she had the policy. She says she would call Aviva on 
renewal every year to see whether it would be possible to get a discount.  She feels  she was 
being penalised for being a loyal and undemanding customer. She thinks Aviva has taken  
advantage of her by unfairly increasing the cost of the policy every year.
Miss W says she began to shop around in 2019 and found another business  was offering a 
policy with a much cheaper premium.  She cancelled her policy  in April 2019.
The business didnt  think it had acted unfairly.  It says Miss Ws premiums  were correct.  
Miss W disagreed so the complaint  has been passed to me for a decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont have the power to tell a business  what its insurance should  have  cost.  I would be, in 
effect determining  or telling a business how it should  operate  and thats not my role. But I 
can look at whether Aviva has treated Miss W fairly throughout the period she held her 
insurance policy. If I find that Aviva hasnt  treated Miss W fairly, I will look to see what 
compensation would be fair.
When Miss Ws policy started in 2012, presumably she was happy with the price at that time 
as she decided to go ahead and take out the policy. If she wasnt happy with what  Aviva  
were offering, she could  have gone elsewhere to get a different policy.
Miss W says her premiums continued  to increase each  year.  Its not uncommon that policies 
have an introductory  discount and may well initially be priced lower to attract  new customers.  
I dont think its unfair  for an insurer to seek to recoup that cost over the first few years and 
Aviva has said thats that happened here.  
If Aviva increased the price just because Miss W didnt engage at each renewal, that 
wouldnt be fair. But Miss W says herself she did actively  engage with Aviva  about the cost 
of her policy every year until 2019.  She says sometimes they would give her a small 
discount but only if she asked, so she assumed she was getting a good  deal at the time. 
Aviva isnt obliged  to explain to its customers how its priced its policies. But it does need to 
send renewal offers a reasonable  amount of time before  the policy renews  so they have the 
chance to shop around or discuss the price with Aviva if theyre unhappy. Its for consumers 
to decide whether they want to pay for the cover theyre offered at the price theyre offered. I 
can see that the price  offered to Miss W in 2019  was ultimately  unacceptable  to Miss W and 
she cancelled her policy that April  and found what she thought was a more suitably priced 
policy elsewhere. 
Ref: DRN59478602Miss W is very concerned  with the inconsistency between her Aviva  policy  and the new 
policy she took out. She says there  is a difference of £500  that is unjustifiable. I can 
understand why Miss W feels  this way. But any new policy quoted in 2019 possibly included  
a discount on the premium  cost. Its not uncommon  that policies have an introductory 
discount and may well initially be priced  lower  to attract new customers   Aviva offered this 
to Miss W in 2012. Also, these policies would  not have been  identical and so cant be 
compared like for like. Along with a difference in premium, there also wouldve been  
differences in cover  and difference excesses.
And different insurers will have a different view of the risk of insuring a particular property. 
So I cant agree  Miss W was treated unfairly  by Aviva just because shes now been able to 
get cheaper cover. 
I know this will come as a disappointment to Miss W but I do not think Aviva acted unfairly so 
dont uphold this complaint.  
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 February  2020.
Gemma Farrell  
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN5947860