K820x#14complaint
Mr J complains about the maladministration of his policy  with Automobile Association 
Insurance Services Limited  (The  AA).
background
Mr J contacted the AA by phone after obtaining  various quotes for a breakdown policy  
online, as he had a discount  code he had obtained through a third-party  company. The 
agent he spoke  to explained that the AA could offer Mr J a better discount than the one he 
had been given through the third-party company, which he accepted. So the agent applied  a 
40% discount to his policy which  he decided  to take out.
Mr J later complained to the AA when he discovered  that the price he received was actually 
an introductory offer for the first year only. The agent he had spoken to had not made this 
clear. He says that if he was told, he would not have purchased the cover and would have 
chosen a provider that offered a better  long term deal. As a result,  Mr J wants  a refund of his 
premiums for 2017/18. 
Mr J is also unhappy with the way the AA handled  the renewal of his policy. He says it was 
due to renew on 1 October 2018, but they sent his documentation too far in advance. He 
believes the AA are doing this in the hope  that their customers would forget to shop around 
nearer to the renewal  date. Mr J is also unhappy  that the renewal premium was also taken 
from his account  14 days before  the policy was due to renew,  when he still had the option  
not to proceed  with it.
In their final response, the AA conceded  that the agent who sold the policy had not made it 
explicitly clear that the price quoted  was an introductory offer, which they apologised for. 
However, in their submissions to us, the AA explained that the information  Mr J wouldve 
seen online before he called them would have clarified  that it was an introductory offer. They  
also said that the terms and conditions sent to Mr J clarify that the premium  may be 
reviewed at the end of each membership year. In terms of the renewal documents, the AA 
explained that this documentation is sent at least 45 days in advance  of the renewal, and 
that they have  since  refunded the renewal payment that was collected  on 
17 September 2018.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint as he didnt consider the AA to have acted 
unreasonably. Mr J disagreed, so the complaint has been passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold it.
introductory offer
Mr J feels he was misled  in respect  of the price of his policy  being an introductory offer only. 
He says the policy was sold to him on an advised basis  as it was sold over the phone.  I 
appreciate that he took the policy out over the phone. However, that does not necessarily 
mean it was sold on an advised basis  i.e. that the policy was recommended  to him based 
on his circumstances.  But in any event, I have listened to the phone  call Mr J had with the 
Ref: DRN57108772agent. And despite the AA upholding Mr Js complaint on this point, I can see that reference  
was actually made to the fact that his payments may change after the first membership year.
During the call, the agent explains what Mr Js monthly premiums will be, and that included  
in this price is an administration and arrangement fee, which is under a separate contract  
between Mr J and AA Insurance  Services Ltd as they arrange the cover. She then goes on 
to say:
This is an offer for the first year and the full price would apply from renewal. 
So I can see that reference was made to the fact that part of the policy price was made  up of 
an offer that would change after the first year. And even if this wasnt  made explicitly  clear,  
the agent also told Mr J to check the terms and conditions  booklet as well for further  details. 
The terms and conditions  state: 
Continuous cover
we may review the premium and other terms and conditions of continuous 
membership at the end of each membership year.
So in summary,  I can see that the agent referred  to the price of Mr Js policy  being  made  up 
of an introductory  offer for the first year, and the policy document also set out that the AA 
may review premiums at the end of the year. So Im satisfied Mr J ought  to have been aware 
of this, and I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to ask the AA to refund his premiums  
for 2017/18  particularly  as he had the benefit of being covered throughout this period.
renewal
Mr J is unhappy that the AA sent him a renewal document in July 2018, as his policy  was not 
due to be renewed until October 2018.  He considers this was too early  because people  
would be inclined to forget,  and he says that he was caught out by this.
I appreciate why Mr J may feel this way. However,  I can see it was made clear during the 
phone call that the AA would write to Mr J at least 45 days  in advance,  when the agent said:
If we do need to change  the payments at any point, we will let you know  at least  45 
days in advance.
The terms and conditions  also reiterate this and state that the AA will write to you at least 45 
days before  the end of each membership year with details of any changes to the 
premium. 
This 45 day period  of time amounts to around  six weeks in advance  of the policy  renewal,  
which is also what the AA said to Mr J in their final response. But Mr J is unhappy that he 
received his renewal  letter  on 14 July 2018   some  11 weeks  before the policy was due to 
be renewed. 
It isnt clear why the AA sent the renewal documentation so far in advance.  But I dont 
consider that theyve  breached any of their terms and conditions  or have acted unfairly  by 
doing so. The policy states that renewal documentation will be sent at least  45 days in 
advance  which was explained to Mr J on the phone. I also cant  see that he made any 
special request for the policy documentation to be sent closer  to the point of renewal, or that 
Ref: DRN57108773he made the AA aware of his circumstances  such that they ought to have known to send it 
closer to the date. So on balance,  I dont  think the date in which they sent it was 
unreasonable.
Mr J believes  that the AA are sending  the documentation this far in advance  in the hope that 
customers would forget  to shop around. But theres little evidence  to suggest this is the case.  
And conversely, sending  the documentation  and renewal pricing in advance  gives  the 
customer plenty of notice  and time in which to find an alternative policy if they are not happy 
with the renewal terms.
I understand Mr J feels he was caught out by this, and is also unhappy that the AA took his 
renewal premium on 17 September  2018 before his existing policy was set to expire. It isnt 
clear why the premium  was taken in advance. However, I can see that the AA did set this out 
in the renewal documentation  where it stated:
New amount to be collected on or around 17 September 2018 is £50.72.
So Im satisfied the AA made Mr J aware  of the date in which  they would be collecting the 
new premium,  which  he could have  cancelled beforehand. I appreciate it may be easy  to 
forget to do this when  the letter is sent far in advance. But the AA have refunded  Mr Js 
premium they took in September  2018 in any event   effectively putting him back in the 
position he wouldve  been if he had cancelled his policy before the revised  premium  was 
taken. As a result, I dont  consider they need to do anything further.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 November  2019.
Jack Ferris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5710877