K821x#15complaint
Mr M has complained about Aviva  Life & Pensions UK Limiteds decision to decline his claim 
under his employers group income protection insurance policy.
background
Mr M was a member of his employers income protection  insurance  policy, held with Unum.  
The policy would pay benefit, after a waiting period of 26 weeks,  if Mr M were  unable to 
perform his occupation due to illness  or injury.
In September  2017, Mr M stopped working due to stress and anxiety. He later made  a claim 
under his employers policy.
In June 2018, Aviva declined  the claim on the grounds that his absence was triggered  by 
workplace issues. However, it agreed  to pay benefit  on an ex gratia basis  from the end of the 
waiting period in March  2018 until the end of July 2018. It noted that Mr Ms treating 
consultant psychiatrist  (who Ill call Dr R) had said he hoped Mr M would be able to attempt  
a gradual return to work by that time.
In July 2018, Mr M complained to Aviva  about its decision. He said that while  his illness  had 
been triggered by work  pressures, he was nonetheless incapacitated. He thought  it was 
therefore wrong for Aviva to decline his claim. He furthermore thought  Aviva  was wrong to 
decide not to pay him anything beyond July 2018  without considering more up to date 
information to see whether  he was indeed ready to attempt  a gradual return  to work at that 
time as Dr R had hoped.
In August  2018,  Aviva issued its final response. It maintained  its decision.  Mr M therefore 
referred his complaint to us.
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint should be upheld. She thought,  based  on 
the medical evidence,  that Aviva should have accepted Mr Ms claim rather  than paid it on 
an ex gratia  basis. She furthermore considered  it was wrong  of Aviva to have presumed  that 
Mr M would be capable  of returning to work by the end of July 2018. She believed  the more  
recent evidence showed  he was still unable  to return to work. She therefore thought Aviva 
should pay the benefit owing to Mr M, plus interest.
Aviva didnt accept the adjudicators opinion. It said Mr M was only complaining  about  its 
decision to stop paying benefit  at the end of July 2018 and not about  the fact he had been 
paid only on an ex gratia basis. It therefore  said we shouldnt  consider this aspect of the 
complaint. It believed it had acted  reasonably  in paying  benefit  up to the end of July 2018 
based on the opinion of Dr R. It said it hadnt had the opportunity to consider  the more  recent  
evidence to which the adjudicator had referred and said this should be dealt with as a 
separate complaint.
In view of the continued  disagreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I uphold  this complaint. I 
shall explain  why.
Ref: DRN53621002Mr M became ill apparently due to work pressures. He was signed off work, prescribed 
medication and saw a cognitive therapist. The cognitive therapist thought he needed more 
intensive treatment  and referred  him to Dr R. In a report  to Aviva at the start of June 2018, 
Dr R explained that it was probably incorrect to say that Mr R was suffering from work-
related stress and that he was in fact suffering from an adjustment disorder  with features of 
anxiety. He outlined  the proposed treatment and said Mr M was not ready to work at the 
present time. He said Mr M had a strong work ethic and was keen to return  to work as soon 
as was practicable. He hoped  that in about eight weeks time Mr M might be sufficiently 
improved to attempt  a return to work on a part-time basis.
Under the policy terms, Aviva is liable  to pay benefit  if Mr M is unable to perform,  on a full or 
part time basis, the duties of his job role as a result of his illness or injury. I cant see 
anything in the policy which states  that if his illness is triggered by the workplace he is 
ineligible. It is true that if workplace issues are the barrier to someone returning to work, this 
is more of an employment issue than a medical issue but I can see no grounds for 
concluding this was the case here. Dr R had confirmed Mr M was unfit to work and the 
waiting period had ended. In my opinion, Aviva had no good reason to decline the claim.
Aviva disputes that Mr M has complained about its decision not to accept his claim. I dont 
know why Aviva takes this view.  Mr Ms complaint letter to Aviva makes  quite clear he 
disagrees with its assessment that he is suffering from work-related stress and that his claim 
is invalid.
If Aviva had accepted  Mr Ms claim  as it should have done, it would have been unreasonable 
for it to have terminated  the claim when it did, while he was quite clearly still incapable of 
returning to work. His treating consultant had expressed hope that Mr M might be able to 
attempt a phased  return to work  in eight weeks time. I would have expected Aviva to have 
continued paying benefit and obtained further  information at that later stage to see whether 
Mr M was indeed  ready to return to work.
Aviva says it hasnt had the opportunity  to consider more  recent  evidence  about Mr Ms 
ability to work. This is incorrect. In his letter of complaint to Aviva,  Mr M expressly invited  it to 
accept more up-to-date information from his treating physicians. Aviva instead simply 
maintained its decision  to stop paying benefit  and issued its final response letter.  So Aviva 
had the opportunity but chose not to take it.
Im satisfied from the medical evidence on file that Mr M didnt improve  as hoped  and wasnt 
ready to return to work at the time Aviva  stopped  paying benefit. I therefore think Aviva 
should accept  Mr Ms claim and pay him the benefit which is owing to him.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I require Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited to accept Mr Ms claim and pay benefit in 
accordance with the policys  remaining  terms and conditions.  It should add interest  to these 
benefit payments  at the annual simple  rate of 8%, calculated from the date each payment 
was due to the date of settlement.* In calculating the settlement, Aviva  may take into 
account any payments  it has already made on an ex-gratia basis.
Ref: DRN53621003Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 March 2019.
David Poley
ombudsman
* If Aviva considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from that 
interest, it should tell Mr M how much its taken off. It should also give Mr M a certificate showing this 
if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs  if appropriate.
Ref: DRN5362100