K820x#14complaint
Mr N is unhappy that Bank of Scotland Plc, trading as Halifax, applied a default incorrectly in 
2015.
background
Mr N had a credit card account with Halifax and got into financial difficulties. He agreed a 
payment arrangement in 2011  and, in 2015, Halifax defaulted his account. Halifax agreed  
that the default shouldve  been applied in 2011,  not 2015. So they backdated the default  and 
refunded the interest and charges applied between 2011 and 2015  a total of £807.82. 
Halifax also offered Mr N an additional £150  for the inconvenience  this had caused him.
Mr N has complained that the credit card was mis-sold to him in 2009  and he has been 
caused difficulties  in obtaining  other credit because of the default. He would like Halifax  to 
pay all the money back into his account and offer him a revised  compensation amount.
Our adjudicator found Halifax had acted reasonably by applying  the default  on Mr Ns 
account and she felt theyd followed their process when applying the default. She also felt 
theyd acted reasonably by backdating  the default  and refunding the interest  and charges. 
Because of this she didnt think that Halifax should  do anything  more.
She also said that Mr Ns complaint about  being  mis-sold the credit card in 2009 wouldnt be 
looked at because hes brought this complaint to us more  that six years  after the sale of the 
credit card  it falls outside  of our timescales to consider.
Mr N didnt agree with the adjudicator.  Hes unhappy  that we cant consider the credit card 
being mis-sold in 2009 and he doesnt  think  Halifax  have taken all the fees into consideration 
when they applied the refund to his account  hes received a letter in October 2019 saying 
the fee and charge refund for the period June 2013  to January 2014 was £107.40. Hes 
asked for an ombudsman to make  a final decision on his complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The types of complaint we can look into are set out in our rules which can be found in the 
Financial Conduct  Authoritys handbook under  DISP. These  include time limits  on how long 
a person can wait before  bringing  their complaint to us. So, unless a business consents or 
there are exceptional circumstances,  a person usually has to bring their complaint to us 
within six years of the event theyre  complaining about (or within three years of when they 
shouldve known they had cause for complaint if the event theyre  complaining about was 
more than six years ago).
Mr N is complaining about the potential mis-sale  of the credit card in 2009. He was also 
aware that he had cause  to complain by no later than 2011, when he agreed a payment 
arrangement with Halifax. But he didnt bring this complaint to the Financial Ombudsman 
service until 2018   more  than six years after he was sold the credit card, and more than 
three years after he knew he had cause to complain.  So I agree with the adjudicator that the 
circumstances of the sale of the credit card isnt something I can consider.
Ref: DRN50338002Its not disputed  that Halifax  sent Mr N a default  notice on 24 April 2015  and followed this up 
with a formal demand on 18 May 2015. His account was then defaulted on 3 June 2015. Its 
also not disputed  that Mr N went into financial difficulties in 2011,  and a payment plan was 
arranged at this time.
I wouldnt expect Halifax to default an account until at least three payments had been 
missed; and then Id expect them to follow the correct process by giving Mr N notice of any 
potential default,  giving  him the opportunity to clear the arrears before the default was 
registered. Halifax followed their process before registering their default,  and this was only 
done after Mr N was given proper and sufficient notice. So I dont think Halifax  have done 
anything wrong  in issuing the default.
But Halifax  have also said that, if their current policy had been in place at the time, they 
wouldve defaulted Mr Ns credit card account  in February  2011.  Because  of this theyve 
backdated the default to 2011. This means  that the default no longer shows  on Mr Ns credit  
file  it wouldve  been removed in 2017.  As the default no longer shows, it will not have any 
impact on Mr N being able to obtain  credit  in the future.
Halifax have also refunded the interest and charges from 2011 to 2015. I wouldnt expect 
them to refund any interest or charges from before 2011 because they would only have 
stopped applying these to the account  once  the default was registered. The interest and 
charge refund had the effect of clearing  the outstanding balance Mr N owed and leaving his 
account £78.33 in credit. 
The total refund was £807.82, and Mr N has provided a letter showing that the charges for 
the period June 2013 to January 2014  was £107.40. This indicates that the total refund  for 
the period 2011 to 2015 was correct  this refund  wouldve  been  automatically calculated by 
computer, and I havent seen anything to show me the calculation  is incorrect.
Given the circumstances, I think Halifaxs actions were more  than reasonable, and I wont  be 
asking them to do anything more. Its Mr Ns choice as to whether he accepts the £150 
offered by Halifax or not.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above I dont uphold Mr Ns complaint about Bank of Scotland Plc
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 January 2020.
Andrew Burford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5033800