K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that he was given  misleading  information by OAKBROOK FINANCE 
LIMITED regarding the early repayment of his loan.
background
In June 2017 Mr S took out a loan for £5,000  repayable  over two years. Monthly  payments 
were £327.64 and a direct  debit was set up. The front loaded  interest  payable  was 
£2,863.36. The first two months payments failed and Mr S contacted Oakbrook to say he 
had made  a payment of £5,000. It hadnt  cleared at that point, but Mr S explained to the call 
handler that he intended to settle  the loan and a quote  was provided which showed he 
needed to pay a further £659.05 by18 September 2017. 
Mr S was also told that his monthly payment was due on 6 September  and this would reduce 
the final sum due. He called a few minutes later to enquire if he would have to pay any 
additional charges. He was told he wouldnt and that early  payment meant  the interest due 
would be reduced.  Mr S made no reference to suffering any financial problems. 
Mr S didnt make the payment to settle the loan and neither did he pay the monthly sums 
due. Oakbrook used  the £5,000 to cover his outstanding  monthly payments and the 
subsequent ones when they became  due. In March 2018 he asked for another settlement 
quote and was told he would have to pay £1,142.02.  He made  monthly payments in March 
and April 2018, but Oakbrook then received an indemnity claim from Mr Ss bank and so it 
returned £655.28. 
In April Mr S made a complaint to Oakbrook saying that he had paid off the capital and he 
had been charged excessive interest for the outstanding sum due of £659.05. It rejected this 
and said that it had given him accurate details of the amounts owed. 
Mr S brought his complaint to this service where  it was considered  by one of our 
investigators who didnt  recommend  it be upheld. He said as Mr S didnt pay off the loan in 
full as he intended and he didnt make  his contractual monthly payments Oakbrook used the 
£5,000 to meet these rather than default the loan.  He noted that Mr S had said that some of 
the communications, texts and emails  sent by the business were confusing. The investigator  
didnt think they were and said Oakbrook had informed Mr S of the sums he needed to pay 
to clear the loan.
He considered whether Oakbrook should  have treated  the £5,000 as a settlement  rather 
than a credit. He believed the settlement statement made it clear Mr S had 28 days to repay  
the loan if he wished. He didnt do so and neither did he explain he wasnt in a positon to pay 
off the balance. While Oakbrook  may not have made it clear  that the £5,000 would be 
treated as credit rather than an overpayment the investigator didnt believe Mr S was in a 
positon to repay the loan in full and so this made no difference. He also considered it 
beneficial that Oakbrooks  actions had ensured Mr S had no late payment markers on his 
credit file.
Mr S didnt agree and mentioned that in one of the statements  Oakbrook had used an 
incorrect reference number. He said that he had received confusing text messages which  
gave different amounts owed and it was aware he was panicking about the amount owed in 
March and so should have been more supportive. He didnt think  it was right that the call 
handler had used the £5,000 as a credit rather than an overpayment. The investigator didnt 
Ref: DRN51756392consider these issues were reason to alter his view and so Mr S asked that his complaint be 
referred to an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Mr S thought that he had repaid the capital on his loan and so the interest  
should be reduced. However, the agreement he entered into was that he make  monthly  
payments until both capital and interest were repaid. When he first called to check  the 
business had received  his £5,000  payment he said he planned to repay the outstanding  
balance and he was sent details of how much he owed. He was also told this sum had to be 
paid with 28 days. 
He didnt pay off what was owed and Oakbrook quite reasonably  used the lump sum to 
repay the sums he owed. He had broken the terms of the loan by failing to make the regular 
payments and continued to do so after the lump  sum was paid. I gather he wasnt in a 
position to repay the outstanding balance and so while  this remained the case  the loan 
remained open and interest accrued. 
He didnt tell Oakbrook that he wasnt able to repay  the balance  or that he was struggling  
and so it wasnt in a positon to offer assistance. Nor did he inform  it of his health  and 
addiction issues. 
I note that one of the statements contained  an incorrect  reference  number, but I dont 
consider that had any bearing on Mr Ss situation. He only had one loan and so there was no 
reason to think this would have caused  any confusion. 
I have seen nothing  to show that the texts Mr S received were inaccurate.  The amount owed 
would have varied depending on the date the texts were sent. I also dont  believe  the call 
handler applied  the lump  sum payment incorrectly. As Mr S didnt repay the full balance  
owing the loan wasnt closed down and so the business treated the £5,000 as a credit. 
So while I have every sympathy with Mr S I dont believe I can uphold his complaint as I 
dont believe  the business did anything wrong.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or reject my decision before 23 
April 2019.
Ivor Graham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5175639