K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains about the information ReAssure  Limited gave him about  his pension policy.
background
In October  2017, ReAssure sent Mr R his pension annual statement. The statement 
explained Mr R was opted out of the state  earnings related pension scheme (SERPS) 
through his employers final salary  pension scheme.  Because of this, Mr Rs policy  has a 
benefit known  as a Guaranteed Minimum Pension (GMP). The GMP guaranteed  Mr R would 
receive a minimum amount of retirement income once he turned 65 (in April 2018). 
Mr R called ReAssure to find out about  his GMP and what  he could  do. Mr R explained he 
wanted to take a lump sum with the policy if he was able to. ReAssure wrote to Mr R on 
15 December 2017 to tell him he couldnt  take the benefits from his policy because its 
transfer value  was less than the cost of providing his GMP. 
Mr R engaged the services of another company  to help him deal with ReAssure. On 
24 January 2018,  one of Mr Rs representatives  spoke to ReAssure and was told there 
werent enough funds to cover Mr Rs GMP benefit, so his policy  couldnt be transferred 
elsewhere. 
On 12 February 2018, ReAssure wrote to Mr R again. It explained that the GMP was a 
valuable guaranteed benefit. If Mr R was considering any retirement option other than taking 
his GMP through  ReAssure, such as transferring his policy elsewhere, he would need to 
take independent financial advice and ReAssure would need to see evidence  of this advice. 
The letter included a transfer  value for Mr Rs policy.
Mr R called ReAssure on 19 February 2018.  ReAssure explained that as his pension was 
underfunded, he could only take an annuity or transfer his pension,  but he would need to 
take financial advice  as he would lose the GMP if he transferred his pension elsewhere. 
On 15 March 2018, ReAssure spoke to Mr R again.  It explained  it wouldnt be possible to 
transfer his pension elsewhere because  it was underfunded. Mr R was unhappy. He said 
hed had a number of telephone conversations with ReAssure where hed been reassured  
that, contrary to the letters  mentioned above,  he could transfer his policy elsewhere.
Mr R says he incurred costs believing  he could transfer his policy  and draw cash  from his 
pension. He had a property abroad he was thinking  of selling. Believing he would soon have 
access to cash from his pension pot, he decided to keep it. Because  of this, he incurred a 
habitation tax. He went to the property  to meet tradesmen. But he then discovered he 
couldnt transfer his pension pot. So he had to cancel the work  he had planned, to his 
embarrassment, and cut his trip short. 
One of ReAssures representatives wrote  to Mr R. She said sorry for telling Mr R, incorrectly,  
that he could transfer his policy elsewhere. She offered £200 for the inconvenience caused.  
Mr R explained he had incurred £167.40  of credit  card transaction  fees, anticipating  he could 
transfer his policy to release cash. ReAssure  sent him a cheque to cover these. 
Unhappy with this offer, Mr R referred his complaint to our service.  Mr R says he called 
ReAssure several times and was told he could take cash from his pension and was unhappy 
that ReAssure  continued  to give him incorrect information. He thought  £200,  plus the credit 
Ref: DRN53255862card transaction fees, wasnt enough to recognise  the poor communication,  stress and 
disappointment caused.  At the same  time,  he was in the process  of using his policy to buy 
an annuity.
One of our investigators  got in touch  with ReAssure, which  reviewed the service it provided.  
It noted there were  occasions when it didnt return Mr Rs phone  calls. ReAssure said that if 
this hadnt happened,  Mr R would  have been able to decide how he was going to access  his 
annuity sooner.  To put this right, ReAssure would backdate Mr Rs annuity  from his 65th 
birthday. ReAssure offered Mr R a further £75 of compensation.
Our investigator thought at the time Mr R incurred his credit  card fees, hed recently received 
a letter  from ReAssure telling him he could not transfer his policy elsewhere. Our investigator 
didnt think ReAssures subsequent communications caused Mr R to incur the financial 
commitments he asked  it to compensate him for. However, our investigator agreed  the 
service provided by ReAssure fell short  of Mr Rs expectations. He thought the offer of £275 
compensation for the trouble and upset  caused plus the offer to cover £167.40 of credit card 
fees was fair.
Mr R disagreed with our investigators view of your complaint. He didnt agree with our 
investigators interpretation of ReAssures letters. He also said he was told over the phone 
that he could transfer his policy and pointed out that some call recordings, which he would 
have relied on, hadnt been provided by ReAssure. Mr R had consistently received the 
wrong information from ReAssure about his options, even after he referred  his complaint to 
our service.  So Mr Rs complaint was referred to me for a review and decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms of Mr Rs policy mean  that he couldnt  transfer his policy elsewhere because  there  
werent enough funds to pay for his GMP. Mr R has now bought an annuity, so a transfer  
would no longer be possible,  regardless of his fund size.
There were a number of occasions where  ReAssure told Mr R, in writing, that it wouldnt be 
possible to transfer  his fund elsewhere.  On other occasions, ReAssure indicated Mr R might 
have the option to transfer his pension elsewhere, subject to caveats such  as Mr R needing  
to receive independent  advice. ReAssure has accepted it made  some  mistakes and has 
offered Mr R compensation  for his credit card expenses as well as compensation for any 
trouble and upset  caused. I think this offer is fair.
ReAssure says it could  have responded to Mr Rs queries about his policy  sooner, and 
offered to backdate his annuity  to his 65th birthday. This should ensure Mr R is not left out of 
pocket, which I think is a fair offer. 
Mr R has asked ReAssure to cover  his travel costs.  Mr R booked  to travel on 2 March  2018. 
Mr R says he was told on the phone before then that he could transfer his policy elsewhere. 
Whilst ReAssure hasnt  been able to provide all of its telephone recordings, I dont think  it 
would be reasonable, based  on the notes of conversations  Ive seen and some unclear 
messages, for Mr R to assume he could definitely  transfer his policy  elsewhere. And if Mr R 
was told on the phone  that he could  transfer  his policy  elsewhere,  this would be a significant 
change to what he was told in writing. The letters ReAssure sent before Mr R travelled 
Ref: DRN53255863indicated he couldnt  transfer his policy elsewhere. ReAssure may have given Mr R mixed 
messages on the phone, but given the previous written communication,  I dont think it was 
reasonable for Mr R to arrange travel or commit to spending significant amounts of money  
based on an expectation he could definitely transfer  his pension. Im also conscious this was 
a property Mr R already owned. I dont think its likely the repairs needed or the tax payable  
were a direct result of any clear message from ReAssure  that Mr R could transfer his annuity 
elsewhere. So I dont  think it would be fair to ask ReAssure to pay for these expenses. 
I am conscious that Mr R has spent  a lot of time on his complaint to ReAssure and I know he 
thinks its compensation payment was too low. However, I think ReAssures offer of £200 
reasonably reflects  the time and trouble Mr R was put to. ReAssure offered Mr R a further 
£75 for the delay  in setting up his annuity. Taking ReAssures offers  together,  I think  £275 is 
in line with our approach  and reflects the inconvenience caused by ReAssure. 
I realise my decision is likely to disappoint Mr R, but I think ReAssure treated Mr R fairly  by 
backdating his annuity, paying  his credit card costs along with £275 compensation. 
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, I dont  uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 February  2019.
Vicki Blackwood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5325586