K820x#14complaint
Mrs B complains that Santander UK Plc incorrectly told her that a payment shed made 
hadnt gone through. And they failed to recall this payment,  or refund her the money.
background
On 8 September 2018 Mrs B called Santander and asked them  to make a faster payment to 
a company for £2,705.  Before doing  this she asked  Santander if theyd be able to get her 
money back for her if anything went wrong,  and they told her they would.  
After making the payment, Mrs B decided she didnt want to do business with the company 
after all, and contacted Santander. They  told her the payment hadnt  gone through,  so she 
didnt think she had any reason to worry. However  when she checked her statements  a 
week later,  she saw that the payment had left her account. She complained to Santander 
and asked them to get her money  back.
Santander said that once a faster payment has debited an account  it cannot be amended or 
cancelled. So they werent able to get Mrs Bs money back  for her. But they did offer her 
£100 for the distress and inconvenience  caused when they incorrectly told her the payment 
hadnt gone through. 
Mrs B wasnt  happy with this response, so she brought her complaint  to our service.  Our 
investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint  should be upheld. They felt the only error 
Santander made was when  they told her the payment hadnt gone  through  when in fact it 
had already left her account. And they thought Santanders offer of compensation was fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances.
Mrs B disagrees, so the case  has been  passed  to me to review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I know  Mrs B will be disappointed,  but I 
dont think it would be fair for me to ask Santander to reimburse this payment. Ill explain 
why.
I appreciate Mrs B wouldnt have made this payment if she hadnt thought Santander would 
be able to get it back for her if anything went wrong. I understand she felt Santander had 
reassured her they could  do this when she called them to make  the payment. But Ive 
listened to the call, and although I can hear that the Santander advisor told her they could 
normally recover a payment if it was sent to the wrong account,  I dont think  they suggested 
theyd be able to recall her payment in any other circumstances. 
There was clearly a misunderstanding here between Mrs B and Santander.  But I dont think  
it would  be fair for me to say Santander  made an error on this call, because  I cant hear that 
they told her anything that was incorrect. And Im satisfied that in these circumstances, once 
Mrs B had made the faster  payment, Santander  wouldnt have  been  able to recall it for her. 
Theyve explained they have a process whereby  they can try and recover  payments sent to 
the wrong account details. But this isnt what happened here,  the money was sent to the 
recipient Mrs B had intended. 
Ref: DRN59183422I agree  Santander  did make an error  on the second call Mrs B had with them at 2:50pm that 
afternoon. She explained to their advisor  that shed changed her mind  about doing business  
with the company and wanted  her money  back. The advisor told her that the payment hadnt 
been made. But this information wasnt correct. Santander have shown us evidence that the 
faster payment  had left Mrs Bs account at 11:59am,  around the time she requested it.
 
Santander have  explained that the advisor  assumed Mrs B had made the payment using her 
debit card, and only checked these transactions. They say if the advisor had realised shed  
made the transfer by faster payment, they would have checked this too and seen it had 
already been debited. And they would have  told her it couldnt be recalled.
Ive thought about the impact this mistake had on Mrs B. I dont doubt it would have been 
distressing for her to realise  this payment had in fact left her account  when she checked her 
statements the following  week.  But, even if they hadnt made  this mistake,  Santander 
wouldnt have been able to get her money back in this situation.  
I think Santander were correct to direct  Mrs B to speak to the company shed made  the 
payment to if she had changed her mind about  purchasing their services.  And I can see this 
company initially  offered  her a refund  so I dont think the delay in her contacting them  after 
Santanders error was the reason she didnt receive  her money  back. And I think 
Santanders offer of £100 compensation for the upset and inconvenience caused by their 
mistake is reasonable  in the circumstances.
I realise its very upsetting for Mrs B that she hasnt got her money  back  to date. I can see 
shes contacted  a number of different organisations to try and get help with this, and I 
appreciate how frustrated she must be. But I cant fairly hold Santander  responsible for the 
actions of the company she made  the payment to, as they dont  have any links to Santander. 
I appreciate Mrs B will be very disappointed  with my decision, but for the reasons Ive 
outlined above,  I dont think it would be fair for me to ask Santander to reimburse her for the 
payment she made. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 July 2019.  
Jenette Lynch
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5918342