K820x#14complaint
I will begin by explaining  that we are under a legal obligation to publish our decisions in a 
format which  anonymises the party bringing  the complaint.  So although I am aware that we 
have agreed to address the consumer  by his chosen form of address, I will not be using that 
in this decision in order to ensure that he cannot  be identified.
For that reason,  I will be referring to the consumer  throughout.  This is a neutral, non-
identifying term which we use to describe  users  of both HSBCs and our services.
This complaint is about HSBC UK Bank  Plcs refusal  to address this consumer by a form of 
address which  he has chosen. He says that his complaint is that the employees  of HSBC 
have never been  instructed to have a chat with someone using  his form of address.
background
The consumer has an account  with HSBC. He received a telephone call from HSBC about a 
previous complaint. The call was to see if the consumer had received the £50 compensation 
HSBC had paid to settle that complaint. 
But HSBC  was confused about the form of address the consumer was using. This led HSBC 
to doubt whether or not it was speaking to the account holder.
At the end of the call the consumer said that maybe  he is wrong, but he would like to know 
what the problem  is if he wants to use this particular form of address. The call handler  said 
that she would ask someone  to look into it and respond. The consumer was happy  with this 
and said that if it is HSBCs  mistake, then he wants compensation but if it his mistake,  then 
that will clear it up.
HSBC explained  to the consumer that it didnt think it had made a mistake. The consumer 
didnt agree and contacted us to complain.  An investigator looked at the complaint  but didnt 
think it should be upheld.  He was satisfied that HSBC was under no obligation to use the 
form of address the consumer wanted.
Unhappy with the investigators response,  the consumer asked for an ombudsman  to review  
the complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I confirm Ive listened to the call between the consumer and HSBC  which  has given  rise to 
the complaint.  I can see he has strongly-held beliefs  which relate  to the way in which a 
person is addressed. 
I can understand why HSBC didnt think it was speaking to the account holder, because the 
consumer kept referring  to himself in the third person. I appreciate  he explained  his position 
to HSBC. But HSBC  said that the way in which the consumer  wanted to be addressed  
wasnt a term that was used in banking or referred  to by HSBC.
Ref: DRN54762982The banks systems  to identify customers are set up to ensure compliance with the General 
Data Protection Regulation, as well as the regulators requirements in respect of Know Your  
Customer and money-laundering regulations.  I dont have any power  to tell HSBC to 
change its systems to accommodate the consumer.
This consumers beliefs are individual to him; other customers  of HSBC might  have  their own 
different, specific, individual beliefs about how they want to be addressed.  It would not, in my 
opinion, be feasible,  or an expense proportionate  to its business, to expect HSBC  to provide 
instruction to staff members on this particular consumers specific beliefs which cause him to 
believe he should be addressed in a certain  way.
The form of address the consumer requires HSBC to use is not within  the parameters of the 
forms of address the bank recognises.  In the circumstances, Im satisfied that HSBC is 
under no obligation to use it. 
This means  that Im satisfied HSBC  hasnt made  a mistake. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask the consumer to 
accept or reject my decision  before  17 October  2019.
Jan OLeary
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5476298