K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain that their mortgage  lender Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) 
wont offer them  interest rate products that are lower than its Standard Variable Rate  (SVR). 
They complain that Halifax  isnt doing  enough to help them get out of negative equity and 
reduce the balance of their interest  only mortgage.  
Mr and Mrs R would  like Halifax  to give them an interest rate of around  2-2.5% as an 
enticement to move  onto capital repayment terms.
background
In 2008 Mr and Mrs R took out a mortgage with Halifax having had advice from a broker.  
They borrowed around £214,000 on an interest  only basis over 23 years.  They bought  their 
property for £240,000. Its estimated current value  is around £190,000. 
In 2018 Mr and Mrs R asked Halifax for its help.  They wanted to convert their interest only 
mortgage onto capital repayment  terms as they were worried  about  being left with an interest 
only mortgage at the end of the term and no way to repay it. They  wanted  to see what 
interest rates Halifax would offer them  that would help bring down the cost of their monthly  
mortgage repayments and help them pay down the capital as quickly as possible. 
Halifax said the only interest rate product it had available for them at the time was a five-year  
fixed rate of 4.75%, which was higher than its SVR of 4.24%. Halifax said it didnt have any 
other interest rate products available to Mr and Mrs R because they were in negative equity. 
Mr and Mrs R complained. They  argued  it made more  sense  for Halifax to offer a rate that 
would enable them  to convert to a capital repayment mortgage at a reasonable interest  
rate. This way they could  make a significant  reduction to the capital outstanding on the 
mortgage and hopefully avoid losing their home.  Theyd been hoping  to get a rate of 
between 2-2.5% and were disappointed at Halifaxs lack of flexibility  and willingness to 
explore options.  
Mr and Mrs R also referred to a recent  article  theyd read about mortgage prisoners. They 
were aware that the regulator, the Financial Conduct  Authority (FCA)  wants lenders to assist 
customers trapped on SVRs to move to better deals rather than pay higher variable rates. Mr 
and Mrs R think they may be mortgage  prisoners as they are up to date with their mortgage 
payments and yet they are unable to switch their mortgage. They feel that Halifax is taking 
advantage of them being in a vulnerable position that they cant get out of.
Halifax gave its final response to Mr and Mrs Rs complaint on 17 May 2019. Halifax didnt 
uphold the complaint. It said while  it could  appreciate Mr and Mrs Rs options were  limited,  it 
wasnt withholding  an interest rate on grounds of affordability and so Mr and Mrs R werent 
mortgage prisoners.  Halifax  said it was making  a product available  to Mr and Mrs R and that 
it was Mr and Mrs R who didnt want to take out this product as they felt it was unsuitable  for 
their needs.
Mr and Mrs R were unhappy  with Halifaxs response  and referred their complaint to us. Our 
investigator shared  his findings on the complaint.  He thought  it was reasonable that Halifax  
wouldnt give Mr and Mrs R the rate they asked for in return  for the mortgage being 
converted to capital  repayment. Our investigator  thought Halifax should work with Mr and 
Mrs R to see changes would be affordable going forward.
Ref: DRN54829172Mr and Mrs R disagreed  with our investigators  view. They replied  to say, in summary, that 
Halifax had been  very unhelpful. It wouldnt give them any options  to explore other than 
converting the whole  mortgage onto capital repayment terms and on its SVR. Mr R said this 
is unaffordable  and they were told if they didnt like this option, they could get advice  
elsewhere.
They asked that an ombudsman look at their case afresh and reach a final decision on their 
complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In 2008 Mr and Mrs R took out this mortgage on a two year fixed  rate product of 6.09% until 
2010. 
The mortgage offer said:
The mortgage  is at a Fixed Rate FRC858  Fixed  Rate of 6.090% which  ends on 
31/07/2010.
Your loan reverts to Halifaxs  Standard  Variable Rate currently  7.00% after 31/07/2010.
Halifax Standard  Variable Rate  is the base rate which  applies to this mortgage. 
Your mortgage product  is only available when  the amount of loan is between 75% and 90% 
of the property value or purchase  price,  whichever is lower.  
The mortgage offer made it clear that Mr and Mrs R were able to secure a rate of 6.09% 
when they bought their home  because  they had a loan to value of 90%. That loan to value 
meant they were eligible  for a certain product. It also made  it clear  than when  the product 
ended the mortgage would revert  onto Halifaxs SVR. Mr and Mrs Rs mortgage has been  on 
SVR since 2010  when their last fixed  rate product expired.
Its regrettable that the value  of Mr and Mrs Rs property fell in the financial crash of 2008,  
and that it hasnt recovered to previous levels  since  that time. This fall in the value of their 
property has meant  that theyve been in negative equity, owing more to Halifax  than their 
property is worth, for most of the mortgage term. From my wider knowledge of the mortgage 
market Im aware that there  are parts of the country where property prices havent recovered 
to levels  seen before the financial crash of 2008.  And Im sensitive to the fact that this 
presents homeowners like Mr and Mrs R with very limited options when it comes to moving  
their mortgage to other lenders  or being eligible  for relatively competitive interest rate 
products. 
Halifax has said that it is offering customers in negative  equity an interest rate product  a 
five-year fixed rate product. Halifax has said it currently makes a five year fixed rate 
available to its customers of 4.09% which  is higher than its SVR of 3.59%. When  this 
complaint was first made the interest  rate was higher,  and its fallen in line with prevailing  
interest rates. 
Ref: DRN54829173Mr and Mrs R have said they werent interested in the five year fixed  rate that Halifax  offered 
to them.  They wanted a lower interest rate as an enticement to start repaying the capital  on 
their mortgage. I can see why Mr and R wanted Halifax to offer them a lower rate, and why 
they questioned how competitive the five year product is when it is priced above Halifaxs  
SVR. 
First, I should  say Im encouraged that Mr and Mrs R reached out to Halifax  to discuss 
transferring their mortgage  onto capital repayment  terms.  If Mr and Mrs R can reduce the 
capital owed on their mortgage, at whatever  pace  is affordable for them, then theyll 
hopefully be able to free themselves from being in negative equity. Its good to see that Mr 
and Mrs R are aware of the risks of leaving their mortgage on interest only terms and that 
theyve taken action  to improve their financial position. 
Halifax has a duty as a responsible lender to work with Mr and Mrs R to explore what 
changes to the mortgage are affordable for them and see how they can reduce their 
mortgage debt.  Its also in Halifaxs best interests that Mr and Mrs R get to a position  where  
their mortgage loan is less than their property is worth. 
While I see that both parties will benefit from Mr and Mrs R repaying some  of their mortgage  
capital, I dont think that it necessarily follows that Halifax has treated Mr and Mrs R unfairly 
by not making  lower  interest rates available to them  as part of that process.  
Its common practice for mortgage  lenders to offer different interest  rate products to different 
customers to reflect  the underlying risks present in mortgage loans. One such risk factor is 
the loan to value present in the transaction. The general principle is that the most 
competitive interest  rates are made  available to the lowest risk mortgage loans; where the 
mortgage debt is small  compared  to the value of the property. 
I think its reasonable that mortgage lenders differentiate what interest  rates they choose to 
make available to different mortgage  customers dependent on the loan to value of the 
transaction. I say this because the lower  the loan to value,  then the more  of a cushion  of 
equity should  the lender need  to take possession of the security and sell the property to 
repay the outstanding mortgage balance, arrears  and legal costs.  At present Mr and Mrs Rs 
negative equity position means  that if they were to default on their mortgage and Halifax 
needed to take possession and sell their property to repay the debt, Halifax would not be 
repaid in full. Halifax would  then need  to pursue Mr and Mrs R for any shortfall.  This is a 
risky position  for Halifax to be in.
When the mortgage was taken out in 2008 neither Mr and Mrs R, nor Halifax, could have 
envisaged that Mr and Mrs Rs property would reduce in value as much  as it did. As Ive 
said, following the expiry  of Mr and Mrs Rs fixed rate in 2010, their mortgage reverted onto 
SVR. When the mortgage  was taken out Mr and Mrs Rs monthly interest  payments were  
around £1,080  per month. Due to falling  prevailing interest rates,  Mr and Mrs Rs interest 
payments have fallen  too while on the SVR.  Halifaxs SVR is currently  3.74%, which means  
the interest payments on Mr and Mrs Rs mortgage  have fallen to around £670 per month. 
Mr and Mrs R have said that the regulator,  the FCA, wants  to help customers  who are 
trapped on SVR to move to better deals rather than pay higher variable rates.  Mr and Mrs R 
think they may be mortgage prisoners as they are up to date with their mortgage payments 
and yet they are unable  to switch their mortgage. 
Ref: DRN54829174Im familiar with relevant mortgage  regulation  aimed at helping  mortgage prisoners get 
access to a fair rate of interest on mortgage loans.  Ive considered mortgage regulation 
when looking at the specific set of circumstances  in Mr and Mrs Rs complaint and deciding 
whats fair and reasonable in this case. 
In current mortgage  regulation,  MCOB 11.8.1 E says:
Where a customer is unable to:
1 (1) 
Enter into a new regulated  mortgage contract  or home purchase plan or vary the terms of an 
existing regulated contract or home purchase  plan with the existing mortgage lender  or 
home purchase provider;  or
2 (2) 
Enter into a new regulated  mortgage contract  or home purchase plan with a new mortgage 
lender or home purchase provider;
The existing mortgage lender or home purchase provider should not (for example by offering 
less favourable interest rates  or other terms) take advantage of the customers  situation  or 
treat the customer any less favourable  than it would treat other  customers  with similar 
characteristics. To do so may be relied  on as tending  to show contravention of principle 6 
(Customers interests)
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs R find themselves with few options and that they may feel 
trapped in their mortgage. Theyre unable to move to another  mortgage lender while their 
property is in negative  equity but thats not due to any wrongdoing by Halifax. 
Mortgage prisoners  typically  find themselves  unable  to get access to interest  rates other 
than SVRs. However, in this case,  it isnt that Mr and Mrs Rs lender wont offer new interest 
rate products to them. Mr and Mrs R have been offered a new five-year  product with their 
current lender Halifax.  The issue is that they dont consider the rate available  to be 
competitively priced and attractive to them.  Halifax has explained that the five year fixed  rate 
quoted to Mr and Mrs R is the product thats  available to all its customers who are in 
negative equity- and this same rate would be available regardless of whether this mortgage 
was on interest only or capital repayment  terms. And, when considering the loan to value of 
Mr and Mrs Rs mortgage when compared  to other mortgages with a similar  loan to value 
position, it isnt treating  Mr and Mrs R any less favourably than another customer  in negative  
equity or with similar characteristics. 
Mr and Mrs Rs mortgage is on Halifaxs SVR which is the standard  reversionary  rate that all 
mortgages move onto when not in another interest  rate product. There is no premium  added 
to this rate, or alteration made to it, to reflect the fact that Mr and Mrs R are in negative  
equity. 
And so having  considered mortgage regulation,  and the interest rate applied to this 
mortgage, I dont  think Halifax has acted unreasonably or unfairly by not offering a lower rate 
to Mr and Mrs R than any other customer in a similar situation. 
Changes to the mortgage
Ref: DRN54829175I understand that Mr and Mrs Rs mortgage has now moved onto part capital repayment and 
part interest only terms - and theyve chosen  to remain on Halifaxs SVR for now.  Even  
though Mr and Mrs Rs monthly repayments have increased as a result of repaying  some of 
the mortgage capital, theyve been able to maintain payments  throughout the pandemic to 
date. 
Mr R has previously said that Halifax  wasnt willing to explore options  to make any changes 
to the mortgage  other than converting the entire balance onto capital repayment terms and 
that this would be unaffordable. Halifaxs contact notes recorded that discussions about 
changes to Mr and Mrs Rs mortgage stalled because it had thought Mr and Mrs R would 
only agree  to make changes if they were given  a lower interest rate of between 2-2.5%. 
Its disappointing that discussions had stalled in the past, but Im pleased  to hear that 
changes to the mortgage have now been  made. Even more so that these changes  appear to 
be affordable to Mr and Mrs R even in these challenging  economic times. Ive looked  at the 
evidence available  around previous discussions and I think these  negotiations  broke  down 
due to a genuine misunderstanding  between the parties rather than any service  failing on 
Halifaxs part. I dont uphold this part of the complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  23 April 2021.
Emma Peters
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN5482917