K820x#14complaint
Mr M complained that he was mis-sold  a mortgage  payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy in 1995.  Aviva Insurance Limited  (Aviva) is responsible for answering  this complaint, 
so I will refer to Aviva  from now on. 
background
Mr M took out the PPI in 1995  the policy  started in October that year.  The policy  certificate 
shows that it was to provide cover for a mortgage, taken out with a bank,  which had started 
in May of that year. The policy was sold by a broker. However the broker  was acting on 
behalf of an insurance administrator,  which in turn was acting on behalf of an insurer which 
is now part of Aviva. This chain of agency  means  that Aviva is responsible for answering  
this complaint, even  though it was the broker that actually sold the PPI. Mr M said that he 
took out the PPI following sales calls and correspondence. He complained  that there was no 
discussion of the suitability of the policy, or about the terms and conditions and exclusions. 
He said he had sufficient  benefits through his employer so as not to need the policy. 
According to the certificate of insurance,  the policy provided unemployment cover for Mr M 
at a monthly cost of £9.75. The monthly  benefit was £300. If Mr M had made a successful 
claim, the policy couldve paid out for up to nine months per claim.
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld. Mr M disagreed,  and asked that 
it be referred to an ombudsman for review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Ms case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ms complaint.  Ill explain why.
This is difficult  case to decide as there  is a limited  amount of evidence about  the sale.  The 
policy administrator sent in a copy of its computer records  of Mr Ms policy, which  show the 
start and end date (October 1995 and June 2005 respectively), the name of the broker that 
sold the policy, the name of the insurer and the level of cover. The company  which  sold the 
policy no longer  exists  it was dissolved  in 1999. Aviva has no further information about  the 
sale  which  is not surprising given that the policy ended in 2005. So the only documentary 
evidence relating to the sale is that provided by Mr M. He sent in the certificate of insurance 
and a covering  letter  issued by the policy administrator,  along with an acknowledgement 
letter from the selling broker.  Mr M has also told us his recollections  of the sale.
Firstly, I should state that I have  no evidence of any involvement in the sale of this policy  by 
the mortgage lender. Had it been a condition of the mortgage that Mr M took PPI, I would 
have expected this to have had to have been  taken out through  the lender, and to have been 
in force  by the time the mortgage started (which according to the certificate  of insurance was 
May 1995, some five months before the policy start date). However, the acknowledgment  
letter that Mr M provided shows that he initiated matters by responding to a reader offer in a 
national newspaper. So Im satisfied that Mr M had a choice about whether or not to take a 
Ref: DRN53294692PPI policy, and that whilst the PPI was taken out to cover a mortgage, the sales  of the 
mortgage and PPI were  entirely separate. 
As Ive said,  Mr M responded to a reader offer in a national newspaper.  He said that this 
happened in May 1995.  However, whilst the mortgage is stated to have begun  in May, I cant 
be certain when he enquired about  the PPI - the acknowledgement letter  from the broker is 
undated and marked date as postmark. At the bottom of the letter  is a statement that the 
offer is only available  until 31st of October  1995.  I think its likely that there was a 
reasonably short time frame involved  in the offer as a way of encouraging potential 
applicants for the policy to respond  quickly. Mr Ms certificate of insurance  is dated 2 
October 1995 so I think its quite  likely  that he responded to the reader offer fairly shortly 
before that. 
Ive carefully considered  what Mr M had to say about  the sale. Mr M said that there were a 
number of phone calls and letters  during the sales process, and that he was advised to take 
the PPI policy  during  these. There are, of course,  no transcripts of conversations, and as the 
business that actually sold the policy no longer  exists, I cannot request its account of the 
sale. The administrator could only provide its computer  records.  Aviva has no records, which  
is unsurprising given  that the policy was cancelled some 14 years ago, and in any case I 
think it unlikely that detailed information about an individual sale would  have been  passed 
back to Aviva for retention  there. And Mr M has not been able to provide  any letters other  
than the acknowledgement letter from the broker and the covering letter  with the policy 
certificate. 
Mr M has mentioned feeling pressured by the administrator. He has also commented that 
the signatures on the policy  certificate  from the insurer,  and the covering letter from the 
administrator, are the same.  
Mr M hasnt  given a great deal of detail about  why he felt pressured, and its not clear what 
level of involvement  the administrator would have  had in the actual sale, given that there  
was a broker which responded to Mr Ms initial enquiry. And on the basis  that there was an 
agency relationship between the administrator and insurer,  I dont  find it unusual that a 
representative of the administrator signed the policy certificate on behalf of the insurer. As 
Ive explained  above theres no evidence that Mr M had to take out PPI to get his mortgage  
and I think he could  simply have  chosen not to return  the application form mentioned in the 
paperwork he sent in. So overall Im not satisfied theres enough evidence for me to say its 
most likely that Mr M was pressured into taking the policy.
Given that this sale was initiated by Mr M in that he responded to the newspaper offer,  Im 
satisfied that there wasnt an initial recommendation that he should take out a PPI policy. 
The tone of the acknowledgement letter from the broker suggests to me that it was expected  
that the sale would proceed by post. But I accept its possible that there was some  telephone 
discussion after Mr M received the acknowledgement  letter and before he returned  the 
application form. I cant know whether any such discussion would have amounted  to a 
personal recommendation, but I accept Mr M recalls it as such. But this doesnt affect my 
decision, because  even if I were to treat this as an advised sale  which holds the seller  and 
thus Aviva  to a higher standard  it doesnt seem an unreasonable recommendation to have 
made. 
From what  Mr M has told us about  his circumstances at the time, I can see no reason  why 
he wouldnt  have met the eligibility conditions that generally apply to PPI policies in terms of 
age, residency and employment status. I cant know how the terms and conditions were  
Ref: DRN53294693presented (either in the written information or verbally),  but Mr M said he was employed and 
in good health at the time of the sale, and theres  nothing to suggest that he wouldve been 
affected by any of the common  exclusions  and limitations in PPI policies. He has since  
mentioned a medical condition, but its not clear when this arose  and in any case as the 
policy only included unemployment  cover  I dont think any such  condition wouldve affected  
his ability  to claim on the policy. 
Mr M told us he wouldve been entitled  to full sick pay from his employer for the duration of 
any period of illness. This may well be the reason why Mr M took a PPI policy  offering 
unemployment cover  only. I note Mr M said he wouldve been entitled  to a lump  sum on 
redundancy, but as he said hed been  working for his employer  for only four years,  it seems  
unlikely that such  a payment would be substantial. Mr M said he had savings, but didnt 
mention the amount, and he also said he couldve relied on family members  to help out if 
needed  but their circumstances couldve changed so I dont think  their help could have 
been guaranteed. And I think Mr M could reasonably have wanted to protect an important 
commitment that was secured on his home. 
The acknowledgement letter from the broker stated  that policy information was enclosed  
the terms and conditions, application form and a standing order  mandate. I dont have copies 
of any of these so I cant know how clearly the policy information was presented. However, 
the acknowledgment  letter stated the cost per £100 of benefit  for unemployment cover,  the 
length of time that benefits would  be paid in the event of a redundancy claim (nine  months) 
and that disability and unemployment cover was available, as well as unemployment only.  
Mr M mentioned the period of 90 days after which he wouldve been able to start an 
unemployment claim. However,  given Mr Ms comments about his redundancy pay and 
savings I dont think Mr M was disadvantaged by this  and it is clearly shown on the policy 
certificate so I think he couldve chosen  to cancel the policy if he was unhappy with the 
terms. 
Taking everything into account,  although  I cant know whether  the seller  clearly explained all 
of the policy  details, I think Mr M would still have  bought the policy.  It couldve provided 
useful protection  if Mr M had lost his job. So I dont think the policy  was mis-sold.  
Additionally, the subject  of commission has been raised. Our adjudicator  explained that the 
regulator  the Financial  Conduct Authority (FCA) introduced rules and guidance for 
businesses to follow when  theyre looking at PPI complaints. This means businesses will 
sometimes need to give consumers back some of the commission  paid on certain PPI 
policies. But the rules are about what lenders need to do in cases  where  the rules  apply   
and this complaint  is against an insurer, not the mortgage lender. Mr M said that the policy  
certificate showed that interest was charged on the premiums,  so Aviva was a lender. 
However, the policy certificate  shows the cost per £100 of benefit  as a percentage rate  
3.25% - and that the premium payable for a monthly benefit  of £300 is therefore £9.75.  I can 
see no reference to interest being  charged, or any lending being involved  (as far as I can 
see Mr M was simply required  to pay the monthly  premiums by standing  order). So the FCA 
rules on commission are not relevant to this complaint  against  Aviva.  
Ref: DRN53294694my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ms complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 June  2019.
Jan Ferrari
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5329469