K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs N are unhappy  Lloyds Bank  PLC (Lloyds) wont reimburse them  monies lost 
following Mr N falling  victim to a scam.  
Mrs N has represented Mr N throughout the complaint.
What happened
The details of this case are well known to both parties and the investigator has provided  a 
detailed background within their correspondence  to both parties. So I wont  go into too much  
detail here.  
Broadly summarised, in 2002  Mrs N was in a serious road traffic  accident. Mrs N received  
compensation as a result of the accident,  and in 2007 Mr and Mrs N created an investment 
portfolio with Lloyds.  The aims and needs of the investment  portfolio suggested a timeframe 
of more than 10 years and this was to assist Mr and Mrs N with meeting their income  needs  
up to 60 years of age when they could draw on their pension, and onwards.
Mrs N has said that throughout their years of marriage, Mr N handled  the financial affairs, 
and this was the case  even more  so after the accident in 2002.
From August  2015  to May 2016, four withdrawals were made  from the investment portfolio 
totalling £120,000. In December 2016, the remaining funds of the portfolio (approximately 
£33,000) were moved into two cash Individual Savings Accounts (ISAs) one for Mr N and 
one for Mrs N  held with another provider.  The portfolio with Lloyds was subsequently 
closed in March  2017. 
Mrs N has said she wasnt  made  aware of the withdrawals and hadnt consented to them. 
Mrs N also says she wasnt aware  of the closure of the investment portfolio with the 
remaining funds being withdrawn and placed into cash ISAs.  
All of the funds  withdrawn from the investment portfolio were withdrawn into Mr and Mrs Ns 
joint account held with Lloyds. Mrs N says Mr N, during this time, made payments out of the 
joint account to third parties and they were  made  as a result of Mr N being the victim of a 
scam.
Mrs N says Mr N had got involved  with people online and paid them  money  with Mr N 
firmly believing that he was helping them and that he would be paid back. Subsequently 
Mrs N says Mr N was threatened and blackmailed as a result of his dealings with these 
people. Mrs N says the withdrawals from the investment portfolio and subsequent payments 
from the joint account depleted  all of their funds and savings.
Overall, Mrs N considers Lloyds didnt do enough to protect her and her husband. Mrs N 
considers the portfolio was to provide her and her husband with a long-term income  stream.  
The portfolio  had a planned  timeframe of more than 10 years and, as there  had been  no 
activity on the investment  portfolio from 2007 until 2015, all the funds being subsequently 
withdrawn and depleted in two years   should  have alerted Lloyds as the activity  was 
unusual and out of character. 
Mrs N says Lloyds did not contact her independently at any stage to verify the change in 
intentions of the long-term investment.  
Ref: DRN54754352And given  the unusual  activity  both in terms of removing the funds from the investment 
portfolio and then onward from their joint accounts to the third parties - Mrs N says Lloyds 
ought to have been on alert that something  wasnt right and intervened and the losses could 
have been prevented. Mrs N estimates the losses total around £160,000.
Mrs N complained to Lloyds about the matter in 2017. Lloyds reviewed the matter and 
issued its response on the concerns Mrs N had with the investment portfolio and the 
subsequent payments Mr N made using the withdrawn investment funds that had been 
made to third parties.  
In respect of the investment  portfolio  Lloyds  considered that it had acted in accordance  with 
the terms and conditions regarding the withdrawal process. It explained it accepted  the 
withdrawal requests from the joint portfolio  in good faith. It advised the signatures on the 
letters it received  for each  withdrawal were signed by both Mr and Mrs N and matched  the 
signatures held on its records. It said the funds were paid to their joint bank account held 
with Lloyds. Lloyds  also explained that it received  a request from both Mr and Mrs N to 
transfer the remaining funds from the investment portfolio to two cash ISAs held with 
another provider.  Lloyds  explained that any action  undertaken was followed up with 
correspondence sent to Mr and Mrs N including when the joint investment portfolio was 
closed. Lloyds considered it had acted  appropriately and plausibility had been established on 
each of the withdrawals.
With the payments  Mr N subsequently  made  to various third parties,  Lloyds considered that 
Mr N had authorised the payments. And when payments were made from joint accounts 
both parties have equal rights to make payments. As Mr N had authorised  the payments, 
Lloyds considered it wasnt responsible for the losses. Lloyds tried to recover  the monies 
from the third-party accounts  but unfortunately no funds remained.
Unhappy with Lloyds  response on the matter, Mrs N referred the complaint on behalf of her 
and her husband to our service.
One of our investigators  looked into the matter. Initially they thought  that Lloyds could have 
probed further regarding the withdrawal requests and had they done so  the withdrawals 
would have been stopped  and the losses prevented. 
Lloyds responded and provided information  it had obtained which  it suggested that Mr N 
hadnt fallen victim to a scam and had made  the payments to the third parties  willingly.  
Our investigator shared the information  with Mrs N, and in light of Lloyds response and 
Mrs Ns, reviewed the matter again. Ultimately  our investigator didnt uphold the complaint.
 
Broadly summarised, she considered Lloyds had acted in accordance  with the terms and 
conditions regarding the investment portfolio, with Lloyds acting upon written instructions  
which had been  signed by both parties. They were also satisfied that Lloyds had confirmed 
that Mrs Ns signatures on each request matched what it had on file. While  on one of the 
withdrawal requests it was noted  that the signature  didnt match,  and to which  Mrs N 
considered intervention should have happened, the investigator concluded that it wouldnt 
have made  a difference and Mr N would have  confirmed  the signature  and would have still 
been able to withdraw the money  in any event. 
Ref: DRN54754353With regards to Mrs Ns concern that the investment was long-term and that as the funds 
were depleted  over the course of two years, Lloyds should have been concerned and probed 
further, the investigator explained that information  obtained by Lloyds suggested  it wasnt  
clear Mr N had fallen  victim to a scam or was being  blackmailed. Because of this, she 
considered that even  if Lloyds had intervened it wouldnt have made  a difference. She 
considered that the third parties Mr N was paying  across the period  in question was as a 
result of either Mr N willingly doing  so, or if as a result of being blackmailed, choosing  to do 
so. And had Lloyds  questioned Mr N it wouldnt have  been able to prevent what was 
happening.  
Mrs N disagreed with the investigators opinion, and as the matter hasnt been  resolved,  its 
been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of a complaint, Im required to
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules,  guidance  and standards;
codes of practice; and, where appropriate,  what I consider to have been good  industry
practice at the time.
Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint.  I know this will come as a disappointment to 
both Mr and Mrs N.
I would like to assure  both Mr and Mrs N that I have  carefully considered and reviewed all 
the testimony and evidence provided by both parties. And I would also like to add, that from 
reviewing all the information presented to me, I do recognise the sensitive nature of this 
complaint and the impact it has had on Mr and Mrs N.
At this point, I would  also like to clarify that within this decision I can only look into the 
actions of Lloyds.  I cant  comment on the actions of any other financial businesses.
Turning to the matter  at hand, it is clear that the crux of this complaint about Lloyds focuses 
on two key aspects:
The activity carried out in connection  with the joint investment portfolio. So whether 
Lloyds acted fairly and reasonably in carrying out the instructions it received. Or 
whether I consider  the requests should have given Lloyds a cause for concern and it 
should have intervened   and, importantly, whether any intervention would have 
made a difference.
Whether  Lloyds shouldve done  more when Mr N used the withdrawn funds and 
subsequently made  payments from their Lloyds  joint account to the third parties.
The investment portfolio  
I have reviewed the Financial Planning Report  (FRP) carried  out in 2007.
Within the FRP, the Aims and Objectives for Investments states:
What Are You Looking To Achieve
Ref: DRN54754354You are seeking to review your existing  investments  now that you have retired  with a 
view to generating an income  to assist in meeting your day to day needs over the 
medium to long term. Specifically up to [Mr N] reaching the age of 60 yrs when he will 
draw his deferred pension making any income  shortfall up from capital  remaining on 
deposit.
Additional Information Relating To This Objective
You would  like to invest a lump sum of £129,898 to meet this objective.
You advised me that your timeframe for this investment is more  than 10 years 
and do not anticipate needing  access to the invested capital during this 
period.
Mrs N is unhappy that Lloyds allowed the funds  to be withdrawn  from the investment 
portfolio. She thinks Lloyds ought  to have  recognised something  was amiss because the 
funds were being withdrawn before 10 years had passed and because  there  hadnt  been 
any withdrawals before this  so there  was a clear change to the investment strategy. 
But Im mindful Mr and Mrs N were in their mid-fifties in 2007. So by 2015, eight years  later,  
Mr N was beyond 60 which I can see was an objective of the investments as set out in the 
FRP. And, while it says the timeframe  for the investment is more than 10 years   it does 
state that Mr and Mrs N did not anticipate needing access to the funds, and peoples  
circumstances can and do change. So when the withdrawals  occurred from 2015  onwards, 
Im not persuaded Lloyds ought  to have been concerned.
Having said that, I can see Lloyds did undertake some checks  each time withdrawals were 
requested  and Lloyds  accepts it was obligated to check the plausibility of its clients  
instructions  thereby protecting the client(s)  and itself from misappropriation. Lloyds has 
explained that it considers plausibility on each instruction in a number of ways.  In short  it 
looks at a number  of things including  but not limited to  what it knows  about its customer, 
whether the instruction is expected or completely  unexpected, the method of contact, the 
amount, the purpose and the volume  of transactions made.
Looking at the withdrawal instructions made, I can see;
For the £20,000 withdrawal in July 2015,  the reason was to request a cash withdrawal 
from our portfoliofor a purchase we wish to make.
For the £30,000 withdrawal in August 2015 the reason was to assist our son in the 
purchase of a house.
For the £40,000 withdrawal in December  2015 the reason was to carry out some 
improvements on our Kitchen and bathroom along  with other improvements.
For the £30,000 withdrawal in May 2016 the reason was to help  our son with some 
purchases. 
It is also important to note that as it was a joint investment portfolio, either party  could 
provide an instruction to Lloyds. But where the funds were held in ISAs  (within the portfolio) 
 written confirmation would need to be provided from both parties. Here, Lloyds received 
written instructions each  time a withdrawal  was requested, which  were  signed by both 
parties. 
Ref: DRN54754355Conversations about the withdrawals also sometimes took place, and, as Mr N dealt with Mr 
and Mrs Ns financial affairs  as a result of their own personal choice  it was Mr N who 
spoke with Lloyds  on these occasions.
With the first withdrawal in July 2015,  I note two phone calls were  made  to Mr N to check  the 
plausibility of the withdrawal. Having spoken to Mr N, who confirmed the purchase  was for a 
car, Lloyds  proceeded with the withdrawal. 
Lloyds could not locate a call recording for the second transaction in August 2015. So it 
seems a call wasnt  made. But given the reason   Mr and Mrs N assisting their son in the 
purchase of a property   Lloyds were satisfied with the plausibility  of the request.
Lloyds also contacted Mr N on the withdrawal requests made in December 2015 and May 
2016. With the call in May 2016, the adviser  initially spoke to Mrs N. The adviser explained 
to Mrs N that it had received the request to withdraw  some more money out of the portfolio  
with Mrs N then getting Mr N to speak with the adviser. I note the request  was also referred 
for further  consideration by a senior  colleague within Lloyds who,  having listened  to the call, 
was satisfied with the request. 
Lloyds also called Mr N in November  2016  following the letter it received from Mr and Mrs N 
requesting the closure of the portfolio (and the closure request stemmed from the 
conversation Mr N had in May 2016 as that withdrawal left around £32,000 in the portfolio).
So on each occasion, Im satisfied Lloyds reasonably  considered the plausibility of each 
withdrawal instruction alongside the subsequent request to close the portfolio down moving 
the remaining  funds  into two ISAs with another  provider.  I am also satisfied that on each 
request, the letters were  signed by both Mr and Mrs N. As Mrs N says her husband dealt 
with all of the finances,  it doesnt seem unusual that Lloyds  upon contacting  Mr and Mrs N 
would have ended up talking about each request with Mr N  as was the case when Lloyds 
contacted Mr and Mrs N in May 2016.
Its also the case that the written withdrawal requests  appear  to have been signed  by both 
Mr and Mrs N, though  Mrs N says she wasnt aware  of her husbands actions and hadnt 
signed the letters. However,  it is important  to remember that I have to look at whether I think  
Lloyds ought to have been  aware  there was something untoward going on that it would have 
given Lloyds a cause for concern with each request. In this case, I dont think  there was 
anything that would  have alerted Lloyds that this was the case.
Reasons were given for each withdrawal, and on the whole  they were  relatively  spread out. I 
am also mindful that with the July 2015 request, Mr N said that he and Mrs N were at a stage 
in life where they were starting to have to dig into their savings. 
Lloyds were satisfied  that the signatures matched the signatures it held on file for 
Mr and Mrs N. Having looked  at the withdrawal requests,  the remaining funds transfer 
request to two cash ISAs  and the closure requests, Mrs Ns signatures are  to my mind  
near enough identical each time, and I dont think there was anything so unusual that would 
have given Lloyds  any cause for concern that Mrs N hadnt consented to the withdrawals.
I understand Mrs N has noticed  that on one request (in August 2015) Lloyds appears to have 
had a concern,  in verifying the withdrawal request, that the signature didnt match. Mrs N 
thinks Lloyds should have reached out at this point.  I understand why, on the face of it, 
Mrs N thinks this  but I dont agree. It isnt clear  what signature Lloyds was referring to. And 
Ref: DRN54754356as Ive said, having carefully looked  at the signatures, Im persuaded Mrs Ns signature  is the 
same or close enough to the copy of her genuine signature throughout all the requests.
Lloyds says it was Mr Ns signature that was the concern.  And Lloyds have provided a copy 
of Mr Ns signature that it held on file electronically, and Mr Ns signature  was slightly 
different to that on his withdrawal request. So it does seem  that it is likely  that Lloyds, at the 
time, had a concern over Mr Ns signature  if anything. I think it is likely Lloyds referred the 
matter internally for a second opinion and sought  to match the signature to that of what  it 
held on the application form from 2007 or other letters and then proceeded. Mr Ns signature 
on the 2007 application form and July 2015 request were similar. And in any event, had 
Lloyds called to verify  the signature, then as Mr N was handling the financial affairs,  Im 
persuaded that Mr N would have spoken  with Lloyds  and confirmed  his signature.
With each of the requests, correspondence  was sent by Lloyds to Mr and Mrs N confirming 
the actions it had carried out. I appreciate  that Mrs N says Mr N dealt with their financial 
affairs so wasnt aware each time. But how Mr and Mrs N handled their financial affairs  is 
their personal choice. And Im satisfied Lloyds  fulfilled  its obligations  by writing to both 
parties to confirm the withdrawals in any event.
Overall, having reviewed all the information  in relation to the investment portfolio and the 
requests made, Im satisfied Lloyds carried out the instructions  it received  each  time in the 
way that Id expect.  And importantly, Lloyds did intervene and check  the plausibility of each 
request. I dont think that Lloyds had cause for concern when it received the withdrawal 
requests and instructions relating to the investment  portfolio  to question Mr N or intervene 
further than it did. 
However even if I considered that Lloyds should have intervened further,  which I dont think 
it needed to, Im satisfied  any intervention wouldnt have made a difference.  I say this 
because Mrs N has said Mr N fell victim to an elaborate  scam,  where  he had made  
payments to people he met online and who had the intention of paying  him back. But 
ultimately Mr N was threatened  and blackmailed into paying  more.
Lloyds obtained  information which it considers indicated that Mr N had most likely  met the 
third-parties online.  One of the third-parties  that Mr N had made  payments to, held an 
account within the Lloyds Banking  Group.  Lloyds  has said that it didnt have any concerns 
with the account and that it had also reached  out to the customer  to see what  the payments 
they received,  were  for. Lloyds has provided notes of what  was discussed, and the customer 
confirmed that they met Mr N through an online site, and they had been in a relationship with 
Mr N and he had made  the payments to them willingly. The notes indicate  the third party  
knew a considerable amount of personal  information about Mr N. 
It seems  to me, Mr N had met the third-parties, whom he made payments to throughout the 
period in question, online.  This is what Mr and Mrs N say happened,  and what the third-party 
Lloyds contacted, also says happened. The difference seems to be in what  the purpose for 
the payments  are.  
Our service is an alternative  to court. We are here to resolve  disputes  between financial 
businesses and consumers. We dont have the powers to call or cross examine witnesses. 
My role within this case, is to simply determine  whether  Lloyds should  have had cause for 
concern and reasonably intervened further than it, with the withdrawal requests meaning any 
losses could have been prevented. 
Ref: DRN54754357Based on all the testimony and information  provided, I have  to weigh up what  I think  is most 
likely to have happened based on the balance of probabilities. And having  done so I have to 
conclude that it is reasonable to suggest  that Mr N most likely willingly  met the third parties, 
and then proactively  made the withdrawals  requests from the investment portfolio which 
resulted in payments to the third-parties. I consider  that, had any of the withdrawal requests 
given Lloyds potentially  cause for concern, and had Lloyds intervened, Mr N would have 
placated any concerns Lloyds raised.  And if at a later date, it did indeed turn to blackmail, 
with Mr N withdrawing more funds from the investment portfolio, to pay the third parties, then 
Mr N still chose to make the payments, albeit under duress. In my view any intervention  from 
Lloyds in these  circumstances wouldnt have, made a difference. I have to bear in mind that 
if Mr N was being blackmailed, and didnt want anybody to find out about what  was going on, 
and given he was dealing with his and Mrs Ns financial  affairs it seems to me that it is also 
reasonable to suggest that he would have provided a sufficient cover story  to Lloyds as to 
the purposes for the withdrawals  or requests in relation  to the portfolio.
So I cant fairly say that any further  intervention from Lloyds would have made a difference  in 
the particular circumstances  of this case.    
Should Lloyds  have done more when payments were subsequently made by Mr N from the 
joint account Mr and Mrs N held with Lloyds  and would it have made a difference?
Im satisfied that Lloyds  did make  enquiries  about  the withdrawals and instructions it 
received in relation to the investment  portfolio.  And as I set out above, I concluded it didnt 
need to intervene  any further than it did, and had it done,  it would havent  made  a difference.  
But Lloyds didnt  make  enquiries about the payments subsequently made from 
Mr and Mrs Ns joint account. Lloyds has said that the payments from the joint account 
werent so unusual or out of character  that it had a cause  for concern and the payments 
didnt flag on its fraud  detection systems.  
So Ive also looked to see whether Lloyds should have been on alert that Mr and Mrs N were 
potentially at risk of financial harm when Mr N made further payments from the joint account 
and if any intervention would have made a difference.
 
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank  is expected  to process  payments 
and withdrawals that a customer  authorises  it to make, in accordance  with the terms and 
conditions of the customers account.  And I have taken that into account when deciding  what 
is fair and reasonable in this case.
It is the case that Mr N, following the funds  being  withdrawn from the investment portfolio 
into Mr and Mrs Ns joint account, authorised subsequent payments out of the account. 
These were  to either  other  accounts in Mr and Mrs Ns names,  other accounts held with 
financial business (such  as credit card companies) and importantly also on to the third 
parties which Mrs N says were scamming and blackmailing Mr N. 
So it is not in dispute that Mr N authorised the payments  and thats accepted  by all parties. 
And under the Payment Service Regulations  (which are the relevant regulations in place 
here) that means Mr and Mrs N are responsible for the payments made from their Lloyds 
joint account. That remains the case even though Mr and Mrs N say Mr N was the 
unfortunate victim of a scam.
Ref: DRN54754358There are times when I might  expect a bank to question a transaction  or payment, even 
though it may have  been properly authorised. Broadly speaking,  firms  like Lloyds  have 
certain obligations to protect customers from fraud.  
So I need to decide whether Lloyds acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings  with Mr and 
Mrs N after the withdrawals took place with subsequent payments being made from their 
joint account, or whether it should  have  done  more than it did.
Firstly, as it was a joint current account, either party  can make transactions under the 
account  it doesnt require consent from both parties. And the liability  is joint and severable 
for both parties. 
For the payments  Mr N made from the joint account  to either other  accounts  in their names 
or to other credit card providers, I dont  think there  would have been anything that would 
have given Lloyds  cause for concern.  After  all, Mr N was in essence moving funds from their 
joint account into accounts in either his or her name.
As Mr and Mrs N held multiple accounts with other  providers, there is a lot of movement on 
the Lloyds joint account and large amounts of the withdrawn investment funds that were 
moved into the Lloyds  joint account,  were moved  on to other  accounts in their names as well 
as to the third parties. 
This makes it hard to possibly identify at what point Lloyds could or should possibly have 
stepped in and what may or may not have triggered or flagged on its systems to indicate  
Mr and Mrs N were potentially at risk of financial harm. I am also mindful  that a large number 
of payments went to Mr Ns own account  held with another  provider  so I dont expect 
Lloyds to have  been on alert in respect  of those payments. 
For the payments  Mr N made to third parties,  a large  proportion of them are for 
comparatively small amounts and not so remarkable that it would have  given Lloyds a cause 
for concern. But I do note there were  some larger payments made to the third parties and it 
is possible that Lloyds  could have intervened. However, I dont consider I need to determine  
when this potentially  could or should have happened.  I say this because  any intervention 
from Lloyds, at any point,  wouldnt  have had a material  impact  on the choices Mr N had 
made to make the payments.  
I say this for the same reasons that I found in relation  to the withdrawals  from the investment 
portfolio. Mr N was either willingly making the payments or, if as a result of blackmail, 
choosing to make the payment and I find that is likely, no intervention  or questioning  would 
have made  a material difference to the choice Mr N was making in go ahead with the 
payments.
I appreciate Mrs N has asked Lloyds to provide evidence of the information  it obtained from 
the third-party it had contacted, as the third party mentioned having photos of themselves 
with Mr N. Lloyds has explained that it didnt seek a copy of any photos  and just took the 
comments on the reasons  for the payments that were received by the third party from Mr N, 
into consideration. I would say that even if Lloyds did obtain any photos  which I dont think  
is necessary, it wouldnt be necessary for it to provide it to either  our service or Mrs N as it is 
the third partys information  to disclose and it would  breach General Data  Protection  
Regulations (GDPR) if that information  is shared without  that third partys consent.
Ref: DRN54754359That said,  I do think it was reasonable for Lloyds to place weight on the information it 
received. It received  testimony from a third party where Mr N had made payments to. And 
the third party  provided a plausible  explanation  to Lloyds about the payments. The amounts 
being paid tied in with that third partys testimony.  And in forming  my decision I took into 
account what Lloyds  discussed with the third party, alongside all of the evidence and 
testimony to see what I think was more likely than not to have happened  and whether any 
prevention at any point  would  have  made  a difference.  Having done so, I am not as 
persuaded as I would need to be that Mr N hadnt willingly made the payments and overall,  
Im not satisfied that it is more likely than not that Mr N had fallen  victim to a scam. It seems 
that Mr N most likely made the payments, and then possibly as a result of blackmail chose 
to. Any intervention from Lloyds in these  circumstances wouldnt have,  made a difference 
and I dont think it could  have done  anything  to prevent the losses that occurred.
In summary  
I cant reasonably say that Lloyds had acted unfairly  when it carried out the instructions  it 
received in relation to the investment  portfolio.  The withdrawals and movement of the 
remaining funds to two cash ISAs and the subsequent closure of the portfolio all came  
through as a result of signed instructions from both Mr and Mrs N. I dont think it was 
unreasonable for Lloyds to carry out the instructions as there wasnt anything to suggest 
anything untoward  was going  on and that the instructions hadnt been  consented to by both 
parties.
And I cant fairly say that any intervention from Lloyds would have prevented Mr N from 
making the withdrawals  and then subsequently  making the payments he did from the joint 
account. So I dont  think Lloyds should  be held liable  for the losses that occurred.
My final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold this complaint and Lloyds  Bank PLC dont  need  
to do anything further.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs N to 
accept or reject my decision  before  13 September 2021.
Matthew Horner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5475435