K820x#14complaint
Mr L complains  about the short term loans he took out with Gracombex Ltd trading as 
The Money Platform (Money  Platform).  He says that Money Platform  lent irresponsibly. Mr L 
says that he became reliant on the loans to support himself. And he says this caused  him 
problems which affected his physical and mental  health. 
background
Mr L took out two loans  between March 2018 and July 2018. Some  of the information 
Money Platform has given  us is shown below:
Loan 1 was for £250. It started in March 2018 and Mr L needed to make two monthly 
repayments. These were  £181  and £153;  and
Loan 2 was for £250. It started in July 2018 and Mr L needed to make two monthly 
repayments. These were  £181  and £153
I understand Mr L has been  unable to fully repay loan 2. 
Money Platform has looked at Mr Ls complaint and said that it shouldnt be upheld. It said 
that it did appropriate checks for both of the loans. And these checks showed that the 
lending was affordable. So it thought it was reasonable to approve them. 
One of our adjudicators looked  at what Mr L and Money Platform said.  He thought Mr Ls 
complaint shouldnt be upheld. He thought that it had made proportionate checks for these  
loans. So he thought that Money Platforms decisions  to lend were reasonable. 
Mr Ls representative didnt agree  with our adjudicator. She said that:
Mr Ls credit file showed he had significant  problems,  a responsible lender shouldve 
picked up on this; and 
his bank statements  also showed that Mr L was in financial difficulty;  and
Money Platform was acting irresponsibly when it approved these two loans
So as no agreements been reached  the complaints been passed to me to me to issue  a 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice  at the time the loans were  offered.
Having done so, Ive decided to not to uphold  Mr Ls complaint. Having reviewed the 
evidence I have available I dont think Money Platform was wrong  to have lent to Mr L. Ill 
explain why.
Before lending money to a consumer a lender should take proportionate steps to understand 
whether the consumer will be able to repay what theyre borrowing in a sustainable manner. 
A lender should gather enough  information  for it to be able to make an informed decision on 
the lending. The lending  shouldnt adversely impact a consumers financial situation.  
Ref: DRN57328162The guidance and rules themselves didnt set out compulsory  checks.  But they are clear that 
any checks needed to be proportionate and could take into account a number of different 
things. This could include how much was being  lent, the size of the repayments  and what  the 
lender found out about the consumer. 
So Ive firstly looked at whether Money Platform performed proportionate checks. If I think  
that the checks were  proportionate then it usually wouldve been  reasonable for it to lend. 
Money Platform says it: 
asked Mr L about his income and expenditure; and 
it checked the amounts Mr L had supplied with two credit check  bureaus;  and
it also used statistics  to make sure that the information  Mr L was provided was 
reasonable 
And based on what it saw from this it thought  it reasonable  to lend to Mr L.
why I think Money  Platforms checks were proportionate 
Ive seen a record  of the information Mr L provided  when  he completed his two loan 
applications. Mr L said he had a monthly income  of around £1,400. He said he had regular 
outgoings of £50 (rent). Money Platform looked  at his credit  file and says that it found out 
that he had other monthly credit commitments of just over £200  and it estimated that his 
other regular  expenditure mayve been around  £500. 
This left him with a monthly disposable income  of around £650.  So Money Platform 
concluded from this that the repayments for both loans were affordable.
Money Platform did do a credit check before lending and its shown me the details of this. 
The check  showed  that Mr L had some other short term lending in the past but he didnt, at 
the time,  have any recent repayment  problems.  
I havent seen  any further information  that shows its likely Money Platform was made  aware 
of any financial problems  Mr L mightve  been having. Or anything that wouldve prompted it 
to investigate his circumstances further. So I dont  think that it was unreasonable, as there  
were only two loans  with reasonable repayments,  for Money Platform to rely on the 
information it had. 
So I dont  think further checks were needed.  And I think Money Platforms  decisions to lend 
for these  two loans  were  reasonable  and Im not upholding Mr Ls complaint about them. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ls complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Ref: DRN57328163Andy Burlinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5732816