K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains that Santander UK Plc wrongly  sold him an interest only mortgage which  
was unsuitable  and unaffordable.  
background
Mr A took out an interest only mortgage  with Santander in 2006. His account fell into arrears  
in 2014. Santander took possession and sold the property.  
Mr A says the mortgage adviser told him what to say in the mortgage application and gave 
him assurances that the property price  would increase and hed make a profit  from the sale.  
Mr A says the mortgage was unsuitable  for his circumstances and unaffordable. 
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  should  be upheld,  saying:
Santander didnt  recommend the mortgage or give advice to Mr A. So she didnt  agree  it 
had given him the advice he referred to in his complaint. There was no documentary  
evidence to support  what Mr A said.
Based  on what Mr A told Santander, the monthly  payments appeared affordable.  This 
was a re-mortgage without a significant  increase in the amount borrowed. Mr A made his 
own decision about whether to take out an interest only or repayment mortgage.
Mr A told Santander he lived in the property and needed the additional  borrowing for 
home improvements. Santander didnt know he needed to consolidate  debt or that he 
rented out the property (which is in breach of the terms  of the mortgage). 
Mr A didnt agree. He wanted the ombudsman to know that his wife attended the meetings  
with Santander  and was pregnant at the time.  And that he and his wife intend to raise  a 
complaint about  their joint mortgage.  Mr A said hed provided evidence that Santander 
recorded incorrect information about  his income,  address  history  and expenditure. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely  to have happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances. 
While Mr A says Santander recommended the mortgage, the available evidence doesnt  
support this. The application documents  and mortgage offer say that the sale was non-
advised and Santander didnt recommend the mortgage. Santander provided a copy of the 
customer profile completed for Mr A. This sets out the information  he provided about  his 
circumstances  including his income and expenditure  and existing  mortgage.  It says the 
service is non-advised  and Mr A didnt want advice in relation to his mortgage needs. 
On balance, I think Santander sold the mortgage  on a non-advised basis.  So the rules  about 
advised sales  such as obtaining all relevant information and ensuring any mortgage it 
recommends is suitable for the customers needs and circumstances  didnt apply here. 
Ref: DRN53303782Santander did have  to provide information to Mr A to allow him to make a decision whether 
to proceed with the mortgage. Santander  provided a key facts illustration and a mortgage 
offer which set out the terms of the mortgage,  including  that its on an interest only basis.  I 
think Santander gave  Mr A enough information for him to decide whether the mortgage was 
suitable for him.
Based on the information Santander  recorded  about Mr As income  and expenditure, the 
mortgage payments  appeared  affordable. Mr A said he had an investment linked policy to 
repay the debt at the end of the term. 
Mr A says he met with a mortgage adviser  who told him to include untrue information  in the 
application about his income, his intended  use of the additional borrowing he applied  for and 
that hed live in the property. He says the adviser told him his property would increase in 
value. Theres nothing  in the documents from that time to support these allegations.  When 
Mr A applied for the mortgage he confirmed that the information hed provided  was correct.
Mr A was re-mortgaging a property he already owned. The completion  statement for Mr As 
previous mortgage  showed hed borrowed  and still owed  about £90,000. He borrowed  
about £90,000 from Santander. Hed told Santander  his repayment method for the previous 
mortgage was an investment  linked policy, so it seems likely  this was also an interest only 
mortgage. I cant see that re-mortgaging increased  Mr As indebtedness  significantly.
Mr As account fell into arrears in 2014. He told Santander he had financial difficulties as his 
income had reduced  and he didnt have a tenant  in the property. The evidence  suggests that 
the financial problems  that led to Mr As mortgage  arrears followed a change  in his 
circumstances. Im sorry for Mr As difficult circumstances. But Ive seen nothing to persuade  
me that this mortgage was mis-sold. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 February  2019.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5330378