K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains that Bank of Scotland  plc trading as Halifax gave him the wrong information 
about the Early Repayment Charge (ERC) when he sold his flat. Mr G would like Halifax  to 
cancel this ERC.
background
Mr G had a mortgage  with Halifax on a flat and took out a new mortgage product on it in 
December 2017.  He also had that flat up for sale. Mr and Mrs G were  looking to buy a house 
and they got a mortgage offer from Halifax on this house at the end of February  2018.  As Mr 
and Mrs G were  putting down a larger deposit, Halifax  sent them a revised offer on 15 March 
2018. 
Mr G says that he went to see the mortgage  adviser  as he had a buyer for his house and 
wanted to get some  advice about porting his mortgage product. Mr G didnt meet his 
mortgage adviser but was told at the branch  that if he sold his flat within three  months of 
buying his new property, he would be able to claim back  the ERC.
Mr and Mrs G moved into their new house  on 29 June 2018  and Mr G sold his flat on 31 July 
2018. But after he redeemed  the mortgage  on the flat, Mr G got a bill for an ERC  of 
£4,624.99. Halifax  says that the ERC would only be waived  if the existing property had been 
sold on or before the new mortgage was opened which would then have needed to have 
been completed within a three month  period. In such a case the old mortgage product would 
be transferred across to the new mortgage. As this was a case  of obtaining a new mortgage 
and separately selling the existing property, Halifax says its unable  to refund or waive the 
ERC. 
Our investigator didnt  recommend that this complaint should be upheld  because he felt that 
at the time Mr G applied  for a mortgage he intended  to retain  his flat and not port the 
mortgage. Mr G disagrees saying that his flat was up for sale at the time he made the 
mortgage application.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr G had an existing mortgage with Halifax in his sole name on a flat and was buying a 
property in joint names with Mrs G. Mr G could presumably have ported his existing 
mortgage product  to the new property. Neither  the first or revised mortgage offers refer to 
porting the existing product. In order for the mortgage product to port, Mr G would have to 
sell his existing property.  Mr G says he told the Halifax  mortgage adviser that his flat was up 
for sale and that the adviser said that porting would be a good option. But the adviser  
arranged for a new mortgage on the house  without  making provision for the porting of the 
mortgage on the flat.  
On the other hand the mortgage adviser notes  record that Mr G didnt  intend  to sell his flat  
but that he intended keeping it as a second home  and because it assisted his commuting to 
work. The upshot was that Halifax produced a mortgage offer that didnt port the existing 
mortgage product  and Mr and Mrs G accepted that offer.
Ref: DRN54931962Both parties  have different recollections  of what was said and as there  is no recording of the 
conversation I have to decide what is most  likely to have been said on the balance  of 
probabilities. The mortgage adviser notes at the time that the flat is not being sold and 
records reasons why that is so. Halifax then produced two mortgage  offers  neither of which  
port the existing  mortgage product which is consistent with the advisers belief that the flat 
wasnt to be sold. I also note that in Mr Gs email to us of 6 August 2018 he says that he 
later went  to the branch to tell the mortgage adviser  that we were  indeed selling the flat 
although he didnt  get talking to the mortgage adviser. This suggests that Mr G hadnt told 
the mortgage adviser that this had been his intention as there would have been no need  to 
tell him if he had. Mr G has provided  evidence  that the flat was indeed for sale but it may be 
that at the time he was buying the house he didnt have a purchaser for the flat and believed  
that it would  be better  to retain it as a second home.
From the evidence available, I believe on balance that the mortgage adviser produced  a 
mortgage offer on the basis that Mr Gs existing mortgage product wouldnt be ported and 
the flat would be retained for a period at least as a second home.
After that meeting it seems Mr G got a buyer  for the flat. If Mr G wanted to sell his flat and 
avoid the ERC, he would have to port his mortgage  product. Ive looked at the Halifax  
website and the section dealing with this. It says that if a customer intends to sell his current  
property but cant  take out a new loan and repay the existing one at the same time, he can 
ask permission to have two loans at the same  time.  Subject  to an affordability  assessment 
on having the two loans,  the customer can take the existing product to the new loan on the 
new purchase. The existing loan will in the meantime transfer to the lenders standard  
variable rate until the sale is complete  and the loan is fully repaid. The note on the website 
records that this is a concession and may not always  be available, so please ask about  it 
when you apply for your mortgage.
Halifax applies a different process  if a property is sold before  another  one is bought. The 
customer can apply to port the mortgage product within  three months of the sale of the first 
property. Although the ERC is initially paid, it can be refunded  once the old product has been 
transferred. Again I note that Halifax  says that this is a concession.
Mr G says that he went to a Halifax branch on 14 March 2018  to speak to his mortgage 
adviser to say that he was selling the flat. Unfortunately  the mortgage  advisor  wasnt 
available so Mr G asked  another member of staff:   If we sell the flat after we move into the 
house will we have  to pay an early repayment  penalty fee? Mr G says that he was told by 
the member of staff No, as long as you sell the flat within three months  of moving  into your 
own house  Now this advice is contrary to Halifaxs policy set out in its website. The three 
month period  is only relevant if the property is sold and the mortgage is redeemed  before 
another property  is bought.
Unfortunately, we dont  know  who Mr G spoke to but its clearly  not a proper representation 
of Halifaxs policy. The conversation was in March  and Mr G says that his recollection is 
clear. But I note that in Mr Gs recollection  he doesnt appear  to give any background to the 
question. Mr G doesnt appear  to have mentioned to the member of staff that his plans had 
changed about the sale of his flat. Nor does Mr G say that he hasnt yet applied to port his 
mortgage product,  Mr G seems to have had a very short conversation  about a fairly complex 
matter without providing any background information.  Its possible in those circumstances  
that the Halifax member  of staff simply misunderstood Mr Gs question. 
Ref: DRN54931963It would also seem that as Mr G had a designated  mortgage adviser it would have been 
reasonable for Mr G to have made a further effort to contact  him to say that his plans had 
changed and he was now selling the flat.  Presumably the adviser could then have looked  
into how Mr G could apply to port his mortgage product. Mr G could also have checked the 
Halifax website as I have  done to see what Halifaxs policy  on porting was. I dont believe 
that I can reasonably  require Halifax  to return this ERC based on a brief conversation Mr G 
had with an unnamed employee  who may have  misunderstood his question  when sources  of 
correct information  were available to him. For these reasons I cant  fairly  uphold this 
complaint.        
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 February  2019.
Gerard McManus
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5493196