K822xcomplaint
Mr C complains about Ageas Insurance Limiteds offer to cash  settle his home  insurance 
claim for damage caused  by an escape of water. Mr Cs complaint is brought  on his behalf 
by his son, Mr R.
background 
In April 2018, Mr C made  a claim to Ageas under his home insurance following an escape of 
water from a pipe located in his kitchen sink cupboard.  The water had caused damage  to 
two kitchen cabinet carcasses and three  doors. Ageas asked  Mr C to obtain  some estimates 
to have them replaced.
Mr R duly obtained some estimates on Mr Cs behalf  and sent them to Ageas. They ranged 
between £4,000 to £5,000. Ageas thought the estimates were high so it decided to appoint 
its own contractors to inspect the damage  and scope for the repairs.
The contractor offered Mr C a cash settlement of £1,375 (less the policy excess) based on 
its scoped costs. Mr R complained to Ageas  that the amount offered was nowhere near what 
was needed to properly reinstate the kitchen. He told Ageas that his quotes were  high 
because the kitchen units had been  discontinued. He said that the doors were made of solid 
maple. As he couldnt obtain replacements from the original manufacturer he told Ageas hed 
approached other kitchen  suppliers about making  bespoke replacement doors that would 
match the rest of the units in the kitchen. Mr R said Mr C was entitled to new for old cover 
under his policy. He also said hed be happy for Ageass contractor to do the work. 
Mr R then complained  again  about  the amount offered, the fact that hed spent his own time 
obtaining quotes, that Ageass contractor  had missed one appointment and shown up early 
for another.  Mr R said any contractor  Ageas sent out needed  to be qualified  in woodwork, 
joinery and plumbing  and if the work wasnt perfect he would refuse to accept it. Ageas told 
Mr R that it was entitled to settle the claim in the way it deemed most  appropriate  which, in 
this case, was by cash. Mr R asked Ageas to appoint a loss adjuster. Ageas said there was 
no benefit to doing so with his claim but it did agree  to send its contractor out to look again at 
the damage. 
Ageass contractor carried out a second visit, as a result of which it declined to carry out the 
works but did increase the cash settlement offered to £1,947 (it is unclear whether this was 
net or gross of the excess). It said this was based  on scoping the repairs  on a like for like 
basis. Mr R said it wouldnt  be possible  to replace the units  and doors on a like for like basis 
for the amount offered so he refused to accept  it and complained to Ageas. 
Ageas looked  into Mr Cs complaint but didnt  think itd done anything  wrong.  Unhappy  with 
the outcome of Ageas  investigation, Mr C complained to this service. He said he was 
unhappy that he was being  asked by Ageas to have replacement  doors  and units that didnt 
match the rest of the kitchen. He said that Ageass final offer of £1,947  wasnt enough. 
Our investigator looked into Mr Cs complaint and recommended  that it was upheld.  He said 
that because Mr C had been unable to find a company to do the works for the amount Ageas  
had offered he didnt  think  Ageas had treated him fairly. He thought  that Mr C may not be 
able to get the repairs completed on a like for like basis for the amount hed been  offered 
and he didnt think that was reasonable. So our investigator recommended  Ageas arrange 
for another  of its contractors to carry out repairs to Mr Cs kitchen but, if that wasnt possible,  
Ref: DRN52091852it should pay an amount  to Mr C that was sufficient to enable him to arrange for the repairs  
to be completed on a like for like basis himself. 
Mr C accepted our investigators findings but Ageas didnt. It said its liability extended to a 
like for like replacement which is what the cash settlement figure was based  on. It said its 
contractors were unwilling  to undertake the repairs. And it said that, unfortunately, Mr Cs 
policy didnt include matching sets cover so its liability only extended  to a like for like 
replacement. 
The complaint was referred  to me and I issued my provisional decision in April 2020. I made 
the following  provisional findings  and provisional  award:   
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
The dispute  between Mr C and Ageas  relates  to the settlement of the claim. Theres  no 
dispute about the validity of the claim itself.  
How claims are to be settled is set out in the policy terms and conditions  this is the 
contract between Mr C and Ageas. Mr Cs policy says: We will settle your claim by either 
replacing, repairing  or rebuilding items  or paying  you their cash equivalent based on what 
it would cost us to replace the item(s) . We will decide which option is most appropriate. 
[my emphasis].
So the contract between Mr C and Ageas gives it  not Mr C  the choice about how a claim 
will be settled.  And, where Ageas chooses to settle a claim by paying cash, the contract says 
that settlement  will be based  on what itd cost Ageas to replace the damaged items. Ageas 
says it would cost its suppliers/contractors £1,947 to replace the damaged kitchen units and 
doors so that is what its based its cash settlement offer on. 
But as Ageas is aware, buildings insurance  policies are policies of indemnity. That means 
they aim to put the policyholder back in the position  they were in just before the loss or 
damage happened. In Mr Cs case  thats with undamaged  cabinet  carcasses  with solid 
maple doors  that match the rest of the kitchen units.  This service expects insurers  to take 
into account the specific circumstances of a claim and bear in mind whats reasonable when 
choosing how to settle it. 
This service has a long established approach in circumstances such as these where  theres 
a dispute about a cash settlement offered by an insurer. That approach  is that if the insurer 
only offers  a cash settlement, the amount  they offer should reflect the cost to the consumer 
of getting a repair done or replacing an item.  If the offer reflects  the cost to the insurer   and 
thats lower than the cost to the consumer  then that wont indemnify the consumer 
because the consumer wont be able to get the repairs done  for the amount offered.  
I appreciate that the policy terms allow Ageas to choose how to settle  the claim, that one of 
those options  is by paying cash and that they say Ageas can cash  settle at its suppliers own 
rates. But I dont think its fair for Ageas to settle Mr Cs claim in a way that wont  indemnify 
him. As its Ageas thats choosing to settle  the claim by cash,  then it is only fair to expect it to 
take into account what the reinstatement  will cost Mr C. As Ageas isnt offering to carry out 
the repair the cost its own suppliers  could do the work for is irrelevant. 
Ref: DRN52091853Ageas has said its suppliers have declined to undertake the repairs because  theres 
effectively been  a breakdown in their relationship with Mr R (who  is arranging and 
overseeing the claim for his father).  Ive read the case notes associated with this claim from 
which its reasonable to conclude  that Mr Rs frustrations  arise from being told his father isnt 
going to be fully indemnified for his loss. I can see that, on Ageass instruction, he obtained 
numerous quotes covering both the supply of the replacement  carcasses  and doors along 
with the removal  of the damaged ones  and fitting of the new ones. I dont think  it is 
unreasonable that Mr R became frustrated when  Ageas declined to carry out the repair using  
its own contractors (despite Mr R expressing  this as his preference)  and chose  to offer him a 
cash settlement amounting to a fraction  of what was needed to reinstate the kitchen. 
Ive reviewed Mr Cs quotes and I think they are reasonable. I dont  think they include any 
un-necessary work.  I know that our investigator  recommended, in the first instance, that 
Ageas appoint different contractors to carry out the repairs. In response to our investigators 
findings, Ageas said that wouldnt be possible.  That being the case, and as it has chosen  to 
settle the claim by cash, in order to indemnify Mr C it needs to provide a settlement based on 
the quotes provided by Mr C. I think it would be reasonable to say it should pay the lower  
quote provided for the supply of the carcasses and doors along with the lower of the quotes 
provided for the associated labour. 
I can see that the quotes Mr C has submitted include VAT. Generally we think its fair for the 
insurer not to include  VAT in any initial  cash settlement. Thats  because, where an insurer 
settles a claim by cash, its up to the consumer  what they do with that money.  Sometimes 
consumers get the work done for a lower  cost than the cash settlement figure. Thats means  
the VAT amount  if their contractor is VAT registered  is less too. Often at the time the 
claim is being settled, its not known what  the consumer intends to do with the money  or 
how much  VAT that might generate. But where a consumer is able to show  they have paid 
VAT on any insured  work, we expect  the insurer to reimburse the consumer once they have 
proved VAT has been paid. So whilst Im not requiring Ageas to include an allowance within  
the cash settlement  for VAT when it pays my award,  I would  expect it to reimburse  Mr C for 
any VAT he does end up paying on the insured works subject to the necessary proof being 
provided. 
Finally, for the sake of completeness, Ageas  mentioned  in response to our investigators 
findings that Mr C didnt have matching sets cover. Im not sure of the relevance  of him 
having it or not. As I understand  it, Mr C isnt claiming for any undamaged units  and doors to 
be replaced (such as could give rise to a dispute about what, if anything, Ageas should pay 
for them). His claim, and the quotes  hes obtained to evidence  it, is only for the units and 
doors actually damaged  by the escape  of water. 
my provisional decision
My provisional decision is that I intend to uphold this complaint. I require Ageas Insurance  
Limited to cash settle Mr Cs claim based on the quotes he obtained (and in line with my 
comments above) excluding any element for VAT. Subject to Mr C later proving that he paid 
VAT for the insured works, Ageas should  reimburse  him for it. 
Mr C replied to my provisional decision to say he accepted it. He also said that the 
quotations hed obtained were now two years old so he may need to get some new ones 
although he hoped the contractors would  honour  the originals. He said he was happy to 
send proof  of any VAT paid to Ageas after the work  had been  carried out. 
Ref: DRN52091854Ageas replied to say it was happy  to accept my provisional findings based on settling Mr Cs 
claim on the lowest of the quotes for the fitting  and supply  of the damaged  units. It also said 
it would  settle  the VAT element upon receipt  of the required  invoices. 
I asked our investigator to email  Mr C to explain that Id had a chance to consider the 
responses to my provisional  decision and, having done so, I thought that settling the claim 
based on the lowest of the quotes  for the fitting and supply of the replacement units  was fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances. I also asked our investigator to let Mr C know that Id 
noted Mr Cs comments about  the quotes  hed sent us now being two years old but thought 
that, in general,  costs  hadnt changed  noticeably in recent times and, given the current 
circumstances, I didnt  think  it would  be fair to delay the resolution of the complaint further in 
order for new quotes to be obtained that would be unlikely to have  any material effect on the 
redress awarded. 
Our investigator asked  Mr C to make  any comments he so wished  within seven days  and 
that, if he hadnt heard from him, explained  Id issue my final decision based on the redress  
set out in the email.
Mr C didnt reply. The complaint was returned to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties have  accepted my provisional  decision, and as Mr C hasnt commented  on 
the redress proposed  by me in our investigators  recent email, my provisional findings,  and 
those contained  in the email, now form part of this my final decision.  For the reasons set out 
above, I think a fair and reasonable resolution  to this complaint is for Ageas to settle Mr Cs 
claim based on the lowest of the quotes  hes provided for the fitting and supply of the 
replacement units.  Ageas should also settle any VAT element  subject  to Mr C providing  it 
with proof  hed paid VAT for the insured works.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Ageas Insurance Limited to cash 
settle Mr Cs claim based on the lower  of the two quotes he obtained for the fitting and 
supply of the replacement units (and in line with the comments contained in my provisional 
decision) excluding any element for VAT. Subject  to Mr C providing  proof  that he paid VAT 
for the insured works, Ageas Insurance  Limited  should reimburse  him for it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 June  2020.
Claire Woollerson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5209185