K820x#14complaint
Mr K says that Canada  Square Operations Limited  mis-sold him a payment  protection insurance 
(PPI) policy.
background
I issued my most  recent provisional decision in January 2019,  a copy  of which  is attached and 
forms part of this final decision. 
In my provisional decision I explained  why I wasnt intending to uphold  Mr Ks complaint. 
I asked everyone to send  me any further comments and information before  I reached a              
final decision. Canada  Square didnt respond. Mr K hasnt  sent me any new evidence  to consider. 
my findings
Ive re-considered all the evidence  and arguments  already sent to us to decide  whats  fair
and reasonable.  As Ive not received any new evidence, Ive reached the same conclusions             
I reached in my provisional  decision, for the same  reasons.
what the business needs  to do
Canada Square  doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr K.
But Canada Square has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr K because:  
Canada Square  got a high level of commission and profit share  (more than 50% of 
the PPI premium) - so it should  have told Mr K about that. Because Canada  Square 
didnt tell Mr K, that was unfair.  
To put that right, Canada Square has paid back the amount of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think  that is fair in this case.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained in my provisional  decision, I dont uphold Mr Ks complaint. 
But Canada Square Operations  Limited  does have  to pay back to Mr K any commission and profit  
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. Its my understanding  that its already 
done this.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or reject  
my decision  before 8 April  2019.
Ref: DRN56881692Daniel OShea
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN56881693copy  of provisional decision
complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2000. Mr K says Canada  Square Operations Limited  mis-sold him the PPI. 
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ks case.
As this provisional decision follows on from my first provisional decision and deals with the 
subsequent response from Mr K, Ive quoted the first provisional decision below:
I think its more likely than not that Canada Square made it clear that Mr K didnt 
have to take out the PPI and he chose to take it out  although I can understand why 
he may not remember this.
Canada Square  has sent us an example screenshot of the internet  page about PPI 
that Mr K would most  likely  have  seen when he applied for his credit card. 
This is a screenshot weve seen before for sales around this time. This shows Mr K 
would have been presented with two options   Yes and No  which  he had to 
choose from by clicking  on the appropriate button  to proceed with his application.     
In my opinion, there was nothing on this screen  or page which says or implies  Mr K 
had to have PPI to get his credit card.
Canada Square  has also provided Mr Ks internet application record, which shows he
answered Yes to PPI in his application. Ive also not seen evidence  that Canada  
Square didnt  follow its normal sales process  during this sale.
Canada Square  recommended  the PPI to Mr K so it had to check that the PPI was 
right for him  and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think 
that it was. For example he wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on 
the PPI cover and he seems to have had a need for the cover.   
After six months Mr Ks sick pay would have  decreased to half pay, whereas this 
policy could have paid out for up to 12 months per claim. 
Ive also considered what Mr K has said about his savings. But this policy would have 
paid out in addition to Mr Ks savings. Given that it cost comparatively less than other 
PPI policies sold around this time whilst still offering  a similar benefit, I dont think  that 
more information  or better information about the policy  would have meant that Mr K 
would have chosen not to take it out.
So although  Canada Square may not have done everything that they should have at 
the time of sale, I dont  think that Mr K has lost out as a result.
Ref: DRN56881694Its possible the information Canada Square  gave  Mr K about  the PPI wasnt  as clear 
as it shouldve been. But he chose to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type 
of cover.  And it seems like it would have been useful for him if something  went  
wrong. It also looks like it was affordable.  So I dont think  better  information  about the 
PPI would have  put him off taking out the cover. 
Which means Canada Square doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to   
Mr K.
But Canada Square has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr K because:  
Canada Square  got a high level of commission and profit share  (more than 50% of 
the PPI premium) - so it should  have told Mr K about that. Because Canada  Square 
didnt tell Mr K, that was unfair.  
To put that right, Canada Square has paid back the amount of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think  that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr K has said - including what he has said about being a low 
risk customer. But nobody can accurately predict the future  and circumstances can change 
unexpectedly. Having this PPI policy would  have helped  protect  Mr Ks financial position if he 
was to experience  an unexpected change in his personal circumstances. 
Ive also considered what Mr K has said about other  organisations coming  to a different 
outcome when his circumstances were the same. But it would be inappropriate and also 
unprofessional for me to comment  on what other organisations have done. But I can safely  
say, from experience, that different  businesses sales  practices  varied across different years, 
sales channel and the type of products they sold.
In this particular  case, having reviewed everything  thats been  said and sent to us by both  
Mr K and Canada Square, Im not persuaded that this particular PPI policy was mis-sold and 
I dont currently intend to uphold this complaint.
Mr K then responded  with a number of points, which Ive addressed below.
 
I havent clearly shown how Canada Square made it clear that PPI was optional online
As I said in my first provisional decision, Ive to come to my decision based  on the available  
evidence and decide what I think is more likely than not to have happened.
Ive arranged for a copy of the example screen  shot and the data compiled from the 
application to be sent to Mr K.
if No was selected it would have a negative impact  on the application
Theres nothing on the example screen shot to suggest that declining  the PPI would  have a 
negative impact on the application and Mr K hasnt provided any evidence  to support what  
hes said. I still think that its more  likely  than not that the PPI was presented  as optional, 
separate to and not a condition of the credit  card.
Ref: DRN56881695Mr K didnt require PPI because of his existing circumstances - including his sick pay 
entitlement
Ive considered in particular  what Mr K has said about his sick pay and Ive no reason to 
doubt his recollections.  My finding was simply that  based on what hes told us about his 
circumstances, I still think that he had a need for PPI and could  have found  it useful.
Ive made a number of assumptions in my decision  and Mr K disputes the statement 
that he would have taken out PPI no matter what.
I cant know for certain what happened  during  this sale.  So Ive considered  all of the 
available evidence before  deciding what I think,  on balance  is more likely than not to have 
happened. My finding was So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put 
him off taking out the cover.  Its my opinion that even if Mr K had been given good enough 
information on the policy, I still think that hed have taken out the policy.   
Ive disregarded the relevance  of the underwriters of PPI policies  being involved  in 
underwriting PPI for different businesses
Ive thought about this, but its worth  pointing out that usually,  but not always, that it isnt the 
underwriter selling the PPI direct  to the customer. In Mr Ks case he applied  online. It doesnt 
appear that he dealt  directly with the underwriter. I also stand by my opinion  that different 
businesses sales practices  varied  across  different  years, sales channel and the type of 
products they sold. Mr K may well have had complaints upheld  by a number of other  
businesses, but that doesnt automatically  mean that this complaint should  be upheld.
If Mr K is still unhappy with my decision or doesnt  have any other  new points for me to 
consider, he has the option of seeking  seek  legal advice on alternative options available  to 
him  as hes made reference to in his response. 
Canada Square  doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr K.
But Canada Square has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr K because:  
Canada Square  got a high level of commission and profit share  (more than 50% of 
the PPI premium) - so it should  have told Mr K about that. Because Canada  Square 
didnt tell Mr K, that was unfair.  
To put that right, Canada Square has paid back the amount of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think  that is fair in this case.
my provisional decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I currently dont intend to uphold Mr Ks complaint but I do 
intend to tell Canada Square  Operations Limited  if it hasnt already done so, to pay back  to 
Mr K any commission and profit  share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  
If either  Mr K or Canada Square  Operations Limited  have anything  further to add, they 
should do so by 8 February  2019, Ill then reconsider the complaint.
Ref: DRN56881696Daniel OShea
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5688169