K820x#14complaint
Ms W has complained that Lloyds  Bank  Plc (Lloyds) mis-sold a Select  account  in 2007 and 
a Premier account to her in November 2009.
background
Prior to this complaint being  brought  to this service, Lloyds put Ms W back  in the position  
that she would have been in had the sale of the Premier account not taken place. Lloyds has 
done this by refunding the difference between  the account fee for the Premier account and 
what Ms W wouldve paid had she remained on the Select account.
One of our adjudicators looked  at Ms Ws complaint and he did not think  that the Select 
account had been mis-sold. And he thought what Lloyds has agreed  to do in relation to the 
Premier account was reasonable. Ms W did not agree and asked for an ombudsmans 
decision.
I note that Ms W, in her submissions to this service,  has mentioned that she thinks that she 
was mis-sold an overdraft when she should  have been sold a personal loan. I cannot see 
that she has raised this directly with the Lloyds,  if she is still unhappy  with this, she would 
need to raise this directly  with Lloyds in the first instance.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. And Ive used this approach to 
help me decide  Ms Ws complaint. 
Having carefully thought  about everything  Ive been  provided with, I dont think  that Lloyds 
mis-sold the packaged  account to Ms W and I think that what Lloyds has offered to do in 
relation to the Premier  account is sufficient. Id like to explain the reasons for my decision.
why I dont think that the Select account was mis-sold to Ms W
Ive started by thinking about whether Ms W was given a clear choice in taking her packaged 
account. At this point,  it may help for me to explain that I have to make  my decision based 
on what I think is most likely to have happened, having weighed up what  Ms W and Lloyds 
have been able to provide me with.  
In this case Ms W upgraded  to the Select  account  from a free account that she had held for 
a number of years so I think that Ms W wouldve been aware that free account  were 
available to her. Ms W has said that she upgraded to get a larger overdraft but given what  
else she has said in relation to this I think  that her recollections seem to relate  to the sale of 
the Premier account.  I can though  see that Ms W did take out a small overdraft of £50 at the 
time of the sale of the Select account. As a £50 interest free overdraft  was a benefit of the 
Select account I think that it is likely  that one of the reasons that she took out the account 
was for an interest  free overdraft rather than to get an overdraft in the first place. So overall I 
think that Ms W took out the Select account having been given a fair choice.
I am satisfied that Lloyds  did recommend  the Select account to Ms W. So Lloyds needed to 
ensure that the account was right for her given her circumstances at the time the account 
was taken out.
Ref: DRN50023312At the time the Select account was taken out the main benefits that it came with were 
breakdown cover, mobile phone insurance  and a £50 interest  free overdraft facility. I can see 
that Ms W did drive, did have a mobile  phone and used her overdraft. Given this, I dont think 
that Lloyds recommendation was inappropriate.
Ms W says that she was not told to register for the benefits that the account came  with. But 
the only benefit that required  registration  was the mobile phone  insurance. And I cant see 
that Ms W had a claim declined by not registering for this benefit,  so even if Lloyds had not 
mentioned this requirement, I cannot  see that Ms W suffered a loss due to this. 
I accept that Ms W may not have been told everything about all the other benefits that came 
with the Select account. But I cannot see anything specific that she was not told, that I think 
wouldve changed her decision to take out the account. 
So I want to reassure Ms W that despite  any concerns she might have with Lloyds 
investigation into her complaint,  having looked  at everything provided and thought about 
what shes said, my independent conclusion is that I dont think  Lloyds  mis-sold  the Select 
packaged account to her.
why I think that what Lloyds has already done for the Premier account sale is sufficient
In this instance, Lloyds has refunded the difference between  the cost of the Premier account 
and what Ms W wouldve paid had she stayed on the Select account. In effect  this has put 
Ms W back in the position that she wouldve been in, had the Premier account sale not taken  
place. As I think that the Select account was not mis-sold, I think that what Lloyds has done  
is enough.
Overall I dont think that the Select  account was mis-sold or that Lloyds  needs  to do anything 
more in relation  to the sale of the Premier account.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im not upholding Ms Ws complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Ms W to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 May 2019.
Charlie Newton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5002331