K820x#14complaint
Ms W complained that Ageas Insurance Limited wouldnt pay her claim under her caravan 
insurance policy.
background
Ms W claimed when her caravan suffered significant heat damage.  She said that this it was 
due to the extreme summer  weather  in 2018.  But Ageas said this damage wasnt  covered 
under her policy because  it didnt  happen as a result  of a one-off incident. 
The investigator agreed and didnt recommend that the complaint should  be upheld.  Ms W 
didnt agree and so her complaint has been  passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ageas asked an independent loss adjuster who said the damage  wasnt  as the result  of an 
insured matter. It hadnt happened as result  of a one off incident but had happened over time 
due to a gradually  operating cause, or possibly due to a manufacturing defect. So Ageas 
declined the claim. 
Ms W didnt  agree. She said that the caravan was fine when she used it in June, and she 
only noticed its damage on about 11 August. She got her own report  from an expert  caravan 
consultant. He said that her caravan roof had significant damage. It had an aluminium roof, 
which was free-floating, to allow it to expand  and contract in normal temperatures.  So it 
would stretch when  heat was applied. But the caravans  roof vents, TV aerial  and gas fire 
chimney were all fixed to the roof, so when the aluminium expanded in very high 
temperatures, it could  not move around  those fitted items, and so the roof buckled. The 
skylights acrylic had also started  to melt, even though its melting  point was 160 degrees.  He 
said that the damage to the roof and skylight  made the caravan unusable and unrepairable. 
He thought that this had happened  because  of the heat of the summer sun and the caravan 
having been covered by a dark quilted cover, under which the heat had built up to damaging 
levels. He thought that this was not wear and tear but an extraordinary set of circumstances. 
Ms W didnt  think  that the cover was a significant  contributory factor  in this. She said it was a 
standard cover bought from a reputable caravan accessory company that said it protects 
from all conditions including UV rays.  
She said that a neighbours  caravan didnt have  a cover yet its window plastic  had melted  
and the insurers  of that caravan, also Ageas, did pay their claim for heat damage.  But Ageas 
said that the neighbours caravan claim wasnt recorded as heat damage. And as we find 
that different  cases tend to depend  on different facts, I can only consider whether Ageas  
have acted fairly and reasonably in the particular circumstances  of Ms Ws claim. 
Ref: DRN57787602Ageas didnt actually  agree that summer of 2018  was unusually hot, but Ms W has shown 
media reports which suggest that it was. But even if it was, Ageas still doesnt agree that the 
damage was covered  under the policy. The engineer they asked said that heat damage of 
this type did happen in caravans with this type of roof construction,  in normal  weather 
conditions, and the damage  was not the result of one incident. Instead it was the result  of a 
gradually operating  process - which is not covered under the policy,  and/or was a 
manufacturing defect.
Ive looked at Mr Ws policy wording  and see that it covers loss or damage from an:   
Incident A sudden, unexpected, specific event which occurs at an identified time
And place  resulting in loss or damage.
However the policy does not cover Depreciation, deterioration, manufacturing defects, 
general wear and tear, and damage by pets, moth,  vermin, rot, frost, water  leakage or any 
gradually operating  process such as rust or damp.
Ms W said the caravan  wasnt  damaged in June,  but they noticed its damage in August.  
Though Ageass loss adjuster raised  the possibility of the damage  being ultimately due a 
manufacturer defect,  I think theres  no substantial disagreement between  the two engineers  
that heat was the cause of the damage. The question is whether the policy  covers  that 
cause. But although  Ms Ws loss adjuster says that the damage was because of an 
extraordinary set of circumstances, and not wear and tear, it seems  to me that the cause  
was a gradually operating one, in that the heat has built up under the caravan cover over 
time. Even if that was unexpected, it was not a sudden or one-off incident.  
I do see that what has happened to Ms Ws caravan is very unfortunate, and the situation 
must be frustrating for her. But I have  to look at whether Ageas have acted fairly and in line 
with their policy. In this case I think that the policy terms are clear  and not unreasonable and 
so I dont think that it was unfair of Ageas to decline her claim. And so I dont ask Ageas to 
do anything else.  
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  its my final decision  that I dont uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 June 2020.
Rosslyn Scott
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN5778760