K820x#14complaint
Mr D is unhappy that National Westminster Bank  Plc (NatWest) wont reimburse  money he 
says was taken  fraudulently from Mrs Ds account. Mr D brings  this complaint in his capacity 
as the executor of Mrs D (his late-wifes) estate.
background
In October  2017 Mrs D opened  a current account with NatWest.  Over the next two months  or 
so a series of deposits were made to the account bringing the balance to around £44,000.
Mrs D gave her card and PIN to her husband,  Mr D, as she said work commitments often 
meant she didnt have time to make deposits and check the account.  On 9 December 2017 
Mr D made  a deposit in branch of around £700  and then used the card and PIN at an ATM 
outside to make a balance enquiry.  He says when he did this, after dispensing the balance 
enquiry slip the card was retained by the ATM. Mr D says he waited several minutes for the 
card to be returned but it wasnt  released, so he went back  into branch to report  the problem.
Mrs D says branch staff told him he would have to come back the following Monday, two 
days later,  to retrieve the card as there was no-one  to access the machine at that time.  She 
also said staff refused to cancel the card because  they said it was safe in the ATM.
Mrs D believed her card was taken from the ATM by someone who then used it, together  
with her PIN, to make one cash withdrawal and eight  in store purchases all on the same day 
totalling £43,412.
On 10 December 2017, Mrs D reported transactions on her card had been  carried out 
without her authorisation to NatWest. The card was cancelled  and NatWest  investigated 
Mrs Ds claims,  but didnt feel there was enough evidence to support her assertion that fraud 
had taken place.  Following its investigation  it also made the decision to close  the account 
with notice in line with the terms  and conditions.
NatWest said it made this decision because:
Mrs D had breached the terms and conditions of the account  by giving her card and 
PIN to another person.
There was no evidence Mr D had gone  into branch after he said the card was 
retained by the ATM  to report this or that he was told he would need to come back 
the following  Monday.
Mr D says he waited for the card to be returned by the machine for around five 
minutes but the card was used again one minute  and nine seconds  after Mr D used it 
to make a balance enquiry and the ATM itself was used 90 seconds after his balance  
enquiry. 
It hadnt been given a plausible explanation  as to how the card was both retained by 
the machine and accessed by someone  else who then used it so soon afterwards. 
The card and PIN were used  correctly on the first attempt after Mrs D says it was 
stolen.
The account was open for less than three months before the transactions took place.
Mrs D brought the complaint to our service as she didnt feel NatWest  had treated  her fairly. 
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint as they didnt  feel there was enough evidence to 
Ref: DRN58160332support fraud had taken place. They also noted inconsistencies in the story given to NatWest 
about a third party who had tried to distract Mr D while  he was using the ATM. 
Mrs D didnt accept the investigators view. She said:
NatWest should  have had CCTV footage available  which wouldve shown Mr D went  
into branch after the incident and wouldve shown suspicious activity at the ATM.
NatWest shouldve contacted Mrs D as the transactions  were made due to their high 
value and sought further authorisation before allowing them  to go through.
NatWest shouldve contacted the retailers where  the money was spent to check  the 
CCTV footage  and investigate who was using  the card.
Mr D had never said someone at the ATM was trying  to distract him, only that they 
were stood  too close to him and at no point  has he suggested  someone  took Mrs Ds 
card from him.
The age of the account was irrelevant.
As Mrs D didnt  accept the investigators  findings she asked for the complaint to be 
considered by an ombudsman. After she made this request via her representative,  Mrs D 
sadly passed away and the complaint has continued  with authority from Mr D who had also 
been acting as one of her representatives throughout the complaint. It has now been passed 
to me to make a decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The regulations relevant  to this complaint are the Payment Services  Regulations  2009  
(PSRs). I wont quote them directly  here but, broadly speaking  they set out when a customer  
is responsible for the transactions on their account  typically  when theyve been authorised 
by the consumer in some way. And where  theres a dispute about whether a customer  
authorised a transaction there needs  to be evidence to support the banks case  if it wishes to 
hold the customer  liable.
In this case, Mrs D said she gave her card and PIN to Mr D so he could  carry out certain 
transactions on her behalf. And Im satisfied this means Mrs D authorised  the transactions  
Mr D carried out using  her card and PIN, even if they went beyond what she intended. 
Mrs D said Mr D didnt  carry  out any of the disputed transactions and they mustve  been 
carried out by another  party. But NatWest thinks its likely they were carried out by Mr D and 
therefore authorised  by Mrs D. My role is consider the information available and decide  
whether I think NatWest has acted fairly and reasonably in in reaching the conclusion he 
more likely did carry them out and holding Mrs D liable for them. 
Where evidence hasnt  been available Ive based my decision on what  I think, on balance, is 
more likely to have  happened.  And in this case I think  its more likely than not Mrs D did 
authorise the transactions shes disputed. So I think NatWest has reasonably held her estate 
liable for them. Ive taken the following into account  when reaching  my decision:
Mrs D said her card was swallowed by the ATM.  As someone  has then been able to 
access it, along with her PIN, she suggested the ATM mustve  been tampered with. 
But records from the ATM Mr D used show it was used by a different customer  93 
Ref: DRN58160333seconds after the balance enquiry he made.  And records relating  to Mrs Ds account 
show her card and PIN were used at a different  ATM, correctly on the first attempt, 
69 seconds after Mr D made the balance enquiry. I dont think its plausible  someone 
had enough time to tamper  with the machine, retrieve Mrs Ds card and go to a 
different ATM  on the same street. And the records from the first ATM show  no error 
which isnt what Id expect  if it had been tampered with. So I dont think  there is 
persuasive evidence  this is how the card was accessed by a third party.
Ive considered the possibility a third party somehow saw Mrs Ds PIN and took her 
card while  Mr D was using  the ATM, but based  on everything Ive seen I dont think  
this is the most likely explanation. When the incident was reported  NatWest recorded 
that Mr D said someone behind him distracted  him and he had to tell them to stand 
back. In a letter of complaint written to branch he described the persons appearance 
in detail and said they were acting  suspiciously, referring to him as a scammer. And 
when he first spoke to our service  about  the complaint on behalf of Mrs D he said 
someone behind  him most likely used something  to see Mrs Ds PIN. Following the 
investigators view, he asserted he had never  suggested someone had tried to 
distract him to take the card, only that they were too close to him and he told them to 
stand back. And although the incident was some time ago, I think  Mr D would likely 
have remembered at the time if something  had happened that couldve allowed a 
third party  to steal the card directly  from him. Overall, I dont think Ive seen a 
plausible explanation as to how the card couldve been stolen from Mr D without him 
noticing. 
There is some inconsistency  in what happened  after Mr D said the ATM withheld the 
card. In a complaint letter to NatWest  Mrs D said Mr D waited for five minutes before 
watching other people use the ATM normally. In response to the investigators view 
hes said he waited one or two minutes,  before going into branch  to report a problem. 
I think a reasonable  person likely would wait a few minutes to see if the card was 
returned, but it doesnt seem plausible that he did do this given the card was used at 
another cashpoint  within 69 seconds of him checking his balance.  If he had waited 
and a third party  had been  involved in the way he and Mrs D suggests, it seems likely  
he wouldve seen that individual  tampering with the machine and retrieving the card.  
I have some difficulty understanding why Mr D used the ATM outside the bank to 
check the balance  of the account when hed just made a cash  deposit in branch and 
couldve checked the balance at the same time. 
The banks records dont reflect Mr Ds assertion that he went  into branch to report  
the card had been retained and was told to come back  the following Monday or that 
he was told he couldnt cancel the card because it was safe in the ATM. And when 
asked, branch staff have no recollection of this. And NatWest has shown me this isnt 
generally the process it would  follow when someone reports a card has been 
swallowed by an ATM. So I dont  think Ive seen sufficient evidence here that Mr D 
did ask for the card to be cancelled. But I also think, even if staff had refused to do 
this, it wouldve likely  been possible for him to arrange for Mrs D to call and cancel it 
as she appears to have  done  the next day. 
Ref: DRN58160334Mr D has commented the phone number to call in order to cancel the card was on 
the card. But Im satisfied a reasonable person couldve found this number by other 
means. And whilst I understand Mrs D was unhappy  there is no CCTV footage 
available to prove whether he was in branch, NatWest isnt required to have CCTV 
footage available. In its absence, Ive had to base my findings  on the evidence 
available.
Mr D has said he was in branch for over 90 minutes after the card was swallowed by 
the ATM while many  of the disputed transactions were  taking place  which proves he 
didnt carry them out. But theres  no supporting evidence that make me think this was 
the case. The branch staff do recall Mr D returning to branch after the transactions  
had been disputed and complaining about  this but have no recollection of him having 
been there the day he says the ATM  kept Mrs Ds card. And I cant see any reason 
Mr D wouldve stayed in branch for over an hour to report the card had been 
swallowed. Especially as hes said staff refused  to help him and told him to come 
back the following  Monday. 
Mrs D opened the account less than three  months before a substantial  balance was 
spent in the series  of transactions shes said werent authorised  by her. Theres no 
general day to day spending  on the account and I dont think Mrs D has been  able to 
give a plausible  reason for having opened  the account. Whilst she said it relates  to a 
mortgage shed  applied for with a lender also under the NatWest umbrella, I dont 
think she provided a persuasive explanation as to why these events were related. 
Ive not been made aware of any reason she would need a current account  with a 
linked bank in order to pay a lump sum off her mortgage. And Mr D told our service 
all the funds in her NatWest account were moved over from another current account  
so its unclear why she wouldnt  have been  able to use this to pay the funds to the 
mortgage lender.  And whilst in itself its not necessarily  a concern to open  an account 
for this type of activity, when considered in the round with some of the other 
inconsistencies in the estates version  of events,  I think NatWest  was acting 
reasonably in taking this into consideration.
NatWest has provided evidence that Mrs D has previously opened and closed a 
current account with another  bank within three months. And again, although this in 
itself might not necessarily be a concern,  I think  its reasonable NatWest took this into 
account when  considering the complaint overall.
Mrs D has said NatWest ought  to have intervened when the disputed transactions 
were attempted and contacted Mrs D for additional authorisation before allowing 
them to go through.  But there was no agreement or requirement between Mrs D and 
NatWest that meant it required further  authorisation than her card and PIN. I would 
expect NatWest to have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions  or 
other signs that might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud  (among other 
things) in order to try and prevent  financial  harm.  But I dont think  Mrs D was a victim 
of a financial crime in this case.  So whilst I am somewhat surprised to see that this 
sequence of high value transactions didnt prompt intervention  from NatWest,  I dont 
Ref: DRN58160335think it failed to protect Mrs D as I think its more likely  than not that she authorised 
them.
Mr D has said NatWest shouldve obtained and checked CCTV footage from each 
store where purchases were made. This isnt something Id expect it to have done. 
And Mrs D has said NatWest told her she could obtain this evidence herself for 
consideration. So Im satisfied she couldve  attempted to obtain this information 
herself and that she knew NatWest  wasnt going  to do this. But in any event, I think  it 
had enough evidence without this to support  the payments were more likely than not 
authorised by Mrs D. So Im satisfied NatWest  has reached  a reasonable conclusion  
without it.
In this case Ive thought  about whether or not Mrs D was grossly  negligently in breaching the 
terms and conditions and allowing Mr D to have access  to her card and PIN. But as Ive 
concluded she more  likely  than not authorised them, and think  its reasonable her estate is 
liable for them, theres  no need for me to comment on this point further.
Overall, I think NatWest  has sufficient evidence to support  that Mrs D likely did authorise  the 
transactions in question  and should  be liable for them. And although no longer part of this 
complaint as its now being  brought by her estate, Im satisfied NatWest did have the right to 
close her account in line with the terms and conditions.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D, as the 
executor of the late Mrs Ds estate,  to accept or reject my decision before 23 March  2021.
Faye Brownhill
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5816033