K820x#14complaint
Mr W is complaining  that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited treated him unfairly in not 
enabling him flexible access to his pension fund under the pensions  freedoms legislation.
background
I issued a provisional decision on 14 September 2020. A copy is attached and forms part of 
this final decision.  In the provisional decision I set out why I did not believe I could consider 
Mr Ws complaint  about the delay  in Aviva responding to his query  about  an enhanced 
annuity. And I was not intending to uphold the complaint  about  Aviva not allowing flexible 
access to his pension  fund.
Mr W did not agree with the provisional decision. In summary he said:
The basis of his complaint was that Aviva did have options available  to it which  could 
have resolved this matter   the legislation  did allow  that. Aviva could have provided 
drawdown. Financial disadvantage  to him was not a legitimate  reason for not 
allowing him this option. And Avivas refusal  to allow drawdown significantly 
disadvantaged him and his family.  If Aviva  had treated him fairly it would have 
allowed drawdown and it also had a duty of care to do so. 
He did take advice about the option of transferring his pension elsewhere but this 
practically was not an option as no other pension providers saw this as financially 
advantageous. Plus it would have also incurred  significant fees.  
I have not received any further submissions from Aviva.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I fully appreciate Mr Ws frustration that Aviva  did not agree, and will not agree, to his 
request to take his pension benefits in the way that he wishes.  I understand Mr Ws view that 
drawdown would be a better option for him and his family.
But as I set out in the provisional  decision,  I do not believe Aviva is required to do that or it is 
not treating him fairly in not allowing him to do that. I also dont believe it is breaching  any 
duty of care.  There  were particular requirements  applying to his pension which Aviva had to 
take into account and in the circumstances I dont believe  it was acting incorrectly in not 
providing the option of drawdown. It cannot fairly  be held responsible  for other pension  
providers actions or decisions as to how they would treat or consider a transfer - or what 
benefits they would provide. 
I realise that my decision will be disappointing for Mr W but I do not believe his complaint 
should be upheld.  
 
my final decision
Mr Ws complaint  about the delay  in responding to his query about an enhanced annuity has 
been referred outside the relevant time limits. 
Ref: DRN58133442I do not uphold  Mr Ws complaint about Aviva Life and Pensions UK Limited not allowing him 
flexible access to his pension fund.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 November  2020.
David Bird
ombudsman
Ref: DRN58133443copy provisional decision 
Complaint
Mr W is complaining  that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited treated him unfairly in not 
enabling him flexible access to his pension fund under the pensions  freedoms legislation.
Background
In 1987 Mr W transferred his occupational pension into a section 32 buy-out plan with Aviva 
(then Norwich Union.) The policy was designed to give Mr W a guaranteed  minimum 
pension (GMP) to match what he would have received in his occupational scheme.
Mr W decided  not to take his pension when  he reached the policys target retirement age in 
2002. He says at that time he was still working and he also felt the life insurance  benefit of 
the policy gave  important protection to his wife.
On 8 March 2015 Mr W wrote to Aviva  to ask for the fund value and the maximum tax-free  
cash lump sum available. He also asked  Aviva to confirm he would be able to draw  down 
additional funds  from his plan.
In March 2015 Aviva wrote to Mr W to explain his options, because  his 75th birthday was 
approaching in September 2015. It said that the open market  value of his fund was about 
£77,000 - the majority of which was allocated to the cost of providing the GMP - and the 
annual pension available from Aviva  for the GMP part of his fund was about £4,300 (with 
spouses pension  of about £2,100). It showed that no tax-free cash  was available  as there  
was only a surplus of about £470 after the fund earmarked to provide  the GMP. It also said 
that under  the legislation at the time the Government didnt allow tax-free  cash to be paid 
from GMP funds.  It gave  the open  market value of the GMP as about  £78,000  and the open 
market value of the non GMP part of the fund as about £470.  Under  option  3 it explained that 
this could be used  to purchase  benefits  from another provider. It also explained that if Mr W 
didnt take the benefits  by age 75, it would use the fund to purchase an Aviva annuity.
In August  2015  Mr W wrote back to Aviva to say he wished  to take a 25% tax-free lump sum 
from his policy and have  the remainder transferred to a drawdown facility.  He said he was 
away from home between  16 August and 8 September (which spanned his 75th birthday on 1 
September.)
On 21 August 2015 Aviva sent Mr W another retirement quote. This showed that the value of 
the non GMP portion  of the fund was now about £18,700, which  could either be used to 
provide an annual pension of around £1,500 or could be taken as a cash  lump  sum. It also 
again gave the open market option under option 3  and explained that about  £18,700  was 
available to purchase an income from another provider.
The value of the GMP portion of the fund was given as about £60,000 and again under  
option 3 it explained that this was available to buy benefits with another provider. So, at this 
date the cost of providing the GMP was significantly less than it had been in March  2015,  
which freed up a larger  sum to be allocated to the non GMP part of the fund, which  could be 
taken as tax-free cash.
Ref: DRN58133444On 9 September 2015 Mr W wrote to Aviva  again to say he was unhappy  with the level of 
income offered,  and his preference was for a drawdown option, but he understood that could 
be a problem with the GMP element of his fund. 
In early October Mr W wrote to Baroness  Altmann to explain he was unhappy with the 
restrictions on his fund and said that Aviva had told him he was unable  to move the fund to a 
personal pension.  He sent a copy of the letter  to Aviva. He said he understood that because  
of the GMP no other company would accept  a transfer into a personal pension.  
On 5 November  2015 Aviva  wrote to Mr W. It said that because  he had a GMP it could  not 
offer him, an annuity at an earlier age, full encashment or a drawdown .
In September  2016 Mr W contacted Aviva about  obtaining an enhanced annuity due to his ill 
health. He completed  a questionnaire and returned  it but didnt receive a response from 
Aviva. In 2017  Mr W complained to Aviva  about the delay  and it called him to say an 
enhanced annuity wasnt available as he was over 75. On 13 June  2017  it sent Mr W its final 
response to his complaint about  the delay.
In July 2017 Aviva set up Mr Ws annuity  backdated  to his 75th birthday.
In 2018, after reading an article  in the press, Mr W complained to Aviva. He said  in 
summary - that he was unhappy  a drawdown facility hadnt been made available  to him as 
he felt this would be the most beneficial scenario for his family, given his age. He was also 
unhappy that Aviva hadnt told him that 2011 legislation extended the compulsory 
annuitisation age from 75 to 77, as he felt his wife wouldve benefited  from an additional 2 
years of life cover if hed delayed taking his pension until age 77. 
In August  2018  Aviva replied to say that the availability of a tax-free lump sum was subject to 
the value of the fund meeting the GMP. It also said that following Mr Ws 75th birthday no 
lump sum was available.  It told Mr W he could refer his complaint to us within six months  of 
the date of its letter.
In January 2019 Mr W brought his complaint to us. Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ws 
complaint. He commented that Mr W had raised  a number  of issues, but the crux of the 
complaint was that he wasnt able to benefit  from full pension  flexibility because Aviva  didnt 
offer this on his plan.  Mr W felt this meant  that Aviva wasnt treating its customers  fairly.
The investigator explained that Mr Ws plan included a GMP which made  it more  restrictive. 
Because of this, Aviva chose not to let policies like Mr Ws be subject to a tax-free lump sum 
drawdown. The investigator said this was a business decision that Aviva was entitled  to 
make.
Mr W responded to say, in summary:
The Financial Conduct  Authoritys Treating Customers Fairly rules meant the 
application of the new legislation was an ethical and regulatory obligation;
Avivas decision not to act in his interests  conflicted directly with its own commercial 
interests; and
Its not right that Aviva can make such a decision to its own financial gain and to the 
detriment of the consumer.
Ref: DRN58133445Mr W asked for his complaint to be passed to an ombudsman for review  and a decision.
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont intend  to uphold Mr Ws complaint. Let me explain why.
Flexibility to transfer  the fund and take a tax-free cash lump sum
When Mr Ws plan was transferred to Aviva it undertook  to pay him a Guaranteed Minimum 
Pension (GMP),  regardless of how his policy performed. If the policy didnt grow enough to 
provide the GMP,  Aviva  would make up the shortfall.  For Mr W to take additional  benefits,  
such as a tax-free cash lump sum, the policy  needed to produce  funds in excess of the cost 
of providing the GMP. 
The cost of providing the GMP fluctuated  in the run up to Mr Ws 75th birthday. In March 
2015 there was no tax-free cash available as the fund was only just meeting the cost of 
providing the GMP. But by August 2015 the cost of providing the GMP had reduced  and this 
meant that there  was a tax-free lump sum of around  £18,000 available.
Having looked  at the quotes Aviva sent to Mr W, I can see that Mr W did have the option  to 
transfer his plan to another provider  up until his 75th birthday. This is because  the cost of 
providing the GMP never exceeded the value of the fund at the time the quotes were  
produced. 
Im not sure if Mr W fully understood that he had these options.  So I need  to consider if Aviva 
did enough to explain his options  clearly.  And overall, I think it did. 
Ive looked at the options set out in the retirement quotes Aviva  sent to Mr W. Its true that 
the quote from March  2015 showed that there  wasnt any tax-free cash  available. But this 
was due to the value  of the fund at that time being only slighter higher than the cost of 
providing the GMP. This was at a time when annuity  rates  were historically low. 
The quote  Mr W received  in August 2015 shows that at that point there was a tax-free  cash 
lump sum available to him. This was because annuity rates  had improved substantially since 
his earlier  quote  and providing  the GMP had become less expensive.  It also showed  a 
transfer value  if Mr W wanted to transfer to a different provider. I appreciate that at this point 
in time Mr W wanted full flexibility. But its not correct  to say Aviva  werent  allowing him to 
access any tax-free cash or to transfer  the fund elsewhere, as these options were available  
to him. 
I can see how the rather dramatic  change  in the cost of providing the GMP over this period 
could have been confusing. But I dont think Aviva gave Mr W any incorrect  information 
about his options at the time. 
Mr W says Aviva told him he couldnt  move his funds to a personal pension elsewhere  
because they told him no other provider would take it on. Hes not been specific  about when 
this was said to him or in what format,  so Ive asked Aviva to provide a record of its contact 
with Mr W to see if I can see exactly what it said to him about his options.
Ref: DRN58133446I can see that Aviva sent Mr W a letter in January 2013. This was after Mr W had deferred 
his pension but before he turned 75. The letter was about the rate of his pension plan in 
deferment, and it included a fact sheet  explaining Mr Ws options, as follows:
Your options may include:
-Continue to defer taking your policy benefits  where your fund will continue  to increase in 
line with the Bank of England base  rate plus 1%
-Take your retirement  benefits now. Generally, retirement benefits should  be taken no 
later than 75
-Transfer your policy benefits  to another pension arrangement.
Please note, your policy may contain  a Guaranteed Minimum Pension and in some 
circumstances there  are not enough  funds available to enable  the retirement benefits to be 
taken until State Pension Age (60 for female  and 65 for male) or for you to transfer to 
another pension  arrangement.
We recommend you speak to a financial  adviser about what options are available  to you. 
Im not sure if Mr W interpreted this as meaning  he couldnt transfer his fund elsewhere. But 
this is a general point  which could have  applied to his policy depending on the fluctuation in 
its value. I cant see any record that Aviva expressly  told Mr W he couldnt transfer his 
pension at any point  prior to his 75th birthday. The quotes he was provided showed whether 
or not he could transfer his pension or take a tax-free cash lump  sum from it at any particular 
point in time.
Overall I dont think Aviva has given Mr W any incorrect  information about his position. 
Although it told him he may not be able to move his funds to a personal pension as this 
depended on his fund value, I cant see that it ever advised him he couldnt transfer his 
pension when it had adequate funding for him to do so. It also advised him to seek financial 
advice about his options (which Aviva was not providing), which  is reasonable.
Pension freedoms 
As Ive explained, there was some  flexibility  in that Mr W could take a tax-free  cash lump 
sum if the value of the plan exceeded  the cost of providing the GMP. And the same  applied 
for transferring the plan to another provider  which may have offered more flexibility than 
Aviva. But Aviva didnt  allow the full flexibility brought in by the pensions  freedoms legislation 
in respect of his policy that Mr W wanted.  Mr W thinks this is unfair.  
As Mr W is aware,  the pensions  freedoms  legislation allowed for more flexibility for some 
policyholders. However, this didnt apply to everyone, because  in some circumstances 
existing legislation  was in force which wasnt overridden by the freedoms legislation,  and 
some providers decided  not to offer all benefit  avenues.
Mr Ws plan falls under the Contracting  Out and Transfer  Payment Regulations 1996. The 
regulations mean Aviva  is bound to provide Mr W with a GMP. So, Aviva felt it was unable to 
offer the flexibility Mr W asked for, as its bound to provide the GMP. 
Ref: DRN58133447I understand Mr W is aware of much  of this, given  his experience  in the industry. And I think  
he accepts that Aviva  has acted in line with the legislation. However, he says that Aviva 
shouldve been  obliged to apply the pensions freedoms policy under the FCAs Treating 
Customers Fairly principles. But I dont think Aviva  has failed to regard Mr Ws interests  or 
has treated him unfairly.
I think its important to note that in 2015 the Department for Work and Pensions confirmed 
that the requirement to provide the GMP took precedence over the freedoms legislation. 
Although I fully understand that this is frustrating when an annuity  income  isnt necessarily a 
customers preferred option, the rules were put in place to protect  policyholders from losing 
the valuable benefit of the GMP. And the relevant legislation  didnt give Aviva the option not 
to provide the GMP. So, I dont think Aviva acted unreasonably.
In any event, Aviva, like other pension providers, is not obligated to provide drawdown  or all 
benefit options allowed by the legislation, whether a policyholder has a Section 32 policy  or 
not. Pension freedoms  legislation  allows pension  providers to provide  certain  flexible benefit 
options but it does not require that they do so. Bearing that it mind, not doing so does  not in 
my view breach the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA)  treating  customers fairly 
requirement. The FCA has not to my knowledge said that not doing so would breach that 
requirement. I realise that Mr W has said that this would potentially financially disadvantage  
him and I do understand why he would have  liked other  benefit  options but Aviva has not 
acted incorrectly in these  circumstances  in not providing those options.
Ive taken in to account the newspaper articles and other information Mr W has supplied. But 
that does not determine  what Aviva should  have done and they dont  change  my provisional 
decision.
Enhanced annuity
Mr W has mentioned  that he was given the impression  by Aviva that an enhanced  annuity 
would be available  to him and there was a significant delay before it confirmed that it wasnt  
an option for him, which has left him at a financial disadvantage. However, Mr W complained 
to Aviva about this in 2017 and it issued  its final response letter on 13 June 2017.  It told him 
he had six months to refer his complaint  to this service or it wouldnt consent to us looking 
into it. And Mr W didnt  refer his complaint to this service within six months.
The rules  say that a business can refuse  its consent for us to investigate a complaint thats 
brought to us outside the six month  time limit  unless we think  exceptional circumstances 
apply. Aviva hasnt consented to us looking into this part of Mr Ws complaint, and I cant  see 
that there  are any exceptional circumstances which would have prevented Mr W contacting 
us within  six months of the final response  letter. So, I dont  think  I can consider this part of 
Mr Ws complaint.  
My provisional decision
My provisional decision is that Mr Ws complaint about the delay in responding to his query 
about an enhanced annuity has been referred  outside the relevant time limits. 
Im not upholding Mr Ws complaint about Aviva Life and Pensions UK Limited not allowing 
him flexible  access to his pension  fund.
Ref: DRN58133448If Mr W or Aviva Life and Pensions UK Limited  have any other  comments  they wish me to 
consider, they should send these to me by 14 October 2020. Ill then review the case again 
before issuing my decision.
David Bird
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5813344