K820x#14complaint
Mr L was mis-sold a pension policy by Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited  (Aviva). Aviva 
offered him compensation to put things  right,  but he doesnt think  its offered enough.
background
Mr L started a Free Standing Additional Voluntary Contribution  (FSAVC) plan in 1992 with 
what is now Aviva. He stopped contributing to the plan in 2002. 
In 2018 Mr L complained  to Aviva about several financial products he had taken out over the 
years, including the FSAVC plan. Aviva looked  into his concerns  about the FSAVC plan and 
concluded it held insufficient evidence that the adviser discussed other options that would 
have been available to him at the time,  including joining his employers in-house AVC 
scheme. So it upheld  his complaint. Aviva then arranged for independent actuaries to 
conduct a loss assessment to see if Mr L sustained a financial loss due to the difference in 
charges between his FSAVC plan and his employers in-house  AVC arrangement. This 
assessment concluded  that Mr L had suffered a financial loss and Aviva  offered to increase 
the value of his plan by £3,625.71 to put things right. 
Mr L signed to accept the offer in full and final settlement of his complaint in early  August 
2018. Aviva  confirmed to Mr L that redress had been added  to his plan three months later.  
And Aviva also said the time it took to resolve Mr Ls complaint was unacceptable.  It 
arranged for an additional  £300 to be sent to Mr L to apologise for the delays he 
experienced and the chaser  emails  he had to send. 
Mr L didnt think Aviva had done enough  to put right everything he said had gone  wrong, so 
he brought his complaint to this service. One of our investigators looked into the complaint 
but didnt think  Aviva needed  to do anything more. Mr L didnt agree, so asked for the 
complaint to be passed to an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice  at the time.  
At the outset I want to make clear my decision relates solely  to Mr Ls concerns about his 
FSAVC plan. I understand Mr L had taken out other  financial products  with Aviva but any 
complaint about  the other products has been  dealt with separately.
When Mr L asked for a decision, he said it is not just about each individual product but the 
overall behaviour  of the company. It is about  their overall treatment of me. So I think  it is 
useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended to regulate  or punish 
businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the industry regulator, the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA). If Mr L has concerns about  Aviva  and the way it does business, he can 
report this to the FCA. 
This service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer and a business. 
Should we decide that something has gone  wrong  we would ask the business to put things 
right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible,  in the position they would have  been  if 
the problem hadnt occurred. 
Ref: DRN53696372I dont need to decide here whether something has gone wrong;  Aviva  has accepted the 
FSAVC plan was mis-sold. It also conducted a loss assessment and paid redress. So the 
only issue for me to consider is whether the redress was enough  to put Mr L, as far as 
possible, in the position he should  have been  in. 
I understand Mr L believes he should be entitled  to more compensation and I appreciate his 
strength of feeling  about this. But given the circumstances  of this complaint I dont agree. 
Having reviewed the redress offer letter, including the key facts and assumptions document 
included with it, Im satisfied Aviva conducted  the loss assessment in line with the 
methodology established by the industry  regulator. And Ive seen no evidence  to suggest the 
redress calculations, undertaken by independent actuaries, are incorrect  or otherwise do not 
accurately reflect the financial  loss resulting from the difference in charges  between the 
FSAVC plan and the in-house AVC option.  
Aviva also paid Mr L £300 for the delays it caused, and the effort  Mr L had to take chasing it 
up to get his complaint resolved. Taking everything into account, I think  the redress already 
paid, including  this additional payment, is appropriate and it wouldnt be fair or reasonable to 
ask Aviva to do anything more in the circumstances.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 December 2019.
Jennifer Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5369637