K820x#14complaint
Mr F complains that hes been paying Experian  Limited (Experian) for an account  that he 
hasnt been able to use.
background
Mr F reactivated an existing CreditExpert membership with Experian in November 2017. 
This membership cost £14.99 a month.
Mr F complains that his membership was not working correctly and that he was unable to 
see his credit report and score  so he doesnt  believe  hes benefitted from the account and 
would like a refund of the money  he paid.  He also had another membership, which was free 
of charge, and was able to see his credit  report and score on that account. Mr F was also 
unhappy with the customer service he received. He complained to Experian about these 
issues in November 2018.
Experian responded to Mr Fs complaint to say the reason he wasnt able to receive an 
updated credit report and score was because he hadnt updated the address details on his 
account. It said he shouldnt have been able to generate a second account,  even  using a 
different email address. And it said that its agents  could  have  provided  better  customer 
service. It apologised for this and paid him £25 compensation. It also cancelled  Mr Fs 
membership, so no further  payments  were  taken after October  2018. Mr F didnt agree with 
Experians response and wanted a refund of the membership fee, so he brought the 
complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt  think the complaint should be upheld. He said that Mr F was unable  to 
access his credit report and accurate score because he hadnt updated his account  details 
with Experian  for the paid membership account.  He said that Mr F hadnt attempted to 
contact Experian  to resolve the issue and that this wouldnt  have  affected  the credit  report  
lenders were  seeing  only what Mr F was able to see. Our investigator thought the £25 
compensation for poor customer  service  and creating a duplicate profile was fair
As Mr F didnt agree, the complaint has now been  passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
outcome as our investigator and for the same  reasons.
Mr F wasnt able to use his CreditExpert membership after he reactivated  it in November 
2017. And there isnt any dispute that Mr F hasnt used the service  he paid for. But my role is 
to decide whether Experian made a mistake or there  was an issue that meant Mr F was 
unable to access his credit report and score.
Mr F was aware his credit report wasnt  generating correctly  when he first reactivated  the 
membership and chose  to open  a new free account using a separate email address. This 
free account  generated a credit report and score. So Mr F was aware  that he should be able 
to access his credit report using the CreditExpert  membership, but I havent seen any 
evidence that Mr F contacted Experian  to query this until November 2018.
Ref: DRN53004162Experian has said that a credit  report and score didnt generate on the paid account because  
Mr F didnt  update his address details  which he couldve  done through his account. It has 
showed me the address  information it held on the two separate accounts,  which  dont match. 
So Im satisfied that the credit report and score didnt generate  as Mr F hadnt provided  
Experian with up-to-date  address details on that account. And I dont think  there was an 
issue with Experians systems. So, as I dont think Experian made  an error, it follows  that I 
dont think it needs  to do anything to put these issues  right.
Ive listened to the call Mr F had with Experian  which has already acknowledged  that its 
agent could have provided  better customer service. During this call I think  the agent  
genuinely tried to answer Mr Fs queries but wasnt able to speak. And Experian has already 
acknowledged that Mr F shouldnt have been able to create two profiles. So Im satisfied that 
the £25 already offered  to Mr F is fair and reasonable  compensation in the circumstances.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Experian Limited should pay Mr F the £25 it had already offered him if it hasnt done so 
already.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 April 2020.
Sara Falzon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5300416