K820x#14Complaint
Mr W complains National  Westminster Bank Plc closed three accounts he held with them 
without providing  their reasons as to why. He says hes been unable  to open an account with 
another bank  since this time and thinks NatWest  are responsible for this. As a result, he 
wants them  to pay him compensation.
Background
Mr W had several  accounts with NatWest, comprising a current  account and two savings 
accounts opened in 2008, 2012, and 2018 respectively. He applied for a credit card in 
June 2018, which while approved at first was then rescinded. They then sent him a letter 
giving him 14 days  notice that they would close his accounts.
NatWest prevented Mr W from using his debit card during the notice period but say any 
existing direct debits and standing orders wouldve still been processed. Mr W withdrew all of 
his funds before his accounts closed.
Mr W says he doesnt  know the reason why NatWest decided  to close his accounts, and 
they refuse to tell him. He thinks it may be because of a payment of £10,000 he deposited 
into his current account a few months before. He says this was an inheritance payment that 
had been held on trust for him. Hes provided  correspondence he says is from his father and 
grandmother in support of this.
Mr W complained  to NatWest. He thinks they should  tell him their reasons for closing his 
accounts and theyre  responsible for him not being able to open an account elsewhere. 
NatWest rejected his complaint. They say they dont need  to give him any more  reason, 
other than that his accounts were closed  under  the following terms:
 We can close your account immediately if:
-We reasonably suspect that youve given us false information, which was a 
significant factor in our decision to open your account (or continue to provide it to 
you);
-We reasonably suspect that your account (or any other account you hold with us) is 
being used, or is planned to be used, for an illegal  purpose;
-You behave in a threatening or violent manner towards our staff;
-Were required to do so by law or regulation;
-Youre declared  bankrupt;
-Youve entered into a voluntary arrangement with your creditors to repay  your debts;
or
-Youve used your account for business purposes.
We can also close your account by giving you at least 60 days notice.
Mr W brought his complaint to us. He says NatWests actions will leave him homeless and 
without access to an account. He lives with his mother and has been using her account 
since his accounts  closed, but she plans  to move to France, close her account, and sell the 
property. He says after this happens,  hell be unable to find somewhere to live or to operate 
financially, which includes  making  child support payments.
Mr W says hes obtained information from the Credit Industry Fraud  Avoidance System 
(CIFAs),  who operate  the National  Fraud Database. He says this information shows another  
bank registered  a misuse of facility  marker  against him in December 2012.  He says 
Ref: DRN53228402someone used his details to try and open  a student  account with that bank, but hes no way 
of proving it wasnt him.
An investigator at our service looked into Mr Ws complaint and decided not to uphold  it. In 
summary they found:
NatWest could close his accounts  on the basis they no longer  wanted him as their 
customer, as long as theyd  followed the account  terms.  Looking  at those terms, they 
didnt think NatWest  had given  Mr W enough  notice  to close his accounts. They 
thought he shouldve received 60 days notice instead. 
NatWest probably hadnt closed his accounts  because of the inheritance payment  he 
received. The reason  for this was the payment had gone into his current account 
several months before they decided to close his accounts.
Mr W was frustrated at not knowing why his accounts closed, and this is 
understandable. But NatWest dont  have to give him their reasons for their decision. 
Theyve confirmed they hadnt  recorded any external  markers  in relation to Mr W, so 
it was unlikely they were  the reason why he couldnt open accounts elsewhere.
NatWest closed Mr W accounts while a CIFAs marker was recorded against  him. Its 
likely the marker had some influence  over other  banks  decisions not to offer him 
accounts. But this marker  was recorded by another bank and not NatWest,  so they 
couldnt be held responsible for the effect of that banks decision.
NatWest shouldve given Mr W 60 days notice, but its unlikely  this wouldve resulted 
in him being able to open an account with another bank account. The CIFAS marker 
wouldve still been in effect after the additional  46 days had passed.
The CIFAs marker likely expired in December 2018, so Mr W should now stand more 
chance of getting  an account  elsewhere.
Mr W strongly disagreed with the investigators findings. Without a bank account, he says he 
cant meet  his payment obligations.  He also says the extent of the distress  he experienced 
as a result  of NatWests  actions hasnt been properly considered.  
Mr W has asked  for a final decision  from an ombudsman, so the complaint has been  passed 
to me to decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, my review of the 
evidence has led me to the same overall conclusions as the investigator  previously  set out 
and for broadly the same reasons.
I understand Mr W is very concerned by NatWests  decision  to close his accounts. But our 
investigator was correct in asserting they dont have to give him their reasons for doing so. 
There is currently no regulatory requirement I know of which  requires them to give Mr W 
their reasons. 
NatWest can decide  not to continue its relationship  with Mr W, in the same way he couldve 
decided he no longer wished to transact  with them. Their decision to do so is not something 
Ref: DRN53228403we would generally interfere with, as this would impinge on their freedom to decide  who they 
want as a customer, which includes their existing customers.
Ive considered why NatWest decided to close Mr Ws account  and I think their reasons are 
legitimate in falling within  their commercial discretion. Ive considered too whether they 
followed their terms and conditions when giving Mr W notice to close  his accounts, but I 
dont think they did. 
The terms NatWest relied on relate  to their ability to close Mr Ws accounts immediately, 
even though they still gave him 14 days.  But those terms only apply  to specific  
circumstances. And, considering the information theyve provided, I cant  see those 
circumstances were  met, and so I dont think they applied their terms reasonably.  
So, I think NatWest shouldve given  Mr W 60 days notice to close. But for me to uphold his 
complaint Id need to think they caused  the loss he says he experienced. Ive considered 
very carefully what hes said on this matter,  particularly  his points on being  unable to open  
an account to pay bills, and the distress and embarrassment not having an account  has 
caused. I acknowledge this mustve been a very difficult time for him, but I do agree with the 
finding our investigator  made. 
NatWest has confirmed  they didnt record anything about Mr W which  would be visible  to 
other banks.  So, I think its unlikely other banks decisions not to offer him accounts were  
based on anything  NatWest did. And, even if Mr Ws accounts closed after 60 days, the 
CIFAS marker  wouldve still been  in operation and I think hed have gone on to face the 
same situation he experienced when his accounts  did close.   
I appreciate Mr W may have benefitted  from having his accounts  open a short while  longer 
and from being  able to use his debit  card for that period. But I dont think this wouldve 
substantially reduced  the stress, worry and inconvenience he says he went  on to 
experience. So, I wont be directing  NatWest to compensate him for this.
My final decision
As explained above, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ws complaint. Under the rules  of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or reject my decision 
before 19 January 2020.
Liam King
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN5322840