K822xcomplaint
Mrs F complains about the service  she received from BFS Handsworth  Limited  (BFS) when 
it gave her advice her in relation to her pension plans.  She says BFS failed to complete the 
review of all her existing pensions as agreed. She also complains  about  delays in 
communication and says the business  failed to provide some information.  
Mrs F also complains  she wasnt informed  about an ongoing commission fee on her new 
pension. 
Mrs F complains she was advised to invest a lump sum of £40,000  from her business into a 
new pension  plan.  She says this resulted in difficulties  and delays in her obtaining a 
mortgage. She complains  that BFS didnt advise her of this risk. 
background 
Mrs F met with an adviser from the business in May 2017 to discuss  her retirement planning. 
A risk profile report and pension switching report were produced. There was a second 
meeting at the beginning of August 2017. BFS recommended Mrs F transfer two of her 
existing pension plans  into a new personal pension plan. A suitability report dated 4 August 
2017 was issued to Mrs F. It recommended her three occupational scheme plans should 
remain in situ for the time being.
An application for the new personal pension plan was made  at the beginning  of August 
2017. This was set up with a single lump  sum payment of £40,000 from Mrs Fs business  
and a regular  premium of £3,000 per month.
Mrs F wrote to the business at the beginning of January 2018 complaining  that not all of her 
existing pension plans  had been  reviewed  and that there had been  no communication from 
BFS. A review meeting  took place on 17 January 2018. BFS wrote to Mrs F in February 
2018 setting out what had been  discussed at the meeting.  Shortly after it wrote to Mrs F and 
asked for further  information about  the rental  incomes  on her buy-to-let properties. It also 
said it was still waiting  for information  on two of her occupational pension schemes. 
Mrs F complained to BFS in April 2018  and said it hadnt reviewed her pensions;  it hadnt 
obtained a pension forecast  for her husband  and it hadnt provided a spreadsheet showing 
her likely income forecast in retirement. She said communication  had been  poor throughout 
the process. Mrs F also complained that she hadnt  been told about  the ongoing commission 
on her new pension plan until she came to sign the papers. She then made an additional  
complaint that there had been  a delay in implementing her instructions to reduce her regular 
pension contribution.
One of BFS representatives visited Mrs F on 22 June 2018 to discuss her concerns. During 
that meeting a state pension forecast for Mr F and a pension income spreadsheet for Mrs F 
were produced. 
Ref: DRN57474322The business investigated Mrs Fs complaint. It didnt uphold the majority of Mrs Fs 
complaint but it offered £200 in gift vouchers for poor communication.  It said she had been 
provided with advice in relation to the transfer of two existing  pensions  and the setting up of 
a new pension. It said it had reviewed her occupational pensions and its recommendations 
had been set out in a suitability report.  BFS said Mrs F had been informed about the ongoing 
fees. It said it couldnt be held responsible for any delays to her mortgage application or the 
vendor pulling out of the sale. It also said that Mrs Fs instruction to reduce her regular  
premium had been actioned but unfortunately that had not been in time to amend the next 
monthly payment.  
Mrs F wrote to BFS on 21 September 2018 outlining a number of issues  she felt were  still 
unresolved. She said the business should refund her fees. Mrs F also said she would now 
need to pay a much higher implementation  fee to have her pension reviewed as there  was 
more in the fund.  So she said BFS should  compensate her for these additional fees. Mrs F 
said the business should pay the fees incurred  when the purchase  of a property fell though.  
The business issued  a response  on 26 September 2018. Mrs F then referred her complaint 
to our service.
Our investigator upheld  Mrs Fs complaint  in part. He didnt think BFS had failed to provide 
Mrs F with a service. The investigator  took into account that BFS had met with Mrs F and 
completed a fact find, risk report and suitability report. So he felt she had been  provided with 
a service and it would not be fair and reasonable to refund the fees paid. He felt that advice 
to pay £40,000  into a new pension met with Mrs Fs objective to use money  from her 
business in a tax efficient  way. He didnt think BFS could be held responsible for any delays 
in Mrs F obtaining a mortgage or for the vendor pulling  out. 
He agreed BFS could  have communicated with Mrs F more frequently and kept her updated.  
So he said BFS should pay Mrs F £200 in compensation instead of the gift vouchers offered
Mrs F disagreed with the investigators conclusions and said he had failed to address all of 
her complaint. In summary she said the full pension review had never  been  completed.    
Mrs F said information provided to her had been  incomplete and full of errors. She also said 
the investigator had failed  to take account of conversations with BFS where  it had agreed to 
refund her fees.  Mrs F reiterated that BFS had failed to advise her of the repercussions  of 
paying a lump sum into her pension plan and had failed to take into account that she and her 
husband were  intending  to buy a house.  She said that fees were not properly explained and 
she was not given a verbal  explanation  about the ongoing fees 
The investigator responded to the issues raised by Mrs F but remained of the same view. 
A copy of the suitability  report was provided to Mrs F. She said she hadnt  received that 
report previously and pointed out it hadnt  been referred to by BFS in its communications. 
Mrs F noted she had issued her cheque  for the lump sum payment before receiving any 
written advice about it. 
Ref: DRN57474323She also disagreed  with the business file note from May 2017  which  said she was going to 
invest the inheritance  she was due to receive.  Mrs F said she had always  intended  to use 
the inheritance  to purchase a new property.  Mrs F pointed  out the file note also stated she 
wanted one of her pension  schemes to be investigated as the income  values had been 
dropping. Mrs F said she had raised  this with BFS in her correspondence  and expressed  
disappointment that this hadnt been carried  out.
As no agreement could be reached  the complaint was referred to me for review.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Did BFS carry  out any service or the service  agreed?
Mrs F says the business provided her with a poor service and failed to review  some of her 
existing occupational pension schemes so it should refund all the fees she has paid.  She 
also says the business  should pay the additional fees she incurred when she moved  her new 
pension plan to another provider.  
Mrs F signed a fee agreement in May 2017 which described the services the business 
provided with a specific amount being charged per pension  review and another specified 
amount to implement  pension funding increases.
An invoice was issued  by BFS in August 2017. The work undertaken was described as 
follows:
To review  current pensions with the view if possible to consolidate, this would not 
necessarily include the final salary  schemes and to look at increasing regular  
contributions and to get money  out of the business as cost effective as possible, 
make a single  contribution in to the pension before the end of the company tax year 
which ends at the end of August.
So I think the work Mrs F was charged for was the review of her current pensions, the setting 
up of a new pension  plan with money from her business, the transfer of existing  plans into 
that new pension  and the setting up of regular contributions.  
In order to decide that fees should  be refunded in full I would have to consider that Mrs F 
received no service at all, or so little service as to render  it of no use. But I dont think that is 
the case here because  I think BFS did carry out work  for Mrs F and provide her with 
recommendations. Ill explain why I think that. 
BFS met with Mrs F on two occasions  and completed a detailed fact find recording her 
financial circumstances and objectives. It also contacted five different pension schemes on 
her behalf  to ask for information about her pension plans. It received information on those  
plans (three of which were occupational  schemes) which it had to consider. It also sought 
information on the state pension forecast  for Mrs F. BFS carried out a risk profile  and 
produced a risk profile report, a pension switching report  and a suitability report.  
Ref: DRN57474324I appreciate Mrs F has said in correspondence  that she hadnt seen the suitability report  and 
she has also reiterated this more recently.  It is not clear why that is, as the report was 
correctly addressed. 
I also note Mrs F has said the suitability report wasnt referred  to by BFS in its 
communications but I can see it was referred to its final response letter to Mrs F. 
Mrs F has also pointed  out she wrote the cheque for the lump  sum payment before the date 
of the suitability report and before receiving any written advice about it. But I take into 
account that she had met with BFS and discussed  her objectives, financial circumstances 
and potential options, prior to issuing that cheque.  
In any event, I still consider the suitability report is a relevant  document  as it is produced by 
the adviser at around the time of their meeting and represents a summary of what  was 
discussed. 
The adviser recommended that Mrs F transfer her two existing pension  plans to a new 
personal pension  plan. The reasons given for that recommendation were that the existing 
plans didnt allow fully flexible access to her pension  funds in retirement and the new plan 
had a much  wider range of funds.  There  was also very little in the way of exit charges  from 
the two existing plans and BFS noted that the charges on the new plan were  lower than a 
stakeholder plan. The recommendation also took into account Mrs Fs risk profile which was 
assessed as medium and the fact she wanted to invest in ethical investments. 
Looking at Mrs Fs risk profile  questionnaire ; the investments in her existing plans and her 
circumstances, I consider she was willing to take some risk with her investments over the 
longer term. It also appears that Mrs F did want to invest in ethical funds, as she had done 
so in her existing plans  and that objective was clearly identified  in the suitability report.
Mrs F accepted the recommendation from the business and the new plan was set up. 
The fact find and suitability report also recorded  that Mrs F had her own business  and one of 
her objectives was to invest some  of her business profits in a tax efficient way. So it was 
recommended that she make an employer contribution of £40,000  into the new plan and set 
up regular contributions of £3,000, which I will come  back to later in this decision.
It is correct that the advice provided in relation to her occupational scheme plans was more  
limited. In summary it was that they should remain as they are for the time being. In the 
suitability report BFS said at this moment they will remain in situ.
But that was one of the potential advice options. Advising that a consumer takes no action  is 
still advice that requires a review of the consumers circumstances, objectives and the 
product under consideration.
The extent  of the review  of each pension plan would depend on the complexity of the plan, 
the number of factors to be taken into account and the information available. For instance,  
where a particular plan provided valuable defined benefits, it may have been  clear that it 
would not be in Mrs Fs interest  to transfer it.
In relation to one of the occupational schemes,  BFS said in the suitability report:
Ref: DRN57474325this is a final salary scheme  that offers a valuable promise of income in retirement, which 
you have opted  to leave in place  for the time being.
For another of the occupational schemes  it was recorded:
The               scheme is underfunded, we have  requested that Pension Help to look into the 
scheme and advise on the options going  forward.
For another:
You are going look at the             scheme  mainly at the fund options for ethical investing
I consider the main  reason  for the more limited advice in relation to two of the occupational 
scheme plans was because all the information  wasnt readily available at the time of the 
second meeting  in August  2017. The business has explained it received information  for one 
of those schemes in February 2018  which showed it was in deficit. 
The business said that, in subsequent meetings, it said to Mrs F that it didnt recommend 
she transfer that plan because  it was a small transfer value  Final  Salary  scheme it should 
be left in place  for the guaranteed benefits  it provides.
So, I consider that BFS did provide some advice on the occupational pension schemes. 
Overall, I consider it carried out work  in accordance  with the description on the invoice 
issued in August  2017 and that where there were outstanding issues  raised  in Mrs Fs 
correspondence in 2018 it sought to rectify those. 
I note what Mrs F has said about conversations she had with BFS during the complaint  
process about refunding the fees. But I think it is clear from the written responses  to her 
complaint that ultimately it didnt agree to refund her fees as it considered the work had been 
carried out.
I understand that Mrs F doesnt  want to stay with BFS and she would  like to ask another  firm 
to review her plan. That is of course  her choice. But I dont think the advice to pay a lump 
sum and regular contributions into her new pension plan was unsuitable  -for reasons I have 
set out later in this decision. So I dont think BFS can be held responsible for additional fees 
as a result  of her pension  pot becoming larger.
Failure/delay in providing information
Mrs F complains that the BFS failed to give her some of the information  it had agreed to 
provide. She says BFS didnt send the relevant forms so it could provide a state  pension  
forecast for her husband. She also says BFS didnt provide her with a forecast  of her 
retirement income as agreed.
It appears there was a delay in obtaining  some of the required information as the rental  
income information was not sought  from Mrs F until February 2018. The business has 
accepted that it omitted to provide the forms for forecast of Mr Fs state pension but it sought 
to rectify this by providing those after a meeting with Mrs F in June  2018.  It also provided 
what it said was a draft retirement  income  forecast for Mrs F. It apologised that some  of the 
information was incorrect but it pointed out that overall  the spreadsheet showed there was a 
shortfall.
Ref: DRN57474326I can understand that the delay in obtaining this information would have  been  disappointing 
for Mrs F. But I think  that BFS has taken reasonable steps to rectify these matters so Im not 
going to ask it to do anything  more  in this regard.
Ongoing Fees
Mrs F complains that the adviser did not discuss all the fees with her and she was unaware  
of any ongoing  fees until she came to sign the application papers for her new pension  plan.
I can see a fee agreement with BFS was signed  by Mrs F in May 2017. It gave an initial  fee 
amount which  related  to both pension reviews  and implementing pension funding  increases. 
Then later on in that document written in bold it said:
For the on-going service the charge has been agreed at 0.5 %
This was just above Mrs Fs signature, so I consider it likely she would have seen this prior 
to signing. In which case I think it is likely she agreed to it.
Also a personal illustration for the new pension plan was prepared for Mrs F dated 28 July 
2017. As the document  was addressed to her personally and issued prior to the second 
meeting with BFS I consider it likely  it was provided  to Mrs F. 
The illustration contained a section which was clearly labelled in bold The charges for your 
Pension Portfolio. It set out the product charges and the adviser  charges. Under adviser 
charges it said there was an initial charge  and then an ongoing advice charge  which was 
0.5 % and described as being  in place for the duration of the portfolio. 
The ongoing  adviser charge was also set out in the application document signed  by Mrs F in 
August 2017.
I note that Mrs F has said she was informed about the charges before she had signed  the 
application papers and agreed, albeit reluctantly, to the ongoing charges. 
So, I am satisfied on balance that she was informed about the ongoing fee which  would be 
paid to BFS out of her new pension plan.
Recommendation to pay £40,000 into her new pension plan
Mrs F complains that she experienced delays in obtaining a mortgage which led to the 
purchase of a property  falling  through. Mrs F has explained this was caused because she 
had taken £40,000 out of her business and paid it into a pension plan on the 
recommendation of BFS. She says the adviser at the time was aware  that she and her 
husband were  planning  to move.
The fact find is an important document as it is there  to record Mrs Fs financial 
circumstances and objectives. Her highest  priority was recorded as providing or increasing 
retirement income. There is also reference  to her business operating  profits.  The suitability 
letter records that Mrs F had an objective to use money  from her business in a tax efficient 
way. But I cant see anything on the fact find or suitability  report to suggest  Mrs F was 
contemplating purchasing a property in the near future.  A file note from May 2017 indicates  
there were 3 mortgages in place that were to remain as they were. 
Ref: DRN57474327I also note that repaying a mortgage or re-mortgaging  was not listed as a high priority on the 
fact find. It was only recorded as 4 under planning priorities, whilst  retirement  income was 
recorded as 1.
So Im not persuaded that the intention to buy a property was drawn to the advisers 
attention at that time.
I also note there was a reference to an impending inheritance of more than £200,000 and 
the income and expenditure  form indicated  there  was disposable income  available.  So there 
was nothing to suggest that using this £40,000 from her business  profits  would cause Mrs F 
any financial  difficulties.
The suitability report records that Mrs F wanted to use money  in her business in a tax 
efficient way and paying it into a pension  plan was a way of doing that while achieving her 
primary objective of increasing her retirement income. So I dont consider the 
recommendation was unsuitable, as it met her objectives and was affordable  according to 
Mrs Fs recorded  circumstances.  
Im also not persuaded that the adviser should  have advised Mrs F in relation  to a risk that 
was not evident from her circumstances  at the time.  
Even if I am not correct about that, Im not convinced that the payment of this money into her 
new pension  plan led to the purchase  of her property falling through. Mrs F has said there 
were delays in obtaining  her mortgage. This may have been  in part because  of her reduction 
of her business profit although  Mrs F has said in correspondence that the lender had agreed 
at one point that this money would be treated as paid back  in.
In any event I consider,  from what Mrs F has said, that the purchase of the property  
ultimately fell through because the vendor  pulled out due to personal reasons. That is 
something that can happen  when people buy and sell property. There  is nothing to say that 
this wouldnt have happened even if the mortgage  had come  through more  quickly.
I dont think that BFS can be held responsible  for the delay in obtaining the mortgage as this 
was not something  that was drawn to their attention as a priority.  And in any event, I dont 
think it can be held responsible for the vendor pulling out of the sale.
Regular contributions to new pension plan
Mrs F has complained about the setting up of regular contributions of £3,000 as she has 
since reduced her income generating work. She also complains about the delay in carrying 
out her instructions to reduce that contribution.
Mrs F was 50 years  old at the time she met with BFS. Mrs F had her own business and her 
and her husband had some  buy to let properties.  The fact find records under her retirement 
goals that Mrs F would look  to reduce workload from 60 and not retire fully until about 65.
So I dont  think there was anything to suggest, at the time the advice was given, that she 
was going to reduce her income.  In contrast the fact find and suitability report  record  Mrs F 
was looking to use the money  from her business  in a tax efficient manner. 
Ref: DRN57474328Taking into account Mrs Fs age at the time, it was not surprising that increasing her 
retirement income was a priority, so I dont think making higher regular contributions was 
undesirable or unsuitable. 
In any event Mrs F always had the option  to reduce those regular premiums if her 
circumstances changed and this was always something to be kept under review. I can see 
this was referred to in a letter from BFS in February  2018 following from the meeting in 
January 2018.  In the letter it noted that Mrs Fs contribution level may be changed as you 
are looking  to potentially  reduce  your commitment and as such lower your income
I can see Mrs F asked  to reduce her regular contribution and this took some time to put in 
place. This meant the next monthly contribution which was in May 2018 still went  out. BFS 
says that a request was made to the provider after Mrs F gave  the instruction, but it was not 
actioned by the provider in time to amend the payment going  out at the beginning of May 
2018. 
I can see a letter from Mrs F on 26 March 2018 where she said I will need to reduce my 
pension payments as I will be doing  less income  generating  work  over the next few months. I 
note no amount was given in that email  so its not clear that it could have been actioned  on 
that date. It seems there  was further  contact between Mrs F and BFS and the instruction 
was actioned on 19 April 2018.
Im not convinced that the business  acted as promptly  as it could have done but I understand 
BFS had anticipated this could still be carried out in time for the contribution at the beginning 
of May. Unfortunately,  the provider was undergoing  some difficulties  with its platform  at that 
time (which has been widely reported). So, I think this probably  had some  impact on the 
amendment of the regular contribution.
In any event I dont  think  there is sufficient  evidence on balance to show  that it was BFS 
fault that the change couldnt be implemented in time. 
In addition, whist  I appreciate  this must  have  been  frustrating for Mrs F, I dont think it 
caused her any financial  loss as the money  is held in her pension plan. In addition she 
cancelled her direct debit shortly after this so the next monthly contribution  wouldnt have 
gone out. 
Communication
It is clear that after the initial meetings in 2017  there  were delays in contacting Mrs F, 
responding to her correspondence and providing her with information in a timely manner. 
BFS has accepted, in effect, that communication wasnt as good  it should have been. I dont 
think these delays have  caused Mrs F any financial loss, but I do think  they have caused her 
inconvenience and have been  stressful for her as she has described. 
I take into account that BFS met with Mrs F to try to rectify any issues and it apologised for 
the poor communication  and said she could  change to a different adviser. It also offered 
Mrs F £200 in gift vouchers in compensation. The investigator has concluded that BFS 
should pay £200 in compensation rather than vouchers which  BFS has accepted. I consider 
that amount  to be fair and reasonable in the circumstances taking into account the time 
periods involved  and the impact on Mrs F.
Ref: DRN57474329my final decision
My final decision is that the complaint is upheld in part for the reasons outlined  in this 
decision and BFS Handforth Limited  should  pay £200 to Mrs F for the trouble and upset it 
caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 June  2020.
Julia Chittenden
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN5747432