K820x#14complaint
Miss D says Close Brothers Limited (CBL) mis-sold  her a payment protection insurance  
(PPI) to cover her car finance agreement. 
 
background
The complaint is about a regular premium PPI policy taken out with a car finance agreement  
in 2011. Miss D was sold the policy shortly after taking the car finance  during a phone call in 
August 2011.  
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. As Miss D disagreed, the complaint has been 
passed to me for decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Ds case. 
After careful consideration of all of the information and evidence I have on file, I dont think 
the policy was mis-sold  to Miss D. Ill explain why. 
CBL has been able to send  us a recording of two of the phone calls its representative had 
with Miss D leading up to the sale of the PPI. This was after the car finance had already 
been agreed. So I think that Miss D was aware  she had a choice about buying  the PPI, and 
that she chose  to take it. And I note that during the calls two different types of insurance 
were discussed and it took Miss D a while to decide  whether she wanted either, or both of 
the policies after a discussion with CBLs representative. So Miss D made a considered  
decision after some  deliberation. 
CBL didnt recommend  the PPI to Miss D. By this, I mean that it didnt  assess  Miss Ds 
personal circumstances such  as her employee  benefits, health or ability to meet her 
repayments.  So it didnt  have to check if it was right for her. But it did have to give Miss D 
clear information about the PPI so she could  make an informed  decision.
The cost of the policy was discussed. So I think Miss D would have understood how much  
she would  need  to pay for the PPI each  month.  Miss D didn't have any other  means to make  
the car finance  repayments if she wasnt able to work so I think she would have thought the 
policy could have given  her a financial comfort she wouldnt otherwise have had. 
The PPI would have  covered the repayments for up to 12 months per claim and 36 months  
in total, in the event Miss D was unable  to work  because of an accident, sickness or 
involuntary redundancy. So I think  it was useful in her circumstances.
Ref: DRN58885752Its possible that CBL didnt point out the main  things the policy wouldnt cover.  And I note 
that Miss D had only been with her employer for four months.  While Miss D was eligible for 
the policy at the time of the sale, I see she would have needed to be in work continuously for 
at least six months immediately before the date of the unemployment. So Miss D couldnt  
have benefited  from the unemployment cover for a further two months after she had taken 
the policy.  But the car finance agreement was to last for 48 months so Im satisfied that was 
a long enough time for Miss D to have taken advantage of the policy.  
Its also looks like Miss D wasnt affected by any of the exclusions on the PPI cover   a 
pre-existing medical condition as an example - so it would have been useful for her if 
something went wrong. It also looks like the policy was affordable. I dont think better 
information about the PPI would have put her off taking out the cover. 
Ive taken into account Miss Ds comments,  including what  she said about the phone calls 
she had with CBL. It is clear the calls were carried out to sell the PPI to Miss D but Im 
satisfied that Miss D did have a choice about  taking the policy and it was her decision to take 
it. 
This means  CBL doesnt have to pay back  all of the cost of the PPI to Miss D.
But CBL has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Miss D because: 
CBL got a high level of commission  and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Miss D about that. Because  CBL didnt  tell her, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, CBL has paid back the amount  of commission  and profit share  that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Close Brothers Limited does not have to pay back  all of 
the cost of the PPI to Miss D.
But Close Brothers  Limited does have to pay back to Miss D any commission and profit  
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 June 2019. 
Catherine Langley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5888575