K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains about how HSBC Life (UK) Limited  has handled his claim on his personal 
income protection policy. He says it has carried out online searches for information  about 
him, and then wrongly recorded his limited  company  as active.
background
Mr G has an ongoing claim on his policy, which HSBC Life has been paying for a number of 
years. Mr G says he regularly checks what information HSBC  Life holds about him. Earlier  
this year,  he saw that it had recorded  a company of which he is director as active. He says 
this is wrong as the company had been  dormant for some time, and he had only registered 
the company in order to secure the name. He complained to HSBC Life.
HSBC Life said it was entitled to carry out searches in reviewing  Mr Gs claim. It also said 
the information it had recorded about  Mr Gs company was right, so it wouldnt remove  it. 
Our investigator didnt  think HSBC  Life had done anything wrong. She said the information it 
had recorded  was correct, and she found  that it hadnt affected Mr Gs claim  which  
continued to be paid.
Mr G didnt accept that conclusion. He maintained that HSBC  Life had got things wrong  and 
pointed out that it had made mistakes before.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive come to the same 
overall conclusion  as the investigator did, for much the same  reasons.
HSBC Life, like all insurers, is entitled to validate a claim. Desktop investigations are one of 
the methods it uses to do this, and I think thats  reasonable. While Ive noted what Mr G has 
said about how HSBC  Life has treated  him in the past, that doesnt mean  it shouldnt  
continue to review his claim regularly  provided it treats him fairly in doing  so.  
Ive seen the results  HSBC Life obtained following its searches; Im satisfied that they show  
Mr G as director of two limited companies, both of which had a status of active  at the time 
the searches were  done.
So I dont  find HSBC  Life did anything wrong  in putting that information on its records and, 
importantly, this hasnt  affected the ongoing payment of Mr Gs claim. It follows that there are 
no grounds on which I might fairly  require  HSBC Life to amend  its records.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I make no order or award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 October  2019.
Janet Millington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5590572