K820x#14complaint
Mrs P complains about the policies and practices of Santander UK Plc in relation to 
registering powers of attorney.
background
Mrs P is represented in this complaint by her son Mr P. Mr P is concerned about the 
information Santander asked him to provide before it would act on his lasting power  of 
attorney (LPA) for his mother.  He also complains that the banks information requirements 
are not GDPR compliant  and that by default  the bank uses  customer  details for marketing 
purposes. Mr P further complains that Santander  initially refused to register his complaint 
about these matters.
Mr P wished to close his mothers Santander  account, and the bank asked him to complete  
its standard LPA registration form first. But Mr P answered only those questions  he 
considered the bank  was entitled to ask. Santander  said it wouldnt register  the LPA until Mr 
P had fully completed the form.
Mr P rang the bank  to say that in the absence of an explanation, Santander had no 
legitimate reason for requesting some of his personal information.  He said the banks form 
was not GDPR compliant and that it shouldnt be necessary for applicants  to tick a box to opt 
out of the banks marketing activities. 
During the phone  call Mr P asked  to register a complaint, which the adviser refused to do. In 
summary the adviser said that an objection to the banks procedures (as Mr Ps was) 
wouldnt be regarded as a complaint,  but she would feed his concerns back  to the relevant 
team. When  Mr P asked  to speak to someone  else the adviser consulted other bank staff 
and then agreed to record  Mr Ps complaint.
Santander replied  saying in essence that it had done nothing wrong and that it still required 
Mr P to provide the information  he had thus far failed to do before it would register  his LPA.
Mr P was dissatisfied with this response  and he brought his complaint to us.
Our investigator considered the key issue to be whether Santander  could demand the 
information Mr P had refused to provide before it would register  his LPA. And her view was 
the bank wasnt  at fault. She commented that banks are entitled to determine their own 
policies and procedures  in this regard, and that as we arent the regulator we dont have the 
power to tell banks  to change these.
Commenting on Mr Ps complaint that Santander had acted obstructively by refusing to 
record his complaint, our investigator noted that although that was the advisers initial  
position she did in fact record his complaint during the same phone  call. Our investigator 
therefore considered  the bank to have  acted fairly.  
Mr P was unhappy with the investigators  view and requested an ombudsmans  decision. In 
doing so, and in summary, he reiterated points he had made previously and said that he had 
now, with reluctance,  provided the bank  with the information it needed  by letter  but 
Santander was still refusing  to register his LPA. 
Ref: DRN53797772my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ps main complaint is that Santander  is asking for information about him (e.g. country of 
birth, employment status and country of tax residence) that is unnecessary  for it to register 
his LPA. He says he isnt a Santander customer,  and doesnt want to be one, and is only 
seeking to close  his mothers account.  For this purpose he say Santander doesnt need 
some of the detail its asked him to provide, and furthermore  other  banks havent asked for it.
Ive no doubt this whole process has been a difficult experience  for Mr P when he is trying to 
look after his mothers affairs. I also accept that he has been left frustrated by Santanders  
approach compared to the approach taken by other businesses in registering a LPA.  But I 
must make it clear  to Mr P that we are not the regulator of banks  and building societies; this 
role falls to the Financial  Conduct Authority. And in so far as we do have a role to play here, I 
think its up to a business to decide  on its approach  to registering LPAs based on its 
interpretation of the various  rules and requirements to which it must adhere.  
Santander has decided  it requires all applicants  to complete a standard form, which it uses 
to set up the applicants profile. Mr P plainly feels that the bank shouldnt need some  of the 
information it is requesting. And whilst I recognise Mr Ps strength of feeling on this matter,  
Im afraid that my judgment  is that it is for Santander to determine  its own information needs  
in this regard.
Overall I dont think that Santander has acted unfairly or made  a mistake in asking Mr P to 
complete its LPA form. Mr P says hes now sent the bank the omitted information by way of 
a letter  and I infer from this comment that Santander  hasnt accepted this and still requires 
him to complete  the form. Although Mr P presumably  considers that the bank is being  
pedantic, once again Im afraid  this is a decision that Santander can legitimately make. If it 
needs the applicant fully to complete the form, rather  than complete it in part with other  
information provided some other way, then I cannot reasonably require it to do otherwise.
Mr P also complains that the banks form and procedures are not GDPR compliant. 
Santander has looked at this and said it believes Mr P to be wrong. As I think this service 
has already told Mr P we have no remit in this matter with decisions on this type of complaint 
falling to the Information Commissioners Office  to determine. This applies equally to Mr Ps 
complaint that unless  applicants tick a box on Santanders form the banks default position is 
that it can use information provided  for marketing purposes. Mr P believes applicants 
shouldnt be required to opt out of marketing activities. 
Mr P says he believes the bank acted  obstructively  during  his phone call by refusing to 
record his concerns as a complaint. Santander  has apologised for this and said that although  
that was the advisers initial response, she did in fact record  his complaint during the same 
phone call. Santander has said that it has given  relevant feedback  to those involved. 
And so whilst I understand Mr Ps frustration about the advisers initial  response,  Im satisfied 
that Santander has done enough to put matters right.
In summary  therefore, Im afraid  that Im unable to uphold Mr Ps complaint about 
Santanders unreasonableness in requesting  certain  information  as part of its LPA 
Ref: DRN53797773registration process as I consider that the bank is entitled to determine  its own needs in this 
regard. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 January 2020.
June Brown
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5379777