K820x#14complaint
Miss W complains about the amount that shes been charged by LeasePlan UK Limited  for 
damage to a car that she returned  when her hire agreement  with it ended. Shes  being  
helped with her complaint  by her mother.
background
A new car was supplied  to Miss W under a hire agreement with LeasePlan that she signed  in 
September 2014. The agreement ended and the car was collected  by a third party  on behalf 
of LeasePlan  in June 2018. An inspection report was prepared which recorded the cars 
mileage as 24,013  miles and identified damage  to the car which  had an estimated repair  
cost of £1,078.  LeasePlan charged  Miss W that amount.
She complained to LeasePlan  and it agreed to reduce the charges for the damage to the 
near side quarter panel  to £67 and the offside  rear door to £21and  to waive  the charges for 
damage to the near side front alloy rim and the offside rear door. So it reduced  the total 
charge to £667 and credited £411 to Miss Ws account. But she wasnt satisfied  with its 
response so complained to this service.
The adjudicator didnt recommend that this complaint should  be upheld.  She said that 
LeasePlan had operated within the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association  
guidelines and its own guidelines. She said that it had reduced the total amount due by £411 
and she thought that the outstanding charges were fair and reasonable. And she couldnt  
say that it had made an error by passing the outstanding debt to a debt collection agency.  
Miss Ws mother  on her behalf - has asked for this complaint to be considered by an 
ombudsman. She says that she disagrees with the adjudicators assessment and shes 
referred to an e-mail from the dealer which says that the charges: seem excessive and in 
some places unfounded. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss W signed  the hire agreement, which included LeasePlans terms and conditions,  in 
September 2014. The terms  and conditions say:
 
When we collect or otherwise take possession of the Vehicle it must be in a safe 
condition and in good and substantial  repair  (Fair Wear and Tear excepted, having 
regard only to its age and mileage). A Vehicle Collection Report  will be completed 
and you will be required to agree any apparent  damage and sign the Vehicle 
Collection Report. A detailed inspection will take place prior to our selling the
Vehicle; and:
If we decide for any reason  not to undertake any such repair  or replacement, we 
shall be entitled to claim from you, as damages for failure to keep the Vehicle in good  
repair and condition, a sum equivalent to the estimated  cost of such  repair  or 
replacement.
Ref: DRN51650482The agreement ended and the car was collected from Miss W by a third party on behalf  of 
LeasePlan. The inspection report recorded  the cars mileage  as being 24,013 miles and 
included a photo showing the mileage. The report identified the following damage to the car 
and estimated repair costs:
Scratched front bumper £150
Scratched nearside quarter panel £143
Gouged nearside  front alloy rim £70
Scratched nearside front door £143
Scratched nearside rear door £143
Scratched offside  quarter panel £143
Scratched offside  front door £143
Scratched offside  rear door £143
Estimated repair cost total £1,078
And it included photos  of that damage. The report shows that Miss W refused to sign it. 
LeasePlan charged Miss W £1,078  so she complained to it. It agreed to waive  the charges 
for damage  to the nearside  front alloy rim and the offside front door and to reduce  the 
charges for damage to the nearside quarter  panel to £67 and the offside rear door to £21. So 
it credited £411  to her account  which left £667  payable by her for the damage.  
Ive looked at the inspection report, including the photos, and I consider that the damage for 
which LeasePlan is now charging  Miss W is more than would reasonably  be considered to 
be fair wear  and tear in accordance with the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association 
guidelines on fair wear  and tear. Im not persuaded that theres  enough evidence to show  
that the estimated repair costs are excessive  or unfounded and I consider that, under the 
terms and conditions of the hire agreement,  Miss W agreed that she would pay for any 
damage which wasnt fair wear and tear  even if the car was sold at auction by LeasePlan 
and not repaired. So I consider that its fair and reasonable  for LeasePlan to charge Miss W 
for that damage.
Miss W didnt sign the inspection report.  But theres no requirement  for an inspection  report 
to be signed by a customer and a note has been  included on the report that she refused to 
sign it. And Im not persuaded  that theres enough evidence to show that the inspection took 
longer than was reasonable.
LeasePlan has passed the debt owed by Miss W to a debt collection agency. But the 
account was put on hold and no enforcement  action  has been taken so the outstanding  
balance is £667.  Im not persuaded that it was unfair or unreasonable  for it to pass the debt 
to a debt collection  agency or that its acted  incorrectly in connection  with the recovery  of the 
debt.
So I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to require LeasePlan to waive  or reduce 
any more of the charges  or to take any other  action in response to Miss Ws complaint. 
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I dont uphold Miss Ws complaint.
Ref: DRN51650483Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 March 2020.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5165048