K820x#14complaint
Miss B complains  Advantage Insurance Company Limited undervalued her car after it was 
recorded as a total loss under her motor insurance policy.
background
Miss Bs car was recorded as a total loss after it was damaged  in a collision in August 2018. 
Advantage said it consulted three motor guides to find the pre-accident market  value for the 
car.  These showed  a range of values between £2,330 and £3,290   with an average value 
of £2,792. But its offer was based  on the uppermost value - £3,290.
Miss B says that the valuation of her car was too low because  it i a cabriolet and its value is 
subject to seasonal  fluctuations. Miss B considers her car a classic and in excellent condition 
but she thinks Advantages  valuation assumed it was only in a fair condition. She thinks 
Advantage should increase its offer to between £4,000 and £5,000.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought  
Advantages offer was fair and reasonable. He thought it had been arrived at following our 
usual approach of consulting  the motor-trade guides and Advantage had offered Miss B a 
fair value  for her car.
Miss B disagrees and has asked for her complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding this 
complaint. Ill explain  why.
I can understand that Miss B is disappointed with Advantages offer.  I see she thinks an 
assessment of the market value of her car should  allow for seasonal  fluctuations  and take 
more account  of its excellent  condition.  This is why she thinks Advantage should increase  its 
offer. 
The terms and conditions  of Miss Bs insurance  contract offered the pre-accident market  
valuation of her car in the case of total loss (less any policy excesses).  The investigator has 
explained this services approach to car valuations. We dont provide valuations for cars but 
look to see whether the insurers offer is within a reasonable range (given that this isnt an 
exact science). I know Miss B has said her car was a classic but her insurance  wasnt  a 
classic car policy   and this is important because insurers typically  require classic car 
policyholders to agree on a valuation when the policy is taken  out and dont rely on pre-
accident market  valuations.
In assessing whether  a reasonable offer has been  made, we compare valuations  from 
motor-trade guides.  These are used for valuing  second-hand  cars.  We find these guides to 
be particularly persuasive, largely  because their valuations  are based on nationwide  
research and actual  sales figures rather than, for example, advertised prices (which may be 
inflated for negotiation purposes). The guides  also take into account  regional variations. We 
also take all other available evidence into account,  for example, engineers reports.
Ref: DRN51099282Our investigator thought Advantages offer was fair and reasonable. Ive looked  at how he 
came to this conclusion. I can see that he consulted the trade guides, looking for cars of the 
same make, model, condition, specification and mileage as Miss Bs. And having done  the 
same, Ive seen they show a fair value for Miss Bs car would be between  £2,756  and 
£3,290. 
I know Miss B believes these valuations assume  the car was in a fair condition, not the 
excellent condition  she has shown through photos  of her car  and Advantages engineers 
did describe the condition  as fair. Ive looked carefully at the valuations and note that they 
were based  on the retail  transacted  value which assumes the price the car would have sold 
for at a reputable dealership just before it was damaged or stolen. No downward 
adjustments were  made to reflect the cars  condition. Indeed,  the £3,290 valuation included  
a £540 upward adjustment to reflect the cars lower than average mileage.
I accept that cabriolet editions do tend to achieve higher sale prices at the onset of the 
summer months. But under the terms of Miss Bs policy, if her car is written off, Advantage 
would pay out its market value just before it was written  off  in this case, as at August  2018. 
So I dont  think the potential to achieve  higher  sale price earlier  in the summer  season  
means Miss Bs car was undervalued.
Based on the guides, Advantage valued the car at £3,290, the uppermost  value produced  by 
the guides. Ive checked  and verified the estimates  the guides  produced.  In all the 
circumstances, I think  Advantage has made a fair offer to settle Miss Bs claim.
With all of the above in mind,  Im not persuaded  Advantage needs to do anything more  here.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 March  2019.
Stefan Riedel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5109928