K820x#14Complaint
Mr Q complains that Nationwide  Building Society  closed his account and recorded a CIFAS 
marker against his name. He says this meant  he couldnt work because  he couldnt  open a 
bank account.  CIFAS  is one of the UKs fraud alert services.
Background
Nationwide closed Mr Qs account in May 2018 following a fraudulent credit. Nationwide 
allowed him to open  another  account,  but shortly  afterwards  closed  it and told Mr Q he could 
no longer bank with it.
Mr Q said he struggled  to open an account  elsewhere and complained. Nationwide stood by 
its decision to close his account. But, during its complaint investigation, Nationwide  decided  
that it had wrongly  recorded a CIFAS marker  against Mr Q. It apologised, arranged  to 
remove the marker, and paid Mr Q £250 compensation.
Our investigator thought Nationwide had done  enough to put things right. But she invited 
Mr Q to provide more evidence to show how the marker had impacted on him.
Mr Q provided  some  further information regarding the fraudulent credit.  And he summarised  
that his complaint was about:
The fact that the marker was on his file for over 12 months.
He phoned Nationwide on numerous occasions, but it didnt identify that it had made a 
mistake until he complained.
The way his account was closed. And the way Nationwide  allowed him to open  another  
account, but then closed it.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The decision  to close Mr Qs account
Nationwide wrote to Mr Q on 1 May 2018 to tell him that, following a review of the activity on 
his account, it had closed it. This was in line with the account terms and conditions  which  
say:
We may close your account immediately if:
a)you have knowingly used, or attempted to use, your account for illegal purposes; 
. You will be given notification of closure  in writing, and closure will take immediate 
effect.
From the information Nationwide  has provided, I can see that it had a number of concerns 
about the operation of the account. And that it had received information  from a third party 
which would have led it to conclude that some  transactions on the account  may have been 
fraudulent. I think it had enough information to close the account without notice.
Ref: DRN53481772The CIFAS marker
Nationwide recorded  a CIFAS marker  against  Mr Q in May 2018. During its investigation of 
Mr Qs complaint, it decided this had been  a mistake. It removed  the marker. I accept its 
quite possible that the marker  stopped Mr Q from opening an account with another  bank. But 
hes not provided evidence to show this was the only reason he couldnt  open an account.  
Hes not told us how many applications  he made or which  banks he tried.  And whilst I accept 
it would  be difficult for him to continue with his self employment without a bank account, 
there are some providers  who will accept applications from individuals  with a CIFAS  marker.
I find that the CIFAS  marker will have had some  impact  and I think this is fairly reflected  in 
the £250 compensation already paid by Nationwide.
I can see some confusion  was caused  because Nationwide  allowed Mr Q to open  another 
account. But it had told him that his application  might initially be accepted  and then the 
account could  be closed after a credit check had taken place. And this is what happened. 
I dont find Nationwide  did anything wrong  here, so this doesnt make a difference to my 
conclusion.
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr Q to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 March  2020.
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN5348177