K821x#15complaint
Ms C has complained about her home insurer  Zurich Insurance PLC in relation to a claim 
she made to it after water  came in through her roof.
background
In July 2017 Ms C suffered a water ingress  at her home. Zurich said the roof damage wasnt 
covered  it had suffered wear  and tear. But Zurich said that once Mrs C had the roof fixed it 
would repair the internal  damage that had occurred.
Mrs C called Zurich on 10 November 2017 and advised the roof was fixed. Zurich said it 
would send another surveyor out and Ms C asked why this was necessary. Zurich  agreed it 
could just send  its contractor out to scope the reinstatement work.  The contractor told Zurich 
it was going out to assess on 17 November,  Zurich diarised a follow  up for three-months 
time and in late November the contractor confirmed the price for the work.
Work began in January  2018. On 23 March  2018  the contractor reported to Zurich that work 
was complete. In April Ms C called  Zurich, she said the work wasnt  finished and shed told 
the contractor so on 19 March. She identified issues with the wrong paint having been used 
on the cornicing and untidy wallpapering.  Zurich asked the contractor what  was happening.  
The contractor said the paint Ms C had chosen  had been out of stock so it had selected  the 
same colour in another  brand. It said Ms Cs choice of paint  was now available so it would 
re-paint the cornicing using that. Regarding the wallpaper it said Ms C had selected a 
product of poor quality and that was why the joins were visible in places  it wasnt down to 
any poor work by it. Regardless though the contractor said it would try and improve the 
finish. Zurich noted Ms C hadnt complained  previously during the work so felt it could 
assume the contractor  was correct. Also noting  the contractor was attempting  to rectify  the 
problems it determined to just monitor the situation.  
In May Ms C raised a formal complaint to Zurich.  Zurich issued a final response in 
June 2018. It accepted  there had been  delays in handling the claim and offered £150  
compensation. Regarding the paint  it said an alternate  colour  had been  used  when the first 
choice was out of stock,  but the issue had since been rectified. Regarding the paper  it said it 
felt the quality of the product was the problem,  nevertheless it would pay for a different paper 
to be fitted. Ms C asked  it to pay the £150 compensation. She then made  a complaint to us.
Our investigator noted the claim had begun in November 2017 but the snagging  issues  were 
still unresolved by the point the final response was issued in June 2018. He felt the claim 
had taken far too long and Zurich could  have ensured it had progressed in a more timely 
manner if it had been more proactive in its management of it. He felt there  likely  had been  
poor work too. He said Zurich should pay an additional £250 compensation.
Ms C was happy with the outcome. Zurich said it disagreed. Zurich particularly noted  that 
Ms C had accepted  its original offer of £150  compensation  so it didnt think it was fair for this 
to now be reviewed and increased. It said it had checked and its contractors had been in the 
trade for 10 and 30 years respectively so that showed they hadnt  carried  out poor work.
Our investigator pointed  out that if the paper had been of such poor quality, using it in the 
first place wasnt indicative  of carrying out good work. Zurich  was unhappy at what  it viewed 
as a change of reasoning from our investigator. Zurich also argued that the contractor had 
Ref: DRN56520292tried to do the right thing  with the paint  by choosing an alternate product and by re-doing the 
work when  Ms C said she wasnt satisfied. 
Zurich noted our investigator had referred to activity that had occurred after it had issued its 
final response. Hed later clarified the reference  to that hadnt affected his decision. Zurich 
said if Ms C was unhappy about  what  had happened  after 5 June 2018,  the date of its final 
response, it would  consider that as a new complaint, if she wanted to make one. Zurich 
asked for an ombudsmans decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Im minded to find along 
the same  lines as our investigator.
I think this was a relatively simple  claim  or should  have been,  had it been  handled properly  
from the outset. Ms C did ask for another surveyors visit when she called in November  but 
Zurich as the insurance experts could, during that call, have managed the situation, told 
Ms C that wasnt needed but it would get a contractor out instead. That would have saved a 
few days, as it was five days  before  Ms C got a letter from the surveyors  and she realised 
what she has asked for wasnt really what she had needed. She told Zurich  she was 
surprised to note it seemed  the claim hadnt progressed.  
The claim then seems  to have stalled over Christmas.  It isnt clear to me why this is. 
I understand contractors  are sometimes booked  but as an insurer  Zurich has access  to 
more than one contractor and this work doesnt  seem to have been  particularly  time 
consuming (or shouldnt  have been) or complex.  And I havent seen that Ms C requested  a 
delay or pause  for the festive season.  But I note Zurich had determined not to follow up with 
the contactor  or Ms C until well into the New Year.  That isnt indicative of good claims 
management.
There was a further delay in February/March. Zurich  has told us that the contractors  couldnt  
get to Ms C for a number  of weeks due to bad weather.  Given Ms Cs location I think that 
this might well have  been a reasonable delay. But as the work should have reasonably 
begun before Christmas,  in my view, it should  also really  have  completed  before this delay 
due to bad weather occurred. 
The contractors also told Zurich work was completed when this was, at best,  not quite the 
whole truth. The work had been  finished   but there  were clearly snagging issues  which 
involved a complaint about poor work.
I appreciate it can be difficult if material choices prove to be out of stock  and/or difficult  to get 
hold of. But I havent seen that when the contractor  encountered  this problem here and 
found an alternative product this choice was checked with Ms C or that a patch test was 
done. Assuming  a paint is a suitably  matching  alternative and forging ahead with the work  
carries risks and isnt, in my view, fair to the homeowner/policyholder. The contractor 
rectified the issue  but that doesnt make up for the frustration and inconvenience its initial  
error caused.
It isnt clear to me at all that the wallpaper  Ms C selected was of poor quality. Knowing how 
long the contractors have been  in the trade doesnt  evidence they did good  work on this 
occasion. Or that their word about  the cause of the problem should  be found to be 
Ref: DRN56520293persuasive. And, as noted by our investigator, experienced  contractors carrying out good 
work could  reasonably be expected to have noted  the paper was of poor quality (if it was) 
and drawn this to Ms Cs attention before trying  to use it. Zurich also didnt opt to send 
anyone independent out to view the work,  and has been satisfied to take its contractors 
word on the issue. I can understand it doing that  but the result  is I dont find Zurich has 
presented suitable  or sufficiently persuasive evidence  to make me think  it is most likely right 
about the problem with the work completed  at Ms Cs home.  
In its final response Zurich offered, as a goodwill gesture  to put up different paper for Ms C. 
I think thats reasonable, but before its offer was made the contractor tried three  times to 
improve the finish. I think Zurich should have acted  sooner and avoided the second and third 
attempts at improvement  work  they alone caused Ms C inconvenience. And I have to say, 
if the paper  was really of such poor quality that it could  never  have been hung  satisfactorily  
in the first place, it doesnt seem likely that anything  much could be done  to improve  the 
finish once up. 
I note Zurich is unhappy about  Ms C having  accepted its compensation offer and then 
complaining to us. But there is nothing wrong  in her doing that. There is nothing preventing 
Ms C, in the final response  letter, from accepting the goodwill gesture (Zurichs wording) of 
£150 and still complaining  to this service. And there was no good reason why Ms C shouldnt 
benefit from having that money in her pocket whilst still making  a complaint to us. I trust if 
Ms C had told Zurich shed like the money but still intended to complain, Zurich would have 
said that was fine and paid the £150 compensation anyway as it was satisfied  it was due.
In short,  Ms C having accepted Zurichs  compensation offer doesnt  prevent her from 
complaining to us or from me deciding what fair and reasonable compensation is in the 
circumstances. Having  considered everything, I dont think £150  compensation was fair and 
reasonable. I think a total of £400 is. As Ms C has already received £150, Zurich  will only 
now need to pay a further £250.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  I require Zurich Insurance PLC to pay Ms C a further £250 
compensation (£400 in total but £150 has already  been paid).
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 January 2020.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5652029