K821x#15complaint
Mr M complains that Studio Retail Limited  (SR) is requiring him to pay for a damaged item 
of furniture it told him to dispose of.
background
Mr M says he ordered a table from SR in October 2018. He says it arrived  with parts missing 
that made it unusable.  And he says he spoke  to one of SRs advisors who told him he was 
authorised to dispose of the table  and that the cost of it would be credited to his account.
SR says, having reviewed  its phone calls with Mr M, its found no mention of any of its 
advisors authorising  him to dispose of the table.
SR also says it paid Mr M a total of £50 compensation for service issues he experienced in 
the handling of his account.
Our adjudicator thought Mr Ms complaint should be upheld. He said SR should refund  the 
cost of the table  to Mr Ms account,  along  with any charges and interest  hed incurred in 
respect of it. And it should remove any adverse entries it had added to his credit file in 
respect of the matter.  
SR disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. It said any calls received from customers are 
logged on their accounts. It said its provided a recording  of every call with Mr M its been  
able to from October 2018, apart  from the call on 16 October, when he first placed the order 
for the table. And it says there was no mention of it advising Mr M to dispose of the table in 
any of the calls.
So, the matters  been referred  to me to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to uphold Mr Ms complaint and Ill explain why.
I note SRs  comments about the call recordings  its given us containing no reference  to any 
of its advisors authorising  Mr M to dispose  of the table. I also note it acknowledges there 
was a call between the parties on 16 October  2018  of which its been unable to provide a 
recording.
Its clear the call Ive referred  to wouldnt have contained any reference to Mr M being 
authorised to dispose of the table  in any event, as this was when he first placed  the order  for 
it.
But Mr Ms been very clear and consistent in his account of what  he says he was told by SR 
when he reported  receiving a table with missing parts that made it unusable. And its difficult  
to understand  why he wouldve disposed  of the table  without having been authorised to take 
this action by SR.
Ref: DRN52751712Im also mindful that SRs acknowledged  there was a call between the parties on 16 October  
2018 of which its been unable to give us a recording. And I think this fact lends weight  to   
Mr Ms clear  recollection that there  was a further call later that month, after hed received the 
table, in which SR authorised him to dispose  of it.
So, taking everything  Ive seen into account,  Im satisfied on the balance of probabilities that 
this is whats most  likely to have happened. In these  circumstances I think  its fair for me to 
require SR to refund the cost of the table to Mr Ms account, along with any charges and 
interest hes incurred  in respect of it. And to remove any adverse entries  its added  to his 
credit file in respect  of this matter.     
SRs acknowledged there were service issues in its handling of Mr Ms account  and its paid 
him a total of £50 compensation. I think this fairly reflects the distress and inconvenience   
Mr M experienced and I dont think it would be reasonable for me to require SR to pay him 
any more compensation,  in the circumstances.  
So, I uphold  Mr Ms complaint on this basis.
my final decision
I uphold Mr Ms complaint against Studio  Retail Limited. It must  refund the cost of the table 
to his account, along with any charges and interest hes incurred in respect  of it. And it must  
remove any adverse entries its added  to Mr Ms credit file in respect of this matter. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 July 2019.
Robert Collinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5275171