K820x#14complaint
E, a company,  complains that GPUK LLP returned  two card payments of £265 and £610 to 
the cardholders bank. GPUK LLP trades  as Global Payments and E is represented by its 
director, Mr K. 
background
At the end of July 2018 E made two sales at one of its branches. The customer paid using  a 
bank card. Global  Payments provides  merchant  card services to E, and credited its account.  
Towards the end of October, however the cardholder  whose card had been used to make  
the payments  contacted the card issuer to say they hadnt made  the payments; they were 
fraudulent. The card issuer contacted Global Payments for more  information about the 
payments. Global Payments in turn contacted E seeking proof that the genuine cardholder 
had made  or authorised the payments. 
Global Payments says it didnt receive the proof that it needed, and so was unable  to 
demonstrate to the card issuer that the payments had in fact been made by the cardholder. 
Mr K says that he didnt  find out about the request until December 2018, and contacted 
Global Payments then to request the return of the payments. Global Payments said that E 
hadnt provided the information it needed,  and that it was by then too late to submit it. The 
card scheme rules  under which the cardholders claim  was being processed  required 
that evidence  to be provided  within  45 days. 
Mr K, on behalf of E, complained to this service, where  one of our investigators considered 
the complaint.  She concluded  however that the payments hadnt been made using the cards 
chip and PIN and so were  treated as if the card hadnt been present at all. The terms of the 
merchant agreement between E and Global  Payments  meant  that E would bear liability if the 
payments were not properly authorised by the cardholder. She didnt recommend that Global  
Payments return the payments  to Es account. 
Mr K didnt accept the investigators opinion and asked that an ombudsman review  the case.     
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, however, Ive come to 
broadly the same conclusions as the investigator did, and for similar reasons. 
Its important to understand first of all what actually happened when the payments were 
made. The staff member of E who served  the customer in July 2018 has said that the 
payments were processed  in the usual manner; she handed the card reader to the customer 
who entered his PIN and handed the terminal back. 
The transaction records, however, indicate that the transaction wasnt processed  in the 
normal way. Usually, the electronic chip embedded in the card would be read by the card 
terminal; this indicates that the genuine  card is present. But the transaction  records here 
indicate that the cards details were entered manually; the chip wasnt  read.  The transaction 
was therefore  processed  similarly to a card not present transaction  as it would  have been  
if the sale had been made  online or over the phone. 
The customer didnt have  the genuine  card; or, if they did, they didnt use it in the normal 
way. They  clearly did have the genuine cards details though. Its possible too that they,  
Ref: DRN53478842rather than the staff member, keyed  in those details manually; they might have done that 
without the staff member  realising that was happening. Its likely that the customer had a 
card, because the staff member recalls  that. It wasnt however the card that the customer  
then used to make the payment. Further, if the actual cardholder  still had the genuine card, 
they wouldnt have  known that their card details had been copied and were  being  used; the 
card would not have  been  reported  as lost or stolen.  
It appears that the card issuer authorised the payment. That doesnt  however mean  that the 
payment was genuine. It indicated only that the card hadnt been reported  as lost or stolen 
and that funds were  available  to make the payment.     
In summary,  its unlikely that Es customer was the genuine cardholder or that they were 
using the genuine card. They were committing fraud using the genuine cards details. I must 
therefore consider  whether E should bear the loss resulting from that fraud. 
The Terms of Service agreed between E and Global Payments set out their relationship. 
Amongst other things, E agreed to follow  the Merchant Operating Instructions. Those 
instructions set out how a merchant such as E should process transactions  in different 
scenarios. In respect of key entered transactions (which this was),  those instructions 
included: 
Key-entered Transactions: When the cardholder is present,  and the electronic 
terminal cannot read the card via the chip or magnetic  stripe, then you may key-enter  
the details into your terminal. You must  still seek online  authorisation. 
    
To prove the card was present, always take an imprint of the card using your manual 
imprinter, complete the voucher  in full and obtain the cardholders  signature  on the 
paper voucher. This is in addition to key-entering the card details into the electronic 
terminal. 

Note: While  taking  an imprint of the card will help minimise your risk of financial 
loss, if a chip and PIN card is accepted  using  this method and the transaction 
turns out to be fraudulent, youll  be liable for a chargeback and financial loss 
to your business. In this scenario, you may wish to ask for an alternative 
method of payment.    
As Ive indicated, its possible the staff member didnt realise the payments had been key-
entered; she may have been  distracted by the customer or accomplices. Im satisfied 
however that the evidence shows that the payments were processed  in that way and that E 
should therefore have taken an imprint of the card. That would have shown whether or not 
the embossed details  on the card (16-digit number,  name and expiry date) matched those 
entered manually. But even then the operating instructions made clear that E wouldnt be 
protected if in fact the payments were fraudulent  as they were.   
In my view, the operating instructions said clearly that E would bear the loss for any fraud 
committed in the manner Ive explained  here.  It is of course unfortunate that any of the 
parties involved  the cardholder,  the card issuer,  Global  Payments  or E  should lose out. 
The effect of Es agreement with Global Payments was however that E should do so. I would 
observe that, however clever  the fraudsters may have been, E was best placed  to identify 
what was happening,  since  it dealt with them and processed the fraudulent payments. 
Ref: DRN53478843Mr K has been clear in his belief that the merchant terms mean that E cannot be held liable 
unless it has acted  fraudulently. Im afraid  though that those terms are very much wider  than 
that. They also set out who bears the loss when someone else acts fraudulently. 
There was also, in the course of our investigation,  some discussion about when E became 
aware of the dispute. However, I dont  believe that is significant  here.  E wasnt able to show 
that the genuine cardholder had made  or authorised the payments and would never  have 
been able to do so. 
E and Mr K have my sympathy;  theyve been  the victim of what  appears to have been  a 
clever fraud. But, for the reasons Ive explained,  it wouldnt be fair to make Global Payments 
cover the loss E has suffered.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont require GPUK  LLP to do anything more  to resolve Es 
complaint. Under  the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask E 
(through Mr K) to accept  or reject  my decision before 1 March 2020.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5347884