K822xComplaint
Miss L complains that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited  (VFS) imposed unfair 
charges when she returned her lease car.
Background 
In autumn Miss L terminated her lease agreement with VFS and it arranged for the car to be 
collected. It was inspected on collection by the agent and again when taken to the storage 
facility. A number of areas of damage were noted.  VFS imposed a charge of £1,315.37.
VFS rejected Miss Ls complaint, but agreed  not to charge for one area of damage. Miss L 
brought the matter to this service where  it was considered by one our adjudicators  who 
thought it should be upheld in part. Miss L said she had only driven the car for some  8,000  
miles despite having an annual allowance of 10,000  miles. She didnt believe the car was in 
as damaged a state as had been  claimed.  
Our adjudicator reviewed  the photographic evidence of each of the 13 areas  of damage.  He 
said that a couple of the photographs were  not sufficiently clear  so he felt VFS should forgo 
the charges for these.  He thought the damage to the right front wheel, left front door,  front 
bumper and right front door wasnt chargeable. This totalled £348  plus VAT. VFS agreed, 
but Miss L asked that her complaint be considered by an ombudsman.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under the agreement  Miss L took out she is responsible for any damage  to the car which  
went beyond fair wear and tear. VFS, like most  other companies use the British Vehicle 
Rental and Leasing  (BVRLA) guidelines.  These set out what  is deemed to be fair wear and 
tear.
Bearing these  in mind  I have reviewed the photographs and I find myself in agreement with 
our adjudicator. There are some  significant  scratches and dents which  have resulted in the 
sizable charge. While there might  be damage beyond fair wear  and tear on the four areas 
identified by our adjudicator I dont think the evidence is sufficiently clear. Therefore,  I dont  
consider it reasonable or fair to allow VFS to charge for these.
I appreciate Miss L made less use of the car than she had agreed,  but the agreement 
doesnt allow for her to have a refund or a reduction in the charges for reduced usage.  
These have been  made in line with the terms and conditions and I believe VFS is entitled to 
charge for the undisputed  items. 
Ref: DRN55879712My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and I direct Volkswagen Financial 
Services (UK) Limited to reduce the sum charged  by £348 plus VAT. Under the rules  of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Miss L to accept or reject my decision 
before 27 April 2020.
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN5587971