K820x#14complaint
Mrs D complains about delays when she asked Barclays Bank UK PLC to remove her ex 
partner from the mortgage  account. Due to the delays  she had to sell assets,  resulting in a 
tax charge and other losses, to repay the mortgage.  Mrs D asks that Barclays provides the 
mortgage she wants and pays  compensation for her stress and financial loss.
background
Mrs D had a joint interest  only mortgage with her ex partner. She agreed with her ex partner 
that she would take responsibility for the mortgage.  Otherwise, she wanted the mortgage to 
continue on the same terms. 
Mrs D says she needed the sole mortgage in place by mid March 2018. She says Barclays  
delays meant this didnt  happen in time. Mrs D says she had to sell assets, resulting in a tax 
liability of about  £30,000, to repay the mortgage. She had to take time off work and incurred 
legal fees. Mrs D says Barclays tried to make  her take out a capital and interest repayment 
mortgage against her wishes  and was generally unhelpful. She says Barclays  should  have  
allowed her to keep  the existing  mortgage   which was portable  in her sole name.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She said Mrs Ds 
mortgage application didnt formally begin  until 23 February 2018. This was when Barclays  
received confirmation  that the joint mortgage  holder was happy for the mortgage  to be repaid 
and his interest to be removed from the property title. The investigator said it wasnt wrong  
for Barclays to recommend a capital and interest repayment mortgage  as Mrs D didnt  meet 
its criteria for an interest only mortgage.  The investigator said Barclays wasnt aware  that 
Mrs D had to repay the joint mortgage by 13 March 2018 until early March.  There  wasnt  
enough time for Barclays to complete the new mortgage before Mrs D repaid the joint 
mortgage on 11 March  2018.
Mrs D didnt agree. She said Barclays didnt  assess her income fairly or take into account  
the assets available to repay the mortgage or her excellent credit rating. Mrs D asks that 
Barclays provides information about the risk profile  of its mortgages as compared  to her own 
risk profile, which she says is low. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely  to have happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances. 
what happened?
As part of Mrs Ds settlement with her ex partner she had to remove his name from the joint 
mortgage account and the property title. This was set out in a court  order.  Mrs D asked 
Barclays to change the names  on the mortgage account  from joint names to her sole name. 
She says shed been paying the mortgage  for some time and it was affordable. She says 
there was no reason  for Barclays  not to agree to her request.
Ref: DRN50596552While the mortgage  account was in joint names,  Mrs D and her ex partner  were  jointly  and 
severally liable for the debt. They were both responsible for maintaining payments and 
Barclays could ask either of them to repay the debt. So removing one of the borrowers  is 
potentially a significant change. 
Barclays had to check that the remaining  borrower   Mrs D  could afford  the monthly 
payments and to repay the loan.  Its entitled to consider  how removing one of the borrowers  
from the mortgage account  would affect its own risk and whether this met its lending criteria.
Barclays says Mrs D didnt meet its lending criteria for an interest only mortgage.  Mrs D 
disputes this and says she was able to get an in-principle  agreement  to lend from Barclays 
through a comparison  website.  But Ive read Barclays criteria and, based on the available 
information about Mrs Ds circumstances, she didnt meet the criteria for an interest  only 
mortgage in her sole name. Barclays mortgage adviser recommended Mrs D apply for a 
capital and interest repayment mortgage. I dont think  this was unreasonable. 
Mrs D sent a copy of an email confirming an appointment with Barclays in September 2017. 
The court order  approving  the transfer  of the property and mortgage was issued in mid 
January 2018  and referred to evidence  and submissions received  by the court  in November  
2017 and January 2018. Mrs Ds ex partner signed  consent to be removed from the 
mortgage and property title in early  February 2018. While Mrs D didnt say what  was 
discussed in September 2017,  I think its unlikely her application could have started  at that 
time. 
Mrs D met Barclays mortgage adviser  on 24 January  2018.  An application was completed  
on 8 February 2018 to remove  Mrs Ds ex partner from the account  and convert the 
mortgage from interest only to a repayment  mortgage. It seems the application didnt  
progress as Barclays needed written consent from Mrs Ds ex partner to be removed from 
the mortgage account and the property title. Barclays  says it received these consents on 23 
February. Mrs D says she sent it the consents on 10 February 2018. 
Mrs D appealed the decision to allow her to continue on an interest  only basis on 28 
February 2018. Her appeal was allowed on 5 March 2018. 
A new application for the mortgage  to be transferred into Mrs Ds sole name was made on 
6 March 2018. Barclays said it needed a valuation of the property  it seems this was all that 
was outstanding by 9 March 2018. 
Mrs D says a valuation  wasnt  necessary as Barclays already had a loan secured on the 
property. Mrs D says Barclays  should  have relied  on the valuation of the property carried  out 
for her settlement with her ex partner. But the change Mrs D requested   removing one of 
the account holders  changed Barclays  risk. Barclays says it hadnt  had a valuation of the 
property since it took over the mortgage  in 2014. It says the application didnt meet  criteria  
for a physical valuation  to be waived. I think Barclays  was entitled to instruct a valuer  to act 
on its behalf, to value the property and help it assess Mrs Ds application.  I dont think it 
acted unreasonably in asking for this.
Mrs D says Barclays should have  asked for a valuation  sooner. But it asked for the valuation 
only a few days after her application was submitted. Barclays notes say it tried to expedite  
the valuation so it had the report by 13 March 2018, but Mrs Ds work commitments meant 
she was unable to be at home so that the surveyor could visit the property. 
Ref: DRN50596553Mrs D repaid the joint mortgage on 11 March  2018. 
what should happen now?
Mrs D says her mortgage was portable and she had the right to require it to be transferred to 
her. I dont  agree. I think Barclays was entitled to decide whether to transfer the mortgage 
into Mrs Ds sole name.  In making  this decision, I think  it was reasonable for Barclays  to 
follow its processes and consider whether the request  met its lending criteria. 
It seems  likely there was a delay in progressing the first application (to remove  Mrs Ds ex 
partner and convert to a repayment mortgage) due to the mortgage adviser being away 
when the consents from Mrs Ds ex partner arrived. But Mrs D didnt continue  with this 
application, so I dont think this delay affected the outcome. 
On 28 February 2018, Mrs D appealed the decision to allow  her to continue on an interest 
only basis after the account was transferred to her sole name. From that point, I dont think  
there were any delays by Barclays.  Barclays notes  suggest it expected to be able to issue  a 
mortgage offer by 13 March 2018  subject  to a satisfactory valuation. 
Mrs D had time pressures due to the court order. But Barclays wasnt  responsible for the 
deadlines in the court order. I dont think,  overall,  Barclays acted unreasonably. I dont think 
its reasonable to say that Barclays was responsible for Mrs D selling assets  to repay  the 
mortgage to ensure she met her obligations  under the court order.
It follows that I dont think its reasonable to require Barclays  to re-instate the mortgage  or 
pay compensation to Mrs D. Barclays offered £50 compensation for not contacting  Mrs D 
when it said it would.  I leave it to Mrs D to decide whether to accept this.
I dont think its reasonable to require Barclays to provide Mrs D with information comparing 
her risk profile  with its other mortgages. It made  decisions about Mrs Ds application based 
on its processes and lending criteria in place at the time.
my final decision 
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 April 2019.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5059655