K821x#15complaint
Mrs and Mr M complain, through a claims management company (CMC) that the 
Guaranteed Capital  Account (GCA)  they were advised to invest  in by HSBC UK Bank Plc 
was unsuitable.  In particular the CMC has raised the following issues:
The adviser didnt  assess  the level of risk Mrs and Mr M were willing to take 
accurately and the level of risk of the GCA didnt match their appetite.
Mrs M had lost her husband and been forced to sell the joint business  and this 
change of circumstances hadnt been taken into account.
They had minimal pension provision in place  and this should  have been given greater 
consideration.
They didnt need an investment over the specified term.
background
Mrs and Mr M were  advised to invest £140,000 in the GCA in 2005  for a term of six years. 
The money invested was split with 50% providing  interest at 1% above Bank of England 
(BoE) Base  rate (the Income Fifty) and the other  50% paying  returns based  on growth in the 
FTSE 100 index (the Capital Growth  Fifty).  
Mrs and Mr M received a total of £2,381 from the Income Fifty and withdrew a lump  sum of 
£30,000 before closing  this part of the investment in December 2006 when they received 
£40,253. On maturity they received  a further  £70,157 from the Capital Growth  Fifty.
I issued a provisional decision, a copy of which is attached and forms part of this final 
decision, upholding the complaint.
In short  I made the following findings:
I thought Mrs and Mr M should only have  been  advised to invest £70,000  of their 
capital.
Given they initially withdrew £30,000  from the Income Fifty and then the balance 
within 12 months investing I didnt think they wanted  to invest  £140,000 for six years.
I wasnt satisfied they understood the product.
If they were only investing £70,000  they didnt need  a product such  as the GCA as 
they wouldnt have  needed an income  from their investment.
I wasnt satisfied they understood the real risk of no return  on the Capital Growth 
Fifty.
It was reasonably clear they wanted  a product with no real risk of capital loss but 
potential for better returns than an ordinary deposit account.
A fixed rate bond would have been  a suitable recommendation and redress should 
be calculated accordingly.
I gave both parties the opportunity of responding and providing further information. The CMC 
said Mrs and Mr M agreed  with my provisional decision. HSBC  said it had no further  
information.
my findings
Given no new evidence or information  has been provided I have no reason to depart form 
the findings in my provisional decision.  Im not satisfied the GCA was a suitable 
Ref: DRN52698062recommendation and I think  Mrs and Mr M were  advised to invest  too much of their money  
and should only have invested £70,000  of their available capital of £140,000.
What HSBC should do to put things  right
Given the adviser was an independent financial adviser he could recommend products from 
the whole  market. Having considered Moneyfacts for October  and November 2005  there  
were fixed  rate bonds available through various  providers that wouldve provided a fixed 
return of xxxx over the term of investment. So HSBC should  compare  what  Mrs and Mr M 
got back from the Capital Growth Fifty part of the GCA at maturity  with what  they wouldve 
got back if invested in a fixed rate bond  providing a return  of xxxx and pay the difference  to 
Mrs and Mr M.
In addition it should pay simple interest  at 8% a year on that amount from the date of 
maturity to the date of settlement. 
I have considered whether any account  needs  to be taken of the £70,000 invested in the 
Income Fifty part of the GCA. Mrs and Mr M benefitted from the interest  rate provided by the 
GCA of 1% over BoE Base Rate for the period this money remained invested.  But given the 
relatively short period  this was invested  for and the uncertainty  as to exactly  what  they 
wouldve done with this money if it hadnt been  invested at the end of 2005, I dont think it is 
unreasonable to leave  this out of any redress  calculation.
my decision
For the reasons  I have  explained above and in my provisional decision I uphold  this 
complaint. HSBC UK Bank Plc has to calculate  the redress payable to Mrs and Mr M as set 
out above and pay this to them.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  29 April 2019.
Philip Gibbons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN52698063COPY  PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mrs and Mr M complain,  through a claims management company (CMC), that the Guaranteed Capital 
Account (GCA) they were advised to invest in by HSBC UK Bank Plc was unsuitable. In particular  the 
CMC has raised the following issues:
The adviser  didnt assess the level of risk Mrs and Mr M were willing to take accurately and 
the level of risk of the GCA didnt  match their appetite.
Mrs M had lost her husband and been forced to sell the joint business and this change  of 
circumstances hadnt been  taken  into account.
They  had minimal pension  provision  in place and this should have  been given  greater 
consideration.
They  didnt need an investment over the specified term.
background
Mrs and Mr M were  advised to invest  £140,000 in the GCA in 2005 for a term of six years. The money  
invested was split with 50% providing interest at 1% above Bank of England (BoE) Base rate (the 
Income Fifty) and the other 50% paying  returns based on growth in the FTSE 100 index (the Capital 
Growth Fifty).  
Mrs and Mr M received  a total of £2,381 from the Income Fifty and withdrew a lump sum of £30,000 
before closing  this part of the investment  in December 2006 when they received  £40,253. On maturity 
they received a further £70,157 from the Capital  Growth Fifty.
HSBC didnt  uphold the complaint. It said the GCA was suitable for customers  with the requirements  
and risk profile that it was recorded  Mrs and Mr M had.
One of our investigators considered the complaint  and thought  it should be upheld.  In short  she said 
the following:
On the face of it the GCA  appears to be suitable  for Mrs and Mr M.
Where HSBCs advice fell short was with regard to diversification.
Of their available capital of £213,000 they invested £140,000 in the GCA  with £70,000  of that 
in the Capital Growth Fifty.
The Capital Growth  Fifty was linked to the FTSE 100 index so there was a clear risk they 
would get nothing back on this after six years.
In light of this she cant say the GCA was wholly suitable.
HSBC should pay redress  calculated  on the basis that only £35,000 was invested in the 
Capital Growth  Fifty. It should calculated  the return on the other £35,000 over the same term 
as the investment using the average  rate for fixed rate bonds with 12 to 17 months maturity.
The CMC didnt agree  with the investigator. It made the following key points:
The investigator appeared to agree with its submission  that the investment was over 
complicated and unsuitable  for inexperienced  investors but the proposed redress doesnt put 
them in the position  they wouldve been  in if the correct  advice had been given.
The investigator appears to agree that £70,000 was invested and £70,000 kept in deposit 
based savings. 
The income  part of the mis-sold investment was unnecessary  as Mrs and Mr M wouldve 
achieved growth in excess of BoE plus 1% as provided by the Income Fifty by leaving their 
money on deposit.
Ref: DRN52698064The redress  calculation should be based on £70,000 being invested,  not £35,000 and 
withdrawals should be ignored as these wouldnt have been needed as they wouldve had 
sufficient on deposit.
HSBC also didnt agree with the investigator and in short said the following:
The investigator had indicated  that the GCA appeared  suitable for Mrs and Mr M.
Where she felt where the advice fell short is regarding diversification which she noted  spread  
the risks by ensuring the money  invested isnt just invested in one thing which  could be 
subject to negative returns.
It is confused as to the methodology of redress as the average rate of fixed rate bonds with 
12 to 17 months maturity  also lacks diversification  and is contrary  to Mrs and Mr M being 
happy to invest for six years.
What Mrs and Mr M got from their investment  was what they wanted  capital  protection, no 
initial charges or management fees with the highest  level of regular income.
If they had kept the income part of the investment they wouldnt have been financially  
disadvantaged its just they chose to close  that part of the investment early.
As the parties havent agreed with the investigator the matter has been passed to me for review.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
HSBC has pointed  to things the CMC has raised which appear  inconsistent  with the information  in the 
documents. I note the reference to Mrs M having lost her husband and the adviser not having  taken 
account of this extreme change of circumstance. 
From what I have seen she wasnt married to Mr M at the time but there is reference to them getting 
married the following year. So I dont think there was anything  to indicate to the adviser any extreme  
change of circumstance. But regardless of inconsistencies in what the CMC has said it has raised the 
issue of suitability of the advice and this is something I have to consider. 
I also note the CMC has suggested that the investigator agreed with it that the GCA was over 
complicated and unsuitable  for inexperienced  investors. But the investigator actually thought the GCA  
was generally  suitable but that too much of Mrs and Mr Ms money was invested in the part of the 
investment that was linked to the FTSE  100 index.
Although the investigator has tried to put matters right I dont think the redress she has proposed  
actually works. If Mrs and Mr M had only put £35,000 in the Capital Growth  Fifty that wouldve meant 
they would have put £35,000   the other 50% - in the Income Fifty.  So they would  have invested 
£70,000 in total. This would have two effects.  Firstly  it wouldve reduced the income from the Income 
Fifty. 
Secondly it wouldve  left £70,000 that wasnt invested from the original investment amount of 
£140,000 - with a total of around £143,000 of their available capital then being held outside of any 
investment and in savings.
Given the reduction in income from the GCA and the amount available to them  outside of this which 
they could access to supplement  their income  if needed I can see no benefit  to investing £35,000 in 
the Income Fifty. So I think  the effect  of the investigators proposed redress actually leads  to the GCA  
being unsuitable in the first place.
I think  Mr and Mrs M should only have been advised to invest  £70,000 of their available capital 
anyway. Despite the fact find recording that Mrs and Mr M had personally  identified they wanted to 
Ref: DRN52698065invest a lump sum of £140,000  I am not persuaded that they did want to invest  this amount  for six 
years. 
They had withdrawn  what was left invested  in the Income Fifty around 12 months after starting the 
investment having taken  out £30,000  earlier. It seems to me, given what  they did, they didnt actually 
want to invest £140,000 for six years. Although the GCA allowed for withdrawal it was meant to be 
kept for six years. It seems  to me that Mrs and Mr M treated the Income  Fifty more as a savings 
account rather  than part of a six year investment. 
I note that HSBC has said that if Mrs and Mr M hadnt taken their money out of the Income Fifty they 
wouldnt have been financially disadvantaged. I think the fact they took the money  out shows they 
didnt fully understand the product they had invested in. 
In the circumstances Im not satisfied the adviser obtained the information he needed to properly  
understand what their needs were  at the time. I think it is more likely than not they were only ever in a 
position to invest £70,000 for the six year term of the GCA at the time they saw the adviser.
If the starting point had been an investment  of only £70,000 I dont think  they needed a product such  
as the GCA given I dont think they wouldve needed an income from their investment.
Im also not persuaded  that Mrs and Mr M will have understood the real risk of no return  on the 
Capital Growth  Fifty given their complete lack of investment experience. There  is nothing to show the 
adviser discussed  the realistic prospects  of achieving  returns  above that of deposit accounts  and it is 
of note that over the previous six years before their investment there had been no overall growth in 
the FTSE 100 index  because of the significant  falls between 2000 and the beginning of 2003.  It is also 
of note they were only entitled to 50% of any growth in the FTSE  100.
The risk profile questionnaire that was completed identified them  as lower/cautious  risk investors. But 
from the information in the risk questionnaire  and fact find I think it is reasonably clear that what they 
wanted was a product that provided no risk of capital  loss whilst potentially  being better than an 
ordinary deposit  account.
Given I dont think the GCA was suitable I have considered what  wouldve been a suitable 
recommendation and it seems to me a fixed rate bond wouldve  been suitable  and in line with their 
needs and the risk they were  willing  to take.
What HSBC should do to put things right
Given the adviser was an independent financial adviser he could recommend products from the whole  
market. HSBC should compare what Mrs and Mr M got back from the Capital  Growth  Fifty part of the 
GCA at maturity  with what  they wouldve got back if invested in a fixed rate bond.
They should use the average  rate for five year fixed  rate bonds available as of November 2005 based 
on the information in Moneyfacts for that month and year. I have calculated this at 4.57% and unless 
either provides evidence this isnt an appropriate rate to use that is what HSBC should use to 
calculate what  Mrs and Mr M would have received after five years.
Given Mrs and Mr M invested for six years  HSBC should then calculate what they would  have 
received if this money had been invested for a further year up to the date of maturity using the 
average rate from fixed  rate bonds with 12 to 17 months maturity and pay this to them.
In addition it should pay simple interest at 8% a year on what it calculates is due from the date of 
maturity to the date of settlement. 
I have considered whether  any account  needs to be taken of the £70,000 invested in the Income Fifty 
part of the GCA. Mrs and Mr M benefitted from the interest  rate provided by the GCA  of 1% over BoE 
Base Rate for the period this money remained invested. But given the relatively short  period this was 
Ref: DRN52698066invested for and the uncertainty as to exactly what  they wouldve done with this money  if it hadnt 
been invested  at the end of 2005 I dont think it is unreasonable to leave this out of any redress 
calculation.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  I have  explained I uphold this complaint. HSBC UK Bank Plc has to calculate  the 
redress payable to Mrs and Mr M as set out above and pay this to them. 
Philip Gibbons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5269806