K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs S are unhappy that U K Insurance Limited  (UKI) has rejected their buildings  
insurance claim and wont pay the cost to repair their damaged roof.
background
In the early hours  of 18 January 2018,  Mr and Mrs S flat roof was badly damaged.                 
Mr and Mr S said the damage was a result of a storm. On the same day, they contacted their 
insurer, UKI, to log a claim. On the advice of UKI, Mr and Mrs S arranged for a roofer  (roofer  
1) to secure their property to prevent any further damage.
On 22 January 2018, UKIs surveyor visited the property. By this time the roof had been 
covered with tarpaulin. So the surveyor looked at photos provided  by Mr and Mrs S to 
determine the cause of the damage. The surveyor concluded that the claim wouldnt be 
covered due to poor workmanship, noting:
its clear  by the colour of the timber and absence  of nails,  that the first layer of felt had 
not been bonded to the timber decking  board. In our considered opinion the dominant 
cause of damage to the flat roof is defective  workmanship.
Mr and Mrs S disputed  that the damage  was a result of poor workmanship. They  said the 
extension had been built in accordance with building regulations.  Mr and Mrs S provided 
information to UKI which they, and roofer 1, believe shows their roof was installed in line with 
the manufacturers guidance.
They also complained the surveyor had given  them  conflicting information about the weather 
conditions on the day by first saying  there  wasnt a storm and then that there was. And that 
the surveyor had initially said if there  was a storm, the claim would be covered. 
The repair works to Mr and Mrs Ss roof were completed by roofer 1 on 7 February 2018. 
UKIs loss adjuster  visited Mr and Mrs S property on 28 March  2018 and reached the same 
conclusion as the surveyor - that the damage  had been caused as a result of faulty 
workmanship. So UKI repudiated the claim. It said, while there  had been  a storm (as there 
were winds of 48mph), the storm had merely  highlighted the poor workmanship, but was not 
the main cause of the damage. It did however apologise for giving conflicting information  
about the weather conditions on the day in question and for delays in sending  reports to                             
Mr and Mrs S. To recognise  this it offered £150  compensation.  Mr and Mrs S remained 
unhappy, so brought their complaint to this service
Our investigator considered the complaint.  Having  done so she was satisfied that: there 
were storm  conditions on or around  the date the damage occurred; the damage was 
consistent with damage  a storm typically  causes; the storm conditions  were the main cause 
of the damage. 
She found the evidence of roofer 1  a roofing specialist with over 20 years  experience  in 
the industry and a member of the governments licenced competent  roofer scheme  - to be 
particularly persuasive.  And so she didnt agree that the roof had been improperly installed, 
or that the storm  conditions had merely highlighted poor workmanship. So she concluded the 
storm was the main cause  of the damage, and that UKI should pay the cost of repairing the 
roof.
Ref: DRN59192072UKI disagreed with the investigators opinion. Following this, it was agreed between  the 
parties that an independent  third party roofer  roofer 2 - would assess the damage to 
determine the main  cause  of it. Roofer  2 concluded  that winds of over 55mph might  cause 
such damage, but it didnt think winds of 48mph wouldve. It thought poor workmanship had 
exposed the roof to the elements, therefore creating a tunnel which  allowed winds to blow 
under the roof.
Having considered roofer 2s findings,  our investigator decided  the main  cause of damage 
was instead poor workmanship.  So she said UKI didnt need to cover the claim. 
Mr and Mrs S disagreed. They said roofer 2s report was not credible as it refers to a 
different address and so cant be taken into consideration. Because  Mr and Mrs S disagreed,  
the complaint  was passed to me for a decision. In my provision decision I said:
my provisional findings
UKI is entitled to decide what it will and wont cover  when providing insurance, and 
the terms and conditions of the policy will define  what these are. What I need to 
decide is whether  UKIs decision to decline Mr and Mrs S claim for storm damage  is 
in accordance with the policy terms and fair in the circumstances.  
When a consumer makes a claim, the onus is on them  to show that, on the balance  
of probabilities, an insured event caused  the damage. But, when an insurer wants  to 
apply an exclusion or say a condition has not been  met and so decline a claim, the 
onus is on it to show, on the balance of probabilities, that the exclusion or condition 
applies.
When looking at a complaint about  a declined claim relating  to storm damage, there 
are a number of things  I need to consider. Ill deal with each of these in turn
Its not in dispute  as to whether there  was a storm. UKI has accepted there were 
storm conditions as wind speeds reached 48mph on the day in question. And having  
checked weather  reports myself, Im satisfied  this data is accurate.
Next, I need to consider whether the damage is consistent with damage a storm 
typically causes. From looking  at the photographs,  I can see Mr and Mrs S felt roof 
had become detached from their property. And as our investigator  said, I too think  
this type of damage is consistent with damage  a storm typically  causes.
The contentious issue here is whether the storm conditions were the main cause of 
the damage. UKI say the storm simply highlighted the faulty workmanship and was 
therefore, not the main cause of the damage. Whereas Mr and Mrs S say the roof 
had been fitted in accordance with the manufacturers installation  guidance,  and that 
this was supported  by roofer 1s evidence.  
The policy sets out that cover  is not provided for faulty workmanship  so UKI are 
entitled to decline  a claim on this basis, provided  its proven on the balance of 
probabilities that faulty workmanship was the main  cause. So Ive considered the 
evidence provided  by both parties  to determine whether Im satisfied UKI has done 
this.  
Ref: DRN59192073When UKIs surveyor first visited the property,  it had already been covered with 
tarpaulin, so the surveyor had to base their opinion  on photographs.  And, when UKIs 
loss adjuster visited the property in March 2018,  the damaged had been fully 
repaired. The loss adjuster says in their report that they werent able to validate  the 
damage fully as a result.  
By contrast,  roofer 1 visited the property shortly after the damage occurred and was 
able to see first-hand  the extent of it. Im therefore  satisfied,  that roofer  1 was in a 
better position to determine what caused  the damage.
I also note that the loss adjusters report incorrectly refers to the damage having 
occurred on 17 January 2018,  rather than the 18 January 2018. The loss adjusters 
conclusion  that the type of damage  sustained wouldnt have been caused by minor 
winds  was based on wind speeds from 17 January,  not 18 January. 
Furthermore, the report refers to the flat roof from the garage having been  damaged  
but it was instead the roof of Mr and Mrs S dormer  extension that was affected. 
These inaccuracies cause  me to question the credibility of the report and in turn the 
loss adjusters conclusion that faulty  workmanship was the main cause. 
Ive considered the evidence provided  by Mr and Mrs S and roofer 1. Having looked 
at the manufactures guidance  for installing Mr and Mrs S type of roof, I think  its 
more likely than not that it was laid correctly.  The guidance says the product is 
loose-laid and then secured during application of the subsequent torch applied 
underlay. And this is how roofer 1 said Mr and Mrs S roof had been laid. 
The manufacturers guidance differs to the position  UKI has taken  namely that the 
roof had been laid incorrectly because  there  was an absence of nails [and] the first 
layer of felt had not been bonded  to the timber  decking boards. Roofer 1 has also 
explained that it hasnt been  industry  practice to use nails to secure Mr and Mrs S 
type of roof for a number of years. 
I note that roofer 1 has many years  experience  in the industry and is a member  of 
the governments competent  roofer scheme. Registration with this scheme  is not 
automatic. Contractors must satisfy certain criteria  in order  to qualify,  and they are 
subject to random  inspections to ensure their work meets with building regulations.  
So Im satisfied, that roofer 1s opinion is credible.
Mr and Mrs S were  provided with a Final  Certificate to confirm the extension had 
been built in accordance with building regulations. The certificate  relates to the works 
outlined in the initial notice which states - loft conversion with side and rear dormers, 
and single rear extension. So Im satisfied the certificate covers the installation  of the 
roof. 
Having originally upheld  Mr and Mrs S complaint, our investigator changed her 
opinion after receiving  roofer  2s report.  Ive looked at this report  and having  done  so, 
Im not persuaded it supports UKIs  position that the main cause of damage was 
faulty workmanship. 
Ref: DRN59192074I say this because  first, the address named  on the report isnt that of Mr and Mrs S 
property. So I cant be confident that the content actually refers to their property, and 
even if it had the correct  address, Im not persuaded by the content of the report. I 
say this because  roofer 2 doesnt  provide any detail about why they believe the roof 
to have been incorrectly installed  instead  the report simply says the roof was not 
installed correctly and one would suggest  certain elements were not encapsulated  as 
per the recommended  installation procedure.  This isnt enough to satisfy me that the 
roof had been improperly installed when it was built.
Theres also ambiguity  about whether winds of 48 mph couldve caused  the damage 
as roofer 2 says its questionable.  This suggests that its therefore, not impossible 
for winds of 48mph to be the main  cause of such damage. 
Of particular note is that roofer 2s report was produced after looking at photographs 
of Mr and Mrs S property, so the findings arent based on a visit to the property  
which  contrasts with roofer 1, who had made their findings after visiting  Mr and Mrs 
Ss property  shortly after the damage occurred.
So having  carefully considered the above  I think its more likely  that the main cause 
of damage to Mr and Mrs S roof was storm conditions,  and not faulty workmanship. 
So, Im currently minded to uphold  this complaint and say UKI should accept the 
claim.
my provisional decision
My provisional decision is that I uphold  this complaint. U K Insurance  Limited must:
pay the cost of repairing the damage to Mr and Mrs S roof.
add 8% simple interest  to any cash payment it makes in settling the claim. 
This should be calculated from the date the damaged occurred to the date 
payment is made.
if its not already  done so, U K Insurance Limited must pay £150  
compensation. It must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on 
which we tell it Mr and Mrs S accepts my final decision. If it pays later than 
this it must also pay interest  on the compensation from the date of my final 
decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
Both parties  responded to my provisional decision. UKI said roofer 2 had made  a mistake in 
adding the incorrect  address to its report, but that it confirmed the content of the report 
related to Mr and Mrs S property. UKI added  that it thought it was reasonable for roofer 2 to 
base its report on photographs rather  than visiting Mr and Mrs S property as the roof had 
already been repaired.
Mr and Mrs S agreed with my provisional findings but wanted assurance that the internal 
repair works would be covered  by UKI. Mr and Mrs S explained that UKIs surveyors  report 
was written after the tarpaulin had been  laid, but prior to the permanent roof being repaired  
and that in the intervening  period there had been  several days of heavy rain which had 
caused additional water  damage. 
Ref: DRN59192075Mr and Mrs S also provided invoices to evidence the costs  theyd incurred in having their 
roof, boiler flue and gutter  repaired.  They also confirmed  that UKI had paid them £150 
compensation. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Having done so, I remain of the opinion that the damage to Mr and Mrs S roof was caused 
by storm conditions and not faulty workmanship. 
UKI has said roofer 2s report does relates to Mr and Mrs S property even though  the 
address is incorrect. Ive thought about this but remain unpersuaded  by the content of the 
report. As I said in my provisional decision, roofer 2 hasnt substantiated their claim that the 
roof was laid improperly as theres  no detail  explaining how roofer  2 reached their opinion.  
Rather the report says certain elements were not encapsulated as per the recommended  
installation procedure.  So even if the address were  correct,  Im not persuaded that the 
report shows that the damage  was more likely caused as a result of poor workmanship 
rather than a storm.
Mr and Mrs S have  confirmed that UKI has already compensated  them  £150. So Im 
satisfied UKI dont need to do anything else in respect of this. 
Mr and Mrs S want me to assure them that the internal repairs work to their property  will be 
covered by UKI. Theyve said theres  been additional water damage since  the surveyors 
report and theyre concerned UKI wont fully cover  the damage.   
Ive seen that UKI had previously agreed to cover the internal repairs. So I would expect  it to 
deal with this part of Mr and Mrs S claim in line with the policy  terms and conditions.  If Mr 
and Mrs S have any concerns about  how UKI deal with this element of their claim, they 
would need to raise  a new complaint with UKI. 
Ref: DRN59192076my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. U K Insurance Limited  must:
pay the cost of repairing the damage to Mr and Mrs S roof subject to Mr and Mrs S 
providing evidence  of the costs  theyve incurred.
add 8% simple interest  to any cash payment it makes in settling the claim. This 
should be calculated  from the date the damaged occurred to the date payment is 
made.
deal with the internal damage  part of the claim in line with the policy  terms and 
conditions.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  20 July 2019.  
Nicola Beakhust
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5919207