K821x#15complaint
Mr P is unhappy that esure Insurance Limited have failed to carry out effective repairs 
following his home  insurance claim for storm damage to his bay window, dating back to 
2013.
background
In 2013 Mr P reported a claim for storm damage. Water was leaking through his front bay 
window following heavy  rain. esure  sent out loss adjusters who inspected  the damage. As a 
result esure agreed to pay for the internal damage  to the building and contents, but said that 
it wasnt liable to repair the external damage. This was because  it decided that the damage  
was more likely to be wear and tear. Mr P referred a complaint  about it to this service  and as 
a result,  in September 2014, the matter was passed  back to esure,  who instructed its 
contractors to carry out external repairs.
From what  I understand about the repairs, although  the evidence  is a bit patchy about  what 
was done, the following work was carried out:
renewal of the lintels to the bay window.
repairs and refitting  of lead work and flashings.
partial rebuilding  of the masonry work above  the bay.
renewal of the felt to the eaves of the main  roof.
Mr P says the contractors  also removed  and reinstalled the upstairs window above the bay 
window, but the contractors have  said that wasnt done. After  the repairs were carried  out 
there was some cracking  identified which the loss adjusters thought might relate to 
subsidence. Theres an indication that the matter was referred to the subsidence team at 
esure, but I have no information what the result  of that was. Sometime in 2015 Mr P moved 
his policy  to a new provider.
Mr P says the original  leak reappeared in winter  2015. He says the contractors came back  
and did some more work after this but the leak has persisted and he maintains that the issue  
wasnt resolved by the repairs carried  out by esure.
In January 2018 esure arranged to carry out a flood  report which  said that the bay window, 
and the repairs  done by the contractors were  watertight. But, the report  noted, there were 
cracks in the masonry which appeared to have been filled with mastic in part which  may 
account for the water still coming in. But esure  said it wasnt responsible  for the leak as its 
repairs had been  carried out properly.
Mr P had a surveyor look at the window in October 2018. He reported back that the ingress 
of water was likely to be from the upstairs  window/cill area. He said it was likely that the 
newly set masonry and cill bearing  upon the new lintels had settled to a very minor degree  
causing minor cracking of the mortar  joints above. He also identified  that there was a crack 
to the large pennant stone facing block left of the cill, which may have been there at the time 
of the repairs.
The issue  was put to esure. But its contractors  denied that they removed  or reinstated  the 
upstairs window. Mr P insists that they did and says with regard to the cracked block, when 
esures inspector  poured water into it, the leak appeared in exactly the same place as 
before. There is no detail of this in the report however.
Ref: DRN51624742On referral to this service  our investigator  thought that esure  had acted reasonably. She said 
she didn't think the window  had been removed by the contractors so esure wasnt  liable for 
its repair or replacement. She also thought that there wasnt any evidence  linking the storm 
damage of 2013  to the window so on that point esure wasnt liable  either.
Mr P replied  that he was going to get the window resealed any way, but reiterated that esure 
hadnt done what it was contracted to do in 2014  that is, to repair the bay window and thus 
prevent the water  coming  in. He pointed out that the water  appears to come in from the 
same place as it did in 2013,  so esure  cant have  satisfactorily completed the work it had 
agreed to do.
I issued a provisional decision. In it I said that esure had failed in my view to show that it had 
carried out an effective  repair. I said it should reinspect the bay window and as necessary  
carry out work to prevent  any further  water ingress,  including completing subsidence 
investigations if these  havent been done  already.
Mr P accepted my provisional decision. He advised  that esure had carried  out an 
investigation and had found no evidence of subsidence.
While not accepting my provisional  decision esure confirmed it had no further comments to 
make.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The following  were my provisional findings:
Mr P has made what seems to me, a very good point. If esure carried  out work, following a 
decision by this service, to the bay window, I would expect that work to be fully effective,  and 
not start letting in water again after less than a year. There doesnt appear to have been any 
action taken by Mr P, at least from winter  2015  until January 2018. But I have seen the loss 
adjusters notes from 2014. The note says:
I visited  this claim yesterday  (30/09/14).  Please find attached photographs, they show  that 
the stonework  between  the bay and the first floor window is bulging  and that cracks in the 
joints follow from the outsides of the bay to the centre of the first floor sill. We think  this could  
be subsidence and the ingress  is not the lead but water getting in the open  joints  and getting 
behind the lead flashing. We think this should  be investigated as what  is scheduled  will not 
be effective. Her own builder has attended and could not find anything  wrong  with the lead.
There is a further note dated 17 October 2014 which  says:
We pointed out as well as the P/Hs  own builder  that there is nothing wrong with the lead 
and that the cracking needs  investigation.
Im unclear  as to exactly  what  happened then. It appears that the work  to the bay window I 
outlined in the background above took place in about December 2014. The file notes then 
indicate that the cracking was referred to the subsidence team. I dont  know  what the result  
of that investigation was, but it would appear that the file was closed in September 2015 and 
Ref: DRN51624743no action was taken.  Im not aware that Mr P was informed of the result of any such 
investigation.
The subsequent flood report by esure, of January 2018 and the report from Mr Ps surveyor,  
of October  2018 dont  to my mind  categorically state  that the leak was from the upstairs  
window. esures report  surmises that the ingress  of water may very well be from the cracked 
masonry. And Mr Ps surveyor as well as recommending that the window  be investigated 
more closely suggested that the cracks  might  be minor settlement. He also advised  that 
further investigations be carried out to establish if the crack in the block  was there before 
esure did the repairs.
As regards  removal of the window, esure  says this was taken out of the original scope of 
works, and the contractors deny having replaced it. Unfortunately the only scope of works 
I have seen dates  back to February 2013  and concerns  only the internal works agreed to at 
the time.  However  unfortunately  I dont think its going to be possible to say now that esure 
must do any work to the window because, with no other evidence of what  work was done,  
its Mr Ps word  against the contractors that the window was taken out. I understand that 
Mr P is going to have  the window resealed by a double glazing expert.
However I dont think that esure has shown it has carried out an effective repair.  I know there 
was a long gap between what appears  to have been work carried  out in late 2015 and esure  
carrying out a flood test in 2018.  But I dont think this detracts  from the fact of the issues 
raised in October  2014 by esures loss adjuster. In particular a concern was raised  that the 
schedule of external  works might not be effective if the cracks werent addressed. It looks  
like the work  went ahead without addressing the cracks, but if there was a subsequent 
investigation as to what may have caused  those cracks, I havent  seen any details of it.
The subsequent flood report concentrated on the works to the roof and in particular the lead 
flashing and lead sheeting. But that report and Mr Ps surveyors  report  have confirmed 
those areas  appear  to be watertight. Indeed  it appears that before the repairs it was thought 
that the lead didnt need attention. Mr Ps surveyor seems to assume the cracks are due to 
settlement of esures repairs,  but it would appear  that those cracks were  present before the 
work was carried out. Although he does refer to the crack  in the pennant  stone block which  
Mr P believes to be the source of the water  ingress.
I understand that Mr P did ask his present  insurer about the damage, but they referred him 
back to esure as it was understood  that if it related to the original work esure should deal 
with it. Work  was done to the masonry by esure so I think that it has failed  to carry out an 
effective repair. I think esure should now reinspect the bay window and as necessary carry 
out work  to prevent  any further water ingress,  including completing subsidence 
investigations if these  havent been done  already.
I know the matter has been  outstanding for some time. I cant find that esure is entirely  
responsible for that. Nevertheless I do think  it should have considered earlier  whether it had 
carried out an effective  repair  in light of the continued water ingress. I think  it should  pay 
£100 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
As neither party has made any substantive comments  on my provisional findings,  those  
findings are now final and form part of this final decision. Im pleased  to note that esures 
Ref: DRN51624744investigations found no evidence of subsidence, which should make any repairs  much  
easier.
my final decision
I uphold the complaint and require esure Insurance Limited to:
reinspect Mr Ps bay window area and then carry out all necessary work to prevent 
further water ingress.
pay £100 compensation
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 September 2020.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5162474