K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain  that Lloyds Bank PLC did not make them aware a daily transfer  limit 
applied to their account. They also complain that Mr B wasnt notified  in good time when a 
transfer he made from their account  was blocked by the bank.
background
I sent my provisional decision to both parties on 1 February 2019.  A copy of this is attached 
and forms part of this final decision. In my provisional decision I set out why I thought  this 
complaint should  be partially upheld and what Lloyds needed to do to put things right.
Both parties  have been given time to consider my provisional decision and respond with any 
comments or further evidence they would like me to consider. Mr and Mrs B have  responded 
and said that they accept  my decision. Lloyds  havent responded with any comments.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Having done this, and in the absence of any new information from either  of the parties, I see 
no reason to depart from my provisional decision.  Im therefore upholding this complaint in 
part for the same reasons I set out in my provisional  decision. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part, and require Lloyds Bank  PLC to pay 
£75 compensation  to Mr and Mrs B for the trouble and upset caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  22 April 2019.
Jenette Lynch
ombudsman
Ref: DRN51411152copy of provisional decision
complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that Lloyds Bank PLC did not make them aware a daily transfer limit applied 
to their account. They also complain that Mr B wasnt notified in good time when a transfer he made  
from their account was blocked by the bank.
background
Mr and Mrs B brought four complaints to this service about Lloyds. Two of these complaints were  
resolved with our adjudicator, with the remaining issues being referred  to me. Ill refer to these as the 
first transfer  and the second transfer.
the first transfer
In March 2018  Mr B tried to transfer £43,000 from his savings account to his current  account  using 
Lloyds telephone banking service. He was told there is a £25,000 daily limit on telephone transfers.
As he couldnt make  a transfer for the full amount  over the phone  he transferred  £25,000 that day and 
£18,000 the next morning.  
Mr and Mrs B complain that they didnt know about  this daily limit before. Theyre unhappy it wasnt 
included in the terms and conditions for their account.
Our adjudicator didnt think the bank had acted unreasonably by applying this transfer limit, or by not 
putting it in the terms and conditions.  Mr and Mrs B disagree.  They dont think  the bank did enough to 
tell them about it. So it has been passed to me to review.
the second transfer
At 09:13 on 16 March  2018 Mr B transferred £18,000 from their savings account  to their joint current 
account. He then posted  a cheque  from their current account  to another bank.   
At 18:23 the next day he received  a text message from Lloyds asking  him to contact them about  a 
recent payment request. When he called they told him that his transfer had been blocked  and the 
money returned to his savings  account.  
Lloyds arranged to transfer the £18,000 to their current account so that Mr Bs cheque  would clear. 
But Mr and Mrs B remain unhappy that it took them so long to tell them  the transfer had been 
stopped.  
Our adjudicator didnt think the bank had acted unreasonably. But Mr B and Mrs B still feel they 
should have been told sooner. So it has been passed to me to review.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of these complaints. Whilst I dont think Lloyds have managed Mr and Mrs Bs 
transfers incorrectly, I do think they should pay them £75 compensation in respect of their actions with 
the first transfer.  Ill explain why.
Ref: DRN51411153the first transfer
Lloyds have made a commercial decision  to apply a £25,000 daily limit to transfers made using its 
telephone banking services.  Theyve explained  to us why they took this decision.  And they confirmed 
that this limit applies  to telephone  transfers to other parties,  and between  a customers own accounts.
Theyve told us that customers  can make  larger  transfers between  their accounts  in branch and 
online. So I dont think the bank have acted unfairly  by applying this telephone limit. I appreciate that 
Mr and Mrs B dont use online banking, and going  to a branch is not as convenient  as making  a 
telephone call for them.  But I have to consider that it was still possible for them  to make a payment of 
£43,000 in one transaction that day, even if it was less convenient for them  to do so in the way Lloyds 
required.
Mr and Mrs B are frustrated that this telephone limit isnt in the terms and conditions for their account. 
They say they thought they could make  transfers  of up to £1,000,000 between  their accounts, 
including over the telephone. Lloyds have confirmed  that they dont publish the £25,000 limit in their 
terms and conditions.  Theyve  explained  to our service  why this is the case, and Im happy the 
explanation theyve given  is reasonable.
Mr and Mrs B want  to know how they could  have  been  aware of the limit before trying to make the 
transfer if its not in the terms and conditions. Lloyds  told us their website explains that a £25,000  limit 
applies to transfers to other parties. Theyve also told us why they decided  not to publish that it 
applies to transfers between a customers own accounts.  And again I think their explanation is 
reasonable.
Lloyds is entitled,  as a business, to make decisions like this. So when they applied this limit here, it 
was in line with their processes, which means they acted  correctly. Im satisfied Mr B was notified of 
the limit when he called to try and make his transfer. But to ensure  Mr and Mrs B were  treated  fairly I 
wouldve expected  Lloyds to tell Mr B how else he couldve made  the payments he wanted to.
Lloyds have not provided any evidence that they did this. So Im not satisfied Mr B would have known 
what other options were  available for him to make the transfer  he wanted. I also note that if he had 
made his payment in one transfer  by another method  he may not have experienced the same delays 
he did with his second transfer. So I think Lloyds should recognise this with £75 compensation for the 
trouble and upset caused.
the second transfer
Lloyds stopped Mr Bs transfer because they had security concerns and wanted to check  he had 
authorised the transaction. I think  it was reasonable  that they had these concerns. It was a large 
amount of money, and two significant transfers had been made in two days. 
Lloyds suggested to us that they tried to contact  Mr B the day he made  the transfer to tell him it had 
been stopped. However the records they have provided  only show that he was sent a text message  
about an outstanding complaint that day. The next record of contact is the text message  Mr B 
received at 18:23 the following day asking him to contact  them about  his payment. So I think it did 
take them  over 33 hours to try and notify him that it had been stopped.
Lloyds personal banking terms and conditions advise that they will try to contact a customer as soon 
as they can if they refuse to act on an instruction because they suspect  fraud. They say that this will 
be before the time any payment should have reached the bank or building  society  it was being  sent 
to. They advise that transfers normally  go through within  2 hours, but that they can take up until the 
end of the next working day (9:59pm) after the payment is sent.  
Ref: DRN51411154Whilst I appreciate  Mr and Mrs B feel that 33 hours is a long time,  it was within Lloyds  advised 
timescale for making contact. I understand Mr B was upset his transfer had been blocked because  he 
had already written  a cheque from the account he had directed it to. However when he spoke to 
Lloyds they resolved  the problem for him quickly,  completing the transfer as required. And Mr B did 
not have any issues with his cheque  being processed. I dont think the time it took Lloyds to contact 
Mr B was unreasonable.  Its not for this organisation to suggest Lloyds  should change their service  
standards and Im satisfied theyve treated  Mr and Mrs B fairly here.
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that I intend to partially  uphold this complaint against Lloyds  Bank PLC for 
the reasons I have explained above, and ask them to pay £75 compensation  to Mr and Mrs B for the 
trouble and upset caused.
Jenette Lynch
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5141115