K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that Barclays Bank UK Plc has put a marker on a national fraud prevention  
agency to say he misused his bank account  before  it was closed. He is now having difficulty  
in opening a new bank account. Mr B wants Barclays to remove  the marker.
background
Dates and times are quite  important  in this case. Everything I refer to happened in 2016, 
unless otherwise stated.
The details of whats believed  to have happened  are well known to both Mr B and Barclays.  
So I dont  need  to repeat  them in any great  length  here. I hope both parties will accept what 
follows as a brief summary.
Barclays closed Mr Bs bank account  in May.  It did so because the bank thought  hed either 
misused it himself or allowed somebody  else to do so. A fraudulent credit had been  paid into 
Mr Bs account in April.  All the money  had been  withdrawn almost  immediately afterwards  
and a further transaction took the account overdrawn.
The bank put a marker on a national fraud prevention agency  (FPA)  so that other banks and 
financial businesses would be aware  of its concerns about how Mr B had used his account.
Mr B only realised something was wrong  when he tried to open a new bank account. He 
says when Barclays closed his account;  the bank hadnt told him what the problems were. 
When he got in touch with Barclays again in September 2018, the bank said it wasnt  able to 
remove any markers as these reflected its regulatory obligations.
As Mr B wasnt happy with Barclays response he contacted us. One of our investigators 
looked into things  for Mr B. But the investigator didnt think  Barclays needed to remove the 
marker itd recorded  with the FPA.
In coming to this conclusion the investigator had thought about the criteria banks should 
consider before recording a marker with the FPA. He was satisfied Barclays had done so  
and the marker  was appropriate.
The investigator also looked into the transactions in April. These were cash withdrawals  at 
an ATM  and buying fuel at a service station. The investigator was satisfied these had either  
been carried out by Mr B or by somebody  else with his agreement.  This supported  Barclays  
decision to record the marker with the FPA.
Barclays records showed that Mr B had accessed his online banking  throughout the time the 
activity was taking  place. So the investigator thought Mr B would have spotted  what was 
going on. But Mr B said all he was doing was checking his balance   to see what he could 
spend  rather  than looking at particular transactions.
And when  looking  into what  had happened over these transactions,  the investigator had 
considered the requirements of the Payment Service Regulations 2009 (the PSRs)  as 
these set out the circumstances  when a bank can normally hold a customer  responsible  for 
spending on their account.
Ref: DRN56222462Mr B said he thought he might have  lost his debit card at the time. He was sure hed 
contacted the bank   hed been on the phone for an hour. Barclays  didnt have any record of 
Mr B doing  so. But the investigator said that even if Mr B had lost his card, it wouldnt explain 
how somebody would have known his PIN in order to withdraw the cash  or buy the fuel.
Mr B didnt agree with the investigator. So his complaint  has been passed to an ombudsman  
to review and issue a final decision on.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see Mr B feels quite  strongly about whats happened here. Thats  clear  from what  hes 
said to both us and Barclays. And thats not surprising.  Hes now having  difficulty in opening 
a new bank account. So hes bound to be concerned.
But Im afraid I have to tell Mr B that I agree  with the investigator. I dont think Barclays 
should remove the marker it recorded with the FPA.  Indeed, theres not a great  deal I can 
add to what the investigators  already  said to Mr B. I think he set out the position  clearly and 
thoroughly.
Having said that, its important I reassure Mr B that Ive considered  his complaint afresh. So 
Ill set out why Ive reached the same  conclusion at the investigator.
Before going into any detail, I should  say I think its quite possible Mr B may have trusted 
somebody  only for that trust to be abused. Hes adamant  he didnt pay the fraudulent credit 
into his account  or carry out the disputed  withdrawals and spending. If thats  the case, the 
most likely scenario is that somebody  persuaded Mr B to lend them his card and account 
information. Unfortunately this happens quite often with people  of Mr Bs age.
Mr B says he doesnt know anything about the fraudulent  credit  paid into his account  or the 
withdrawals and other spending  using his debit card. But the account  activity   including  use 
of Mr Bs online banking  doesnt really  support  that.
Ill first look at each of the criteria Barclays has be consider  (and meet)  in order to record  a 
marker with the FPA. And Ill then move onto the cash  withdrawals  and other spending  as 
this supports the banks actions. 
For Barclays to record  a marker with the FPA about  Mr B, it has to:
be sure there are reasonable  grounds  to believe that a fraud has been committed or 
attempted;
have enough evidence so that it could report whats  happened to the police (if 
necessary);
be sure Mr Bs account was misused   through  the paying in of a fraudulent credit;  and
have closed  his account because  of whats happened.
Im satisfied the actions  taken by Barclays meets the required tests  for all four criteria. 
Ref: DRN56222463are there reasonable grounds to believe a fraud has been committed or attempted?
Barclays says it was told (by another bank, where the money  came  from) the credit  on 20 
April was fraudulent. So Im satisfied it had reasonable grounds to believe a fraud had been 
committed or attempted.
is there enough evidence so Barclays could  report whats  happened to the police?
Its important to be clear here that Barclays isnt responsible for reporting the matter  to the 
police. The bank  simply has to be sure it has enough evidence  to do this if necessary.
The paying  in of a fraudulent credit and the immediate withdrawal of that money alone is 
probably enough to say that Barclays could report the matter  to the police if it chose to. 
I think its reasonable for Barclays to rely on information  received from another bank. Id 
expect any bank to act on information it gets concerning a possible  fraud.
In many respects, the loss suffered here is by the person  whose account  the fraudulent 
credit was taken from. So they are perhaps  the party most likely to report  matters to the 
police.
was Mr Bs account misused  through the paying in of a fraudulent credit?
The answer here seems  clear it was. The fraudulent credit was paid into Mr Bs account.
has Mr Bs account been closed because of whats happened?
Yes  Barclays has been clear it is the paying  in of the fraudulent credit and the subsequent 
actions on Mr Bs account that resulted  in it closing it.
the account activity
Mr Bs said he didnt  use his account very much. I think thats right  its what the activity on 
his statements suggests. There are a few credits, some cash  withdrawals at ATMs, (what 
look to be) online purchases and a direct debit.
But he logged onto his online banking  on a frequent basis. He says this was to see how 
much money he had to spend. That may be the case. But it does seem  odd that he didnt 
notice anything unusual  in terms of his account balance changing at the time of ATM 
withdrawals and other spending  he says he didnt make.
Mr B made a cash  withdrawal of £10 at an ATM  on 19 April.  That reduced his balance to just 
over £5. From my review of his previous account activity its hard to see that he might  then 
be expecting any form of credit himself. So it seems strange  he logged onto his online 
banking on 20 April  particularly late at night, soon after the second disputed cash 
withdrawal at an ATM had been  made.
The ATM withdrawals would need  Mr Bs genuine card and his PIN. Mr B says he thinks he 
lost his card in April.  But that doesnt  tie up with him making the cash withdrawal of £10 on 
19 April. He must have  had the card then.  He also says he reported the loss of his card to 
Barclays  he was on the phone for about an hour. The bank doesnt have a record  of this 
call or any other contact from Mr B about  this, which is unusual.  So Im not persuaded Mr B 
lost his card or contacted Barclays.
Ref: DRN56222464The same is true of the spending  at the service station. Mr B says there  isnt a service  
station for the supermarket chain in question close to him. But I can see there is one less 
than two miles from his home  address. Of course, it doesnt necessarily mean that was the 
service station involved. Unfortunately, Barclays records arent as good in this respect as Id 
like  but this adds to my concerns over Mr Bs version of events.
summary
As Ive set out above, Im satisfied Barclays has met the criteria that mean its done the right 
thing in recording a marker about Mr B with the FPA.
I could accept that Mr B didnt carry out the fraudulent credit  and disputed  withdrawals and 
spending himself.  But, then, I think the account activity points to Mr B allowing  somebody  
else to use his bank  card and account details. I realise thats  a difficult  message to give.  But 
its what the available evidence points to.
And, like the investigator, Ive considered the requirements of the PSRs and the guidance 
from the Financial Conduct Authority  in coming to my conclusion Barclays  hasnt done 
anything wrong.
I realise Mr B will be disappointed with my decision.  He might want  to take the matter further 
through other routes.  But my decision brings to an end what we, in trying to resolve  his 
dispute with Barclays  informally,  can do for him. Im sorry we cant help Mr B any more on 
this.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 February  2020.
Andrew Davies
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5622246