K821x#15complaint
Mrs K complains about HDI Global Specialty SEs settlement  of a subsidence claim, made 
under her buildings  insurance policy. 
background
In 2016, Mrs K made a claim after noticing  cracks in several rooms in her house. HDI 
arranged for a loss adjuster to carry out an inspection. 
The loss adjuster said there were some random cracks throughout the house, but he thought 
these were caused by normal  shrinkage  as the walls  had recently  been  plastered.  He said 
the main cause of damage was to the conservatory  and rear porch,  though he also noticed 
movement to the first-floor bedroom.  The loss adjuster  carried  out a period of monitoring. 
In May 2017, the loss adjuster found  that the cracks  had deteriorated. He therefore arranged  
for a full investigation  to take place,  including a drain survey  and excavations. The 
investigations confirmed  the presence  of clay soils, and so the loss adjuster recommended 
Mrs K remove nearby trees. 
After Mrs K had the nearby trees removed, the loss adjuster  revisited the property on two 
occasions and found the cracks had closed to varying degrees, so he was satisfied the 
subsidence had resolved.  He recommended  superstructure repairs to cracks in the 
bedroom, hall, stairs and landing,  as well as to external cracks. He said these repair  costs 
would be included in the settlement. However,  he thought the movement  to the conservatory 
and rear porch was due to historical  settlement, rather than subsidence. And whilst there 
were some gaps in the kitchen, he noted  the kitchen already required redecoration following 
a previous water leak and so didnt include the repair costs in the settlement. 
Mrs K was unhappy with the loss adjusters findings. She wanted  the damage  to the porch, 
conservatory and kitchen to be included in the settlement. She arranged  for an engineer to 
prepare another report. 
Mrs Ks engineer concluded the property had suffered major structural  movement due to 
subsidence. 
The further report didnt  alter HDIs view that the subsidence had been  dealt  with, and the 
repairs recommended  by its loss adjuster were reasonable. Mrs K therefore brought a 
complaint to this service.  
Our investigator recommended the complaint  be upheld. She thought the damage to the rear 
porch, conservatory, and kitchen had been likely caused by subsidence.  She recommended  
HDI settle the claim for the damage  to these areas, and also pay Mrs K £600  compensation 
for the delays caused by its refusal to accept her claim from the outset. 
HDI didnt agree with our investigators recommendations, so the matter has been passed to 
me to consider.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN51306352The policy provides cover for insured  perils,  including subsidence.  However, theres no cover  
for loss or damage resulting from normal settlement, shrinkage or expansion. 
The evidence from HDI is that the removal of the trees has resolved the ongoing 
subsidence. The remaining issue is what repairs ought to be included  in the settlement. 
Rear porch and conservatory
HDIs loss adjuster thought the movement  to the rear porch and conservatory had been 
caused by historical  settlement. He said the door in the porch had clearly  been cut to fit the 
existing distortions that were present when the door was added.  He also said the internal 
gaps in the conservatory walls were much  less than the external gaps  he thought that 
meant the internal cracking had been  filled in at some previous point, thereby confirming the 
longstanding nature  of the movement. 
I think the loss adjuster  makes some reasonable points. However, Mrs K has provided a 
copy of a homebuyers  report that was completed  when she purchased the property in 2007. 
This says There was no evidence of structural movement at the property. It also says The 
main walls are plumb and true and free from signs of structural movement or other major 
defects.
HDI says it accepts that the conservatory and rear porch have been affected by minor clay 
shrinkage, but it thinks the dominant  factor for the damage is settlement. It says the repairs 
needed to these structures are no different to what was required when the policy  was taken 
out in 2016 or even when  the property was purchased in 2007.
Mrs Ks engineer says it cant  be determined  when the movement first started.  And that if the 
property were in its current state when  the homebuyer report was completed, then it couldnt 
be said at the time that there were no structural defects. Hes also made  the point that the 
movement report showed there was further  movement to these structures  whilst  the cracks 
were being  monitored, and that this was reversed when the trees  were  removed. 
Im inclined  to agree with Mrs Ks engineer here.  HDIs loss adjuster categorised the damage 
to the rear porch and conservatory  as being severe. Although  he thought  this damage was 
due to historical settlement and that there  was unlikely  to have been any significant change 
to these structures since Mrs K purchased her property, the evidence from the homebuyers 
report doesnt support  this. 
Given the level of damage  to these structures,  I accept that the damage likely started before 
Mrs K took out her policy  with HDI in 2016. However, Mrs K has been insured  since  
purchasing her property,  and as there  has continued to be some movement after the policy 
was taken out, I think it would be reasonable for HDI to deal with the damage.
Kitchen
HDI has accepted  there  were some gaps in the kitchen which were potentially  due to 
subsidence. However, it says the kitchen needed  redecoration following a water  leak that 
occurred four years earlier,  so it didnt think the repairs  should  be included  in the settlement. 
Ref: DRN51306353Mrs K says the cracks  caused  by subsidence  are in a different part of her kitchen to where 
the leak took place. She explains there  was a lead pipe which  was leaking, and so she had 
the pipe changed. 
Given that HDI accepts  the cracks in the kitchen were likely  caused by subsidence, Im 
satisfied it should  repair this damage. Whilst a separate part of the kitchen may need 
redecoration due to the leaking pipe,  I cant see that would have any impact on HDIs liability  
to put right the crack  damage caused by the subsidence. 
Other points
There are other cracks throughout  the house.  However, HDIs loss adjuster said these were  
on recently plastered walls and ceilings, and were  consistent with normal  shrinkage which 
commonly occurs  when  old walls are re-skimmed. I havent seen evidence which contradicts 
the loss adjusters findings in this respect, so I think it was reasonable for HDI not to include 
these repairs as part of the settlement. 
Our investigator thought HDI should  pay Mrs K £600 compensation for the trouble and upset 
caused by its refusal to accept her claim for damage  to the rear porch,  conservatory  and 
kitchen. I disagree with this recommendation. I think it was reasonable for HDI to rely on its 
loss adjusters findings at the time, as it was only after Mrs K provided a copy of the 
homebuyers report that this cast doubt  on the loss adjusters  conclusions.  I understand 
Mrs K only managed to obtain a copy of this report after she brought her complaint  to this 
service. I therefore dont require HDI to pay Mrs K additional compensation, and weve  made 
Mrs K aware of this. 
my final decision
My final decision is that HDI Global Specialty SE should settle  the claim for the damage to 
the rear porch, conservatory and kitchen.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 March  2020.
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5130635