K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that HiFX Europe  Limited  delayed his money transfer and that the intended 
recipient didnt receive the funds.
background
On 18 July 2018 Mr S entered into an agreement  with HiFX to send £35,000 worth of 
Pakistan Rupees  to his family.  
On 20 July 2018 HiFX told Mr S the funds had been  sent and that he should  allow  4 working  
days for the payment to clear. It also told Mr S that it might need to ask him for more  
information in order to comply with anti money  laundering  regulations. 
HiFX contacted  Mr S later on 20 July 2018  and asked him to provide some further 
information about the payment. Mr S provided  the information and the funds were released. 
On 27 July 2018 Mr S contacted HiFX because the funds hadnt been received  by the 
recipient. HIFXs bank, on behalf  of the recipient bank, asked for further information about 
the payment.  This was provided to the recipient  bank on 30 July 2018.
Mr S was very unhappy  by this time. HiFX offered to recall  the money  but told Mr S it would 
have to be converted back  into GBP and that changes  in the exchange rate meant that he 
might not get £35,000 back.  Mr S refused and asked for a full refund.
HiFX said it wasnt responsible for the delay. It offered  Mr S £200  as a gesture of goodwill 
but he declined  and complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. He said HiFX had processed  Mr Ss transaction  
within a reasonable timescale  but couldnt  be held responsible for the actions  of other  banks.
Mr S didnt agree. He said that HiFX had breached its contract with him by taking longer than 
it said to send the money.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive weighted up the evidence I have about  which of the banks in the process is likely to 
have caused the delay  and Ive reached  the same overall conclusion as the investigator.
I appreciate what a worrying time this has been  for Mr S and I understand his concern that 
the money still hasnt  been received by his family. But just because theres a potential loss to 
Mr S doesnt  automatically  mean that HiFX is liable.
HiFX is bound by the Payment Services Regulations, but these regulations dont impose 
time limits on transactions where  the recipient is outside the European  Economic Area. 
Instead, I would expect HiFX to take steps to ensure  the payment arrives within a 
reasonable time. This includes  making sure that its own bank fulfils its side of the 
transaction. I think HiFX did this. It sent Mr Ss payment  on 20 July 2018 using the recipient 
details he provided.
Ref: DRN52046912When Mr S chased the payment on 27 July 2018, HiFX looked into things and found that 
further information had been requested  by the beneficiary bank. HiFX obtained this 
information from Mr S and provided it to the beneficiary bank  on 30 July 2018. It also 
provided Mr S with a certificate showing that the payment had been released by HiFXs 
bank.
Im satisfied that HiFX took steps to try and ensure that the payment  arrived within a 
reasonable time. I appreciate there  were delays  but on the available evidence,  these delays 
were not of HIFXs making.
Ive looked at HIFXs terms and conditions which applied to the payment which Mr S was 
making. These dont  give a guarantee that the payment will be completed within a particular 
time. Nor do I think  HiFX could have  given any such guarantee. In the section 
circumstances beyond  our control HIFX sets out examples of situations  for which  it wont 
be liable.  I think this is important because with a payment  of this nature theres always the 
possibility that (amongst other things) security checks might need to be carried  out due to 
local legislation. I this case, the recipient bank in Pakistan were  holding the payment due to 
internal compliance  regulations. This isnt something  which  HiFX has any control over so it 
wouldnt be fair to hold it responsible for the delay.
I appreciate that Mr S was told the expected  timescale  for the transfer was 4 working days. 
Mr S has said that because this timescale wasnt met theres  been  a breach of contract.  I 
dont agree. I think the indication of  timescale  amounts to guidance from HiFX which  in 
many cases  might be consistent with its experience of how long transfers  take to arrive. But I 
dont agree that it has the effect  of creating binding contractual obligations.
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont uphold the complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 August 2019.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5204691