K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains about National Westminster  Bank  Plc (NatWest) for withdrawing his credit  
card facility without giving him a reason. He also complains about the customer service  he 
received when he contacted the bank to discuss the closure of his accounts. Mr D wants  
NatWest to refund him all the interest  he has paid over more than 40 years as a customer.  
 
background
Mr D has been a customer  of NatWest for more than 40 years. 
He held a credit card with NatWest, with a credit  limit of nearly £20,000. 
On 25 April 2018 NatWest  wrote to him saying that, following a review, it had decided that it 
could no longer provide him with banking services. The letter set out that his banking  
services would be withdrawn 60 days from the date of the letter, on or after 25 June 
2018.The letter was sent by Royal Mail.  
Mr D did not receive the letter until 15 May 2018.  
On receiving the letter, Mr D called NatWest and was advised to go into a branch if he 
wanted to discuss  his account closure.  
Mr D went into his the branch and wanted to speak  with the manager.  No manager was 
available so he spoke  with a senior  member of staff.  He asked if the date for his account 
closure could be delayed and was advised that it could not. Mr D says that staff members  
were unprofessional and rude with him during this meeting. He asked  if he could make 
another appointment with the branch manager at a later date and was told that he could not. 
Mr D submitted a complaint to the business  and a final response  was sent to him. 
This rejected his complaint  and confirmed that his account closure could  not be delayed. It 
apologised for the issues  he had faced  in branch and explained that Mr D should not have 
been advised to go into branch as the staff in branch would not be able to do anything to 
delay the account closure.  NatWest apologised that Mr D had been told to attend  a branch 
and for the issues he faced there.  It credited his account with £20 to reflect  this. 
Mr D contacted NatWest in mid June 2018  and asked that it close his accounts earlier than 
the 25 June indicated in the letter. He advised that he intended to settle his credit  card 
shortly afterwards. 
Mr D settled his accounts and the closure  took place. 
Mr D then referred his complaint to us. 
One of our adjudicators has looked into Mr Ds complaint and set out her view to the parties.  
This was that the business  had not done anything significantly wrong  and she would not ask 
it do anything further. 
Mr D was not happy with that view and asked for an ombudsman to consider  his complaint. 
Ref: DRN55006522my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mr Ds surprise and upset at the businesss decision to withdraw his accounts, 
especially given that he had been  a customer for so long. 
I do, however,  agree  with the adjudicators view that businesses are entitled  to decide who 
they want as their customers,  and they can decide to withdraw services,  including lending, 
so long as they do so in line with the terms and conditions.  
NatWests terms  and conditions require that they give 60 days notice  to close an account. Mr 
D does not think  that the letter was posted on 25 April because it did not arrive until much  
later. I understand his concern but the evidence supports it having been sent on time. 
The copy  letter  which  Mr D provided makes clear  that the account would not be closed  until 
25 June or later. This meets the notice criteria set out in the terms.
Mr D feels that the business should have sent the information by other means, such  as by 
email or telephone,  in order to give him the maximum  possible time to move his accounts. I 
understand this view but NatWest sent what it was required to send,  in line with its published 
terms. It would  not be fair or reasonable to expect  the business  to do more than it has said it 
will, just in case there were delays  in the postal  service.   
Mr D wants NatWest to give him its reasons for closing the account.  NatWest does not have 
to do this and is free to take a commercial view on which accounts it wants  to keep open. I 
am satisfied  that NatWest  made  a decision  within its criteria and that it communicated that 
decision in line with its terms.  
I note that when Mr D contacted NatWest he was told to attend a branch,  even  though the 
branch would not be able to do anything to change  the account closure date. 
Mr D has complained that during his attendance at the branch staff were rude to him and 
were unprofessional, including by denying  him a further appointment with the branch 
manager. I am not able to know what was said and how it was said at that appointment, but 
NatWest has said that it was correct to deny the further appointment with the branch 
manager. This was because the branch manager  would not be able to change the decision 
to close the account so the appointment would be a waste of time. 
NatWest accepts that it was an error to advise Mr D to attend  a branch and has apologised 
for Mr Ds experience in branch. NatWest  has made  a reasonable offer to compensate  Mr D 
for the inconvenience  of attending  the branch and for his distress from this attendance. 
I think this is reasonable  and would not ask NatWest to do anything more.  
Whilst I appreciate the Mr D will be disappointed by this decision,  I cannot conclude that 
NatWest has acted  improperly. As a result, I do not uphold Mr Ds complaint. 
Ref: DRN55006523my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I do not uphold Mr Ds complaint  and do not ask National 
Westminster Bank Plc to do anything further.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Laura Garvin-Smith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5500652