K821x#15complaint
Mr P, represented by a claims  management company (CMC), complains  he was mis-sold  a 
series of Savings  Programmes by a predecessor of Sanlam Financial Services UK Limited. 
The CMC has said theres  no evidence Mr P needed  these long-term  contracts and he 
shouldve instead  been advised to start more  suitable, medium-term  products.  
background
Of the four programmes  in question, three  were  sold to Mr P during 1989 and the fourth in 
June 1991. The limited documentation  from the time of the sales indicates they were sold for 
the purposes of topping-up  Mr Ps savings. The four programmes involved monthly 
contributions of £20, £25, £25 and £30 respectively, all invested in the same managed fund. 
Mr P has maintained the programmes to date. 
Sanlam felt that this willingness to continue  with contributions to the programmes over such 
a long term indicated  that theyd been  affordable and generally suitable  for Mr Ps needs and 
circumstances.
Our adjudicator didnt  agree. He felt that because of the limited documentation there was 
little to support  the programmes having  been suitable for Mr Ps circumstances  hed been  
in his 20s at the time and single, suggesting that his needs and priorities  were likely to 
change over time. There was also nothing  to support Mr Ps attitude to risk being  consistent 
with investment in the managed fund.
The adjudicator further noted that the documentation associated with the 1991  sale,  
although also limited,  had shown that the programme was sold as a means by which to top 
up Mr Ps medium  to long-term savings. He felt that as the programmes were  specifically 
designed to achieve optimum returns over a period in excess  of 20 years this suggested  the 
1991 programme   and in all likelihood the other  three as well  were  lacking in the flexibility  
likely to be required by Mr P. 
The adjudicator recommended Sanlam  compensate  Mr P by comparing the return achieved 
by the four programmes with a benchmark  investment return   the Bank of England base 
rate plus 1%.   
Sanlam disagreed. It reiterated  that Mr P had maintained the programmes for almost 30 
years. It said thered  been no requirement to complete in-depth paperwork at the time and 
that its advisers had not been  able to make fund recommendations  the managed  fund was 
the default option. In summary, it said it could  see no reason to find that the programmes 
had been mis-sold.     
As the adjudicator wasnt persuaded to change his opinion,  the matters  been passed to me 
to review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
On the face of it I can see that Mrs Ps apparent  willingness  to maintain these programmes 
for almost 30 years does  suggest at least a degree of satisfaction  with them.  And potentially  
Ref: DRN57659572indicate that a long-term commitment was what he was looking for. So, I think this is a very 
finely balanced matter.  
But looking  at what we do know about the sales, it appears that at the point of the first March  
1989 sale Mr P already  had at least one of these programmes in place (which, for clarity is 
not a subject of this complaint). Hence, I suspect, why the limited  sales  documentation  
talked of topping-up savings. 
Mr P was then sold two more programmes  in 1989 meaning he committed to three in total in 
just nine months, with combined contributions of £70 per month  (£20, £25 and £25). This 
amount alone  would have  been  sufficient for Mr P to have instead taken one of the business 
medium-term plans,  which I understand had a minimum contribution of £50 per month. 
And then,  in June  1991, a further £30 programme was added, meaning Mr P was now 
putting at least  £100 per month into the managed  fund  quite  a sum given it was almost  30 
years ago and considering Mr P was only in his 20s, towards the start of his career with his 
circumstances and priorities  generally  likely to change.
And not only that, but he was saving  in such a way  using only the long-term products  
that to realise  an optimum return he would have  to maintain the programmes for over 20 
years. As noted, I acknowledge that he has actually done this. But looking at the sales  in the 
context of Mr Ps circumstances at the time,  I cant see that it was suitable  to keep selling 
these programmes to him, particularly  if, as the documentation suggests (at least  in part) 
that he was being told that they were  a suitable means by which  to meet  a medium-term 
savings need.  
This being so, Im satisfied, on balance, that the complaint should be upheld. In terms of 
compensation its difficult to know with any certainty what  Mr P might  otherwise have done. 
He couldve started one or more of the business medium-term plans. He might  have 
invested some of the money elsewhere.  
So, in all the circumstances,  I think the form of compensation  suggested by the adjudicator, 
which uses our standard benchmark for investments started around the time in question and 
where were satisfied the consumer was prepared to take some  risk, is fair and reasonable. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  my final decision is that I uphold the complaint and direct Sanlam 
Financial Services UK Limited  to pay compensation to Mr P as set out below.
Sanlam should  pay compensation  of D, where:
A = a refund each  of the monthly  premiums paid to each of the four  programmes from 
the respective  start date to the date of settlement;
B = a return on each  premium in A from time to time by way of capital  growth equivalent 
to 1% above Bank of England base rate, compounded yearly  from the date each 
premium was paid to the date of settlement;
C = the value of the policies at the date of settlement;
D = (A + B) - C = the investment loss at the date of settlement.
Ref: DRN57659573Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 August 2019.
James Harris
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN5765957