K820x#14complaint
D, a limited company,  complains about Allianz  Global  Corporate & Specialty SEs decision to 
turn down a claim  for damage to a property under a housing  warranty policy. D has brought  
the complaint  on behalf of the owners  of the affected property.
background
The policy covers structural defects within ten years of a property being built. 
The owners live in a block of eight flats. The roof to the property has a large flat section to 
the centre,  and pitched roofs to the front.  
In 2012, D made a claim to Allianz  as the flat roof was letting in water. Allianz accepted  there 
was a defect with the roof. D arranged  for its own contractor to carry out repairs in 2013,  and 
Allianz covered  the cost of this. 
In 2017, D made another claim  as there  were  further problems with the flat roof. Allianzs 
loss adjuster thought this was due to the failure  of the previous repairs.  Allianz turned down 
the claim on that basis. 
Later in 2017,  D submitted a third claim.  It said this was for defects to the original structure  of 
the roof, which werent related to the repairs previously carried  out. It provided  a report  from 
a surveyor in support  of this. Allianz still thought the problems with the roof were due to the 
previous repairs failing. D didnt agree, and so brought a complaint to this service.  
After the complaint was referred  here, Allianz  arranged for its own surveyor to carry out an 
inspection. Allianz  thought  its surveyors  report supported  its earlier conclusions. 
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld. She agreed with Allianz the 
previous repairs were most likely  the reason for the current damage. She therefore 
concluded it had been reasonable for Allianz to turn down  the claim.  
D didnt accept our investigators  findings,  and so the matter has been  passed to me to 
consider. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
The policy says:
(a) Operative Clause
The insurers  agree  to indemnify the Insured against  the cost of repairing, replacing and/or  
strengthening the Premises following and consequent upon a Defect which  becomes 
manifest and is notified to Insurers  during  the Period of Insurance and not excluded herein 
causing any of the following events:
(i)destruction of the Premises; or
(ii)physical damage  to the Premises; or
Ref: DRN53250562(iii)the threat of imminent destruction or physical damage to the Premises  which  requires 
immediate remedial measures  for the prevention of destruction  or physical 
damage within the Period of Insurance.
 Defect is defined as:
Any defect in the Structural Works notified to the Insurers  during the Period  of Insurance  
which is attributable  to a defect in design  or workmanship or materials  which was not 
manifest at the Date of Inception.
Structural Works are defined  as:
All internal and external load-bearing structures essential to the stability,  strength or 
weatherproof integrity of the Premises, and 
drains, internal  walls and windows, plaster,  ceilings, staircases, internal floor decking  
and screeds, chimneys and flues
The policy then sets out the exclusions that apply. It says:
(a) This Policy  does  not cover any destruction,  physical damage or threat  of imminent  
destruction or physical damage caused by, arising from or consequent upon:
(i)any alterations, repairs, modifications  or additions of a structural  nature to the 
Premises during the Period of Insurance unless the Insurers have been informed 
and if necessary the Policy  endorsed, and any appropriate additional premium 
paid to the Insurers.
Allianz was aware  of the 2013 repairs. However,  D didnt request the policy be endorsed 
following the repairs. And so the additional premium that would have been due, wasnt paid. 
Solicitors for both parties have discussed  this point  in some detail, so I dont intend to go 
over it again here. Particularly as D hasnt raised this point as part of its complaint to this 
service. I therefore assume  D now accepts  that if damage was caused by, arising  from, or 
consequent upon the repairs  carried out in 2013,  the exclusion can apply (despite Allianz 
being informed  of those repairs at the time).
Allianz is of the view that the more recent problems identified with the roof relate to the 
repairs that were done in 2013, and therefore  fall under the exclusion Ive quoted above. As 
Allianz is relying on the exclusion  to turn down the claim,  it falls to Allianz to show that it 
applies. 
Ive therefore  considered  the information relating  to the 2012  claim and repairs,  as well as 
the later evidence for the 2017  claims. 
In 2012, D made a claim and told Allianz the flat roof had failed. D arranged  for a surveyor  
(Mr L) to carry out an inspection and propose a design to put things right. 
Mr L found various issues with both the flat and pitched roofs, such as the lack of a vapour 
barrier, poor ventilation, and poor/missing insulation. He recommended the whole  of the 
upper (flat) roof be removed and replaced; a vapour barrier be provided;  ventilation of the 
roof space to be provided (by installing  tile vents in the pitched roofs);  insulation properly 
installed; the pitch ridge junction between the flat roof and pitch roof to be reconstructed; and 
a correct rooflight  to be installed. 
Ref: DRN53250563Ds contractor then carried  out the repair works in 2013. Ive looked  at the second estimate 
they provided, and whilst I wont detail all of the work they intended  to do, I see they did 
intend to fit new vents  to the pitched roof. There was no mention of a vapour barrier or 
insulation being  installed. 
D/Mr L arranged for a company (that Ill call Company  S) to act as an Approved  Inspector 
for the repairs being done, to make  sure they complied  with British Standards and building  
regulations. Company S said they were able to inspect  the roof whilst the scaffolding was up, 
and that from reviewing both flat and pitched roofs, insulation had been provided.
A few years after the repairs  were done,  the flat roof again failed. Before making a claim, D 
arranged for Mr L to carry out an inspection in August 2016. He noted the roof and internal 
communal areas had condensation staining. He thought this was due to high humidity levels  
caused by the occupants of the flats. Mr L referred to the 2013  repairs  and said whilst 
redesigning the roof finish and detailing we improved the natural ventilation  to the roof space 
by introducing a number  of in line vent tiles and, adapting the structure to ensure all areas 
were ventilated.
In early 2017, D advised Allianz the flat roof had again failed and made  a claim. 
Allianzs loss adjuster  thought insufficient ventilation was resulting in condensation,  which  
had blown the plywood substrate and was causing timbers  to become wet. As the flat roof 
had previously failed  due to these same  issues, he thought the problem had been  with the 
works proposed by Ds surveyor  and carried out by Ds contractor. 
D arranged for a chartered building engineer  (Mr T) to carry out an inspection of the whole 
roof in October 2017,  to see if there  were any defects with the original roof structure  that 
were causing damage. 
Mr T said there was inadequate  or no insulation to some areas, and the roof insulation and 
ventilation method was unclear. He said the flat roof lacked ventilation,  and the pitched  roof 
areas had incorrect insulation and vapour barrier arrangements. Mr T thought  the defect with 
the roof had been in place  since the building was constructed,  and that the repairs carried  
out in 2013 didnt involve  any work  to the pitched roofs, insulation or ventilation.  
Allianz arranged  for a chartered surveyor (Mr P) to carry  out an inspection in April 2019.  
Mr P has helpfully explained the pitched roofs dont have the same  insulation and ventilation. 
The bottom halves  of the pitched roofs are insulated but unventilated (Ill call these Pitch A) 
and the top halves of the pitched roofs are partially ventilated  but uninsulated  (Ill call these  
Pitch B). 
Mr P thought  the roof was intended to be a ventilated  roof. However, as Pitch A was 
unventilated, he said the construction for this part of the roof was incorrect.  Nevertheless, he 
didnt see any damage to Pitch A (and didnt think any damage to the property had been 
caused by Pitch A). He thought this part of the roof was functioning as an unvented warm 
roof, despite  the insulation not fully filling the void and there  being  a lack of a vapour control 
layer. 
Ref: DRN53250564Mr P did observe damage to Pitch B. He said there  was mould  to the underside of the 
roofing felt, plasterboard  and possibly the timbers.  There  was moisture along the rafters and 
the underside  of the roofing felt  caused  by a lack of cross ventilation.  In his opinion,  the 
most likely cause of damage to the plasterboard  internal finishes was water tracking down 
the rafters and the underside of the felt. He said this was supported by the pattern of water 
damage internally (which ran along the rafters  and was at the flat to vaulted roof interface) 
combined with the evidence  of mould to the roofing felt. 
Though the most extensive damage was to the flat roof. The amount of condensation  there  
had caused the flat roof timber to decay. Mr P thought the cause  of damage to the flat roof 
was consistent  with a lack of cross  ventilation  within the flat roof void.  He attributed this to a 
flawed design  for the 2013  works, compounded by ineffective installation.  Mr P said the 
vapour barrier had been installed in the wrong  location, and the tile vents  were  undersized  
by six and hadnt been constructed properly. 
Mr P concluded by saying  the decay to the flat roof timbers and mould  staining  to Pitch B 
was illustrative of the large amount of condensation  around that location. And that the 
damage to the internal plasterboard surfaces had most probably been caused  by the 
uninsulated, vented pitched  flat roof failure.
Mr T commented on Mr Ps report and said he accepted the previous repairs to the flat roof 
were possibly incorrectly designed and certainly incorrectly installed. He explained that for 
the roof to function correctly, ventilation  needed  to be provided  at both a high and low level. 
He said the insulation and ventilation were  incorrect as the work  didnt  comply  with Building 
Regulations when  built and still didnt comply.
conclusions
Its accepted that the current failure  of the flat roof is attributable to the poor design and 
repairs that took place in 2013.
D wants to know if Allianz  ought  to have checked the repairs that were done to the roof in 
2013. It thinks Allianz may have had a duty to ensure the repairs it had paid for met Building  
Regulations. Nevertheless, it says it accepts that Allianz shouldnt have to pay for the new 
repairs needed to the flat roof. But it thinks Allianz does need to cover the costs of putting  
right the problems with the pitched  roofs. 
It was Ds surveyor who designed the earlier repairs, and Ds contractor carried  out those 
repairs. As I understand  it, Allianz  didnt have oversight of this work and its only involvement 
with the repairs  was to pay the contractors invoice. Consequently, it wasnt  Allianzs 
responsibility to ensure  works were  carried  out properly or met Building Regulations - this 
was the responsibility  of D or the parties  working for D. 
As the flat roof has failed  due to the previous  repairs carried out, Im satisfied the damage to 
the flat roof itself (and any damage  elsewhere  thats  caused by, arising from or consequent 
upon the failure of the flat roof) would fall under the exclusion. 
Ref: DRN53250565I therefore need to consider whether any current damage is attributable to a defect  with the 
pitched roofs, and if so, whether its Allianzs responsibility to put this right.  
As I understand it, apart from the damage to the flat roof, the only other damage is mould to 
the underside  of Pitch Bs roofing felt and plasterboard (and possibly the timbers), and some 
damage to the internal plasterboard within the property. 
Allianz says any damage is not related to the pitched roof areas,  but is a result  of the 
problems with the flat roof. I disagree. Mr P said that the damage had most probably been  
caused by the uninsulated, vented pitched flat roof failure.  The uninsulated, vented pitched  
roof to which Mr P refers is Pitch B. Though he also refers to the flat roof, I assume he 
meant to say the uninsulated, vented  pitched and (my emphasis) flat roof failure. 
Its clear from Mr T and Mr Ps reports that the flat roof doesnt  have  sufficient insulation  and 
ventilation, and that this has led to a build-up  of condensation and the failure  of the flat roof 
timbers. However, I think Mr Ps evidence supports that part of the pitched  roof had also 
failed due to a lack of cross ventilation, and this resulted in the damage  to Pitch  B. It seems 
the combined failure of the flat roof and Pitch B has likely led to water tracking down the 
rafters and causing damage to the internal plasterboard. 
Im therefore  satisfied that there  was a defect to the pitched roofs, and this defect has led to 
some of the damage. As such, I now need  to consider if Allianz ought to put right this 
damage. If the defect was attributable to the original design or workmanship of the pitched 
roofs, then any damage caused by that defect should be covered by the policy. However, if 
the defect was attributable to the repairs carried out in 2013, any damage caused by that 
defect would fall under the exclusion. 
I think both parties recognise  the difficulties in establishing what  work was actually done to 
the pitched roofs in 2013. Although Mr T said in his report that the repairs in 2013  didnt 
involve any work to the pitched roofs, I understand that in a later conversation held with 
Allianz, he apparently  accepted that they did. 
I cant be certain what work was done to the pitched  roofs in 2013.  But given that Company 
S confirmed  that (after  reviewing both the flat and pitched roofs)  insulation had been 
provided, I think its probably reasonable to say that insulation was likely installed in the 
pitched roofs  as part of the repairs. 
We do know that tile vents were  installed  in the pitched roofs  as part of the repairs,  though  it 
isnt clear from Mr Ls initial  report  whether they were intended to ventilate the flat roof, the 
pitched roofs, or both.  However, I note that when Mr L carried  out an inspection in 2016, he 
referred to those tile vents and said the structure had been adopted to ensure all areas were  
ventilated. I think  this shows the tile vents werent  intended to only ventilate  the flat roof void,  
but also the pitched roofs. 
Overall, I think its reasonable to conclude that Mr L had identified  defects  with both the flat 
roof and pitched roofs in 2012, and his proposed  design and the consequent repairs 
intended to put those  defects right. I appreciate  the majority of the repairs were  to the flat 
roof  that was to be expected as it was this area of the roof that had failed and was allowing 
water to enter the property. Nonetheless, I agree with Allianz that Mr Ls proposed  solution  to 
the ventilation  and insulation problems wasnt solely for the flat roof, but was also aimed at 
resolving the identified issues with the pitched roofs. 
Ref: DRN53250566Unfortunately, due to poor design and installation, the ventilation and insulation  repairs done 
in 2013 didnt resolve the problems as intended and damage has now occurred (to Pitch B 
and the internal plasterboard)  as a result. That being  the case, I think its reasonable to say 
the current defect  to the pitched roofs is attributable to the repairs that were carried  out in 
2013. 
Despite my sympathy for the position  in which the owners now find themselves, Im satisfied, 
for the above  reasons,  that it was fair for Allianz  to rely on the exclusion and turn down the 
claim.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 April 2020.
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5325056