K822xcomplaint
Ms S complains  as director  of a limited company, which  Ill refer to as C, that American 
Express Payment Services Ltd didnt set up the merchant account that she asked  for.   
background 
Ms S first asked  American Express to set up a merchant account  in February 2019, as she 
wanted Cs customers to be able to make  payments  for goods  in US dollars. 
American Express told Ms S that it would take around two weeks  to set up the account. 
American Express said that it sent electronic  links to Ms S in March  and May 2019 to allow 
her to complete an online application, but she didnt respond. Ms S regularly chased 
progress on the account during that time.  
American Express said that it tried again to set up a merchant  account for C in July following 
a call to Ms S. At that point, Ms S told American Express  that C no longer wanted the 
account, as Ms S didnt want to wait any longer for it to be set up. 
Ms S later complained to American Express on behalf of C about its handling of her request. 
American Express recognised that it hadnt always handled the matter well, so offered £100 
compensation to Ms S on behalf of C as a goodwill  credit. 
As Ms S wasnt  happy with American Express response, she complained  to our service. 
An investigator looked into Cs complaint and thought that there was evidence of poor 
service on American Express part and that it could have done more  to assist Ms S in sorting  
out the problem. The investigator thought  that £100 offered to C by American  Express  didnt 
fully recognise the inconvenience caused, particularly as Ms S had to regularly update her 
customers about why C couldnt accept their payments in US dollars. The investigator 
recommended that American Express increase its offer to £200. Whilst American Express 
accepted the investigators view, Ms S didnt think American Express  offer was acceptable.  
So, the complaint has been passed  to me to decide.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
At the heart  of Cs complaint is the fact that American Express  didnt deliver the service  that 
Ms S was expecting or properly explain the delays. Although Ms S chased progress 
regularly, five months after her initial request, Cs account still wasnt set up. As a result,  Ms 
S cancelled  the request. 
Ms S told us that shed spent a lot of time and effort trying to progress Cs application  with 
American Express. She also said that customers lost trust in C because  they werent able to 
pay for goods in the way that they preferred, despite promises from Ms S that she was trying  
to sort the problem  out. 
American Express accepts that it didnt  always  handle  Cs application  well. So in that sense, 
theres broad agreement  between American  Express and Ms S about some of what 
happened.  
Ref: DRN50646132Its clear from what Ive seen that having a completed online form from Ms S was a key part 
of setting up the merchant account.  From the evidence,  I cant see that this was made clear 
to Ms S when she first asked American Express to set up an account.  Had it been, Ms S 
would have had a better idea of the process  involved  and what she needed to do to 
complete it. And it seems that this is where the problem  started.  
American Express says that it sent Ms S electronic links to an online form a couple of times 
between March and May 2019 and that its staff told her about the online form when she 
spoke to them around the same time.  Ms S says that she didnt receive  the links and her 
recollection of the calls appear  slightly different  from American Express.  
Where the evidence is incomplete  or conflicting, I need to decide whats most likely to have 
happened. Theres clear evidence to show that Ms S received and replied to other  emails  
from American Express, so its reasonable to assume that shed  have replied to the emails  
containing the application links if shed received them, particularly as setting up this account 
was important to C. American  Express hasnt  been able to send us copies  of the emails  or 
transcripts of calls,  so I havent been able to review  them. I think its just as likely though  that 
if American Express staff had told Ms S exactly what was holding  things up when she spoke  
to them,  she wouldnt have felt she needed to chase progress so often.  And American 
Express might not have felt it necessary to investigate the problem as it did. Taking account 
of the above, Im not persuaded that American  Express sent the links to the application  form 
to Ms S, or that its staff discussed this issue  with her when she called in March  and May 
2019. 
American Express told us that it again tried to set up a merchant account for C in July. 
As that was also dependant  on Ms S filling in an online form, it said that staff tried to call Ms 
S, but were initially unable  to get hold of her. Ms S says that American Express should  have 
contacted her much earlier when  it thought  shed  not returned her online form. I do think Ms 
S has a point. And had it done so, I think some of the delays and frustration that C 
experienced could have  been avoided. As it was, by the time American Express managed to 
get hold of Ms S in July 2019, shed decided she didnt want to continue with the application.  
So, Ill turn now to the impact that all of this has had on C. 
Ms S told us that the reason she wanted to set up the merchant account was because C was 
trying to attract more business from the US market.  And, having the merchant account set 
up would  have enabled Cs customers to pay in US dollars. Ms S told us that she wants to 
be compensated for the loss of customers trust when they decided  to take their business  
elsewhere. 
We asked Ms S if she had any evidence  to clearly show that customers  took their business 
elsewhere because  they were  unable to pay C in their preferred way. Ms S wasnt  able to 
provide that kind of evidence and, whilst I do appreciate Ms S point that these customers  
lost trust in the promises shed given them about the merchant  account  being set up, Ive no 
evidence to directly link this and their decisions to buy from other  businesses.  So, Im unable  
to direct American Express to compensate C for any direct financial losses  or reputational 
damage caused.
That leaves me to decide whether £200  that American Express  agreed to pay was 
reasonable. I can fully appreciate the inconvenience  caused to C when Ms S repeatedly had 
to tell its customers that the merchant account hadnt been set up. And I can also appreciate 
Ref: DRN50646133that the time Ms S spent chasing American  Express would have been an added 
inconvenience to C, given that Ms S is the director of the company. Ms S was able to 
provide dates of at least four telephone calls that she made to American Express, but says 
that she made more  calls than that. I have no reason to doubt Ms S account as the 
evidence clearly shows that shes been hands-on throughout  her contact with American 
Express. Even allowing for the fact that more calls are likely  to have been made, I do think 
that £200 is reasonable in the circumstances. Im satisfied that it takes account of the overall 
inconvenience caused to C.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Cs complaint and I direct American Express Payment 
Services Limited to pay £200  to Ms S on behalf  of C if it hasnt already done so. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms S on behalf of 
C to accept or reject my decision before 5 January 2020.
Amanda Scott
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5064613