K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs E complain  that Santander  UK Plc mis-sold them Mortgage Payment Protection 
Insurance (MPPI) alongside their mortgage.
For the avoidance of doubt, the mortgage was taken out with Alliance & Leicester Building 
Society now part of Santander, so Ill only refer to Santander here.
background
Briefly:
In 2006 Mr and Mrs E applied for a mortgage during  a branch visit. At the same time they 
also took out MPPI designed to protect their mortgage repayments in the event Mr E (it was 
in his sole name only)  couldnt work  because  of accident, sickness  of if he became 
unemployed.
The policy provided  a benefit of a little over £1500 a month and it cost around £90 a month.  
In the event of a successful claim,  it could  pay out for up to 12 months. The cover was 
established on a 100% basis  in favour  of Mr E as I outlined above.
The policy ended when it was cancelled  at the end of 2007.
The adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint.  In summary he said he thought Mr and Mrs E 
agreed to take out MPPI knowing  that it was optional and there  was nothing to indicate 
theyd lost out as a result of taking the policy out. He also said that because  Mr and Mrs Es 
mortgage was a regulated mortgage agreement, Santander doesnt  need to take account of 
the rules and guidance made by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)  about the handling of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission.
Mr and Mrs E, through their representative disagree. In doing  so their representative has 
repeated the main  complaint points  including that MPPI was added  without Mr and Mrs Es 
knowledge. It also repeated the argument about unfair commission.
The complaint therefore comes  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
PPI complaints on our website and Ive taken into account whats  relevant here in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Es complaint.
Its not in dispute  that Santander provided advice and made a recommendation to Mr and 
Mrs E to take out MPPI.  So it had to advise them with reasonable care and skill to ensure 
the policy was suitable for them. And it had to give them enough  clear  and timely information 
about the product it was recommending so Mr and Mrs E could make an informed decision.  
Ive kept this in mind  in my consideration of the complaint.
Ref: DRN59468692did Santander make  it clear that Mr and Mrs E had a real choice  about  PPI?
Mr and Mrs E have  raised several  points of concern here  including that they didnt ask for 
MPPI and it was added  without their knowledge. Theyve also said they didnt know MPPI 
was optional. Santander says Mr and Mrs E agreed  to take out the policy and that the 
paperwork from the time  copies  of which it has provided to us  show  that it was clear the 
cover was optional. Ive considered this matter carefully.
Because Mr and Mrs E were given advice about which mortgage to take out during their 
branch visit, there are a number of documents available,  which  record the discussion they 
had with the adviser including their protection requirement for the mortgage. 
The first document  Santanders provided is the mortgage financial review form. Other than 
setting out which type of mortgage best suited Mr and Mrs Es needs  and circumstances,  it 
records that Mr and Mrs E were asked about their protection requirements for their mortgage 
including what means they already had to fall back on. So its clear to me there  was a 
discussion about MPPI. And based  on the answers  Mr and Mrs E gave to those questions  
including one where Mr and Mrs E said it would present a problem to them when asked  
how they would pay their mortgage  when  their sick pay ends  the adviser recommended 
they take out MPPI. The form goes on to record that Mr and Mrs E accepted the 
recommendation and wanted the policy in Mr Es name only. Mr and Mrs E signed this 
document.
The second  form  Statement of Demands and Needs  which appears to have been posted  
out to Mr and Mrs E to confirm the outcome of the branch discussion, repeated the 
recommendation for MPPI  and Mr and Mrs Es acceptance of it. 
The third form  Keyfacts  about this mortgage  had a separate  section entitled Insurance  
which said You are not obliged to take out any insurance through Alliance & Leicester. 
And under the title Optional Insurance  it said Mortgage Payment Cover
So in light of the information Ive set out above,  I think Mr and Mrs E are mistaken  about  
what happened when  they took out their mortgage.  Its clear  to me that there was a 
discussion with Mr and Mrs E about MPPI and they did know  they were taking it out. I also 
think they chose  to take it out  albeit  cover that was recommended to them  - knowing they 
didnt have to and after consideration of and thought about  their needs and circumstances at 
the time.  
did Santander properly  advise and inform Mr and Mrs E and was MPPI suitable for them?
The mortgage financial review form I referred to above  indicates that the adviser gathered 
some personal information about Mr and Mrs E during  the advice process including  their 
existing means in the context of protecting their mortgage if anything happened. for 
example sick pay entitlement and other insurances held. 
From the other paperwork I referred to, it also suggests the adviser highlighted  the key 
exclusions and limitations of cover to Mr and Mrs E - albeit she wasnt specific  in her 
recommendation letter. And it appears  Mr and Mrs E were notified of the cost of cover  before  
the policy started.  So I think Mr and Mrs E understood  the basic  nature of the cover being  
recommended.
Ref: DRN59468693But the evidence  doesnt suggest the adviser  explored Mr and Mrs Es health for example to 
understand whether the suitability of the MPPI was affected by the significant exclusions and 
limitations around pre-existing medical  conditions. The evidence also doesnt indicate Mr 
and Mrs E were told about the cost of cover at the point  they chose to accept  the 
recommendation. So I accept its possible Santander didnt act fairly  and reasonably  towards 
Mr and Mrs E when  it sold them  MPPI and that there  were gaps in the advice and 
information it provided.
But Mr and Mrs Es circumstances at the time indicate the policy was ultimately suitable for 
Mr E. And theres nothing which leads me to think they would have been put off going ahead  
with MPPI if Santander had done  more. For example:
Mr E was eligible   he qualified  for the cover.
Mr E was employed and in good health, so he wouldnt have been put off by the 
significant limitations or exclusions of cover  for example exclusions for existing 
medical conditions.  Any these  things didnt make  the policy unsuitable.
Ive said I cant  be certain  that the cost of the policy was clearly  disclosed to Mr and 
Mrs E at the point  they accepted the recommendation for cover. But it was set out for 
them in subsequent paperwork.  I also find it unlikely  they agreed to take it out without 
knowing something about the cost.  And in any event Mr and Mrs E dont appear  to 
have queried things with Santander, so I think it was agreeable to them  and not out 
of line with their expectations.  It also seems  to have  been  affordable,  so its cost didnt 
make the policy unsuitable.
It is recorded from the time that Mr E had three  months sick pay. Mr and Mrs E have 
also told us they had three months  savings they could rely on. But Ive already 
highlighted that Mr and Mrs E understood it would be a problem to pay their 
mortgage when  these things ended, so its clear to me they had a need for cover. 
The policy would have paid out in addition to these existing  means and for longer if 
necessary  up to 12 months - allowing Mr and Mrs E to balance the demands on 
other household  expenditure and helping them to manage the consequences if Mr E 
found himself unable to work.  So overall I think it would  have played a useful part in 
helping them protect their home.
Because the policy was a monthly regular premium policy, it could be cancelled  at 
any time without penalty, so it offered  flexibility if things changed  or Mr and Mrs E 
simply decided they no longer  wanted cover. And it seems  this is ultimately what  they 
did.
Overall I think  Mr and Mrs E agreed  to take out MPPI and did so without undue pressure. I 
also think the policy was suitable for their given circumstances  and needs at the time.  And 
because of this I dont think they would  have arrived at a different decision and declined  the 
recommended cover  if Santander  had done anything more.  It follows that I dont think Mr and 
Mrs E have lost out, so no compensation is due to them.
Primarily for the benefit of Mr and Mrs Es representative, which I hope theyll find useful 
(and to repeat what the adjudicator said)  the arguments about unfair commission  are not 
relevant here. Mr and Mrs Es mortgage  was a regulated mortgage agreement. Because  of 
this the unfair relationship provisions set out at s140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the 
Supreme Court judgment in Plevin1 about s140A of the Act and the rules and guidance 
made by the Financial  Conduct Authority (FCA) about the handling of complaints about the 
non-disclosure of commission  in the light of the Plevin judgment,  arent  applicable. 
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Ltd [2014]
Ref: DRN59468694So Santander doesnt need to refund  any of the commission  Mr and Mrs E paid for the MPPI 
they had with their mortgage  Im satisfied  that no compensation is due to Mr and Mrs E on 
these grounds either.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  Ive decided that Mr and Mrs E have not suffered loss as 
a result of taking out MPPI alongside  their mortgage, so I make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs E to 
accept or reject my decision  before  12 March  2019.
Paul Featherstone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5946869