K820x#14complaint
Mr Y complains that his pension plan with Zurich Assurance Ltd (Zurich) is now worthless 
even though he made total contributions amounting to around £700  during the term of the 
plan. He thinks this is unfair and says he was lied to about the likely returns  on the plan. He 
wants the payments  he made to the plan to be refunded to him.
background
Mr Y took out a personal pension  plan with Zurich in 1989.  The application form he 
completed at the time noted that he was 28 years  of age and hoped  to retire  at age 55. He 
agreed to make contributions of £24 per month, invested into a managed fund.
In early 1992 Zurich  wrote  to Mr Y to tell him that his contributions  hadnt  been paid for two 
months and explained how he could re-instate  the plan. Mr Y was unable to make any 
further contributions  to the plan. At the time he stopped paying premiums Mr Ys pension 
plan was worth £716.84.
In 2011 Zurich says a letter would  have been  sent to Mr Y to explain that the number of units 
his plan was invested in had fallen to zero and the plan had lapsed without any value. 
However, this letter  wasnt received by Mr Y as hed changed his address and Zurich werent 
aware of his new address.
Mr Y says hed lost touch  with Zurich about  his pension, but in 2018 he managed to contact 
Zurich and updated his address. In October  2018  when he became aware  of the situation  
with his pension  plan, Mr Y complained. He said hed made contributions to his plan from 
1989 to 1991 before he had to stop payments due to his changing financial situation. But 
hed now discovered  the plan was worthless  and he said Zurich  had robbed  him of his 
pension which he was unhappy about. He said he hadnt been advised about the plans 
charges when he took it out  or that it could lose its entire  value. 
Zurich didnt uphold  Mr Ys complaint. It said it believed it had provided  Mr Y with full details 
of the plan when he took it out. Zurich  said this would have included an explanation of the 
way the plans value could go down  as well as up and details  of the plans  charges  as well 
as the effect of stopping contributions on those charges. It was satisfied the original 
recommendation was suitable and that it provided  initial and ongoing correspondence to 
explain the unit-linked nature of the plan and explanations of the charges involved.
Mr Y remained unhappy  to have lost the entire value of his pension  plan and brought  his 
complaint to us.  
One of our investigators  looked into the complaint.  He said it shouldnt  be upheld because  
he thought Zurich were  entitled to deduct  charges  after the contributions had ceased  which 
caused the plan to lose its value.  He said this information was available  to Mr Y at the time 
he was sold the plan and there was no evidence that the plan had been mis-sold.
Ref: DRN54499172But Mr Y didnt agree. He said wed only accepted Zurichs version of events not his. He 
confirmed he wanted to escalate  his complaint,  so its been passed  to me for a final decision.  
Mr Y has suggested that he may have been  mis-sold some other policies at the time he took 
out his pension. If Mr Y believes  that to be the case he should raise that as a new complaint 
with Zurich. For clarity I should confirm that Im only considering the complaint about his 
personal pension  plan.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I have come  to the same 
overall conclusions  as the investigator  and for the same reasons.
Theres little documentation available from the time the plan was sold to confirm  what Mr Y 
may have  been  told about the plan.  Mr Y says he wasnt made aware  of the charges  applied 
to the plan and he was only told how good  the product was and how great the returns  
would be. He says he wasnt told he could lose the whole  value of the plan and he never  
received any of the documentation Zurich said it provided him with. 
And I have  some sympathy  with Mr Ys position, who says hed previously been mis- sold 
other plans  and has lost his trust in the whole industry. I can see how strongly he feels  about 
the loss of the value of the contributions  he made to his retirement  provision with Zurich. But 
I dont think Zurich has done anything wrong  in this case  which I know will disappoint Mr Y, 
so Ill explain why.
Suitability of original  advice
Mr Y has said his pension  plan was mis-sold as he was never told about the charges he 
would have to pay and was lied to about the returns hed receive. So while my decision 
focuses on if Zurich  told Mr Y about  these  charges  when he took out the plan in 1989  and 
whether he was made aware his fund could lose its entire value, Ive also thought  about the 
plans suitability. 
Ive seen that Mr Y was 28 at the time of the advice with no obvious existing retirement 
provision  although Mr Y has said hed taken out a small  pension plan the year before. He 
was advised to invest into a standard managed fund (for the time) and theres no evidence  
that he had an occupational pension  scheme available to him. In these circumstances, 
theres nothing to suggest that a personal pension plan wasnt  suitable for his 
circumstances, and nothing to suggest that it was unaffordable at the time  although Mr Y 
has said this changed so he was unable to continue payments after two years.  But overall  I 
dont think Zurich acted  unfairly when it first gave Mr Y the advice in 1989.
Mr Y has also stated  that he was just told to sign a form by the adviser  and the form had 
already been filled in. He says this is demonstrated by the fact that his name  was mis-spelt. 
And I dont  dispute  Mr Ys recollections of events. 
But that doesnt change the fact that he agreed  to take out the plan and I would have 
expected him to have raised queries at the time if he was concerned about the application  
process.
Fairness of charges and erosion of fund
Ref: DRN54499173Mr Y says that he hadnt been told about  the charges that were  applied to his policy   and 
the possible effect on the plan in the event  of him stopping  contributions.  Zurich  says that 
Mr Y would have received  policy documentation,  including detailed information  on the 
charges that apply,  and the impact  of stopping contributions. As 30 years have passed since  
the meeting its difficult to determine with certainty what information was provided when Mr Y 
was advised to start the policy. 
However, I do consider  it likely that he would have been given the product particular booklet  
which set out the general provisions of the plan including a description of charges. So I think 
Mr Y would have been made aware  that his plan did incur some form of charges.
The charges  section in the booklet explained  how the plan consisted of a number of units 
which were bought and sold at different prices  which constituted the charge. In addition it 
explained how other charges were deducted from the plan and that units would be cashed  
in to cover  the cost of the full return of fund benefit. I appreciate that these explanations 
can be complex, and I wouldnt expect the plan particulars to be written in such a way today, 
but they do make it clear  that charges existed within the plan.  So I do think  Mr Y would have 
been aware that charges  applied to his policy.
Mr Y says he wasnt told that his plan could be eroded to nothing if he stopped  his 
contributions, and I can appreciate the adviser probably wouldnt have gone through  all the 
individual terms of the pension being arranged. But the product particulars allowed for this 
eventuality under the section reducing and stopping contributions  which  said contributions  
can be reduced or stopped altogether at any time without  penalty: all units  currently 
allocated to the plan will continue to share in the investment performance of the fund. The 
indexed expense deduction will still apply and this will be recovered by cancelling  units  of an 
equivalent value  each month.
In other  words the units within  the plan would  still be cashed  in in order to meet  the ongoing 
contribution and charge requirements. Whilst this doesnt explicitly say the plan value could 
be eroded to zero, Zurich  wouldnt have been able to forecast what  the value of any plan 
might be after years of no contributions. That would have  depended on the investment 
performance of the fund involved  and I wouldnt have expected Zurich to state, with some 
certainty, what the plans  value might become. But the particulars make  numerous mentions 
of the plan being unit linked and the retirement  benefit section  in other  words  what Mr Y 
might get at retirement   stated the exact  amount of the fund will depend on the value  of 
units in the pension fund when you take your benefits.this means their value can go down 
as well as up.
Theres no evidence that Zurich made  any guarantees about what  Mr Y would receive at 
retirement. Zurich set up a personal  pension for Mr Y  and its charging structure was based 
on Mr Y paying into his pension for the longer term  around 30 years at least.  
Unfortunately Mr Y was only able to contribute for less than three years and its sadly  the 
case that his plan continued  to attract charges  which needed to be met  albeit through the 
cancelling of units within the plan. But I dont think Zurich has acted unfairly there, I think  its 
applied the charges in line with how it said it would. And I think  it was clear in making  Mr Y 
aware of this when  he took out the plan. 
Ref: DRN54499174Whether Mr Y received ongoing  information?
Zurich has provided  copies of specimen letters it said it would  have sent Mr Y during the 
term of the pension plan which would  have made  him aware of the ongoing charges, and 
the fact his policy had lapsed in 2011 with no value. But its said that any letters  sent after 
1994 wouldnt have  got to Mr Y as hes only recently informed it that he moved house at that 
time. And Mr Y has said that he never received any ongoing information about  his pension 
shortly after he stopped making  contributions.  But I dont think its Zurichs fault Mr Y didnt 
receive the letters as he didnt advise  it of a change of address. 
Although I have seen  a copy of a letter that Zurich sent in 1992, which advised Mr Y how to 
reinstate his plan.  It confirmed that if he was unable  to restart his contributions until we hear 
from you, full return of fund benefit will be provided  and paid for by a regular deduction from 
your retirement fund. So I think Mr Y received at least one piece of correspondence which 
advised him that charges  would continue to be applied to his plan.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given I dont uphold Mr Ys complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 August 2019.
Keith Lawrence
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5449917