K821x#15complaint
Mr H complains TSB Bank plc recorded a marker  under his name on the Credit Industry 
Fraud Avoidance System (CIFAS)  Mr H believes this was a mistake and it shouldnt  be 
recorded against his name. To put things right he wants  the marker  removed.
background
Mr H and his partner  applied for a mortgage with TSB through  a broker  in late 2017. TSB 
declined a mortgage and it then recorded a CIFAS marker under his name.
Mr H became aware of the marker  in his name when he tried to open  a bank account. He 
then contacted the broker and TSB.  The broker responded and explained they could not find 
a copy of the mortgage application for him to review.  Mr H explained he didnt fraudulently 
give incorrect information to TSB.  He says some employment information mightve been 
inaccurate due to mistakes made by his then employer. He also says some  of the 
information provided by his mortgage  broker mightve been poorly completed.
Mr H complained to TSB and asked them to review the marker. Mr H says hes been  unable  
to obtain credit elsewhere because of its refusal  to remove  the marker, so he brought his 
complaint to us. Mr H provided  us with evidence from HMRC detailing his employment  and 
salary details and the correspondence with the broker. 
Our investigator upheld  Mr Hs complaint. They concluded TSB hadnt shown theyd 
sufficient evidence to warrant a CIFAs marker  being recorded. She also contacted the broker  
involved in the mortgage application. They  told us they didnt have a copy  of the original 
application the consumer submitted but explained what  information they wouldve obtained  
from the consumer. 
TSB disagreed. They say werent able to verify  some of the information  provided by Mr H 
and as such they were  entitled to register a marker  against his name. They  would, however, 
consider removing the marker if Mr H provided further evidence of his income  and 
employment for the last six months. Our investigator  thought  this wasnt necessary, so the 
complaint has been given  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided to uphold  
Mr Cs complaint and Ill explain why.
what standard of proof did TSB need to meet to register  the marker?
CIFAS expects its members to meet  a certain  standard of proof when recording a marker. 
has TSB demonstrated they met the required standard  to register  the marker?
TSB has provided some of the information  it relied  on to register  the marker.  But I dont think 
this evidence demonstrates they met the standard required by CIFAS. 
I see there is some discrepancy with regard to the information TSB had about  Mr Hs 
employment. But I cant see TSB attempted to clarify this with Mr H. Had it done so, I find it 
more likely than not Mr H wouldve been able to provide  satisfactory evidence  of his 
Ref: DRN59148692employment status. I say this because hes provided credible evidence to show  his 
employment at the time of the mortgage application  and has provided us with additional 
information from HMRC about  his employment to cover the period  in question. 
TSB has asked Mr H to provide further  information  about his employment  for the last six 
months. But I wont be asking Mr H to do this. The reason for this is his current  employment 
history for the last six months  is not a relevant consideration for why they uploaded a marker 
back in 2017.  Its for TSB to provide sufficient evidence to support its decision to apply the 
marker.
Mr H has explained that the broker may have recorded information  incorrectly  or his 
employer may have made mistakes. Mr H was very forthcoming in providing information  
from HMRC and asking TSB and the broker for a copy of the application form. This is why I 
say on balance I think it is more  likely  than not Mr H couldve provided extra  information  at 
the time of the application which wouldve prevented the marker being applied.  But TSB did 
not give him the opportunity to do this. 
  
putting things right
TSB should remove the CIFAS marker theyve recorded against Mr H in relation  to his 
declined mortgage  application.
my final decision
I uphold Mr Hs complaint  against  TSB Bank  plc. I require  them  to contact CIFAS and ask 
them to remove the marker placed  under Mr Hs name. 
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 September  2019.
Liam King
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5914869