K820x#14complaint
Mr J complains about HSBC UK Bank Plcs decision to close  his bank account.
background
Mr J held a personal bank account  with HSBC. In April 2018, HSBC became aware that Mr J 
was using the account for business  purposes and explained that this wasnt  allowed. On 15 
November 2018  it advised him that it intended to close his bank account,  and associated  
accounts. The account was closed on 31 January 2019.
Mr J complained about HSBCs decision to close his personal account. He said hed only 
opened that account on HSBCs advice in the first place, and that HSBC was aware he used 
the account for business purposes. He was also unhappy that HSBC told him it could 
transfer his overdraft from the personal account to his business account, when this wasnt 
the case and instead, he had to apply for this separately. 
HSBC acknowledged  that it shouldnt have  allowed  Mr J to open a personal  account with an 
overdraft for business use, and apologised for this. However, it said that when the matter 
came to light, it was appropriate  for it to require him to stop using the account for business 
transactions. It accepted it had given Mr J conflicting  information regarding the transfer of his 
overdraft from his personal account  to a business  account. HSBC offered Mr J £500 
compensation for the inconvenience the situation had caused him. Unhappy with this, Mr J 
brought a complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld. He thought  HSBC  had been  
entitled to close  Mr Js personal account,  and thought it had given him sufficient notice of its 
intention to do so. He thought the £500  compensation  HSBC had offered for the matter was 
fair. 
Mr J didnt accept our investigators findings, so the matter has been passed  to me for a 
decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Mr J is unhappy with HSBCs decision to close his account as he says the account  was 
being used in the way HSBC had asked him to use it. He explains he opened the account  in 
1991 and says HSBC was aware the account was to be used for business  transactions.  Mr J 
pointed out that hed been given an £85,000 overdraft on the account,  and HSBC  had 
temporarily increased this a number of times over the years  (up to £335,000).
Given the large overdraft  involved, and the various  increases to that overdraft over the 
years, I think its apparent  that HSBC would have previously known that Mr J used the 
account for business  transactions. 
HSBC hasnt been able to establish why Mr J was given such a large overdraft for business 
use on a personal  bank account. However,  it accepts it shouldnt  have done this, as personal 
and business  bank accounts  need  to be kept separate.
Ref: DRN51863192Under the accounts terms  and conditions, it explains the account isnt for business 
accounts. It also says HSBC can close the account  by giving the customer  at least  two 
months notice.
When HSBC realised  in 2018 that Mr Js personal account was being used for business 
transactions, it asked  him to stop using the account  for that purpose. Given that this is in 
accordance with the accounts terms and conditions, I think  that was appropriate. When  Mr J 
continued to use the account  for business transactions,  HSBC decided in November 2018 to 
close the account. That decision was up to HSBC.  
As the investigator  had explained, wed usually say 30 days is a reasonable amount of 
notice to be given  before an account  is closed. However, the account terms and conditions 
say HSBC must give at least  two months  notice. Im satisfied that HSBC did this, and that 
this was appropriate given Mr J was using the account for business  purposes.
Mr J thinks hes suffered  a financial loss as a result of HSBC allowing him to use the 
personal account for business transactions. He says hes paid thousands  of pounds over the 
years in overdraft rates,  and thinks HSBC should reimburse him for this.  
Weve queried this with HSBC to see what Mr J wouldve paid, had he carried  out the 
transactions through a business account rather than a personal account. In response  it has 
provided us with its business price list, and I see that the overdraft rates are less than what 
Mr J has been charged  for using  an overdraft in the personal account.  However,  it also 
shows that business accounts charge for many other transactions, in addition to the 
overdraft rates. Because of this, HSBC thinks Mr J would have incurred far higher charges 
on a business  account than he has on his personal  account, and I think  thats more than 
likely to be the case. 
Also, I note that Mr J took out a business account with HSBC some years  ago, yet didnt 
arrange for the business transactions carried out on his personal account  to move across  to 
his business account. If Mr J had wanted  to take advantage of the lower overdraft rates 
under the business account,  I think he would have arranged  for his business account  to have 
an overdraft and used  that account for his business transactions,  rather than continue using 
his personal account  in this way. As he didnt do so, I think its reasonable to assume he was 
happy with the overdraft  rates that applied to his personal account. 
Overall, I agree  with Mr J that HSBC was at fault for allowing him to use a personal account 
for business transactions. However,  when this came  to light in 2018,  it was appropriate for 
HSBC to ask him to stop using his account in this way. When he didnt, it closed his account, 
which was up to HSBC.  I appreciate  Mr J thinks he wasnt given enough notice  before  the 
account was closed, but he was asked to stop using his account  in this way in April 2018,  
and the account wasnt closed until January 2019. Im therefore satisfied he had sufficient  
time to move  his business activities to the business  account - even though I note he 
experienced some delays,  as he was waiting for HSBC to release security  that was held in 
connection with his personal account, which meant he couldnt move his business overdraft 
immediately. 
I can understand Mr Js frustration that he needed to move  his business transactions  over to 
his business account, as well as his overdraft, and that this would have been inconvenient 
for him. He also encountered difficulties doing this, as HSBC  gave him conflicting information  
about whether  he could  transfer his overdraft.  However, I think  the £500 offer that HSBC  has 
Ref: DRN51863193made is an appropriate amount of compensation for this. I therefore dont require HSBC to 
do anything further.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint, as Im satisfied that HSBC UK Bank 
Plc has offered  appropriate compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 September  2020.
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5186319