K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs V complain  that Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) hasnt fairly
settled a claim theyve made  on their home  contents  insurance policy.
background 
I issued a provisional decision on this matter on 10 July 2019, part of which is copied below:
Mr V brings this complaint on behalf of himself and his wife. Ill refer to him throughout this
decision and references I make to his actions include  the actions of his wife.
Mr V has a home contents insurance  policy with LV. He experienced a burglary at his 
property and various items were stolen. He made a claim  on the policy. The claim was 
accepted but, during the investigation, the loss adjusters appointed by LV discovered 
that the total value of the contents at the property was £114,000.  This was significantly 
more than the £50,000 Mr V had insured them for.
Mr V explained that some  of the contents, including  high value jewellery, were stored in a 
safe in a building in his garden. He thought they were sufficiently secure so he had 
decided not to include them in the insurance  cover.
LV said that if it had known the total contents were  valued  at £114,000 it would have 
applied two security  clauses to the policy relating to locks and the requirement to have an 
alarm. Coincidentally,  Mr Vs property would have  met the first requirement but not the 
second.
LV decided Mr V had misrepresented the value of his contents and it declined the claim.
Mr V wasnt happy with this and initially complained  to LV. Unhappy with its answer, he 
then brought his complaint to us. Our investigator  concluded, in summary, that LV hadnt 
asked Mr V a clear  and specific question about the value  of contents at the property when 
he applied  for the policy. Because of this she said she didnt think  hed misrepresented  the 
value of the contents. After some  discussion, LV accepted this position and agreed to pay
the claim.
Some time later, Mr V got back  in contact with us to say hed received a cheque  from LV in
settlement of his claim but this was for considerably less than he was expecting. LV said that
whilst it had agreed to cover the claim,  because Mr V was underinsured,  it had done so on a
proportionate basis. So it said the amount it sent him was correct.
Our investigator said she didnt think this was fair as it wasnt  in line with the requirements of
the Consumer  Insurance  (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA). She said that
as there  hadnt  been any qualifying misrepresentation,  LV should settle the claim in full. It
should also pay interest at 8% on the amount of the claim and make an additional payment
of £150 for the trouble and upset it caused  Mr V.
LV accepted it couldnt retrospectively  apply the security endorsements  but said it could still
rely on the terms and conditions of the policy which made it clear that, where  there was
underinsurance, it could  reduce the settlement proportionately. Our investigator  responded
saying that the customer  had met his duty under the law so it was unfair  to settle the claim
proportionately as shed concluded the consumer hadnt misrepresented  the value of the
contents. She said LV ought  to settle  the claim in full.
Ref: DRN5647808LV disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to make  a decision.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. And having  done so, Ive reached the 
same conclusion as the investigator  that LV didnt  act fairly when it offered a 
proportionate settlement  of the claim.  Ill explain my reasoning.
Did Mr V misrepresent the value of his contents?
When a consumer takes out an insurance policy, theyll be asked  questions  about 
themselves and the risk they want to insure.  The insurance company  will then use this 
information to weigh  up whether it wishes to cover that risk and how much  it will charge 
for doing so.
CIDRA places a duty on consumers to take reasonable  care not to make a 
misrepresentation when entering an insurance contract. In other words, the consumer must 
provide the insurance company with accurate information to allow it to assess the risk. If 
they dont, there are some circumstances where  an insurer  may be able to avoid the 
insurance contact  but thats only if theres been  a qualifying misrepresentation. In the 
absence of this, and where the consumer  has taken reasonable  care not to make a 
misrepresentation then the insurer cant take any action at all, even if they were provided  
with incorrect information.
Under CIDRA, deciding  whether Mr V took reasonable  care is to be done  in the light of all
the relevant circumstances.  That can involve a number  of things but of relevance  in this 
case is how clear and specific LVs questions were.
This is important because differently worded questions, apparently asking a similar thing, 
can elicit very different responses. For example, the answer to the question how  much do 
you want to insure your contents for? could  be very different from what  is the total value 
of the total contents in your property?
Mr V has stated he excluded the contents  that were  usually contained in the safe in the 
building in the garden as he considered  these  to be sufficiently secure  and therefore  didnt  
require cover. Thats why he told LV he wanted  £50,000  of contents cover. In answering as 
he did, he considered  he had provided the information which  LV asked for.
LVs agents  who investigated the claim commented
We do not believe the underinsurance was a deliberate act to reduce premium.  
Instead we believe  that the Policyholders have partially underestimated the value of 
their contents and also that they considered the majority of their jewellery to be 
more secure within a safe
LV says Mr V applied for his policy online and it wasnt  able to provide evidence  to show 
what question he was asked about the value of the contents. It also wasnt able to show  
that subsequent renewal  documents were sufficiently clear  and direct in asking Mr V to 
check the level of cover.
Because of this, LV accepted  the investigators  view - that it hadnt demonstrated it asked
Ref: DRN5647808Mr V clear and direct questions about  the value of his contents either at inception or 
renewal.
Overall, Im satisfied Mr V took reasonable care not to make  a misrepresentation. The 
information LV really  wanted to know was the value of the contents in the home, 
regardless of the value  Mr V wanted  to insure them for.
As theres no qualifying misrepresentation LV doesnt have the option  of the 
remedies stated in CIDRA.
Was it fair to settle the claim proportionately?
What remains for me to decide is whether it was fair and reasonable for LV to settle 
the claim proportionately.
Following the involvement of its loss adjuster, LV accepted the total value of items 
stolen from Mr Vs property was £44,551.86.
LV relied on the policy terms and conditions to settle the claim proportionately. So 
while Mr Vs claim  was for £44,551.86, LV offered to settle it for £22,205.26 and it 
provided an explanation as to how it reached this figure.
The particular term it relied on to do this was:
Under insurance
If the limit of the cover  is less than the full repayment cost of the contents of your 
home, we will reduce the amount claimed  in proportion with the under insurance.  
For example, if the limit of your contents  cover  is equal to 75% of the amount 
needed to replace all the contents,  we will only pay 75% of the claim
But Im not satisfied this approach is fair or reasonable in the circumstances of this particular 
case. A Law Commission paper1 recommended  controls to prevent parties from contracting 
out of CIDRA  to the detriment of consumers and section 10 of CIDRA sets out the following;
Contracting out
(1) A term of a consumer insurance contract, or of any other contract, which would  put the 
consumer in a worse position  as respects  the matters mentioned in subsection  (2) than 
the consumer  would  be in by virtue  of the provisions of this Act is to that extent of no 
effect.
(2) The matters are (a) disclosure and representations by the consumer to the 
insurer before the contract is entered into or varied, and (b) any remedies for qualifying 
misrepresentations (see section 4(2)).
(3) This section does not apply in relation to a contract for the settlement of a claim 
arising under a consumer insurance  contract.
1 Consumer Insurance Law: Pre-Contract Disclosure and Misrepresentation, Law Com  No 319: Scot 
Law Com No 219: 
Ref: DRN5647808In this case I am satisfied that the issue of under  insurance has arisen because of the lack 
of clarity in LVs question. Ive explained why Im satisfied Mr V took reasonable care and as 
such allowing LV to rely on the under  insurance term would cause a considerable financial 
detriment to Mr V. The term applied strictly has the effect of allowing LV to claim a remedy  
that isnt permitted, in this case, by the provisions of CIDRA.
In summary, Im not satisfied that its fair or reasonable in all the circumstances of this 
complaint for LV to rely on a term in its policy which has the effect of allowing it to do 
something that the relevant law specifically prevents it from doing.  I therefore plan to 
uphold this complaint and instruct  LV to settle the claim  in full.
Trouble and upset
It seems to me that LV unnecessarily delayed the settlement of this claim. It became 
apparent to LVs agents as early as May 2017 that Mr V may be underinsured. So it 
could have started investigating  at that point  and established whether there was a 
qualifying misrepresentation.
But this didnt happen and LV didnt decline the claim until February 2018. This delay  
would have undoubtedly caused  Mr V some trouble and upset particularly bearing in mind  
a number of the items  had significant  sentimental  value.  I understand why he would have 
been worried about how he would be able to replace them  without the funds to do so. I 
think LV should  pay them  £150  in recognition of this.
In response to my provisional decision,  LV confirmed it accepted  what  I said and was happy 
to proceed to full settlement of Mr Vs claim.
Mr V responded to say, while he accepted the settlement in full, he didnt believe the £150 
Id recommended was enough to fairly reflect the trouble and upset LV had put him to. He 
believed LVs behaviour  was outrageous and designed to frustrate  his claim.
He highlighted  a number of decisions published on our website where  consumers had 
received higher awards and said he thought there should be some consistency  in awards of 
compensation. He didnt  make any comment specific to his case that showed why he 
thought a higher award was appropriate.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties accepted my recommendation for the claim to be settled in full, I dont  need  
to comment on that any further,  other than to say I remain of the same  opinion. But I will 
comment on the award for trouble and upset.
Inevitably with a case like this involving a burglary where a substantial  number of items were  
stolen, some of which were of significant monetary or sentimental value, it will be a very 
distressing experience for the insured. Thats obviously not something the insurer is 
responsible for though.
Equally, with claims of this size, its likely an insurer will need to undertake a thorough 
investigation before it agrees to pay the claim and I dont think this is unreasonable.
Ref: DRN5647808In this case, LV believed it was acting  within the terms and conditions laid down in the policy. 
In my provisional decision I explained  why I didnt consider LVs approach fair in the specific  
circumstances of this particular case,  and thats why I planned to uphold  Mr Vs case.
That doesnt  mean I think LV was behaving  outrageously or specifically trying to frustrate 
Mr Vs complaint and I havent seen evidence that persuades me it was. 
Ive acknowledged  in my provisional decision that LV could have handled things better and I 
made an award for this. I know Mr V doesnt think the £150  I recommended was enough.  
The cases  he quotes from our website do have higher awards  but the circumstances of each 
of them  are very different. 
When considering  the level of award  on a case, the ombudsman will take into account  the 
specific circumstances of the complaint and will reach a decision about  what they consider 
fair and reasonable. Other cases with higher  or lower  awards dont  set a precedent for 
the decision an ombudsman reaches.    
In this case, for the reasons I explained in my provisional decision and in the absence of any 
new evidence, Im satisfied that £150  is a fair and reasonable way for LV to recognise the 
impact of the delays  it caused in settling the complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, I uphold Mr and Mrs Vs complaint and instruct  
Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company  Limited to pay Mr and Mrs V:
£44,551.86 in settlement of the claim,  less any sum its already paid in part 
settlement 
Interest on this amount at the simple rate of 8% per year from the date of the loss 
until the date it makes the payment*
£150 for the trouble  and upset it caused
Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company  Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of 
the date on which we tell it Mr and Mrs V accept my final decision. If it pays later than this it 
must also pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date the 
payment is made at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs V to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 November 2019.
Paul Phillips
Ombudsman
*If Liverpool  Victoria  Insurance  Company  Limited  considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr and Mrs V how much its taken  off. It 
should also give Mr and Mrs V a certificate showing this if they ask for one, so they can reclaim  the 
tax from HM Revenue  & Customs if appropriate
Ref: DRN5647808