K822xcomplaint
Mr I complains that Liverpool Victoria Friendly Society Limited (LV) reduced his enhanced 
annuity rate to a standard rate after they couldnt verify Mr Is smoking habits as stated on 
his application  form.
background 
In late 2012 Mr I started to make  enquiries  to a financial adviser about possible annuity 
options. He was told LV offered the best annuity rates  for smokers.
Mr I completed  a smoker annuity declaration which asked questions about  his smoking 
habits. On the form Mr I confirmed that he currently smoked and had been a regular smoker  
for the past ten years. He stated that he smoked 20-30 manufactured cigarettes and 6-9 
medium cigars  per day and that he used  50 grams of rolling tobacco each week.
Based on this information LV offered Mr I an enhanced annuity of £7,228  per year which Mr I 
accepted and the annuity started in February  2013  with the first payment  in March 2013.  LV 
reviewed Mr Is policy shortly after and sent a smoking questionnaire to his GP in order to 
verify Mr Is smoking history.
The information the GP provided didnt provide much detail. However, it showed two data 
entries which recorded Mr I as a current non-smoker in May 1999 and an ex-smoker  in 
March 2013. LV informed Mr I in May 2013  that the medical information they received from 
his GP was different to what he had stated  on his application form. 
LV told Mr I that if the GP information was correct he wouldnt qualify for the enhancement 
and his annuity would have to be reduced  from £7,228 to £6,170 per year.  LV  gave Mr I the 
opportunity to contact  his GP and correct  any wrong information and update his details. He 
was given 30 days to provide updated  information and was told his annuity would be 
rewritten to the reduced amount if LV didnt hear back  from him.
Mr I didnt contact LV until late August 2013  due to him being hospitalised. He explained that 
the medical records included inaccurate  information and that he had never really discussed 
his smoking habits with his GP. LV gave Mr I further  opportunity to clarify his details with his 
GP. In response to a further request  for information  the GP provided a duplicate  of what  they 
had already sent to LV in March.
In October  2013, Mr I requested a copy of his updated medical record and sent it to LV. 
However, the only additional information it included was that Mr I was a cigar smoker.  No 
further information was provided  and LV informed Mr I in November 2013 that his annuity 
would stay at the reduced level, but that they would  be happy to review  any new medical  
information if Mr I provided it to them.
A few years later, in 2017, Mr I contacted  LV and asked  again for his enhanced  rate to be 
reinstated and reiterated that the information  in the medical records was correct to the best 
of his knowledge. He gave LV a contact at his GP practice and asked LV to get in touch with 
this doctor  to request the information they needed. However, LV responded that it was Mr Is 
responsibility to provide  any further details in a reasonable  timeframe and after reviewing the 
documentation they had they thought  there was insufficient evidence to rewrite  the policy.
Ref: DRN56200192One of our investigators  looked into this complaint and originally thought  that LV should 
reinstate the original  enhancement. He considered the fact that GP records  can be 
inaccurate and based  on the evidence provided  he thought  on balance Mr I would have 
been a smoker. 
LV disagreed with the investigators opinion and both parties  provided  further  information  to 
this service. Mr I provided further  medical information that he requested  from his NHS  file. 
LV provided us with their underwriting  criteria in 2013 which showed that in order  to be 
eligible for a full enhancement  applicants needed  to be a current smoker  and would  have 
had to be a regular smoker for over ten years previously. They also needed to smoke  more 
than a certain daily number of manufactured  cigarettes or weekly amount of rolling  tobacco.  
No full enhancement would have been offered to anyone smoking cigars, no matter how 
many or regularly they were smoked.
They said a reduced enhancement would have been available if someone  was a regular 
smoker for the past ten years but had been smoking  fewer manufactured cigarettes, a 
smaller amount of rolling tobacco than was required for the full enhancement  or if someone 
was smoking cigars.
LV said they still disagreed that any enhancement should be paid to Mr I as there was no 
evidence that Mr I was a smoker when he applied  for his annuity  or that he had been for the 
ten years  prior to his application. However,  they said if our service remained of the opinion 
Mr I fulfilled this requirement, they only could consider  the reduced enhancement  in this case  
as there  wasnt enough  evidence  that Mr I was smoking manufactured cigarettes in addition  
to cigars and rolling tobacco.
Our investigator re-considered everything both parties had provided. He thought that the 
additional medical information provided by Mr I strengthened his view that Mr I had most 
likely been  a smoker  for all his life. However, he didnt think  there was enough evidence to 
show that Mr I met the requirements to qualify for a full enhancement.  So he recommended 
that LV should apply the reduced enhancement to Mr Is annuity. LV accepted  this and 
explained that if the reduced enhancement had been applied at the time of application Mr I 
would have been offered  an annuity of £6,512 per year.
Mr I disagreed with the investigators second view.  He said in 2013  he was offered an 
annuity of £7,228 per year which is a lot more than the annuity with a reduced enhancement  
which isnt fair. He says he was never  told of the prerequisite of smoking manufactured  
cigarettes or was informed about any other qualifying criteria.   And  he doesnt see any 
difference in health risk between smoking manufactured cigarettes and rolling  tobacco.  Mr I 
also thinks that when  he contacted LV in 2017 they should have contacted his GP again and 
asked for updated  information.
As no agreement could be reached  between the parties, Mr Is complaint was passed to me 
for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN56200193Having done so, I agree with the investigator that applying a reduced  enhancement to Mr Is 
annuity is fair in the circumstances. I know this will be disappointing for Mr I and I will explain 
the reasons for my decision in more detail.
When Mr I enquired about annuity  options  in 2012 he did say he was a smoker. 
Consequently, he was asked to complete a smoker annuity declaration which asked  him 
about his smoking  habits.  The form specifically  asked-amongst other things- about the 
number of manufactured cigarettes smoked per day. And Mr I said he smoked 20-30 
manufactured cigarettes.  He also said he was currently  smoking  and had been a regular 
smoker for the past ten years. Based on this information Mr I qualified  for a full smokers  
enhanced annuity rate with LV. 
I wouldnt expect an annuity  provider to tell customers what  criteria  they need  to meet  to be 
eligible for a higher income as this could lead to customers adapting their answers to meet 
the requirements. Also this information can be commercially sensitive. The form Mr I 
completed is designed for customers to describe their actual smoking habits and history 
which can then be compared  to the underwriting  criteria.
LV was right to offer Mr I the full enhanced smokers annuity of £7,228  per year based on the 
information he provided in the annuity  declaration in 2012. And they were also entitled to 
verify the information  given by Mr I with his GP.
The annuity  declaration Mr I completed  and signed  did mention under important 
information that LV might  write  to Mr Is doctor to confirm any medical/lifestyle information 
he had given and that the annuity income  might be reduced if the medical information didnt 
support the information given in the declaration unless  further  evidence  was provided which 
was considered reasonably acceptable.
I understand Mr Is argument that the GP records were inaccurate  and that he never  really  
discussed his smoking  habits  with his doctors.  However, LV gave Mr I the opportunity to 
contact his GP and make  sure the information held on him was updated and correct. LV 
made it clear  what sort of information  they needed. Their letter in May 2013  said that: 
Information relating  to smoking history should cover at least  the last 10 years;  we need to 
know about the amount smoked,  if this has changed during that time and include details 
about any smoking breaks.
Mr I was told he could provide further  information within 30 days  and if LV didnt hear 
anything they would  reduce his annuity. When Mr I didnt respond within this timeframe,  I 
think it was reasonable  for LV to reduce the rate.
When Mr I contacted LV a few months  later,  in August 2013, LV gave  him another 
opportunity to provide further information which they would consider. However, the only 
additional information LV received from Mr I was an updated medical record which showed 
he was a cigar smoker. It didnt include any information about how long he had been 
smoking and if there had been any smoking  breaks.  So again I dont think  LV acted 
unreasonably when they didnt re-instate Mr Is enhanced annuity  at this point.
I appreciate that Mr I thinks LV should  have  contacted his GP again  in 2017 when he 
provided them with a contact at his doctors practice  and asked for the information  they 
needed. However, I agree with LV that it would have been Mr Is responsibility to provide  
Ref: DRN56200194new medical evidence  and information, particularly  as at this point four years  had passed  
since the annuity had originally been  set up.
When the GP completed the smoking questionnaire in March 2013, the only information  it 
contained was that Mr I had been  a current non-smoker in May 1999 and an ex-smoker in 
March 2013. LV took from this information  that Mr I was not smoking at the time he applied 
for the annuity  (in late 2012) and that he hadnt  continuously smoked for the past ten years  
before that. And the updated medical  records Mr I provided in October 2013 didnt show  
anything either to support the fact that Mr I had been a regular smoker  up until the point  he 
applied for his annuity. So I can see how LV came  to their conclusion that Mr I didnt meet  
the eligibility criteria for the enhanced annuity with regards to the continuous smokers 
history.
Having said that Ive looked over all the information  Mr I provided and I agree with the 
investigator that Mr I more likely than not was a smoker at the time he took out the annuity 
and in the ten years previously. Ill explain why.
I think the starting point  is that there is no guaranteed proof of someones smoking history.  
Medical records can mention smoking  habits, but dont necessarily have to. And I think its 
likely that unless a doctor  has severe doubts  about  what a patient  is telling them,  they would 
likely just take the patients  word  for it, simply  because there might be no reason to doubt 
what they say.
So the starting point in my opinion is what Mr I told LV in his annuity  declaration  in 2012. He 
said he was a regular  smoker and that he had been  for the past ten years.  I appreciate that 
the medical records didnt explicitly confirm this was the case. However, equally, I dont think  
the records prove that Mr I didnt  smoke in the ten years before he applied  for his annuity.
The records  werent  particularly detailed and being  recorded as a current  non-smoker 
instead of a non-smoker or ex-smoker  in 1999 suggests  that Mr I had been smoking before 
1999 and maybe  had tried to stop temporarily. I appreciate  its possible  he didnt take up 
smoking after that or that he didnt smoke  continuously during  the following years. But Mr I 
has consistently said he has been  smoking  cigars  since he was seventeen and Ive seen 
several references to this in the paperwork. So I dont  see any particular  reason  to doubt 
that. 
I also considered the fact that he was recorded as an ex-smoker in March 2013. First of all 
this was after he had applied for the annuity,  so even  if he had stopped smoking  after his 
annuity application, as far as I see it he still would have been eligible for an enhancement. 
However, far more  importantly, Mr I had a life-threatening health scare  in March  2013. So I 
think its likely that Mr I instantly stopped smoking because  of that in March 2013  and not 
like it could be argued- years before. The key issue here is that the GP essentially has a lack 
of contemporaneous records of 14 years with regards to Mr Is smoking status.
Ive also considered that during his complaint  to this service, Mr I provided  hospital 
admittance forms which show that on 8 March 2013  and 23 April 2013  he answered yes to 
the question Do you smoke?. So even if he told the GP on 6 March 2013 he was no longer 
smoking which led to the entry of ex-smoker  (something Mr I denies), the hospital forms 
indicate that he says he was smoking  again a couple of days later. So I think its fair to 
assume that he hadnt really stopped smoking.
Ref: DRN56200195In April 2014 the hospital recorded Mr I as a smoker (20 cigars per week  for 40 years) and in 
more recent  hospital  notes from 2019  they refer to Mr I smoking  6-8 cigars a day since the 
age of 17. Looking at all the evidence I have I think on balance its most  likely that Mr I has 
been a regular smoker all his life.
I know that Mr I mentioned smoking 20-30 manufactured cigarettes on his annuity 
declaration. However,  based on the information I have, there isnt enough for me to say that 
Mr I was smoking anything other  than cigars and rolling tobacco (which I think  he might  have  
meant when he referred to cigarettes). I say this because in letters  to LV in August 2013  and 
to his GP in August  2013 and in March 2014,  Mr I says hes currently  smoking  50 grams of 
rolling tobacco and between  6-9 cigars per day. And he mentions that hes been smoking 
cigars since he was 17 years old.
As I already mentioned  above later records also show that Mr I is smoking cigars and rolling 
tobacco. In no correspondence  are manufactured  cigarettes mentioned,  either by doctors or 
Mr I himself. Mr I also sent in photos  of him smoking  over the years.  However, whilst a 
couple of photos seem to show him smoking a manufactured cigarette, most show  him 
smoking roll ups or cigars.  So I think  on balance  Mr I more  likely wasnt regularly smoking 
manufactured cigarettes.
 
I have considered the fact that when  LV made  their decision to reduce Mr Is annuity and 
their decision  not to reinstate it in 2017 they didnt have all the information that Mr I has 
provided to this service  now. And as mentioned above I think it would have been down to Mr 
I to provide LV with this information. So I dont think they necessarily treated Mr I unfairly at 
the time.
However, I do think that when he applied for his annuity he qualified for a reduced 
enhancement for smoking cigars and rolling tobacco. And internal communications from LVs 
underwriters suggest  that there is no particular time limit to consider new information, albeit 
cases would  need  to be decided by senior managers.
In this case LV have  already offered to apply a reduced enhancement to Mr Is annuity and I 
think this is the fair thing  to do in the circumstances.
I appreciate that Mr I would like to receive the full enhancement.  However, from what  Ive 
seen he never would have been entitled  to this based on his smoking habits. And I dont  
think he was misled  by LV at any point. They asked clear questions  in their questionnaire 
and based their original  annuity offer on what Mr I had told them in the form.
I understand Mr Is argument that smoking  rolling tobacco and cigars poses as much a threat 
to his health as manufactured cigarettes. And this might well be the case. However,  
businesses can decide whether they want to offer enhanced annuity rates  and set their own 
qualifying criteria based on what they consider to be the risks for them. And Im satisfied that 
Mr I only met LVs underwriting criteria for a reduced enhancement in 2012. 
putting things right
Information on LVs file shows that Mr I received five fully enhanced annuity  payments from 
March to July 2013.  However, after the decision was made  to reduce his annuity  to a 
standard rate, LV collected the overpayments from Mr I by paying him three reduced annuity  
payments from August  to October 2013.  So effectively Mr I has received a standard  annuity 
since 2013.  
Ref: DRN56200196Mr Is annuity with a reduced enhancement would have been £6,512 per year.  LV  should  
increase Mr Is current annuity of £6,170 to this higher amount going  forward.  They should 
also refund  him the reduced enhancement he hasnt received  since  March 2013  until now 
which seems to be £342 per year (£6,512 minus £6,170).
Usually our service would  add interest  to the refund payments Mr I should have between 
2013 and now.  However, as I dont think LV acted unreasonably when they reduced  Mr Is 
annuity and didnt reinstate it in 2017, I think additional interest payments would be unfair to 
LV in this case. So I wont ask LV to add any additional interest  payments.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained I uphold this complaint and ask Liverpool Victoria Friendly 
Society Limited to pay Mr I what I set out above.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 October  2019.
Nina Walter
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5620019