K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about the amount of compensation HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) has 
offered to Mr F to settle his complaint about  a mis-sold payment protection  insurance (PPI) 
policy taken out alongside a credit  card. 
background
In July 1990 Mr F took out a credit  card with HSBC  and at the same time bought a PPI policy  
associated with the account. The credit  card account was settled  and closed in 
January 2005  and the PPI was cancelled.
Mr F complained the PPI was mis-sold. HSBC agreed to uphold his complaint  and offered 
him some compensation totalling £9,700.51 after tax. Mr F wasnt happy with the amount of 
compensation HSBC  had calculated for the times  he was out of pocket and brought  his 
complaint to this service.
Our adjudicator said what HSBC had paid in compensation was fair. Mr F remained unhappy 
with the calculations and asked for an ombudsman to look at his complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
HSBC has upheld Mr Fs complaint that the PPI was mis-sold so Im not considering how 
that happened. In this decision Im only looking at the compensation  HSBC  has offered to 
settle the complaint and if this is fair.
Mr F opened his account and took out the PPI in July 1990. In January 2005 he cleared his 
balance on the card, the account was closed and the PPI was cancelled. So the PPI was 
active on the account from July 1990  to January 2005.
HSBC do not have full data for all the period the PPI was active so has had to make some  
assumptions about what Mr F may have paid in the periods it has no data.  The actual data is 
only known from October  1999  to April 2004. For all other times, both before and after these  
dates, HSBC has estimated what Mr F may have been charged for the cost of the PPI 
including premiums added to his account and interest.
The estimates have  been worked out on the average balance  in the preceding  12 months 
and then gradually reducing back  to the start date of the card or increasing to the date the 
account was closed. How HSBC has approached these  estimates  I think is fair. And overall  
the way it has worked out the estimated premiums  and concluded that the total premiums 
paid would have  been £3,785.31 seems fair also. 
Looking at the calculations of the interest  paid on the premiums I can see that when HSBC 
has actual data, it has worked out what proportion of the interest charged to the card 
account was for the PPI premiums.  This results in card rate interest of £159.63 being caused 
by the PPI from October 1999 to April 2004.
However for the periods  when it has no data HSBCs calculation seems to not actually  
calculate the card rate interest  as such.  What it has done is calculated 8% (or 15% where 
Ref: DRN57846372appropriate) simple interest  on each premium charged for the PPI from the date of the 
charge on the account to the date of the calculation of redress.  
This is not the standard  way to undertake calculations but there  are a range of different 
approaches that can still result in a fair outcome. If the PPI was added to the balance  and 
caused interest but the balance was not cleared, no 8% simple compensatory  interest  would 
have been payable until the account balance was cleared. After 2005  when  the account was 
closed, 8% simple interest would  be paid on everything Mr F was out of pocket for the PPI. 
But the approach taken  by HSBC gives 8% simple  interest from the first date of the PPI on 
the premiums paid.
The card rate interest in this particular case was quite  low at around 7.6%APR. As Mr F is 
getting 8% simple interest from when the charges  were made  to the card, rather than card 
rate interest, then he actually ends up better off with the calculation  HSBC has carried  out. 
I have undertaken  a calculation to estimate  how much  the card rate interest for the PPI may 
have been if a standard calculation had been  carried out, also using some  assumptions 
about the data.  This would result in a total amount of interest caused at around £276.38 for 
both known and unknown data period. However the 8% simple interest would increase and 
more tax would be paid. So overall  the total net compensation due to Mr F, taking this 
approach, would be something around  £9,245 net.
This is actually less than what HSBC  has paid using the 8% simple approach for the whole 
period of each  PPI payment. So I think its fair that HSBC honours the higher payment it has 
made. But would reassure Mr F that he is not be out of pocket as if the calculation was done 
as a standard approach  he would  have received less compensation overall.
I can understand why Mr F feels the 8% simple  interest amount in the offer is wrong  as this 
is based on the way that HSBC presented the offer information to him. This said the interest 
caused by the PPI was much higher than it actually was. The figure of £4,290.19, shown as 
the interest caused  by PPI, was actually  the known interest of £159.63 plus the amount of 
8% simple  interest HSBC  had worked  out on the premiums for the unknown data periods.
This offer was misleading in the way it was presented. It states that the third section is the 
amount for 8% simple interest  for any times out of pocket. But in fact this did not include the 
amount for the unknown data periods (including  the time when  15% simple interest may 
have applied)  as this had been included in the figure  for the card rate interest in the second 
section. 
In summary,  I think the amount of £9,700.51  is fair compensation for the mis-sale  and is 
slightly more than Mr F may have been  due in compensation. But I think the way HSBC has 
presented its offer to Mr F is very confusing and I can understand why Mr F thought  the 8% 
simple interest figure should be substantially more. 
Because of this lack of clarity and poor information I think  HSBC  should pay an additional 
£50.00 for the trouble  and upset it has caused Mr F in trying to understand the compensation 
calculation and the figures presented to him.  
Ref: DRN57846373my final decision
For the reasons  I have  set out I think that the £9,700.51 compensation that HSBC UK Bank 
Plc has paid to Mr F is fair to refund all the costs  of the PPI that was mis-sold and pay some  
compensatory interest.  
However due to the confusing and misleading  way it has presented the information  to Mr F I 
think it should pay a further £50.00 for the trouble and upset this has caused. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 March 2020.
Christine Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5784637