K821x#15complaint
Mr D complains that NewDay Ltd have refused to refund him for goods  he purchased with 
his store  card.
background
I sent my provisional decision to both parties on 30 April 2018. A copy  of this is attached  and 
forms part of this final decision. In it I set out the background to this complaint, and I 
explained why I thought  it should be partially  upheld.  I said that I didnt think it was fair 
NewDay hadnt given  further consideration to raising  a chargeback  for Mr D, and that I 
thought they should  pay him £75 compensation for the trouble and upset this caused.  But, 
on balance, I didnt  think it was likely  that a chargeback would  have been  successful  here. 
So I didnt feel that it would be fair to ask NewDay to reimburse Mr D for the cost of his 
goods.
Mr D responded to my provisional decision and said hed been  given the opportunity to refer 
his complaint about the retailer to the Retail Alternative Dispute Resolution Scheme 
(RetailADR), and that the time it took them to deal with it delayed his complaint to NewDay. 
He also said the retailer had agreed to refund the cost of the damage  to his letterbox if he 
provided them with a receipt  which hed done.  And he reiterated  the fact hed asked the 
retailer for proof of delivery for his goods,  but this hadnt been provided. So he feels a 
chargeback would have been  successful. 
He provided us with a copy of the receipt for repairs to his letterbox,  the outcome of his 
referral to the RetailADR, and some correspondence he received from the retailer.
NewDay responded to my provisional decision and said they dont agree Mr D came to them 
in time to provide the evidence they needed  to start a chargeback.  Theyve explained that 
they dont consider email a secure method of contact, and their process  is to receive  
documents in the post. As Mr D came to them on Friday evening  and the time limit for 
making a chargeback was up on the following Monday they dont feel there would have been 
enough time for this. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I know  both parties will be disappointed,  
but I still think this complaint should be partially upheld  for the reasons I outlined in my 
provisional decision.
Mr D is unhappy with the way the RetailADR  dealt with his complaint. Im sorry to hear this, 
but the RetailADR isnt connected  to our service. I understand  why Mr D didnt ask NewDay 
for assistance earlier. But the time limits in place for raising a chargeback  are set by the card 
scheme, and NewDay  have to follow these rules.
However, I explained in my provisional decision why I thought Mr D had come  to NewDay  in 
time for them to consider  making a chargeback. And I still feel this was the case.  I appreciate 
NewDays process requires postal correspondence.  But Mr D came to them within  the card 
schemes time limit, so Id expect to see theyd done  their best to assist him, even if this 
required them to act urgently or outside of their standard process. I also note that there  are 
Ref: DRN57483772postal delivery services that would have been  able to deliver documents posted over the 
weekend to NewDay on the Monday, even though Mr D might have had to pay for this. 
I appreciate Mr D still feels  strongly  that a chargeback would have succeeded as he hasnt  
seen any proof from the retailer  that these items were delivered  to his address.  Were not 
able to discuss his complaint  with a third party, i.e. any party  who isnt NewDay  or Mr D. So 
whilst I appreciate Mr D wants to see proof  of delivery in writing, its not our role to ask the 
retailer to provide this. Where evidence is incomplete or not available,  I have to make my 
decision based on what I think, on the balance  of probabilities, is most likely to have 
happened in the circumstances. And I explained in my provisional decision why I think its 
likely the retailer would  have been  able to provide  proof of delivery if NewDay  had initiated a 
chargeback. So whilst  I sympathise with Mr D, and Im sorry hes lost money, it wouldnt be 
fair for me to ask NewDay to reimburse him for this. 
I understand Mr D is frustrated that the retailer initially agreed to refund him for the damage 
to his letterbox,  but hasnt done  so. But chargeback is a process  whereby in certain  
circumstances a card provider can reverse a payment a consumer has made  to a retailer.  It 
doesnt allow for the recovery of any additional costs outside  of this card transaction. So I 
cant fairly ask NewDay to reimburse  Mr D for this damage,  even though I can see he has 
proof repairs were carried out. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. To put things right I require 
NewDay Ltd to pay Mr D £75 compensation for the trouble and upset  their actions caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 July 2019.
Jenette Lynch
ombudsman
Ref: DRN57483773copy of provisional decision
complaint
Mr D complains that NewDay Ltd have refused to refund him for goods he purchased with his store 
card.
background
On 19 March  2017  Mr D placed an order online  for a number of goods costing a total of £567.47. He 
paid using a store card issued by NewDay Ltd. 
One item was cancelled  by the retailer  and he received a refund of £32.50 for this. But only one other 
item was delivered, with a value of £20.25. And this had been pushed through  his letterbox and 
become stuck; causing damage that he had to pay £100  to fix. 
Mr D complained to the retailer he had purchased the goods from.  But they said they couldnt  give 
him a refund him for the goods he didnt receive  as the third party delivery agent  said theyd delivered 
them.
On 14 July 2017  Mr D contacted NewDay about the matter. But they didnt help him to get a refund 
either. So he brought his complaint to our service.
NewDay issued a final response letter explaining that they only have 120 days  from the date of 
purchase to dispute a transaction through the chargeback process. And that as this was out of time 
on 17 July 2017, they didnt feel they had time to help Mr D when he came to them.  They suggested 
he needed to pursue  any complaint against the retailer  he made  the purchase from,  or the agent who 
was meant to deliver the goods to his address. They said they had tried to speak  to the retailer on Mr 
Ds behalf.  But they werent able to discuss the matter due to data protection.
Our adjudicator agreed that it was unlikely  NewDay would have had time to raise a chargeback  
request. And they felt that even had they been able to do so, it was unlikely it would have been 
successful as the retailer  said the goods  had been  delivered.
Mr D disagrees.  He feels he brought his complaint to NewDay within the required timescale. And he 
says that the retailer hasnt shown him any proof the goods  were  delivered. So he doesnt think they 
would have been able to defend the claim.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. I know Mr D will be disappointed, but I dont think it would  be fair to 
ask NewDay to refund  the cost of the goods he purchased here. But I am going to ask them to pay 
him £75 compensation  to reflect the trouble  and upset caused when they failed  to help him. Ill explain 
why. 
All of the goods Mr D purchased were individually worth less than £100. So NewDay couldnt  have 
raised a claim under section 75 of the Consumer  Credit Act as this didnt apply here. But they could  
have considered raising a chargeback. Whilst the card issuer doesnt have to submit a chargeback 
request just because a card holder asks them to, we do consider it good practice for them to consider 
doing so if there is a fair chance it will be successful. 
NewDay say that they felt the issue here was with delivery of the goods, and they had no evidence to 
support what  Mr D told them  had happened.  Theyve also explained that they werent able to take the 
matter any further as they had no evidence  that Mr D had first raised his complaint with the retailer. 
And they felt that hed brought his complaint to them too late for them to be able to help him, as under  
the card scheme rules,  they had a time limit of 120 days from the date of purchase to raise  a 
chargeback request. 
Ref: DRN57483774Ive thought about what NewDay  have told us, and I agree that Mr D came  to them very close to the 
120 day deadline  that theyve correctly said applied.  However, I dont agree  that they couldnt have  
tried to help him further.  Mr D spoke to them on Friday  14 July 2017, and 120 days was up on 
Monday 17 July 2017.  I think  that Mr D could have collated the information NewDay needed and 
provided it to them over the weekend.  Hes shown us he had the receipts from his purchases,  and 
evidence that he had already complained to the retailer. So I think  if NewDay had explained to him 
what they would need to further  consider  making  a chargeback, and that they would  need this by the 
Monday, on balance its more likely than not Mr D would  have been able to provide  it to them.
NewDay say that they did consider raising  a chargeback at the time.  But I feel their reasons  for not 
doing so were  down to a lack of evidence from Mr D. And as they didnt give him the opportunity to 
provide this, I dont think they treated him fairly  here.  Mr D was clearly very upset about  what  had 
happened. So I feel it would be reasonable for NewDay to pay him £75 compensation for the trouble  
and upset caused when  they didnt  give him the chance to provide this evidence.
However, I do agree with our adjudicator  that its unlikely a chargeback request would ultimately  have 
been successful here. So I dont think it would be fair to ask NewDay to refund Mr D for the goods he 
didnt receive.  
I appreciate the retailer hasnt shown Mr D any proof from the delivery company to say his goods 
were delivered. But on balance I think its more likely  than not that they would  have been able to 
provide this had they needed to defend a chargeback.  Mr D has confirmed that he did receive one 
item, and that this became jammed in his letterbox. So this suggests to me that the delivery company 
did attempt a delivery  to his address, and its likely that no-one was at home to accept  it or they 
wouldnt have needed  to try and put a parcel  through his door. Whilst I cant be sure what happened 
to the rest of his items, and I am very sorry that Mr D has been left out of pocket, that doesnt mean  it 
would be fair for NewDay to refund him the money here.
I understand that during this delivery Mr Ds letterbox was damaged and he had to pay £100 to fix it. 
Again I cant  fairly hold NewDay responsible for these costs. There would have been no way for them  
to try and claim these for him had they made a chargeback request.  They werent part of the payment 
Mr D had made to the retailer  that he wanted NewDay to reverse.
I appreciate that both Mr D and NewDay  will be disappointed with my decision.  But Ive outlined  why I 
feel this is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.  
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part. To put things right NewDay  Ltd should 
pay Mr D £75 for the trouble  and upset caused.
Jenette Lynch
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5748377