K820x#14complaint
Mr S is unhappy with the offer Ageas  Insurance Limited  (Ageas) has made  following a claim 
under his caravan insurance policy. 
All references to Ageas  include their agents.
background
In mid-November 2016 Mr S says he turned off the mains and drained  the water  in his static  
caravan in accordance with normal procedures. About  three weeks  later,  in December  2016,  
the owner of the caravan  park where  Mr S keeps his caravan noticed water dripping  from 
underneath. In January  2017, Mr S raised  a claim with Ageas for the damage the water  had 
caused. Ageas appointed a loss adjuster  who inspected the unit at the beginning of 
March 2017. 
The loss adjusters in their report said that the owner of the caravan park indicated  that the 
mains tap was slightly open. Ageas  said the claim wasnt covered, because  Mr Ss policy 
had an exclusion requiring him to have the water turned off at the mains. But at the 
beginning of April 2017, Ageas, as a gesture of goodwill offered Mr S 50% of the cost of 
repairs, not including the shower room window which they said was caused as a result of a 
previous incident.   
Later Mr S said the caravan park owners words  must have been  misconstrued and he 
categorically denies saying that the mains  water tap was slightly  open. Also the caravan  park 
owner said it was possible  for the tap to have been closed but that owing to the presence of 
corrosion within the washer, the tap may have started to seep. Ageas disagreed with this 
and said it couldnt  have been a simple seepage  of water because of the significant volume 
of water and the damage it caused in a short span of time.
In September  2017, Mr S accepted the offer of 50% of the value of the repairs but without 
prejudice as he was of the opinion that Ageas  should pay the balance  of the cost of repairs. 
He didnt think that he should  be responsible for the excess due on his policy  and believes 
Ageas should  pay compensation to him for the delays and considerable stress caused.  So 
he brought his complaint to our service. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and thought, based on the evidence Ageas  didnt  
have to do anything  further. He thought there were no significant  delays caused by Ageas 
and Mr S was responsible  for paying the excess.  He also thought the offer of 50% of the cost 
of the repairs  was fair. 
Mr S agreed with the investigator in regards to the timescales and excess, but said he 
remains convinced that Ageas has been  unfair in not paying  his claim in full and that they 
have discredited  both his and the site owners actions and opinions. 
So the complaint has been passed  to me to make  a decision.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Ref: DRN56239032Not all damage will be covered by an insurance policy.  Only specific, defined insured events 
set out in the policy will be covered. The onus is for the policyholder to show  that an insured 
event most  likely caused the damage. If an insurer is seeking to rely on a policy exclusion to 
decline a claim, its up to the insurer  to demonstrate that the particular exclusion applies. 
This is what  Ageas has done here  theyve relied on an exclusion in the policy which  says 
that water  has to be turned off at the mains. 
I think the exclusion is clearly set out in Mr Ss policy. Mr S doesnt dispute  being aware of 
the fact that he needed to drain the system so all I have to make a decision on is whether I 
think it was fair and reasonable for Ageas to rely on this exclusion considering  the 
circumstances of this particular complaint. 
This complaint comes down to whether I think its likely the mains  tap was turned off or if it 
was left at least slightly  open. I cant know for certain exactly what happened.  For me to 
conclude that it was fair for Ageas to rely on the exclusion  in the policy  I have to be satisfied 
on balance of probabilities that the tap was left at least slightly open.
I know Mr S is adamant that he follows the same  strict procedure  for the last 13 years when 
he turns  off the mains water and drains  the system  to prepare it for winter. I also understand 
that Mr S and the owner  of the caravan park are now of the opinion  that the tap was most 
likely closed, but that there was a fault with the tap and water  was seeping  through even 
though it was in the off position.  However  wed usually consider the first version  of events  
reported to be the most persuasive,  as circumstances  are fresh  in everyones minds. And I 
also need to take into account  that this new information was only provided  after Ageas 
decided to turn down  the claim. 
The caravan  park owner says that when  he discovered the leak he went first to the stop tap 
but that appeared to be closed so for additional  reassurance he used force with a spanner to 
try and shut off the water. Since  this didnt stop the flow he disconnected  the water  pipe 
going to the caravan. He also says that once he replaced the stop tap it was very clear that 
the seat of that tap was at fault. He says he provided this evidence to the loss adjusters at 
the time.  However  if the caravan park owner  had given this detail at the time, Id expect to 
have seen it in the loss adjusters report  I see no reason why the loss adjuster wouldnt 
have recorded  these details if itd been  told of them. Also if the mains tap was faulty and that 
was the process  the site owner  followed, I wouldve expected to see some  of this detail  also 
described by Mr S on his claim  form that was submitted  to Ageas in January 2017.    
Overall, taking all of the circumstances of this complaint into consideration, I think  its most 
likely the mains tap was at least partially open. 
So I think Ageas  is entitled  to rely on the policy exclusion  in question   and I dont think they 
have been unfair or unreasonable in doing so. This means I think  Ageas was entitled  to turn 
down Mr Ss claim in full. 
I realise my decision will come as a disappointment  to Mr S but Im not asking Ageas to pay 
any compensation for stress caused to him and I think the 50% of the cost of the repairs they 
have already paid Mr S is more than fair in the circumstances. 
Ref: DRN56239033my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold  Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 June  2019.
Mike Kozbial
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5623903