K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs K are unhappy with Bank of Scotland plcs response  to a chargeback claim they 
made. 
background
In 2018, Mr and Mrs K contacted Bank  of Scotland to make  a claim for money paid to a 
holiday club provider. They said that the holiday club provider  hadnt  provided the goods and 
service that had been promised and they felt Bank  of Scotland should help them  recover 
their money.
Mr and Mrs K had entered a contract  with a holiday club provider about four years 
beforehand. They paid this holiday club provider several thousand pounds, by debit card 
payment and by bank  transfer from their current account. 
Bank of Scotland replied to Mr and Mrs K, explaining that there  was a time limit for bringing a 
chargeback claim, and that this claim had been brought outside  of this period. Bank of 
Scotland said that in these circumstances it was unable  to submit the claim to VISA, the 
relevant card scheme.
Mr and Mrs K didnt  think it was fair to say that claim was outside of the time limits.  They said 
that they didnt  know  at the time of purchase that contract was (allegedly) misrepresented. 
Nor were they made aware  of the time limits for bringing the chargeback claim.
Our investigator sympathised  with Mr and Mrs Ks position. But said that the rules for 
bringing the claim were  set by VISA, and Bank of Scotland was obliged  to follow these.  And 
that, as the claim  had been brought after the expiry of the relevant period, Bank of Scotland 
had acted appropriately. The investigator  also noted that chargeback  claims are also only 
possible on card payments, and not on bank transfers. 
Mr and Mrs K were  not satisfied by this. They felt that the time frame could be extended due 
to extreme circumstances, which they felt applied. And that Bank of Scotland  had a 
responsibility to pay due regards to the interests  of its customers and treat them fairly. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive come to the same 
conclusion as our investigator. 
Whilst financial businesses do have an obligation to treat their customers  fairly and to have 
due consideration of their interests,  they must do this within the framework  of the industry.  
Chargeback is a process that is provided  by card schemes. The relevant card scheme in this 
case is VISA. If there's a problem with the goods  or services that have been paid for using a 
VISA card, the chargeback process allows a customer to ask for the relevant transaction  to 
be reversed. However,  there's no automatic right to a chargeback  and this process  isnt a 
guaranteed method of getting a refund. 
Ref: DRN58635832A chargeback claim is only possible where the relevant purchase is made using a card 
provided by the card scheme. It isnt possible  to raise a claim on a balance transfer. A claim 
is also made only for a refund of the amount of the card transaction. 
A bank  also doesn't have to raise  a chargeback. Although, if there is a reasonable chance 
the chargeback  claim would be successful, I consider it would be good practice for a bank  to 
try  this would likely  be treating the customer fairly and have  due regard to their interests.
The rules  for the process are set out by the card scheme, and all banks, etc. are obliged to 
follow these rules when  raising a claim.  These rules include the time limits in which a claim 
can be made. A failure  to comply with these is a valid defence to a chargeback  claim.  
So if a consumer brings their claim outside of the relevant time limits, that claim is unlikely to 
be successful. And if a bank reasonably considers that a claim won't be successful, I dont 
consider it would have to raise the claim. Indeed, even if it did so, the card scheme is 
unlikely to process it.
In Mr and Mrs Ks case, the relevant VISA  rules  say that the latest a claim can be made, 
regardless of the circumstances, is 540 calendar days  from the date the transaction was 
processed. Mr and Mrs K contacted Bank of Scotland around four years after the transaction 
theyre claiming for. This is far beyond the 540 day time limit and so they had exceeded the 
period provided  in the relevant rules. 
Even if their claim had been raised by Bank  of Scotland, and even  if VISA had processed it, 
it could easily have  been defended by the holiday clubs  bank and so would  not have been 
successful. And, in these  circumstances,  I consider  Bank  of Scotland  to have acted  fairly  
and reasonably in not submitting the chargeback claim to VISA.
I do have a great deal of sympathy with Mr and Mrs K. It seems they have genuine concerns 
about the contract they entered with the holiday club.  And I appreciate that they were  not 
aware of these immediately. Nor were they away of the card scheme rules and time limits. 
But none  of this means that Bank of Scotland has done anything  wrong.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules  of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs K to accept or reject my decision 
before 21 July 2019. 
Sam Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5863583