K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains that MEM Consumer Finance Limited (trading as Payday UK) was 
irresponsible to lend to him.
background
Mr G borrowed  £500 from Payday UK on 31 January 2012.  £625 was due to be repaid the 
following month, but Mr G deferred  full repayment for six months. Payday UK says it was 
then told Mr G was in a debt management plan,  but there was still an outstanding balance  of 
£302.34 as at 12 September 2017.
Mr G says the loan was unaffordable and his income and expenditure would have shown 
this. He says he had to borrow  repeatedly from multiple short-term lenders to get through 
each month. Mr G adds that Payday UK should  have realised from his pattern  of borrowing, 
and his credit report, that he was in financial difficulties.
Payday UK says it asked Mr G for information  about his income and checked his credit  
report before  approving  the loan.
Our adjudicator did not recommend the complaint should be upheld. Although he didnt think 
Payday UK had done enough checks, he explained that he didnt have enough information 
from Mr G about  his circumstances at the time.  So, he said,  he could not conclude  that the 
loan was unaffordable.
Mr G responded to say, in summary that he could not provide his bank statements from the 
period as he changed banks in August 2012.  He said, however, that the fact hed entered  
into a debt management plan in August 2012 was a strong indicator that the loan was 
unaffordable. He added that he was borrowing  from one short-term lender to pay another, so 
Payday UK should have been  able to see that from his credit file.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Payday UK was required to lend responsibly. It should have made checks  to make sure Mr 
G could afford to repay the loans before it lent to him. Those checks needed  to be 
proportionate to things such as the amount Mr G was borrowing, and his lending  history.  But 
there was no set list of checks Payday UK had to do.
When Mr G applied for the loan, he told Payday UK his income was £1,650. Payday UK also 
carried out a credit check before it approved the loan. But I dont consider these checks went 
far enough. I say that because the scheduled repayment, of £625, was a large  proportion  of 
Mr Gs income  and there were indications on his credit file that he already had significant  
credit commitments.  As a minimum, I find a proportionate  check should have included  asking  
Mr G about his regular  monthly expenditure and whether he had any other  outstanding  
short-term loans.
In this case, however, Mr G hasnt been  able to provide evidence of his financial 
circumstances at the time, so I cant say what such checks would have shown. Therefore, I 
cant conclude that Payday  UK was wrong when it made its initial  lending  decision.
Ref: DRN51120052The fact Mr G rolled the loan over six times  before finally entering into a debt management 
plan, should have indicated to Payday UK that Mr G might be having  difficulty making the full 
repayment. Taking into account  the Office of Fair Tradings guidance from 2010 which said 
loans should not be rolled over in a way that was unsustainable, I consider Payday UK 
should also have  done further  checks after the third or fourth rollover.
But, again, as Ive seen no evidence of Mr Gs financial circumstances, Im unable to say 
whether additional checks would have  shown the rollovers  to be unsustainable.
I accept what Mr G says about the debt management plan itself being  evidence of the 
unaffordability of the loan, but Payday  UK would not have known about  that at the time it 
should have been making further checks.  Without  seeing what  financial information would 
have been available to Payday UK at the relevant time, I cannot conclude it should have 
found the loan, or its rollovers, to be unaffordable.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 April 2019.
Amanda Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5112005