K820x#14complaint
Mrs W, represented by a claims  management  company (CMC) complains about fees and 
charges Lloyds Bank PLC charged on her overdraft. To settle matters shed like a refund of 
fees, charges  and interest paid.
background
In December 2018 the CMC complained to Lloyds on Mrs Ws behalf. The CMC  explained 
that Mrs W felt trapped in a permanent overdraft for some time. Her income  and personal  
expenditure had been  negatively affected over this time and she had to borrow  from other 
companies to pay essential  bills and living cots. It says Lloyds didnt  treat her fairly  because it 
was aware of her difficult financial  position  and offered no help to get her out of the overdraft 
trap. The CMC asked  for a full refund  of all overdraft  fees, charges and interest paid.
Lloyds didnt uphold  her complaint. It said it was unable to refund her arranged overdraft 
fees because  when she set up the overdraft facility she agreed to pay the fees.  It reviewed 
her account  history and charges and was satisfied that the fees were  correctly charged to 
her account.
Mrs W remained dissatisfied with Lloyds response so she brought her complaint to our service.  
Our investigator looked into Mrs Ws complaint but they didnt recommend it should be upheld.
The investigator explained that we could only look into charges and interest on the account in 
the last six years and that we are unable  to look at whether  the charges were  unfair  or too 
high due to a Supreme Court ruling  in 2009.  But the investigator looked at whether the 
charges were applied  in line with the terms and conditions of Mrs Ws account and concluded 
they were correctly applied so the investigator couldnt say Lloyds had acted unfairly.
The investigator couldnt see any evidence to suggest Mrs W had notified  Lloyds of her 
financial difficulties. They reviewed Mrs Ws statements and noted her account had been  
well run and within the agreed overdraft limit for the majority of the time so they couldnt say 
Lloyds should  have been aware she was in financial difficulties.
Mrs W disagrees with the investigators view.  Shes  asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
She thinks Lloyds was more than happy for her overdraft to continue.  She had funds in 
another account and thinks Lloyds should  have  given her advice so she could reduce her 
overdraft interest and charges to her advantage.
Since issuing their view the investigator has since clarified that the Supreme Court  case 
wouldnt apply here because that particular  case applies to unauthorised or unarranged 
overdrafts but in Mrs Ws case she had an arranged overdraft for six years. However,  even 
though the Supreme Court case wouldnt apply,  the investigator still thought the charges had 
been applied  fairly in line with the terms and conditions of her account.
Ref: DRN56053412my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I agree with the 
conclusion reached  by the investigator and for broadly the same reasons.
I should also explain to Mrs W that Im only looking at whats happened  in the six years 
before her complaint to Lloyds. I can see that the investigator has already explained to     
Mrs W the time limits we operate under.
overdraft charges
I can see that W had an arranged overdraft on her account for a number of years. Ive reviewed 
her statements between  December 2012 and December 2018 and these show  the overdraft 
usage fees and interest  applied by Lloyds. I can see from her statements that she was charged 
overdraft interest and arranged overdraft usage fees. She was also charged  unarranged 
overdraft usage  fees on a few occasions  when she exceeded her arranged overdraft limit.
I realise Mrs Ws strength of feeling  regarding the amount of interest and charges shes been  
charged. But I cant say it was wrong of Lloyds  to apply these. I say this because Lloyds 
agreed to provide overdraft facilities for her and in return for doing so it applied  charges in 
line with terms and conditions applicable to her account at the relevant time.
Ive reviewed her statements between December 2012 and December 2018 and the fees 
and interest applied by Lloyds appear  to be in line with the terms and conditions  applicable  
to her account at the relevant time.  So Im satisfied the fees and interest were applied fairly  
in line with the terms and conditions of her account.
debt spiral
Mrs W has explained that shes been in a cycle  of debt and Lloyds should have done  more 
to help her.
When a customer is in financial difficulties  Id expect Lloyds to consider this and to treat their 
customer positively and sympathetically. However, Ive reviewed  the account notes provided  by 
Lloyds and I havent seen anything to suggest Mrs W told Lloyds that she was experiencing 
financial difficulties. It can be difficult for a business  to help if it isnt made aware,  at the time,  
that a customer is in financial difficulties. I realise  Mrs W says Lloyds was aware  of her financial 
circumstances but if this was the case Id expect there to be some  record of it on Lloyds notes 
and Ive as Ive explained above I havent  seen  anything  to suggest this was the case.
As I havent  seen any written information  to support or show that Mrs W told Lloyds of her 
financial difficulties, Ive also looked at her statements to see if Lloyds should have been alerted 
to her financial difficulties.  Im afraid I havent  seen anything to suggest this was the case. I 
realise Mrs W had an arranged  overdraft  for a number of years  but I dont  think  that this, on its 
own, would  be enough for Lloyds to be on notice she was experiencing financial difficulties. I 
say this because  her account  appears to have  been  well run and she managed it within  the 
agreed overdraft limit for most  of the time. On the limited occasions when she exceeded  her 
overdraft limit she quickly brought her account back within the agreed overdraft limit.
Based on the information Ive seen I cant fairly conclude Mrs W told Lloyds of her financial 
difficulties or that Lloyds  should have been aware she was experiencing financial difficulties. 
So Im afraid  I cant say Lloyds should have done  more  to help her.
Ref: DRN56053413my final decision
For the reasons  given  my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 December  2019.
Michelle Hayward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5605341