K820x#14complaint
Mr A has complained about Sabre Insurance Company Limiteds  (Sabre) handling of his car 
insurance policy.
Reference to Sabre includes their agents.
background
Mr A had an accident in December  2014 with another car. Both he and the driver said the 
other was at fault.  Mr A took the other driver  to court. The trial took place in August 2016 and 
Mr As claim was dismissed. 
Following the courts decision, Sabre updated the insurance database to record that Mr A 
was at fault for the accident.  Mr A complained. He said the only matter  before the court was 
his claim for personal injury and not the issue of liability. He said his claim was dismissed 
because he couldnt  provide enough evidence to prove his injury. He said the court  didnt 
decide he was at fault for the accident.  But the lawyer who represented  Mr A during 
proceedings confirmed that the court found Mr A liable for the accident.
Sabre didnt uphold  Mr As complaint. Mr A didnt think that was fair so he brought his 
complaint to our service. One of our adjudicators looked into it. She felt that Sabre had dealt 
with Mr A fairly. As Mr A didnt agree  with our adjudicator, the complaint has been passed to 
me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I appreciate  this will be disappointing for 
Mr A, but Im not going to uphold his complaint. Ill explain  why.
Ive considered all of Mr As points  carefully. But, in this decision, I will focus on what I 
consider to be the key issues. My role is to decide  if Sabre have dealt with Mr A in a fair and 
reasonable way.
I have seen information from the court confirming  Mr As claim was dismissed. And I have 
seen confirmation  from his lawyer that the court decided Mr A was liable for the accident.  I 
therefore think it was reasonable for Sabre,  in reliance of the outcome of the court  case, to 
record the accident on the insurance database as being Mr As fault. Insurers  have a duty to 
accurately record a policyholders  claims history on the insurance database.
I understand Mr A wasnt happy that he didnt  earn a no claims bonus (NCB) year for the 
policy year in which the accident happened. But NCB years are awarded for claim free 
years. And as Mr A didnt  have a claim free year, because of the fault claim against him, I 
think Sabre were reasonable  in not awarding him a NCB year.
Ref: DRN50922612my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 July 2019.  
Mehmet Osman  
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5092261