K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain  that ERGO Reiseversicherung AG (ERV) turned down a cancellation  
claim made under their travel insurance  policy. 
background
On 20 September  2018, Mr and Mrs B took out the policy as they had a holiday booked for 
the following  month. They took it out online and were asked medical  questions. In response, 
Mrs B disclosed that she had ovarian cysts. She said these were benign  and she had no 
surgery planned. ERV agreed to cover  this condition. 
The following  day, Mrs B had a CT scan. A few days later, a biopsy was carried out. She 
then had an MR scan. These investigations  led her doctors to think the cysts may be 
malignant. On 9 October 2018, she was advised she needed  surgery. This was arranged  for 
15 October 2018. Mr and Mrs B therefore cancelled their holiday and submitted a 
cancellation claim to ERV. 
ERV turned down  the claim.  It said the policy excluded claims where someone was waiting 
for hospital investigations when the policy was taken  out. Unhappy  with this, Mr and Mrs B 
brought a complaint to this service. 
I issued a provisional decision on 4 November 2019.  My provisional  findings were:
In turning down  the claim, ERV has relied on the following policy exclusion:
What is NOT covered:
 Any claim if at the time of taking out your policy or booking  a trip, whichever 
was the later, your relative,  colleague,  travelling companion or a friend  or 
relative with whom you had arranged  to stay had a medical condition for 
which he or she:
-was receiving treatment at hospital (other  than where they go to hospital  
for check-ups  for a stable  condition,  at regular intervals which have  been  
arranged beforehand)
-was waiting for a hospital consultation, investigations or treatment (other 
than where they go to hospital for check-ups for a stable condition,  at 
regular intervals which  have been  arranged  beforehand)
-had been given a terminal prognosis, or been  told that their condition  is 
likely to get worse in the next 12 months
ERV says the claim falls under the above exclusion as Mrs B was under  investigation  before 
taking out the policy.  
First of all, my interpretation of the exclusion is that it doesnt apply to policyholders or those 
insured under the policy. I note that elsewhere  in the policy it confirms the same exclusion 
relates to people who arent insured  but whose health may affect the trip. As Mrs B was a 
policyholder and insured under the policy, the exclusion therefore doesnt apply to her. 
However, even if the exclusion  did apply to those insured under the policy, I still wouldnt  
agree that ERV could rely upon  it. I say that because medical questions were asked when 
the policy was taken out, and Mrs B disclosed her condition of ovarian cysts. Its unfair for an 
Ref: DRN52817562insurer to ask medical questions at the point of sale, only to then try and rely on an exclusion 
relating to existing  medical conditions at the claim stage. I therefore  need to consider the 
matter under the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012  (CIDRA),  
which concerns misrepresentation. 
As such,  Ive considered what questions Mr and Mrs B were asked when the policy was 
taken out, in order to decide whether Mrs B made a misrepresentation. 
Mr and Mrs B have  provided us with some medical questions  they say they were  asked. 
However, I dont know where this information  has come from and these arent the same  
questions that Ive seen  and have set out below. If Mr and Mrs B have more information 
about this, Id be grateful if they could  provide  it in response to this provisional decision.
ERV has told us the policy was taken out via a price  comparison website. It has simply  
referred us to the website, and hasnt shown  us what questions were asked or what  answers 
were given. I therefore generated my own quote on this website. I was asked Does anyone 
in your party have  a pre-existing medical  condition? When I answered yes, I was asked  five 
further medical questions. One of those questions asked Are you or anyone  in your party  
currently on a waiting  list for treatment or investigation?  I answered  yes to this question.  
I was then asked  to declare the condition.  I named  the condition as ovarian cysts and was 
asked the same questions  about  the condition that I see Mrs B was asked (the questions 
about the condition and her answers  were  on a document later sent to Mrs B). I gave the 
same answers as Mrs B did. When I completed  the quote, I was told no insurers  would offer 
me cover. 
I therefore went back through  the quote  and this time answered no to the question Are you 
or anyone  in your party currently  on a waiting list for treatment or investigation? After  again 
completing the quote, this time I was offered cover by numerous insurers  including the 
same company that Mr and Mrs B took out their cover  with ERV through.   
Im satisfied from this that Mrs B answered no to the question  about being on a waiting list 
for investigation. Given that she had a CT scan planned the following day, as well as other  
investigations a few days later, I dont think Mrs B took reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation. I think a reasonable consumer  would  have answered yes to this 
question. 
I appreciate that Mrs B did disclose that she had a medical condition, and then gave details 
about her ovarian cysts. I think its important to say that I dont think  she deliberately 
intended to mislead  anyone, however she did need to take reasonable care to give the 
correct information  in response to the questions asked.  
ERV has confirmed that if it had known about  Mrs Bs investigations, it wouldnt have offered 
her cover for that condition. CIDRA therefore  allows ERV to turn down the claim. 
I understand Mr and Mrs B will be very disappointed  with my decision,  but I dont intend to 
uphold this complaint.
I asked both parties to provide me with any further  comments they wished to make. 
Mr and Mrs B responded and provided  a letter from Mrs Bs doctor. 
Ref: DRN52817563ERV didnt have  any further comments.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs B have  provided a letter from Mrs Bs GP. This says that Mrs B was referred  to 
hospital in September 2018  to investigate abdominal  swelling. The GP said no diagnosis  had 
been made at the time the insurance was taken out and no surgery  had been planned. 
I take it from this that Mrs Bs planned  investigations werent specifically related to her 
existing condition of ovarian cysts.  Instead, she was having investigations for abdominal 
swelling. Ive therefore reconsidered  the medical questions Mr and Mrs B were asked when 
the policy was taken out, bearing in mind  this new information. 
The comparison website asked:
Does anyone in your party have a pre-existing medical condition?
To ensure you have  the right cover for your trip it is important  you tell us about your medical 
history. If you do not declare medical conditions this could invalidate your policy:  Examples 
include diabetes,  high blood pressure,  depression  and respiratory conditions (including  
asthma). You do not need to declare pregnancy as a medical  condition.
Mr and Mrs B didnt  disclose Mrs Bs abdominal swelling in response to this question.  As the 
examples given were  medical conditions, I can understand why they may not have realised 
they should have disclosed Mrs Bs abdominal swelling in response  to this question  - she 
was only experiencing symptoms at the time and hadnt been diagnosed with a medical 
condition (they didnt  know  at this time her symptoms were related to her existing condition 
of ovarian cysts).
Nevertheless, I see that later in the sales process (once the policy  has been selected), the 
comparison site asks the reader to confirm  theyve read some important information. This 
says:
When purchasing this policy you confirm  that you or anyone  to be insured  under this policy  
are aware and accept  that this policy does not provide cover for any pre-existing medical 
conditions. 
A pre-existing medical condition is defined as a condition where you would answer Yes to 
any one of the following questions:
Have you or anyone  in your party:

5. been currently  put on a waiting list for treatment  or investigation?
The comparison site then says the insurer must be told about pre-existing medical conditions 
for everyone  named on the policy.  
Ref: DRN52817564Im satisfied from this that Mr and Mrs B would have understood they needed  to tell ERV 
about Mrs Bs planned investigations for abdominal swelling. I therefore  remain of the 
opinion that they didnt  take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation.
As I explained in my provisional decision,  ERV has confirmed that if it had known about 
Mrs Bs planned investigations,  it wouldnt have offered  her cover for this. Its therefore still 
the case that CIDRA allows  ERV to turn down the claim. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  25 December  2019.
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5281756