K820x#14complaint
Ms G complains that Bank of Scotland plc (trading  as Halifax) wont refund money she says 
she didnt withdraw  from her account.
background
Ms G disputes a cash withdrawal of £500  from her credit card account  at Halifax  on 11 
January 2019.  She says she wanted to withdraw  £10. But when shed  put her card and then 
PIN into the cash machine operated by a different financial  business  a young male  
approached her and told her that the machine was faulty. Ms G says she took her card back 
having seen a message on the screen  saying the transaction was cancelled. She then went  
into the branch  and tried to take out £10 which was declined.  She noticed  a couple of days 
later that £500 had been withdrawn. 
When she contacted  Halifax it said it couldnt take this on as a fraud case but that she would 
need to contact the police who would be able to access CCTV. It wouldnt refund her money 
as the card and PIN were  both used.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint be upheld.  He said that:
-The genuine card and PIN were used to make  this withdrawal and the money  was 
withdrawn at 13:06 that day. Attempts  to withdraw £10 with the card were then made 
- one inside  the branch involved using a different  machine and two others at 
machines nearby.  All were declined as the £500  daily maximum withdrawal limit had 
already been reached.
-Halifax had told him that to withdraw cash there are a number of screens to navigate  
on the cash machine.  First the card and PIN are entered,  then the cash  withdrawal 
option selected and a request to withdraw £500 entered  manually as it isnt a 
standard amount. There is a warning that there will be a charge for making  the 
withdrawal which needs to be agreed to. And then the card is withdrawn prior to the 
cash being dispensed.
-He couldnt  see how this could have happened without her noticing,  given that Ms G 
says she retained  possession of the card throughout. And if she had noticed hed had 
expected her to report this sooner.
-Halifax said it couldnt raise this as a fraud claim and Ms G didnt raise a complaint 
until April 2019.  She did contact the police.  Any CCTV was only kept for 30 days  and 
wasnt available.
-Hed seen evidence  to show that there was no issue with the machine that day.
-On balance he thought that Ms G authorised and withdrew the funds.
Ms G didnt agree and wanted her complaint  to be reviewed. She said that within a couple of 
days she had contacted Halifax and the police. She went into the branch involved to ask 
about the CCTV. And Halifax never  took any action so there is no CCTV now. Ms G said 
shed have expected it to do something  to investigate this.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to take into account the Payment  Services  Regulations 2017 in considering  this 
complaint. These say a payment can only be authorised if it was consented to. So its not 
Ref: DRN56024812enough for it just to be authenticated,  say with a card and PIN. Where  credit is involved, as 
is the case here on credit cards, the Consumer Credit Act 1974  applies and it states  that a 
consumer wouldnt be liable for an unauthorised payment unless they consented to 
someone else having possession of that card. 
So Ive thought about the following areas  in looking at this complaint:
-Whats the most likely explanation of how the PIN was discovered?
-Did Ms G authorise these payments which might have involved allowing someone else 
to use her card?
Halifax has provided evidence to show that the payment was authenticated. The genuine  
card with unique  chip was used and the correct PIN entered. But thats not enough  to show  
whether or not Ms G consented to the payment and so authorised it. So Im going to look at 
this carefully.
Ive seen evidence  about the cashpoint machine showing that it dispensed cash both before 
and after Ms G used it. Halifax has also provided documentation to show  that when it was 
checked there were  no cash  discrepancies that could  account say for money being debited  
but not dispensed properly to Ms G. So I dont  see evidence  of any technical error that might 
account for what happened.
Ms G has said her card remained in her control at this time. I appreciate  that she says she 
then went into the branch  - to try to withdraw £10 and then tried again at two other  locations.  
That is consistent with what  she says  that she only wanted the £10. But also it means  that 
I cant see there was a way in which someone could have taken her card and found out her 
PIN. There was only one attempted use of her card at the cash  machine outside the branch 
in any event. And this started with her entering  the card and PIN. 
Our investigator has set out the number of steps  required to take out £500 from the machine. 
Ms G isnt saying to us that she was under any duress although  I dont doubt  she would 
naturally feel intimidated if approached at a cashpoint in the way she says. And I accept on 
her evidence that there may have  been  an element of distraction  here.  But I dont find it likely 
that this could have been to the extent needed for the unknown third party  to request  the 
cash, wait with Ms G while it was counted  which would have been noticeable and make an 
audible noise, and then take it without  her knowing.  There is no reason why shed have let 
someone have access  to the machine  during the payment and thats  not her account  of what  
happened. And if she had done this it would be difficult in such circumstances reasonably to 
find that she hadnt consented to what happened even if shed only asked that person to 
withdraw £10 for her. And if shed seen that person take out £500 when she was waiting for 
£10 shed have  said so straightaway.
Ive listened to recordings of calls Ms G had with Halifax. It noted her account of what  
happened and explained to her why it wouldnt be taking  on a fraud claim. She was directed 
both to the police and to the branch of the financial business involved.  I dont find that this 
was unreasonable. Ms G gave Halifax a crime number and I dont know  whether the 
authorities took any steps or not. But I wouldnt have expected  Halifax  to investigate  this 
further based on its conversations with her. If she was expecting the police to deal with this 
then I dont put any weight on the time before she raised a complaint with Halifax  about it. 
That doesnt  make  a difference to my assessment.
Ref: DRN56024813Ive considered what Ms G has said. She hasnt persuaded me on balance that there  was an 
unauthorised withdrawal from her account.  Ive been unable  to find a most likely scenario in 
which such an unauthorised withdrawal could have been made  as Ive explained about.
So Im afraid  I dont have  a basis to require Halifax to do anything  further.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 January 2020.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5602481