K821x#15complaint
Mr B complains about the charges  Close  Brothers Limited (Close Brothers) have asked 
him to pay since they agreed to terminate a finance  agreement he had with them.
background
I issued my provisional decision in May 2020. In that decision I explained that, unless I was 
provided with further information that changed my mind, I was expecting to uphold  Mr Bs 
complaint. An extract from that provisional decision is set out below.
Mr B took receipt of a used van in December 2018. He financed  the deal through a 
conditional sale agreement with Close Brothers.  At the point of supply the van was about 
four years old and had already completed  about 64,000 miles.
Mr B had problems with the van and following an independent inspection  Close  Brothers 
agreed to allow him to reject it as it wasnt of satisfactory quality. But when the van was 
returned and inspected some damage was identified that Close  Brothers said was beyond 
normal wear and tear. They reduced the costs  a little but still asked Mr B to pay £725 to 
have the van refurbished. The charges were for refinishing of poorly repaired paintwork on 
the doors, quarter panel and bonnet and for a dented door and a scuffed rear bumper. 
Mr B didnt think it was fair for Close Brothers to apply these charges. He said hed only had 
the van for a few months  and the damage  must  have been incurred elsewhere. But Close  
Brothers didnt agree  to reduce the costs  any further.
They did agree to refund one monthly finance  instalment in respect of the lack of use Mr B 
had of the van but Mr B thought they should  refund more as hed had less use than they 
said.
He also said Close Brothers  should agree to refund the costs  Mr B had incurred having the 
van fitted out internally  so he could conduct his trade. Those costs included ply lining, 
flooring and roof bars. Mr B said he wouldnt have incurred these costs if Close Brothers  had 
initially allowed him to reject the van when he wanted to.
He added that hed incurred costs  when hed had to obtain a report  from a garage to 
demonstrate the faults hed had with the vans power steering. He wanted these costs of 
£111 refunding  as well.
When Close Brothers rejected his complaint  Mr B referred it to this service and our 
adjudicator provided  his view. He didnt think it was fair to ask Mr B to pay for refurbishment 
for poor repairs to the bonnet, doors  and quarter panel as he thought  it likely  Mr Bs 
assertion that hed not had any repairs carried out was correct. He reviewed the rest of the 
damage in the inspectors report with the industry guidelines on fair wear  and tear in mind.  
He thought the scuff to the bumper was in excess of the guidelines and a charge could  
reasonably be made to have it refurbished and he thought there  was a dent to the door that 
was in excess of the guidelines and could be charged. He said that, taking  all of this into 
account, the charges for refurbishment should  be £350  and not £725.
He thought it would also be fair for Close Brothers  to refund the costs Mr B had incurred 
having his vehicle adapted.  He didnt think Mr B would now get any benefit from these 
Ref: DRN53916282adaptations and he thought the losses were a consequence of the rejection of the van. He 
therefore suggested Close Brothers  should  refund the costs  Mr B had evidenced as follows:
fitting of deadlocks £320.00
ply lining £288.60
shelving £240.00
roof bars £133.99
The adjudicator also thought Close Brothers  should refund the cost of the investigative work  
completed by a garage on Mr Bs instruction. He thought this cost of £111 wouldnt have 
been incurred  if Close Brothers had allowed Mr B to reject the van earlier.
Close Brothers didnt  agree with everything the adjudicator suggested. They  agreed  to 
refund the £111 for the garage investigation. They also agreed to refund the costs  Mr B had 
incurred to adapt his van but they didnt agree to refund the roof bars as they noted these 
had been removed by Mr B before  he returned the vehicle. They  didnt mention the costs for 
the deadlock fitting as they hadnt  been  provided with the invoice for that work. They  didnt 
agree to any further reduction of the refurbishment charges and they therefore asked for a 
final decision  by an ombudsman.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Whilst I agree with the adjudicators view to uphold  this complaint there are a few areas 
where Im not in complete  agreement.  Please let me explain.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr B acquired his car under a conditional sale agreement. This is a regulated  consumer 
credit agreement and as a result  our service is able to look into complaints about it.
the refurbishment costs
The adjudicator and Close Brothers  are right to suggest that the industry guidelines for what  
is considered acceptable  wear  and tear on a vehicle, returned at the end of a lease, are 
provided by the British  Vehicle Rental  and Leasing Association (BVRLA).  But I dont think its 
fair to apply the same standard to a vehicle that was four years  old when it was supplied  as 
would be applied to a vehicle that was supplied new. 
Ive not seen evidence that Close Brothers  considered this. I think  it would be unreasonable 
to ask Mr B to pay for any refurbishment  for inadequate paintwork repairs.  I say that 
because:
Ref: DRN53916283Mr B had only been  in possession of the van for about four months when the 
inspection took place. The car had been  with other  owners for much longer and I 
think its likely  an untrained person, such as I think its likely Mr B was , would  not 
necessarily notice  a poor repair  when he took receipt  of the van;
Mr Bs complaint  that led to the rejection of the van concerned previous accident 
damage and mentioned that a crumple zone  had been  bent. This adds to the 
conclusion that repairs may have been  completed  prior to the commencement  of this 
agreement;
Mr Bs testimony has been  consistent throughout and hes explained that he has not 
had repairs completed.
So that leaves  the charges for the scuffed bumper  and the dented door. Ive considered both 
of these charges  and I think  they are both in excess of the BVRLA  guidance and, even when 
the age and mileage of the van is taken into account, are still chargeable. Those costs on 
the report are £100 for the bumper  and £150 for the door. Thats a total of £250  that should  
therefore be charged by Close Brothers  for refurbishment.  The adjudicator  suggested this 
was £350 but Ive checked with him and it appears  he didnt add the charges up correctly.
refunds for consequential costs
I dont think its likely  Mr B would have fitted ply lining, shelving and deadlocks  to the van if 
he knew it was going to experience so many faults and would need to be returned. So I 
agree that these  costs should  be refunded. Mr B will need to supply Close  Brothers with the 
invoice for the deadlocks  as thats  not currently been supplied.
I dont think theres any dispute about the garage investigation invoice but for clarity I will 
confirm that I think it would be fair for close Brothers  to refund this too as it would not have 
been incurred  had the van been  of adequate quality.
Close Brothers have refused to refund the cost of the roof bars as they say Mr B has still got 
them and they can be fitted to other vehicles. Our adjudicator suggested  that this cost should 
be refunded but Im persuaded  by Close Brothers argument so Im not suggesting a refund. 
the deposit and the refund  of finance  instalments
I think Close Brothers should add interest  to the refund of the deposit as Mr B has been 
deprived of that money whilst funding a replacement vehicle. 
Ive considered how many monthly  instalments should be refunded but I think Close Brothers  
suggestion that only one instalment should  be refunded  is fair. I say that as I can see Mr B 
completed about 4,500 miles  in a four month period.  It appears he therefore  had reasonable 
use of the van.
my provisional decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  Im expecting to uphold this complaint and tell Close 
Brothers Limited to:
cancel the finance agreement and remove the agreement from Mr Bs credit file if 
they havent already done so;
refund  Mr Bs deposit if they havent already done so and add 8% simple interest per 
annum from the date of payment to the date of settlement;
Ref: DRN53916284reduce the damage charges to £250;
refund  the cost Mr B incurred for the garage investigation of £111;
refund  consequential losses of £288.60 for the ply lining; £240.00 for the shelving 
and £320 for fitting of deadlocks (the deadlock refund only on receipt of the invoice 
from Mr B).
Close Brothers didnt  provide any further  information, but Mr B did. 
He said he still thought the cost of the roof bars should be refunded  and he said they were 
still in his possession  and model specific. 
He provided the invoice  Id requested to demonstrate hed paid £320 to fit deadlocks to the 
van.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not persuaded by the information Mr B has provided that the cost of the roof bars should  
be refunded. Whilst I understand they were  model specific  and more  difficult  to sell as a 
result. I dont think this meant they could not be resold, and I think  it would therefore be 
unreasonable to expect  Close Brothers to pay for them.
I note Mr B has asked for a breakdown of the settlement  figure which Id now expect Close 
Brothers to provide  in line with bullet points  set out below.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint and tell Close Brothers Limited  to:
cancel the finance agreement and remove the agreement from Mr Bs credit file if 
they havent already done so;
refund  Mr Bs deposit if they havent already done so and add 8% simple interest per 
annum from the date of payment to the date of settlement;
reduce the damage charges to £250;
refund  the cost Mr B incurred for the garage investigation of £111;
refund  consequential losses of £288.60 for the ply lining; £240.00 for the shelving 
and £320 for fitting of deadlocks.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 August 2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5391628