K821x#15complaint
Mr M complains, in summary, about  the customer service provided by Harvey & Thompson 
Limited, trading  as H & T Pawnbrokers, (H & T).
background
Mr M applied  online  to H & T for a top up to his existing loan with the lender on
27 September 2018. He called H & T for an update  on the following day, a Friday.  Mr M 
said he was toId that the top up loan was all agreed  and he would get the top up on 
Monday 1 October 2018 as there was a payment  due on his existing loan on 
28 September 2018. Mr M said that H & T told him that as long as the payment was made, 
the top up would be paid out on the Monday. To ensure it went  through with no issues  he 
phoned H & T and made  the payment manually on the Friday  which  was the due date. 
Having been told by H & T that the top up had been accepted and would be paid, Mr M used 
the funds from his normal pay (that he would normally  have  used to pay his usual  bills such  
as his mortgage)  to buy a number of other items for which he was getting the top up loan. 
On Monday 1 October 2018, the top up funds didnt arrive so Mr M phoned H & T and was 
told that the top up loan had been  rejected as his direct debit for his existing loan payment 
had failed. Mr M said this was because hed made his due repayment directly to H & T. He 
was told by H & T then that his loan payments had to be made via direct debit or H & T 
couldnt lend to him. This was the first time this had been  mentioned.  He is unhappy that he 
had been misled by H & T which led to him taking actions that left him unable  to make  his 
normal bill payments.  As a result  he incurred charges for missing  payments and hed 
suffered a lot of stress.
H & T said in its final response  letter that it was company  policy and also part of its lending  
criteria that repayments  were to be made by direct debit for a consumer to be eligible to 
apply for a top-up loan. It apologised if this was miscommunicated to Mr M in any way when 
he was speaking to its staff.
The adjudicator said she had asked Mr M to provide her with evidence of the charges/losses  
he had incurred as a result of H & Ts actions. But she hadnt received this information.  She 
had also requested call recordings from H & T so that she could listen  to the conversations  
between Mr M and H & T. But she hadnt received these. So she said she was unable  to 
assess Mr Ms complaint fairly because she didnt have the relevant information needed to 
provide a fair outcome  to her investigations.
Mr M was unhappy that the adjudicator hadnt considered the stress that hed experienced 
and that H & T had put a default on his credit file which had meant he had to take out a more  
expensive mortgage.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As some of the evidence  is either 
incomplete or contradictory,  Ive made  a decision on what I think  is most likely to have 
happened  based on whats available.
I note that Mr M applied online for a top up loan on Thursday  27 September 2018. As I 
needed to know  more about  the terms of the top up loan, I asked the adjudicator  to ask 
H & T for a copy of Mr Ms completed application form and any other information about the 
top up loan supplied to him. Weve not received  this from H & T. 
Ref: DRN54478832I had also asked the adjudicator to ask Mr M if he had any details about the top up loan hed 
applied for such as repayment amounts  and payment dates or any other information. Mr M 
told this service that hed not received these when he applied online for the top up loan.  But 
he would  have received these once  the loan application had been  processed.  He was told it 
would be processed  once the repayment  on 28 September 2018 had gone through.  
Mr M had initially  told us that he understood from his conversation with H & T on 
28 September 2018 that the top up loan would  be paid on Monday 1 October 2018. From 
what Mr M has told us subsequently, I think it may have been the case that his 
understanding was actually  that his application  would  be processed after hed made  his 
repayment. But that doesnt mean it would definitely  have  been paid. And its possible that 
the application could have  been  rejected even if Mr Ms loan payment on 
28 September 2018 had been  successfully made by direct  debit.
H & T doesnt have  a recording of the call on 28 September 2018.  So I asked the adjudicator  
to ask H & T for a copy of its contact notes from that call and any script that might have been  
used for that call. Weve not received these from H & T. As Ive not heard  a recording of the 
call or seen contact notes for the call, and for the reasons set out above,  I cant safely  say 
that H & T misled Mr M during the call.
But I note H & T has told this service  that if a customer  was applying  for a top-up loan, their 
last two repayments had to be made by direct  debit. This was part of its lending criteria. I can 
also see from H & Ts adequate explanations  to its loan agreement that repayments could be 
made by direct debit  or debit card via a continuous payment authority (CPA). I asked the 
adjudicator to ask Mr M how he made his repayment on 28 September  2018 and he said this 
was made  by credit card. So as Mr Ms loan repayment wasnt  made by direct  debit or debit 
card via a CPA, I can see that it wasnt made  in line with H & Ts terms.
I note that Mr M isnt complaining about  the fact that the application was rejected but that he 
was misled into thinking that his top up loan would  be processed (and possibly paid) on
1 October 2018. He said that he had relied on this to make  payments from his salary. But as 
it appears that the application hadnt yet been  processed at the time of the call on 
28 September 2018, I dont think it was reasonable in any event for Mr M to have spent  his 
salary on items in anticipation of the application being successfully processed.  Lenders can 
reject loan applications for any number of reasons.
I appreciate from listening  to Mr Ms call with H & T on 1 October 2018  that he is very angry 
about what had happened and that this has been  a stressful time for him. But overall  and on 
balance, Im not persuaded that theres  enough evidence  to show that H & T has acted 
incorrectly in its dealings  with Mr M. So I dont think that it would be fair or reasonable for me 
to require it to take any action  in response  to his complaint. 
If Mr M is now experiencing financial difficulties, I would remind  H & T that its required to 
respond to them positively and sympathetically.
Mr M has also told us about problems in obtaining  a new mortgage as a result of the default 
H & T entered on his credit file. As this is a new complaint, Mr M should raise  this with H & T 
as a new complaint  so it has a chance to respond  to this.
Ref: DRN54478833my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 April 2020.
Roslyn Rawson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5447883