K820x#14complaint
Mr M, the director  of a limited company MCPL,  is unhappy that Cynergy  Bank Limited 
increased the interest rate on its commercial loan. He also queried the interest charged while  
the loan was in the associated current account  and the increase in the interest rate on 
MCPLs overdraft. Mr M wants Cynergy  to refund the extra  interest its had to pay because of 
the rate rise and to also pay compensation.  
Cynergy Bank Limited was previously known as Bank of Cyprus UK Limited. For simplicity I 
will refer to it as Cynergy  in my decision. 
background
Between August 2006 and November 2007, MCPL  had various commercial loan agreements 
with Cynergy. These agreements were in several  foreign currencies including Swiss Francs  
and Japanese  Yen. One agreement was able to be taken  either  in Euros,  Japanese Yen, 
Swiss Francs or US Dollars. The agreements  were secured on various properties. During 
this period, Cynergy had also given several other  foreign currency loans to companies that 
Mr M was a director  of. 
Towards the end of 2008, Cynergy was having discussions with Mr M about all these loans. 
This was because the equivalent pounds Sterling level of debt had increased  due to 
changes in exchange rates. Cynergy wanted MCPL to convert its lending facility back  to 
Sterling. While this conversion  was taking place, MCPLs outstanding loan was placed  into 
an agreed temporary overdraft in the current account associated  with this facility.  
A new agreement was then drawn up which Mr M and MCPLs  company secretary  signed on 
2 January 2009.This new loan was then used to repay the temporary overdraft. The new 
Sterling agreement was at a higher interest rate than the original foreign currency 
agreements. 
In 2016 Cynergy  reviewed  the re-pricing  of some of its overdrafts back  in 2009.  This 
included the overdraft account  which ran alongside MCPLs loan. Following the review, the 
bank carried out a remediation programme. Cynergy  wrote to MCPL  in April 2018. It said 
there wasnt enough evidence to show it had formally agreed  to the repricing of the overdraft 
in 2009. Cynergy  offered to refund additional  interest of £3,273.25 plus 8% per year simple  
interest. At the time this offer totalled £5,687.01. 
This letter prompted Mr M to contact  Cynergy  to complain  about the interest  rate charged on 
the overdraft while  the loan amount was in it. He was also unhappy about the rate increase 
on MCPLs loan when it was converted into Sterling.  
Cynergy didnt uphold this complaint. The bank said that, following the conversion, it wasnt  
able to offer the same interest rate as the original agreements. It pointed out that MCPL had 
accepted the new loans  terms and conditions back in January 2009. 
Mr M wasnt happy with this. He brought the complaint to our service  where  it was looked 
into by one of our adjudicators. She noted that although  we cant usually look at events that 
happened more  than six years ago, it was only in the last three years that MCPL would have 
realised it had cause  to complain. This meant we could look at the complaint. Cynergy also 
agreed we could look at it. 
Ref: DRN56974902The adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint.  She thought that: the terms of the original 
agreements meant Cynergy could  convert  the facility  to Sterling; MCPL agreed to the terms 
and conditions of the new, converted loan; it was fair for the bank to charge interest while  the 
loan was positioned as a temporary overdraft in the current account; and, Cynergys refund 
offer following  the 2009 overdraft rate increase was fair. 
Mr M, on behalf  of MCLP, accepted part of the adjudicators view. But he said he didnt 
agree with her over the interest rate rise on the loan. He said he was given an ultimatum 
either to accept the new rate or to take the loan elsewhere. Mr M wants  the bank  to honour 
the margin set out in the original agreements. 
As Mr M disagreed with some of the adjudicators findings, this complaint has been passed 
to me for a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold this complaint.  Ill explain why. 
Ive looked at four loan agreements signed by MCPL between August 2006  and November 
2007. The interest rate on all these agreements was set at a margin  of 1.5% above the 
three-month LIBOR (London Inter-Bank Offered Rate) for the relevant foreign currency.  One 
of the terms in each  of these agreements set out that if the debt changed by a specified 
amount due exchange rate fluctuations, Cynergy  could  ask for additional security or require 
the debt to be converted into Sterling. During 2008,  Sterling weakened on the currency 
markets and breached  these relevant  thresholds. 
Mr M says that the bank  never asked for any additional security  or asked for the existing  
security to be revalued. But Im satisfied  the terms and conditions  of the original agreements 
allowed Cynergy to ask for additional  security or convert  them to Sterling (my emphasis). It 
could choose  what option to take. So, the bank  was entitled to require this facility  to be 
converted. 
Ive also looked  at the new loan agreement signed  by MCPL in early  January 2009. The 
interest rate on this agreement could be fixed at an indicative rate of 5.73%. Alternatively,  it 
could be a variable  rate of 2.5%  above  a reference rate of the Sterling three-month LIBOR  or 
3%, whichever was the higher. Mr M chose the fixed rate. 
I can see from the agreements that the interest  rate on the original loans was variable. When 
Cynergy converted the facility to Sterling it was under no obligation to offer the same 1.5% 
margin above the new reference  rate as it did above the previous three-month LIBOR  for the 
applicable currency. As it was a variable rate, the bank could choose to vary it. This is what  it 
did. 
Mr M says he was given an ultimatum to either accept  the new Sterling loan or to take his 
business elsewhere. But Im satisfied that Cynergys terms and conditions allowed  the 
original facility to be converted, and as above, the interest rate to be varied. 
The bank was in discussions with Mr M for a number of weeks  over the conversion  of this 
facility. MCPL accepted the terms and conditions of the new agreement. As Cynergy seems 
to have pointed  out to Mr M, if he wasnt happy  with these terms and conditions, instead of 
Ref: DRN56974903signing them, MCPL was free to look at alternative  sources of finance.  But MCPL  did sign 
the new agreement. 
In the circumstances here Im not satisfied that Cynergy did anything  wrong when it 
increased the interest rate on this loan facility. The bank is entitled to decide  the level of risk 
which its prepared to take on its commercial lending, and to price its products accordingly.
For completeness, I agree  with the adjudicators view that Cynergy was entitled  to charge 
interest while the loan was positioned as an overdraft in the current  account.  Im satisfied the 
loan wasnt repriced during 2009  and didnt fall within  the scope of the banks remediation 
project. 
I also agree  with the adjudicators view that Cynergys refund offer for the overdraft following 
its remediation programme is fair. Cynergy told our adjudicator that the refund offer is still 
available. Its for Mr M to decide  if MCPL now wants to accept it in full and final settlement  of 
this complaint. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M, on behalf of 
MCPL, to accept or reject  my decision before 23 February 2020.  
John Miles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5697490