K822xcomplaint 
Mr L complains  that Cheetham Jackson Ltd failed to provide an acceptable  level of 
service and support  in connection with the management of his self-invested personal 
pension (SIPP) platform over a period of 27 months. He also complains that it took it 
over 12 months to implement the recommendation he accepted,  to switch investment 
platform.
background
In May 2015, Mr L signed Cheetham  Jacksons  client agreement.  The agreement said:
Initial Fees
2% through our investment platform on investments  up to £300,000, thereby reducing 
to 1% on any sums above this amount
On-going Service and Reviews
Your financial and personal  objectives may change over time due to changes  in your 
lifestyle or circumstances.  We believe it is essential to ensure that the investment 
portfolio we recommend continues to meet your lifestyle and investment objectives.  At 
the appropriate time we will contact you to make an appointment;  our on-going  review  
services offers:
Assessment of your current circumstances and any changes  to your plans 
that are needed;
Review of performance;
Rebalancing of your investment portfolios as may be required;
Regular updates and information  regarding your investments;
On-going support  with correspondence, regulatory  changes  and administration  issues.
In May 2016, Mr L was advised by Cheetham Jackson to invest on a particular 
platform. Ill refer to this as Platform  A. This was through his existing SIPP pension. 
The investment was however, placed  on hold as per Mr Ls instructions.  Following  a 
telephone call on 1 June 2016,  the adviser believed  Mr L had agreed to proceed  with 
the recommendation and the hold was lifted.  It seems, around this time,  Mr L told 
Cheetham Jackson he was selling his business.  
Mr L complained to Cheetham Jackson that he hadnt given  his permission to make the 
investment. Cheetham  Jacksons initial fee was £6,340.  By way of resolution,  Mr L and 
Cheetham Jackson agreed  that this fee could be paid in two instalments. Mr L signed  
the settlement  acceptance form on 13 July 2016, agreeing to this resolution. 
In August  2016,  Cheetham Jackson sent Mr L an email to advise him of a change to its 
investment portfolios in view of Brexit, this was to reduce exposure to the UK stock 
market.
On 29 March 2017, Mr L signed a review  and next steps form. No investment 
changes were proposed.  
Ref: DRN52809182On 17 October  2017, a further review took place between  Mr L and a new adviser 
from Cheetham Jackson. Cheetham  Jackson  recommended switching investment 
platform form Platform A to Platform B. At the time, Mr L was still in the process  of 
selling his business. Cheetham Jackson  said that as a result Mr L declined further 
retirement pension  planning until the sale was complete. 
From December 2017, £1,000 per month was invested on to Platform Bs platform  
and fees and charges were deducted.  
I understand that Mr Ls business was sold in March 2018.
In October 2018, Mr L complained to Cheetham Jackson about the delays and errors in 
switching his pension  investments to Platform B. Cheetham Jackson accepted that the 
switch had not been made within an acceptable timeframe. It offered Mr L £300  
compensation, later increased to £500, for the upset caused. Mr L didnt accept this. 
Mr L said there had been a lack of service  which he had paid for and said Cheetham 
Jacksons fees of £15,298.34 (including the initial fee) should be refunded. Cheetham 
Jackson didnt agree and so Mr Ls complaint was referred to this service.
Our adjudicator said that Mr Ls first complaint to Cheetham Jackson  about  the initial 
fees paid (£6,340) was not one that could be looked  at by this service  now, as the 
complaint was not brought  within time.  
In relation to the ongoing charges, the adjudicator  pointed out that the FCA had stated 
that ongoing  charges should only be levied where a consumer is paying  for an ongoing 
service. He looked at the client agreement to see what  Cheetham  Jackson had told 
Mr L about its ongoing service. He found this included reviewing the performance  of his 
investments, rebalancing the investments and providing regular updates. In addition, 
the agreement  said Cheetham Jackson would  arrange review meetings to assess 
Mr Ls current circumstances and objectives.
Our adjudicator noted that Mr L did meet with Cheetham Jackson in March and October 
2017. And Mr L was also sent performance packs on a yearly  basis. He found  that after 
the initial investment  was arranged in June 2016,  there appeared to have been  an 
ongoing service  provided  up to October  2017, when a further recommendation was 
made.
In the adjudicators conclusion, whilst  Mr L may not have been satisfied with the 
standard of service  received,  it seemed  that up to October 2017 the service  provided 
was in line with the client agreement. Our adjudicator therefore  concluded  that it was 
reasonable for Cheetham Jackson to receive fees for the service it had provided up to 
October 2017.
Our adjudicator said that if Mr L wasnt happy with the advice he received , he could 
have changed  advisers.
After October 2017, it seemed to our adjudicator that the contact Mr L had with Cheetham 
Jackson was primarily about implementing the recommendation to change platforms.
Looking through  Cheetham Jacksons notes regarding the investment switch from Platform  
A to Platform  B, our adjudicator took the view that much of the contact arose from errors 
made by Cheetham  Jackson that had to be rectified.
Ref: DRN52809183Our adjudicator concluded that Mr L didnt  appear to have received an ongoing  service  
from November 2017, up to the time when he switched to a new advisory firm. He 
therefore concluded that Mr L should be put back in the position he wouldve been in had 
ongoing advisory fees after October 2017  not been  taken.
Our adjudicator said that Cheetham  Jackson  should  pay Mr L any compensation due 
arising from the delay  in switching platforms,  and refund the advisory fees after October 
2017. He set out the methodology for calculating this financial loss. 
Cheetham Jackson offered Mr L £500  for the upset caused by not transferring his 
investments from Platform A to Platform B in a timely manner. Our adjudicator  thought that 
was a reasonable offer of settlement  for the trouble and upset  caused  and Cheetham 
Jackson should  also pay this to Mr L on top of any financial loss.
In assessing  what would  be fair compensation, our adjudicator  said this services  aim was 
to put Mr L as close as possible to the position  he would probably now be in if he had 
been given the agreed service from 1 November  2017 and not incurred a substantial 
delay in switching  from Platform  A to Platform B.
He considered it reasonable to conclude that without the errors  in arranging the 
investment platform switch, Mr L would have  invested in the recommended Platform  B 
portfolio from 1 December  2017.
Mr Ls initial response
Mr L said he was minded to accept  the adjudicators proposals for settlement,  but if 
Cheetham Jackson didnt agree he wanted to reserve  his rights to revisit his complaint along  
the following  lines:
oThe costs of setting  up the new scheme  with another  provider (including  Cheetham 
Jacksons fees and charges) had cost him around £30,000 in a little over three years. 
He would therefore like any further compensation monies paid direct to him, as they 
would attract further adviser charges if paid into his pension fund.
oThe proposals required Cheetham Jackson to repay the 1% advisor charge levied on 
his fund from 1 November 2017 until 26 April 2019, when he notified Cheetham 
Jackson that he was appointing a new adviser  (or until they disengaged from his 
pension fund whichever was later). He wanted  this to also include any advisor fees 
taken from the £11,000  employer contributions into the Platform B fund, which  was 
later transferred into his SIPP  bank  account.
Cheetham Jacksons  response
Cheetham Jackson said it had carried out a loss calculation comparing the performance of 
the recommended investment with the FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total  Return 
Index.
It said the calculation  was based  on the following:
the FOS guidelines Compensation  for Investment Complaints,  so figures were 
quoted net of charges.
the monthly performance  of the index.
Ref: DRN52809184using a starting investment of £335,000 less initial  fees of £6,340  deducted in two 
instalments.
taking account  of the monthly contributions of £1,000 from August 2016 to April 2019;
the period  from commencement of the investment in June  2016  to the transfer away 
of the funds to the new provider on 29 May 2019;
it said this differed from the adjudicators  recommendation but it believed it to be fair 
and more appropriate because:
othe recommended change  to Platform B was made on the premise  of an 
improved provider  with a small cost saving, the underlying investments would 
not have changed. The proposal was to transfer  the investments  in specie to 
avoid the client  being out of the market  at any time. Despite the errors that 
arose, the client was continuously invested.
oThe longer  term was representative of the whole Cheetham Jackson 
experience from start to finish and the clients exposure to its original 
investment proposal, which it believed  Mr L had benefitted from. 
Cheetham Jackson said the closing valued  transferred on 29 May 2019 was £417,133.00 
and the calculated fair value wouldve been  £406,113.00. Therefore it believed  the only 
compensation payable was the £500, as it had agreed to pay in its final response letter.
In response, Mr L said that Cheetham  Jackson  had failed to provide any support or service  
from May 2016 until April 2019.  He said there was only one meeting which  could be 
described as being  a service meeting. Other than that, he said he only received generic 
market related bulletins. He said when he complained to Cheetham Jackson about the lack 
of service, it responded  by recommending setting up the Platform  B system,  which  it failed to 
implement for over 12 months.  He said the only evidence of service and support that he had 
been provided with, was a record of a meeting about his companys pension scheme and 
other insurances.
He said he was not in a position to change adviser again having  spent  £6,500 to do this first 
time.
He said his company  was contributing £1,000 a month into a fund and on average 
Cheetham Jackson was taking £350  a month in fees for a service  that was not provided. He 
therefore considered  there was a loss. He said he also had proceeds  from the sale of his 
company sat in his bank account  from March  2018 to April 2019  that he was waiting to 
invest.
As agreement couldnt be reached, Mr Ls complaint comes to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, and considered the view 
given by our adjudicator, I have reached  the same conclusion and for largely the same  
reasons. I shall be upholding Mr Ls complaint. 
For the reasons  our adjudicator explained,  I am not dealing here with the part of Mr Ls 
complaint about  the initial adviser  fee.
Ref: DRN52809185Cheetham Jackson accepted  there  were shortcomings in the way it dealt  with the switch of 
platform. It offered  to pay Mr L some compensation to acknowledge  this.  The offer it made  
was not acceptable to Mr L. 
Mr L maintains his view that Cheetham  Jackson didnt provide him with an acceptable  level 
of service between May 2016 and April 2019. Like our adjudicator,  up to and including 
October 2017, I think Cheetham  Jackson provided him with a level of service which  was 
consistent with what was set out in the client  agreement, even if not satisfactory in Mr Ls 
view. So, I dont think it would be fair or appropriate to require Cheetham Jackson to refund 
these fees.
From October 2017, the plan, I understand was to switch investments  in specie to 
Platform B. Cheetham Jackson made a number of mistakes in its handling of this. I dont 
need to go into these in any detail, because  Cheetham Jackson has, overall,  accepted its 
shortcomings here.
It has offered to pay Mr L £500  for the trouble and upset it caused  to his retirement planning 
arising from this. Like our adjudicator, I think this is a reasonable offer for Mr Ls non- 
financial loss. Its in line with what this service might  award in circumstances like this, for the 
trouble and upset  caused.
Cheetham Jackson didnt offer Mr L any compensation for his financial loss. However, in 
response to our adjudicators opinion it carried out a loss calculation. It did so on a different 
basis to that set out by our adjudicator, one it said it considered to be fair and more 
appropriate.
Firstly, I agree with our adjudicator that Cheetham Jackson should refund its advice fees 
from 1 November 2017. Im satisfied  that it didnt provide Mr L with an ongoing service from 
this time in relation to the monies invested on Platform A. I think the delay  in bringing about 
the switch was primarily down to errors  that Cheetham Jackson had to put right to enable  the 
switch to happen.
Mr L asks me to order that Cheetham  Jackson also refund the charges made  in relation to 
the £11,000 in contributions paid over to Platform B. I understand these payments began in 
December 2017,  shortly after the meeting in October 2017, when the platform switch  was 
agreed. Mr L intended to have his investments held on Platform A transferred across to 
Platform B. Had they been, the charges applicable to Platform B wouldve applied. And given 
this background,  I dont  think  I can fairly  reach the same conclusion  that Cheetham  Jackson  
didnt provide any support or ongoing  service in relation  to Platform  B from October 2017. So 
I shall not be requiring  Cheetham Jackson to refund these fees.
Mr L has asked that payment is made  direct  to him rather  than into his pension fund. I 
dont consider that appropriate, unless Cheetham  Jackson  is unable  to pay it into his plan 
due to any existing  protection or allowance.  I say this because  my role is to put Mr L back  
into the same situation as he wouldve  been in but for the error or omission. Had Mr L 
chosen to cancel the adviser arrangement, or Cheetham Jackson voluntarily agreed to 
refund the charges, the money  wouldve still remained  invested  in the plan.
Ive looked carefully  at the adjudicators proposed redress methodology and I consider that 
overall it sets out a fair and reasonable way of calculating Mr Ls loss, putting him in the 
situation he wouldve  been in but for the error  or omission. If there was in practice  no 
difference between  how his funds  wouldve been invested on Platform A and Platform B, this 
Ref: DRN52809186will show  up in the calculation. I consider that the appropriate end date is the date that 
Cheetham Jacksons  servicing rights  ended.  If the investment remained on Platform  Bs 
platform after that, Cheetham Jackson wasnt responsible for that decision. 
Cheetham Jackson should  therefore  carry out the loss calculation  exactly in line with the fair 
compensation methodology set out below.
fair compensation
In assessing  what would  be fair compensation, this services aim is to put Mr L as close  
as possible to the position he would probably now be in if he had been given the agreed 
service from 1 November 2017 and not incurred a substantial delay in switching from 
Platform A to Platform  B.
I find it would be reasonable to conclude that without  the errors  in arranging the 
investment platform switch, Mr L would have  invested in the recommended Platform  B 
portfolio from 1 December  2017.
what should Cheetham  Jackson do to put things  right?
To compensate Mr L fairly Cheetham  Jackson should:
Compare the performance of Mr Ls investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below. If the fair value is greater than the actual value, there  is a loss and 
compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no 
compensation is payable.
It should also pay any interest set out below.
If there  is a loss, it should pay into Mr Ls pension  plan,  to increase its value by the 
amount of the compensation and any interest. The payment should allow  for the 
effect of charges and any available  tax relief.  Cheetham Jackson shouldnt pay the 
compensation into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or 
allowance. 
If Cheetham Jackson is unable to pay the compensation  into Mr Ls pension plan, it 
should pay that amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, 
it would  have provided a taxable  income.  Therefore  the compensation should be 
reduced to notionally  allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
The notional allowance should  be calculated using  Mr Ls actual or expected  
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement  age. 
For example, if Mr L is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer  at the selected  retirement  
age, the reduction  would  equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr L would 
have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation.
In addition, it should pay Mr L, £500  direct, for the trouble and upset caused by the 
lack of ongoing service  and substantial delay in moving his pension  investment.
Ref: DRN52809187Repay the advisers  fees, from 1 November 2017, together with interest at the rate 
applicable, to the SIPP  bank account,  from the date the fees were  paid to the date of 
settlement. If the above comparison shows that no compensation is payable, the 
difference between  the actual value and the fair value can be offset against the fees 
with interest.
Provide the details of the calculation to Mr L in a clear, simple format.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Cheetham Jackson  considers  that its 
required by HM Revenue  & Customs to deduct income tax from that interest,  it should  
tell Mr L how much its taken off. It should also give Mr L a tax deduction certificate  if he 
asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue  & Customs if appropriate.
investment 
namestatus Benchmarkfrom
(start date)to
(end  date)Adjusting 
redress to 
date of 
settlement
SIPP
on 
Platform A transferredAdvised  
Platform B 
investment 
platform1 December
2017date when  
Cheetham 
Jacksons 
servicing 
rights 
ceased.FTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return Index*
* If there is a loss at the end date this should be adjusted by using the highlighted 
index to reflect the possible returns which may have  been achieved at the date of 
settlement.
Actual value
This means  the actual value of the investment at the end date.
Fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced a 
return using the benchmark.
Any additional sum paid into the investment  should be added to the fair value calculation 
from the point in time when it was actually paid in.
Any withdrawal, income or other distribution out of the investment should be deducted 
from the fair value at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return  in the 
calculation from that point  on. If there  is a large  number of regular  payments,  to keep 
calculations simpler, Ill accept if Cheetham  Jackson total all those payments and deduct  
that figure at the end instead of deducting periodically.
why is this remedy suitable?
This method of compensation was chosen because:
Ref: DRN52809188Mr L intended to invest his SIPP fund on Platform B as per Cheetham Jacksons 
recommendation, until he terminated  its servicing rights;
 Mr L wanted  capital growth  and was willing to accept some investment  risk.
 The FTSE UK Private Investors  Income  total return index (prior to 1 March 2017,  
the FTSE WMA  Stock Market Income  total return index)  is made up of a range 
of indices with different asset classes,  mainly  UK equities and government  
bonds. Its a fair measure for someone  who was prepared to take some risk to 
get a higher return.
 Although it is called income  index, the mix and diversification provided within the 
index is close enough to allow  me to use it as a reasonable  measure of comparison 
for the period from the end date up to the settlement date given Mr Ls 
circumstances and risk attitude. 
 The adjustment and interest is for being  deprived of the use of any compensation 
money since the end date.
Further information
Some examples of how the calculation should  be carried out are available on our website 
under Publications / Online Technical Resource / Investment  / Calculating compensation 
in investment complaints.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, I uphold Mr Ls complaint  and order  Cheetham Jackson 
Ltd to pay him fair compensation as calculated above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before  7 June 2020.
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5280918