K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
1999. Mr B says Bradford & Bingley  Plc mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Bs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Ive seen copies  of some of the paperwork completed at the time of sale and also 
some of the documents sent to Mr B after the sale.
On Mr Bs mortgage application form, section M is titled Payment Protection  
Insurance. Theres a statement that says Please indicate the type of Payment 
Protection cover you require and there are other options such as the amount  of 
cover required. In this section its been  typed Accident,  Sickness and 
Unemployment for the level of cover and £250  as the total benefit required. 
Section O of the mortgage application has an Insurance declaration.  The form states 
that if section M (PPI) or N (buildings and contents insurance) have been completed 
then a series of questions  related to the property are to be answered.
At the bottom of the application form, theres a series of declaration statements and 
theres a separate heading  for Payment Protection  and Mr B has signed the overall 
form just below this.  
Mr B has said that he thought he was only signing the papers for the mortgage and 
wasnt actually aware that he had PPI. 
In fairness to Mr B, even though I think that its more likely  than not that he was made  
aware that PPI was optional before he agreed  to take it out and he was aware that he 
was taking it, Ive also considered,  what  if Mr B had signed the paperwork without 
realising what he was agreeing to.
Ive then considered  some of the paperwork sent to Mr B immediately after the sale 
and in subsequent years. Ive not seen evidence to support what  hes said.  For 
example, on the first page of his mortgage  offer, the monthly cost of PPI is set out as 
a separate cost - suggesting that PPI was separate to the mortgage. Near the end of 
the mortgage offer, theres also a paragraph specifically about PPI and it briefly  
outlines whats covered.  
Ive also seen a copy of Mr Bs mortgage statement - whilst the mortgage was still 
with Bradford & Bingley  Plc, for the year ending 31 December 2001. It outlines how 
much Mr B has paid for PPI during that year.
Ref: DRN57890682So, I think that Mr B would reasonably have questioned what he was paying for  
much sooner  than he did, if PPI had been added  without his knowledge or he hadnt 
been aware that hed taken it out. But I havent seen evidence that he did, and the 
PPI remained on the account for some time. 
On balance, based on everything Ive seen and been told, I think that its more  likely 
than not that the PPI was presented as optional  and that Mr B chose  to take it out. 
Bradford & Bingley  Plc didnt recommend the PPI to Mr B so it didnt have to check if 
it was right for him. But it did have to make  sure Mr B got the information  he needed 
to decide if it was right for him. 
Its possible the information Bradford & Bingley Plc gave  Mr B about  the PPI wasnt  
as clear as it shouldve been. But he chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like he 
wanted this type of cover.  Based  on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it 
doesnt look like he was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI 
cover - so it would have  been  useful for him if something went  wrong.  It also looks  
like the PPI was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would 
have put him off taking out the cover. 
Which means Bradford & Bingley Plc doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the 
PPI to Mr B.
But Bradford  & Bingley Plc will pay back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr B because: 
When the policy was sold,  Bradford & Bingley Plc expected to get a high level of 
commission and profit share (more  than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should  have  
told Mr B about that. Because  Bradford  & Bingley Plc didnt tell Mr B, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Bradford & Bingley Plc has basically offered to pay back  the amount 
of commission and profit  share  that was above  50% of the PPI premium - and I think  
that offer is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr B has said - including what hes said about not being aware 
that he had PPI and not making a claim when he was made redundant on more  than one 
occasion. Mr B has the option of speaking to Bradford & Bingley Plc about the possibility of 
making a back dated unemployment claim.  
Ive also considered what Mr B has said about his existing means of making his repayments, 
but I still think that he had a need for PPI. I say this because  Mr B isnt sure how long he 
would have received sick pay for. Ive noted what hes said about receiving full sick pay, but 
given his length of employment at the time of sale, I think that its reasonable to assume that 
the PPI policy  would have paid out for longer  (for up to 12 months)  than Mr Bs sick pay 
entitlement at the time of sale.
Ive also considered the other means  of making  his repayments that Mr B has indicated.    
But the PPI policy would  pay out in addition to any savings that Mr B had. I also think that as 
Mr B was taking on a long term, significant financial commitment,  he was solely  responsible 
for the repayments  and given the potential consequences if he was unable  to keep up with 
his mortgage repayments, that he could have found the PPI useful if he ever needed to claim 
on it. 
Ref: DRN57890683So these points dont  change my decision.
what the business needs  to do
Bradford & Bingley  Plc has to pay back to Mr B any commission and profit  share it got that 
was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  Bradford & Bingley Plc should also pay back to    
Mr B any extra interest he paid because of that.
Bradford & Bingley  Plc should pay back to Mr B the extra he paid each month  because  the 
commission and profit share it got was more  than 50% of the cost of PPI. 
Bradford & Bingley  Plc should also pay Mr B 8%* simple interest on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr B can claim back the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bradford & Bingley Plc does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr B.
But Bradford  & Bingley Plc does have to pay back to Mr B any commission  and profit share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 February  2019.
Daniel OShea
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5789068