K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain  that Royal & Sun Alliance  Insurance  Plc (RSA) took a long time to 
agree a claim Mrs S made when someone stole their sons  rucksack.  Mrs S says the 
approach RSA took meant she was asked  many irrelevant questions  and made  to feel as 
though she was making a fraudulent claim.
background
Mr and Mrs Ss sons (Ill call him Mr A) rucksack was stolen in late December 2017. It 
included numerous  items including his house keys and a mobile  phone.
Mrs S approached RSA about making  a claim and RSA accepted  this. It started processing 
the claim,  and noticed some discrepancies between the information provided  by 
Mr and Mrs S when  they bought the insurance  policy and the research it carried  out as part 
of the claims process. That included,  amongst  other things, that Mr and Mrs S appeared to 
live in a four bedroom house  the insurance  schedule (which lists what is and isnt covered) 
said three, and that the Mrs S seemed to be running  a business from home, which  it didnt 
know about.
RSA also noted  that another  claim for what seemed to be the same phone had been  made  
with another insurer.
RSA decided to collect more information  from Mr and Mrs S, and said this was to check  that 
they had the right policy and cover before agreeing the claim. It used a specialist company to 
collect the information.
Mrs S says she was asked a lot of questions that were  irrelevant  to the claim, particularly as 
the theft had taken  place  away from home.  She said some of RSAs  staff were rude to her 
and one accused her of cutting and pasting a logo from another  insurer to support what  
shed said. She was very offended by this.
At the end of March 2018 RSA agreed  to meet  the claim. There was some doubt  as to 
whether a cheque  reached Mr and Mrs S, and Mr and Mrs S later said the offer was too late 
as theyd already  had to buy their son a new phone. The claim was withdrawn. 
Mr and Mrs S complained to RSA about its actions. It said it was entitled to ask questions 
where there  were discrepancies.  Mr and Mrs S then brought their complaint to us. Our 
investigator thought  RSAs questions were reasonable in the circumstances, and she didnt 
think the complaint  should be upheld. Mr and Mrs S remain  unhappy about this so Ive been 
asked to decide this complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can confirm Ive considered all of the additional evidence Mrs S recently sent us  and Im 
satisfied it didnt contain any information that our investigator hadnt taken into account when 
she issued her initial opinion.
Ref: DRN55277282Insurers often issue insurance policies based  on the information a customer  provides during 
the application process. So they dont necessarily double check that the information is 
correct  they rely on the customer answering  any questions  accurately. Thats  a business 
decision RSA is entitled to make, and one I wouldnt challenge.
It does mean, however,  that occasionally, when  a claim is made, discrepancies  are noticed. 
And an insurer would then ask their customer some follow up questions. It seems that this is 
what happened here. RSA says it saw information that suggested  Mr and Mrs S live in a four 
bedroomed house rather than a three bedroomed  one. And it also thought Mrs S might be 
running a business from home.
Either of those situations might have  affected  RSAs initial  decision to insure (or re-insure  at 
renewal) Mr and Mrs S. Or it could change the premium they were asked to pay. So it could 
have meant, in the worst case, that Mr and Mrs S found they werent  insured at all, or, more  
likely, that they had been underpaying for their cover, in which case  they might only have 
been paid a percentage of any claim. In the end, neither of those things happened,  and RSA 
agreed to pay the claim. 
RSA says it was asking questions to check whether the policy was suitable for 
Mr and Mrs S. I think thats an acceptable thing  for an insurer  to do in these circumstances.
RSA says it also found a second claim for the stolen phone recorded  on a central database 
used by the insurance industry to share information  about claims. So it asked further 
questions about  this. Again I think thats  reasonable, as it would need to check  it wasnt  
being asked to pay for something that had already been claimed for through  another  insurer.  
It turned out that Mr S had made  enquiries through his bank about whether he could claim 
for the stolen phone through  his bank account insurance. The response was that only 
account holders  phones were covered  so Mr As phone wasnt  covered. I dont know why 
Mr Ss bank  recorded that on the database,  or what the entry said.  But I think it fair for RSA 
to ask about this once  it saw this information. RSA says it also wanted  to check there  wasnt  
a claim for a different phone that had got mixed up with Mr and Mrs Ss claim. I think  that 
explains why Mrs S was asked a lot of questions about other phones owned  by the 
household members. That seems reasonable to me.
Mrs S says she was told, in a call, that she could have copied a logo onto an email that 
confirmed there was no second claim.  I can understand  why she felt her honesty was being 
questioned. RSA says it checked and Mrs S had sent in the content of an email  but not the 
part that shows who sent the email  and when (so the senders email address etc). It says it 
simply asked for the full email to be copied.  I havent been able to listen to any call recording 
of that conversation,  but it does seem  to me that this was possibly a misunderstanding rather  
than an accusation. 
Mrs S says she took part in long and unnecessary conversations where she was questioned 
about things that were  irrelevant  and that the tone of the questions was upsetting.  Ive 
listened to one long call between Mrs S and the specialist company. I can hear that Mrs S is 
frustrated by the questions, and I appreciate she found this process difficult, but I cant  say 
the member of staff was rude or asking irrelevant questions given the circumstances.
RSA said it would meet Mrs Ss claim in March 2018. Given  the additional information RSA 
needed to collect  that doesnt  seem to be too long, especially as on some  occasions Mrs S 
Ref: DRN55277283seemed reluctant to provide some of the information. I understand Mr and Mrs S didnt  
accept the payment and withdrew  their claim.  Thats their choice, but I should  warn 
Mr and Mrs S that the claim will still correctly be shown on the industry  database, albeit as 
withdrawn.
Overall Im not persuaded  I should uphold this complaint.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  21 June  2019.
Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5527728