K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC (Tesco) didnt tell him it would be taking  
back some  funds it mistakenly credited to his account. He also complains that Tesco didnt  
call him back to resolve the issue when it said it would.
 
background
In July 2018 Mr H was in a Tesco  store and wanted to pay £350 into his account. Mr H says 
he was told there were problems with the systems at the time but was sure the money had 
been credited  when  he left. But the money was credited three  times in error. Tesco corrected  
the error  by debiting  £700 from Mr Hs account. But in the meantime  Mr H had withdrawn 
money from his account which meant it went overdrawn.
Subsequently when  Mr H couldnt make a purchase in a shop because there were 
insufficient funds  in his account he contacted  Tesco. It explained about the error of crediting 
his account with an extra £700  and how it had then taken this money  back. But Mr H 
complained that Tesco  hadnt told him what it was doing and as he wasnt  aware of how 
much money was in his account he continued  to use it as normal.  He said it wasnt  his fault 
there had been  an error and he now had an account that was in arrears and hed been left 
with no money. 
Tescos recovery  department contacted Mr H to explain the position on his account. It said 
hed had the benefit of £700 that wasnt his and wanted to agree with him how he should 
repay the £300 the account  was overdrawn by. It was agreed that Mr H would pay 
£50 per month for six months. 
Tesco also responded to Mr Hs original complaint and apologised for not communicating its 
intentions to him. It offered £60 in total, £50 for the inconvenience it had caused by not 
responding and £10 to compensate Mr H for the small amount of interest  he might have to 
pay on his overdraft while he repaid it. Mr H wasnt satisfied with the offer and brought his 
complaint to us.
One of our investigators  looked into the complaint  and said Mr H did need to repay the 
money that was owed  under the repayment plan.  She agreed  Tesco  could have been clearer 
about debiting  Mr Hs account but said its offer of £60 for the inconvenience caused and for 
any interest Mr H would be charged  was fair and reasonable.
Mr H disagreed. He said he wasnt told about any funds being  taken  from his account and he 
didnt get the call back he expected to try to resolve  the matter.  He says its unfair that Tesco  
says his account is in arrears  and he has to have a repayment  plan in place. 
As no resolution could  be found the case has been  passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN54970732I know Mr H feels  strongly  about  the implications  of the mistake  Tesco  made with his 
account. And I have  some  sympathy for his position  as he didnt  make  the error and now has 
to repay  an overdraft he didnt originally have. But I think  Tesco  has done enough to put 
things right here  which I know will disappoint Mr H, so Ill explain why.
Theres no dispute that Tesco did make duplicate credits into Mr Hs account  or that it is 
entitled to have the money back.  What Mr H has complained about is that Tesco  didnt 
inform him it was going to take the money back,  and because  he wasnt  aware of how much  
money was in his account  when he made a withdrawal  this left him short of funds. 
But the current position is that Mr H hasnt suffered a financial loss because  he did have  the 
use of the erroneous funds for a short while and hes used an overdraft facility  he didnt 
originally have. So I think its right for him to repay that overdraft and I think Tesco  has been 
fair in agreeing to a repayment plan over six months. Ultimately here the money was never 
Mr Hs to use.
Mr H says he was due to receive a payment  of £400 into his account around the time of the 
transactions so he wouldnt  have been  surprised that his balance was at the level it was  
and Ive noted what Mr H has said on this matter. But Mr H hasnt provided any evidence to 
show that the payment was due. And I note that payment previously arrived  in the account 
on 20th of the month. When  Mr H went to deposit  the money on 4 July 2018 his account 
balance was around £335.  And when he made two withdrawals over the next two days  his 
balance would have  been over £1000. So I think its reasonable  that Mr H would have 
questioned his balance in the account  before withdrawing £600. 
But I do think Tesco didnt act entirely fairly  by not informing Mr H of its intentions  to debit his 
account for the money.  Tesco has said that its Mr Hs responsibility to be aware of how 
much money is in his account and he should  have known  if the account had £700  more than 
it ought to have had. But Tesco itself has also said it should  have made  Mr H aware of what 
it would  do. Tesco has offered £50 for that error  in mis-communication and in the 
circumstances, looking at the impact that had on Mr H, I think  thats  a fair and reasonable 
offer in this case.  
Tesco also offered a further £10 to cover the small amount of interest it said Mr Hs overdraft 
would have incurred  over the following six months.  Ive carefully looked at Mr Hs bank 
statements to ensure that the interest  payment of £10 is adequate. And Ive seen that Mr H 
didnt make any payments  to the repayment plan that was agreed.  We wouldnt expect 
Tesco to refund charges incurred when Mr H hasnt kept to the repayment plan  even when 
a complaint is ongoing. So I dont  think Tesco is responsible for any interest that accrued  
while he wasnt keeping to the agreed  plan.  And I think  thats a fair and reasonable offer for 
the interest accrued in these circumstances,  so Im not going to ask Tesco  to do anything 
more.
Mr H has also complained  that he didnt get a call back from the Tesco  representative he 
first spoke to. He was frustrated that the call he received was about  the arrears  on his 
account instead of any attempt to resolve  his complaint. 
But Ive listened  to the calls Mr H had with Tesco and the representative was clear in his 
instruction that he would arrange  a call back from our collections team . And when Mr H 
spoke with them they were clear  that  having  agreed the repayment plan, the complaints  
department would be in touch regarding  Mr Hs complaint.  So I think Tesco was clear  in 
Ref: DRN54970733explaining who would speak with Mr H about  each different  matter  and I dont  think it made 
any errors there. 
my final decision
Tesco Personal Finance PLC has already  made an offer to pay £60 to settle  the complaint 
and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
Its not clear to me that Tesco has paid this money  to Mr H, so if it hasnt, my decision is that 
Tesco Personal Finance PLC should  pay Mr H £60.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 April 2019.
Keith Lawrence
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5497073