K820x#14complaint
Mr T complains that BMW  Financial Services(GB) Limited (BMWFS) has unfairly  charged 
him for excess mileage  under a hire purchase agreement.  
background
In 2015, Mr T acquired a used car using a hire purchase agreement from BMWFS. The total 
repayable under the agreement was £22,915.67. Mr T made an initial payment of £466.99, 
which was to be followed by 47 monthly  payments of £317.99. There was a final payment 
option of £7,503.15 if he wished to buy the car at the end of the agreement. 
The agreement set out that Mr T had the right to voluntary terminate  the agreement  at any 
time before the final payment was due. In doing  so, BMWFS  would be entitled to the return  
of the car and at least half of the total repayable under the agreement.  The agreement set 
out this was £11,457.84.
In early 2019 Mr T exercised his right to terminate the agreement  early. 
As Mr T had paid at least £11,457.84 he wasnt required to pay BMWFS  for the voluntary 
termination. But, after Mr T handed  the car back, BMWFS later charged him a further 
£1,255.34 as he had exceeded  the mileage allowance on the agreement. 
The agreement set out that Mr T had an annual mileage allowance  of 9,000 and a total 
mileage allowance  of 49,442. The car had already done 12,692 miles prior to Mr T acquiring 
it. The agreement said that if Mr T exceeded  this allowance  BMWFS could charge him 
4.74 pence for every  mile he exceeded the allowance by. It said that in the event he 
terminated the agreement early,  the mileage allowance would be pro-rated for the time the 
car was on hire. 
Mr T didnt  think  the charge was fair. He said that hed been told by the dealership  when 
entering into the agreement that there  wouldnt be a charge for excess  mileage if he chose 
to terminate the contract before its end. 
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld. He was satisfied that BMWFS 
had calculated the excess mileage charge correctly in line with the terms of the hire 
purchase agreement  and the Consumer  Credit Act 1974 (CCA). He also found that the terms 
of the agreement were  clear around  the possibility of an excess  mileage charge being  
payable on early termination. 
In summary,  he said:
S99 of the CCA sets out the right for a consumer to terminate a hire purchase 
agreement early  and S100  sets out what liabilities a consumer  has on termination;
In brief,  on termination a consumer is liable to pay at least  half of the total price of 
the agreement. Total  price is defined by S189 of the CCA as the total sum payable  
under the hire purchase agreement. It does not include charges for items that are 
payable as compensation for breach of the agreement. This means that any charges 
for breaches of the agreement are in addition to any liability for termination;
S99 sets out that any liabilities  that the consumer accrued prior to termination are not 
to be affected by the termination;
Ref: DRN55836592The hire purchase agreement sets out that the excess mileage  charges  will accrue 
immediately prior to termination . The term in Mr Ts agreement was clear  that the 
charge accrued before  termination  and was therefore not affected by the termination;
The terms of the agreement dont set out that exceeding the mileage allowance  is a 
breach of the agreement. The excess mileage  charges must therefore be included in 
the total price  of the agreement;
The mileage charge therefore accrued prior to termination and counted  towards the 
total price of the agreement. Mr Ts accrued  liability under S100 therefore included  
paying an additional amount of £1,255.34;
The credit  agreement  sets out clearly  the terms surrounding when excess  mileage 
would be charged,  when  it would  accrue  and how much it would cost;
The agreement made it clear that this charge would be payable on voluntary 
termination of the agreement  if any pro-rated mileage allowance had been exceeded;
The investigator concluded that when  considering all the terms of the agreement as a 
whole, he was satisfied  it was made  clear and not misleading  about when an excess  
mileage charge could  be applied  and for how much. He was therefore satisfied it was 
fair and reasonable for BMWFS  to charge  the additional amount. 
With regard to Mr Ts comments about  what he was told in the dealership before entering the 
agreement, our investigator didnt uphold that aspect either. He said that there was no-one  
at the dealership that was present at the time the agreement was made,  and that he found 
the available  evidence about the agreement the most persuasive. 
Mr T disagreed. He said what the dealership  had told him was relevant. 
The complaint has been passed  to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In paying a deposit and his monthly rentals to BMWFS, the hire purchase agreement  
allowed Mr T use of the car for the duration  of the agreement. He also had the option to 
purchase the car outright  at the end of the agreement in exchange for the final payment of 
£7,503.15. While Mr T was entitled  to use the car, that use was subject to certain conditions, 
such as maintaining and taking care of the car and only driving a maximum mileage each 
year and overall throughout the lifetime of the agreement. The agreement  set out what would 
happen should Mr T not meet those  requirements. 
Mr T exercised his right to voluntarily terminate the agreement. In some instances,  voluntary 
termination allows the hirer to simply hand  back the car without having to pay anything more.  
But this is dependent on, amongst other  things, how much  has been paid to the agreement, 
whether there are arrears to be paid,  the condition of the car and whether any excess 
mileage or other charges  are due. 
In this case, Mr T accepts  that he was required to pay £11,457.84  to voluntary terminate the 
agreement. But he disputes the excess mileage charge of £1,255.34 that has been added  
on top of this figure. 
The CCA sets out the rights consumers have  to voluntary terminate their hire purchase 
agreements and the liability that is due on termination. The Termination: Your rights section 
Ref: DRN55836593of Mr Ts hire purchase  agreement  also refers  to the liability  that is due on termination  and in 
his case, that was £11,457.84.  Various sections of the agreement Mr T had with BMWFS  
also referred to the liability on early  termination, including where excess  mileage, damage 
charges or other charges may increase  the final liability. 
Whether or not it is fair for a lender to apply  the charge will be unique to every case, as it will 
depend on the terms of the agreement that has been entered  into. What  I have  to decide is, 
has the agreement  been constructed in a way as to allow the charging  for excess  mileage 
without contravening  what  is set out in the CCA  regarding voluntary termination?  In Mr Ts 
case, I think it has. Ill explain why. 
As explained by the investigator, S99 sets out that any liabilities  which accrue  prior to 
termination are not affected by the termination. What this means  is that Mr T is liable  to pay 
any charges which have built up prior to the termination of the agreement,  and that these 
charges are in addition  to the other liability for early termination. 
The first page of Mr Ts hire purchase agreement has a section headed: Excess mileage 
charges for depreciation. This section sets out the mileage allowance and what  charges will 
apply if that mileage is exceeded.  It says that if the agreement is terminated  early the 
mileage allowance  will be pro-rated to the reduced period of time and that your  obligation  to 
pay any excess mileage charges will accrue immediately prior to termination.  Im satisfied 
Mr Ts agreement is worded clearly in setting out when excess mileage charges accrue.  
The agreement also has a section headed Termination: Your  rights. This section contains 
specific wording which BMWFS were required to include in the agreement, and in summary  
sets out that so long as Mr T has paid at least half the total amount payable  under the 
agreement, he will not have to pay any more. Ive thought about  whether this conflicts  with 
the rest of the terms of the agreement, specifically those  that explain charges for exceeding  
the mileage might apply.  
Having read all of the terms of the agreement as a whole, I dont think  the agreement  is 
either unclear or misleading concerning  the charges for excess  mileage. I think  it explains 
that the excess mileage  charge can be applied in addition to other  charges for voluntary  
termination. I dont  therefore consider that the way this specific  agreement  has been 
constructed has prejudiced Mr T.
Im also satisfied that any excess mileage charge that would be applicable under this 
agreement will have accrued prior to termination. It follows  that Mr T is liable to pay the 
excess mileage charge and that this is consistent  with what  is allowed to be charged under 
S99 of the CCA. 
I appreciate Mr Ts comments about what he says he was told in the dealership  when he 
was enquiring about the car and considering entering into the agreement. Its unfortunate 
that no-one that was present from the dealership at the time is available now.  But I have to 
weigh up all the evidence  that is available to me to decide what  is fair. And in Mr Ts case  Im 
more persuaded  by the terms of the hire purchase agreement  and the customer  
acknowledgement information signed by Mr T before entering into the agreement. 
This acknowledgement asks Mr T to check that hes happy with the estimated mileage on 
the agreement, as estimating too low could lead to an excess mileage charge being payable  
when the agreement ends. Mr T has said that he told the dealership  that he needed 20,000  
miles annually   but has signed  the agreement and acknowledgement to confirm  9,000 miles 
Ref: DRN55836594is satisfactory for him. Ive asked Mr T if he can provide evidence of any previous insurance 
policies hes had for the car, which would confirm  what  mileage allowance he asked  his 
insurer to provide cover for, but hes unable to do so. I understand Mr T has said that he 
didnt worry about  what mileage was stated, as he was told it wouldnt matter if he 
terminated the agreement early.  But on the evidence available, I cant say Mr T was misled 
when entering  into the agreement. The paperwork is clear in regard to the annual  mileage 
allowance and the implications of exceeding this.  
Overall, Im not persuaded BMWFS has acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr T. 
my final decision
For the reasons  above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 September  2021.
Kevin Parmenter
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5583659