K820x#14complaint
Miss R complains that AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA) provided inadequate customer service 
and caused unnecessary delays, following her becoming unwell while on holiday. 
Miss Rs complaint is brought on her behalf  by a family member,  Mr R. For ease I will refer to 
all submissions as having been made by Mr R. And my references to AXA will include its 
agents. 
background
Miss R held a travel  insurance  policy with AXA. 
Miss R travelled abroad on holiday with family  members. She suffers  with chronic fatigue 
syndrome. And unfortunately, during her outbound journey, she became unwell. 
Miss R was taken to hospital  within a few days of arriving at her holiday destination. Mr R 
contacted AXA to let it know what had happened and to request early  repatriation to the UK 
for Miss R. AXA said it would need to review the medical report from the treating hospital to 
make a decision about repatriation. And it said it would  likely provide an update the following 
morning. 
AXA received the medical report and had it translated before passing it to its medical  team. It 
was unable to provide  more information the following morning, but called Mr R to let him 
know the medical report was being reviewed. 
Mr R said Miss Rs condition deteriorated later that day. She was taken to hospital  again and 
returned to her hotel  late into the evening. Mr R sent AXA the medical  report hed been 
provided by the second hospital. This further medical report  also needed  to be translated 
before it could be reviewed by AXAs  medical team. 
Around 48 hours after originally being contacted  about Miss Rs situation, AXA relayed its 
decision about repatriation. It said based  on the medical reports, it didnt think it was 
medically necessary  for Miss R to be repatriated early. 
Mr R said he thought  AXA had taken too long to make a decision and said it didnt provide 
updates when it had promised. Mr R had told AXA that Miss R wanted  to return  to the UK 
early on a direct flight, and had said limited seats  were available. He said once AXA had 
made its decision, there was no longer any availability for direct  flights before the original 
return date. Mr R booked indirect flights instead, and said that the much longer journey was 
very difficult for Miss R. 
AXA has since apologised that it took longer than it originally expected  to make a decision 
about Miss Rs repatriation claim. And said it could have been more proactive in keeping her 
and her family updated. 
Mr R said he had concerns about the necessity of a call from AXA requesting medical  and 
flight information, considering AXAs subsequent decision not to repatriate  Miss R. And said 
this call led the family to think she was going to be repatriated. AXA said it asked  for 
information which would ensure its medical  team had the detail they needed to plan 
repatriation if this was decided necessary.
Ref: DRN59719562Mr R complained to AXA.  Ultimately AXA said it didnt think it had done anything  materially  
wrong. But it said it would cover the costs of curtailment for Miss R and a plus one as 
a goodwill gesture. 
Unhappy with AXAs response, Mr R brought the complaint to this service.
An investigator here looked into the complaint and said she didnt think  AXA had dealt with 
the claim unfairly. And she said she didnt think AXA had caused  any unnecessary delays. 
Mr R disagreed with the investigators view. He said Miss Rs complaint is about delays and 
claim handling, and not the outcome of the claim itself. He asked for an ombudsman to make  
a decision, and raised additional points including the following: 
AXA had offered to assist with the familys own repatriation plans if it was unable  to 
meet the claim, including wheelchair assistance  at the airport.  However Mr R said 
after AXA turned  down the claim for repatriation, it didnt provide any further support; 
Miss R found it very stressful to be told by AXA that she might  not be covered if she 
chose to repatriate herself early and a medical  emergency were to arise.  AXA said it 
was obligated  to let Miss R know the potential insurance implications  if she were to 
arrange her own flight  home against  medical  advice; and
the hospital had verbally  told the family that Miss R needed  to be repatriated, but 
didnt put this in writing. Mr R said AXA should  have  contacted the hospital about 
this.
And so the case has been passed  to me to make  a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr R has said Miss Rs complaint isnt about AXAs  decision to turn down her claim. But this 
service has an inquisitorial remit, and this issue seems to me to be intrinsically linked to 
Miss Rs complaint about the time AXA took to make its claim decision, and the service it 
provided. So Ive considered the complaint in its entirety.
Mr R has made a very detailed submission  to us about this complaint. I wont be 
commenting on every point  instead  Ive concentrated on what  I believe to be the main 
issues. And this reflects  the informal nature of our service. 
Mr R also raised  some  new points, which I referred to AXA for its comments. 
time taken  to make a claim decision 
Ive seen evidence  that AXA contacted the first hospital directly  for a medical report, straight  
after being  made aware of Miss Rs situation.  However the hospital advised  AXA to obtain 
a copy from Miss Rs family. 
The medical report AXA received was in a foreign language, so needed to be translated 
before AXAs medical team could review  it. And as Miss R attended hospital for a second 
Ref: DRN59719563time, a further medical report then also needed  to be translated. So taking  this into account  
as well as the circumstances  of Miss Rs condition, I dont think  the time taken for AXA to 
reach a decision  on her repatriation request (approximately 48 hours) was unreasonable. 
assessment of the claim 
AXA said the medical reports it had received didnt confirm any diagnosis which justified 
a curtailment on medical grounds, so it turned down the claim. 
Mr R said he was verbally told at the hospital  that Miss R should return home as soon as 
possible. Ive considered  what Mr R has said. However, the medical reports didnt contain 
a recommendation  for Miss R to be repatriated,  and Mr R said the hospital refused to put 
those comments in writing. This leads  me to think that those comments were  not 
substantiated by any medical evidence and were most likely a personal rather than 
professional opinion, expressed  by a member of staff at the hospital. 
AXA received medical  reports from two hospitals,  and it relied on these  when making 
a decision about  repatriation. I think that was reasonable  and I dont  think  it was necessary 
for AXA to contact the hospitals for further information. The medical  reports  didnt specify 
that repatriation  was necessary, so Im satisfied  that AXAs decision not to repatriate was 
fair. 
I accept the indirect  journey back to the UK was more difficult and unpleasant  for Miss R due 
to her condition. However as Ive said, I dont think the time AXA took to make its decision,  
or the decision itself,  was unreasonable in the circumstances.  So I dont think  AXA is 
responsible for Miss R being unable to return home  on a direct flight. 
I note that Miss R also made a claim for medical expenses incurred abroad, and AXA met 
that claim.
communication 
I think the questions  asked during the call with the AXAs nurse were reasonable, as AXA 
would have needed the information it asked for if a decision to repatriate  was made. And, by 
asking for this information in advance, AXA was proactively minimising any potential delay. 
Nothing that AXA said in this call persuades me that Miss R or her family were told she 
would be repatriated. 
AXA let Miss R know that she wouldnt be covered if a medical emergency were  to arise  in 
the event of flying against medical advice. I think this was relevant and necessary. At the 
point this information was first given, AXAs medical team  hadnt  completed its review of the 
hospital medical reports, so it didnt know whether or not Miss R was medically  fit to fly. 
Mr R said AXA didnt meet the commitments it made  around the amount of time it would 
need to make a decision. And he said AXA didnt always  keep in contact  when it said it 
would. AXA accepted that making  a decision took longer than it had originally  expected. And 
it apologised for not being  more proactive in providing updates during that time. I think thats 
sufficient, as Ive already  established that I think the time AXA took to make  its decision 
overall, wasnt unreasonable  in the circumstances.  
Mr R has said that after AXA declined the claim,  it offered no further assistance. And he said 
it didnt arrange  wheelchair assistance  at the airport, having  previously  offered this. 
Ref: DRN59719564Ive listened to the calls between Mr R and AXAs medical assistance helpline.  Mr R asked if 
AXA could help him to find direct  flights home  which he could book himself. AXA agreed to 
do this. It was unable  to find a direct  flight and called Mr R back  to let him know.  Mr R then 
confirmed he would  be booking indirect flights as this was all that was available. 
Mr R asked AXA to contact him again after the family had arrived home,  to discuss his 
complaint further.  And I can see that AXA did this. Ive seen no evidence  that Mr R asked 
AXA for any other assistance with the familys return journey. 
AXA made an offer to pay curtailment for two nights for Miss R and one of her family 
members and calculated  this to be £600.49.  It paid this to Miss R, but said she returned the 
payment. Whilst this offer is greater than I would have  awarded, I think  its fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. And so I dont think  AXA needs to do anything  more. 
my final decision
Im aware that AXA Insurance UK Plc has made  an offer to pay £600.49. I conclude that 
such an offer is fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances. So my decision is that AXA 
should pay Miss R £600.49.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 April 2020.
Gemma Warner 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5971956