K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that Link Financial Outsourcing Limited (Link) is threatening legal action for 
a credit card debt he knows nothing about.
background
Mr M said he received a letter from Link giving him 14 days to reply  before bailiffs and 
solicitors became involved.  He found  it quite  alarming and threatening. The letter  only had a 
reference number.  It didnt mention any credit card or bank account  details.  It seemed  to 
relate to something  from around 2001-2005 so it should be statute barred. And Mr M wants  
evidence of a contract  from the business.
Link said it wrote to Mr M in September 2018. Itd tried repeatedly to contact him about an 
account. It wanted to agree an affordable repayment  plan to clear the outstanding balance. 
Link said the conditions  to bar the debt hadnt been met. It hadnt been  written off. A county  
court judgement had been granted on 16 February  2011. So the debt was still enforceable.
Mr M wasnt satisfied  with Links  response. So he contacted our service  and our investigator 
looked into the matter. She could see Mr M had taken out a credit  card in 2001.  He defaulted 
on the account in September 2007.  And the debt was assigned  to Link in October 2007. 
Shed seen call logs to show Link had made contact with Mr M in which  hed acknowledged 
the debt.
As the debt was more than six years old it wouldnt show on Mr Ms credit file. But she 
couldnt say if the debt was legally enforceable. That was for the courts to decide.  A county 
court judgement had been granted to Link in February 2011. And it wasnt  within our 
services power to overrule or set aside a judgement of the court.  So she couldnt  say Link 
had acted unreasonably in pursuing  the debt.
Mr M didnt  agree. He doesnt recall speaking to Link. And hes not seen a copy of the 
county court judgement. So hes asked for an ombudsmans final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M says he doesnt know anything about the debt hes being chased for. And in any event 
it should be statute  barred as its more than six years old. So Ive looked carefully at 
everything thats happened  and whether Link has done anything wrong.
Link says under the Limitation Act 1980 a creditor must try and recover most  unsecured  
debts within  six years of the last payment.  But if a county court judgement  (CCJ) is issued 
before that period ends  the debt can be enforced at any point. 
According to Links records  a debt of £8325.33 was assigned to it on October 2007. And a 
county court judgement (CCJ) was granted on 16 February 2011. So Link says the debt is 
still enforceable.
I realise Mr M would  like to see a copy of the judgement against him. He says its up to Link 
to provide evidence  it exists. And he wont ask the court for a copy himself. 
Ref: DRN54647682Its disappointing Link hasnt been able to produce  more information. But businesses are only 
required to keep records for a certain period of time. And the order was granted  more  than 
eight years ago. Instead Link has provided  the court details and reference number should 
Mr M wish to get a copy.
Mr Ms credit card account  went into default  in September 2007.  And the debt was assigned  
to Link the following month. Ive looked at Links activities log. And it shows  attempts to 
contact Mr M by letter and telephone  from 2007.  Although most are unsuccessful there are 
notes of conversations with Mr M about the debt between 2008 and 2010. So I think  its 
reasonable to believe  that a debt exists  and its in Mr Ms name. And that Mr M wouldve 
been aware of the debt and that itd been assigned to Link.
Although Link hasnt been able to provide an actual copy  of the county court judgement it 
has given details of the date and issuing court. If Mr M wants  to set aside the CCJ then its a 
matter for the court to review. Thats not something our service  can do. It would be for the 
court to decide  whether  or not the debt was statute barred.
The role of this service is to see if Link has made any mistakes.  And if so what it needs to do 
to put things right. There is evidence to suggest the debt exists. Link has provided details of 
a county court judgement and says the debt is still enforceable. And Mr M hasnt provided  
any evidence to suggest this is wrong.
I know Mr M will be disappointed with this outcome. But based on what  Ive seen  I cant 
really say Link has acted  unfairly  by pursuing Mr M for the debt.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 October  2019.
Andrew Mason
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5464768