K820x#14complaint
Mrs C complains that Lex Autolease Ltd hasnt compensated her sufficiently for a faulty  
leased car.
background
In March 2018 Mrs C acquired a new car with finance provided by Lex. She encountered a 
number of problems  with warning lights coming  on and had to call out roadside assistance.  
The details have  been set out in our adjudicators view letter so I wont repeat them  here. 
Subsequently the car was taken back to the dealer for repairs. The problems were  to do with 
the diesel  particulate  filter (DPF) which became  sooted up. Initially the DPF was manually 
regenerated, but later the filter was replaced.
Mrs C complained to Lex and it responded and closed her complaint. She complained  
second time as the problems persisted and then she brought the matter to this service. It 
was considered by one of our adjudicators.
Shortly afterwards, in February 2019,  Lex agreed  to take the car back and offered to return 
the unused portion of her deposit which amounted  to £1,186.51. It also offered her £400 
compensation and a refund of one months  rental of £328.57.
Mrs C accepted his offer, but didnt consider the level of compensation  was fair and asked 
that we continue our investigation. She explained how stressful  the issue  had been  and often 
when the car broke down she was carrying two small children. It went  into limp mode and 
she found this very scary. She also pointed out that on one occasion the fault occurred 
before she was due to take her children  away for a few days.
Our adjudicator noted that the dealership had provided Mrs C with a courtesy  car, though he 
was aware that this wasnt  always at the time Mrs C needed the car repaired. He said that all 
the repair work had been carried out under warranty and so Mrs C hadnt  incurred any 
additional cost.  On balance he thought the offer made by Lex was fair. Mrs C didnt agree.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators  rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what  I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.  
The finance  agreement, that is the hire purchase  agreement, in this case is a regulated  
consumer credit agreement. As such this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. 
Lex is also the supplier  of the goods under this type of agreement,  and responsible for a 
complaint about  their quality.
The relevant  law says that under a contract to supply goods,  there  is an implied  term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory .
The relevant  law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person  would consider satisfactory taking into account  any description of 
Ref: DRN59750532the goods, price  and all other relevant circumstances. So it seems likely that in a case  
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might  
include things like the age and the mileage  at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods  includes their general state and condition and 
other things  like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects  of the quality of the goods.
I can see that Mrs C has had a frustrating experience and I can see that the car developed a 
repeated fault on several occasions. Problems  with the DPF, especially on new cars can be 
caused by repeated short trips, but I dont know if that is what happened  in this case. 
However, the faults were either addressed  by the agents called out to the car or later by the 
dealer when it made repairs.
In due course the DPF was replaced  and as Mrs C remained unsatisfied  with the car Lex 
agreed to terminate the contract. I think that was a reasonable response and one with which 
Mrs C agreed.
The remaining  issue  is whether  the compensation offered by Lex is fair and reasonable. Mrs 
C was without the car for several weeks, but during this period she was given a courtesy car. 
I appreciate there will have been times  when having  to take the car to the dealer was very 
inconvenient, but overall  she was kept on the road and so I consider  the refund of one 
months rental to be reasonable.
I can also see that on occasions Mrs C will have found it stressful  and I have noted she used 
the car to transport  her young children. I can appreciate that this will have heightened the 
stress levels.  However, I believe the dealer  and the manufacturers roadside repair team  did 
a reasonable job at providing help. I know that she feels  let down by the dealer, but it did 
repair the car on several occasions at no cost.  Therefore after due consideration I have 
concluded the compensation of £400 is fair.
Recently Mrs C has raised a concern about  a charge for damage to the car on handing it 
back. I have not considered this as it is a separate matter and if she is unable  to resolve it 
she can bring a fresh  complaint to this service.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint and I leave it to Mrs C to decide  if she 
wishes to accept the offer made  by Lex Autolease Ltd. Under the rules  of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or reject  my decision before 
26 August 2019.
Ivor Graham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5975053