K821x#15complaint
Mr T complains that a car he got with finance  provided by Moneybarn No 1 Limited is not of 
satisfactory quality. He wants to reject  it and get his money back. 
Mr T has been  represented by a family  member at times, but Ill refer to everything thats 
been said on his behalf as if Mr T had said it himself, to keep things simple. 
background
Mr T acquired this car with a conditional sale agreement (CSA) from Moneybarn on 3 April 
2018. He collected it a few days later and noticed  a chip on the windscreen and a warning 
light illuminated the next day. He returned  the car to the supplying dealer who agreed to do 
some repairs. 
Mr T picked  the car up again on 16 April but the warning  light came on again when he was 
driving home. He took the car back to the dealer and was told more repairs  were needed but 
the car would be ready on 25th of April.  When Mr T arrived  at the dealership  on the 25th the 
car hadnt been fixed. The dealer said they were  waiting  for a part. 
Mr T felt hed been without the car for long enough  by this time.  Hed only been able to drive 
it for two days - it was with the dealer the rest of the time. He lost confidence in the dealers 
ability to fix the problem and left the car there.  Mr T contacted  Moneybarn  to say he wanted 
to reject the car under  Consumer Rights Act 2015  (CRA) and stopped making payments 
under the finance. Mr T wants Moneybarn to accept  the rejection and refund his deposit. 
Moneybarn says the dealer offered to carry out repairs and Mr T agreed. Those repairs were  
completed in May and the cars ready  for collection so Mr T shouldnt  be entitled  to reject it. 
Moneybarn offered to review matters if Mr T can show that the car still has issues  - or he had 
to return to the dealer multiple times and/or the dealer agreed to take the car back. 
Our investigator says the car should have been of satisfactory quality when Mr T got it under 
the CRA.  And he had the right to reject - if a fault appeared  within  the first thirty days  - or ask 
for a repair instead.  She contacted the dealership and it couldnt supply any paperwork to 
show when and what work was done  to the car. It was unable  to dispute Mr Ts time-line of 
events. 
Shes satisfied faults appeared  within thirty days that were  likely present at the point of 
supply. And Mr T gave the dealer the chance  to repair but it didnt do so within a reasonable 
time. She thinks it is fair and reasonable that Mr T should be allowed to reject the car now. 
She recommends his complaint should  be upheld and says Moneybarn should cancel the 
finance, take the car back at no cost to Mr T, refund the advance  payment plus interest and 
remove any adverse information  from Mr Ts credit  file.
Moneybarn doesnt  think this is fair. It says Mr T agreed to have the car repaired a second  
time. Then he became frustrated and tried to collect it before  repairs were completed.  It 
considers Mr T waived his right to reject and the car is fixed  now so it shouldnt have to 
provide a refund. Moneybarn asked for an ombudsman to review  the matter.
my provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision on 14 February  2019  where I said 
Ref: DRN51183622Moneybarn supplied this car under a finance agreement  so it was obliged  to ensure the car 
was of satisfactory quality  at the point of supply. The level of quality thats to be considered 
satisfactory depends on individual circumstances. Its generally  considered  reasonable to 
take the age, cost and mileage of a car into account. 
The car was about 6 years old when Mr T got it with over 70,000 miles on the clock  and cost 
£12,750. As such I dont  think he could reasonably  expect it to be of the same standard as a 
brand new vehicle - as some parts would be worn and would probably need  replacing at 
some stage. 
There seems  to be no dispute that the car had a crack in the windscreen of about  40mm and 
an emissions warning light came on within days of the car being supplied. Taking the age of 
the car, mileage, price  and other  relevant considerations into account  I dont think a small  
crack in the windscreen, on its own, would necessarily mean it was of unsatisfactory quality. 
On the evidence Ive got, I cant be certain  about  the cause of the warning light. But, Im not 
persuaded a reasonable person would be happy to accept a car like this with a warning light 
illuminated. Im minded  to find this car was probably of unsatisfactory  quality when it was 
supplied. I think it is understandable that Mr T was unhappy in this situation and took the car 
back to the garage  where he got it. The dealer seems to have accepted these issues were 
faults. It offered  to correct them at no cost to Mr T and he agreed. I think that seems 
reasonable on both sides. 
Theres some disagreement about what happened  next. Mr T says the dealer couldnt 
resolve the cause  of the warning light illuminating - despite having the car in for nearly a 
month and plenty of opportunity to repair. Whereas Moneybarn says Mr T didnt have to 
return the car multiple times - its simply that he wanted to take the car back  before the 
dealer had a reasonable chance to fix things.    
Where the evidence is incomplete,  inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider  is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances. 
M T has provided  a detailed account  of events  from the day he collected  the car until it was 
returned for the last time at the end of April. I think this account  seems credible and it 
appears to be in keeping with some  other  evidence.  Our investigator has spoken to the 
dealer. It doesnt have  any paperwork  to show when it had the car in and what was done  
exactly so the dealer  was unable to dispute Mr Ts timeline of events. 
The CRA says consumers have a final right to reject if they have  sought a repair  or 
replacement but this was not carried out within a reasonable time or without significant 
inconvenience to the consumer. I accept Mr T agreed the dealer could have the opportunity 
to fix things. Mr T acknowledges  the windscreen  was repaired when he went  back  to collect 
the car in the middle of April - but he says the warning light came back  on. So, despite the 
dealer having  made one attempt the car still wasnt working properly. On balance,  Im 
satisfied the car still had a fault at this point. And I dont think it was unreasonable  of Mr T to 
take the car back  to the dealer again.  
Mr T doesnt dispute he agreed  to let the dealer take another look at the car. He says the 
dealer told him the car would be ready  for collection a few days  later. I think  Mr T probably 
relied on that assurance when he agreed to let the dealer  have another go at resolving  this 
Ref: DRN51183623issue. And I dont think theres  any dispute that the problem still hadnt  been fixed when Mr T 
arrived at the garage to collect  the car on 25 April. If I understand the dealer correctly it says 
Mr T wanted to take the car too soon - they were  waiting on a part and repairs hadnt been 
completed. Mr T says hed phoned the dealer  numerous times for updates and he was 
assured the car would be ready for collection on the 25th.
I think Mr T had already experienced considerable inconvenience by this point. Hed been  
without his new car for most of the month  at this stage. I understand he needed the car on 
a daily basis and Ive seen nothing to suggest  he was offered  a courtesy car. Mr T says hed 
been told the car would  be fixed so its not surprising he was disappointed and frustrated to 
find it still wasnt ready on the 25th. Ive seen nothing  to show  that Mr T was given any 
realistic idea of how long the repairs were  likely  to take. And I find it understandable that he 
lost confidence  in the car - and the dealers ability  to repair  it successfully in this situation. 
Taking everything Ive seen so far into account,  Im inclined  to find it fair that Mr T should be 
allowed to reject the car and have his deposit back. I have thought  about  whether 
Moneybarn should  compensate Mr T for his loss of use and upset and inconvenience. 
Mr T told our investigator he hasnt paid anything  towards the finance apart from the deposit.  
So he appears to have paid nothing for the, albeit limited, use he had of the car. Mr T left the 
car at the dealership last April so Im satisfied he hasnt been troubled by it since.  And I am 
minded to conclude  that the outcome recommended by our investigator seems fair overall. 
I invited both parties to think  about  these provisional  findings and let me have any further 
comments or submissions by the 28 February 2019. 
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here),  I reach my decision on the balance of 
probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light of 
the available  evidence and the wider circumstances. 
The date for the parties to respond  to my provisional decision has now passed.  Moneybarn  
has replied accepting my provisional conclusions. Mr T hasnt objected or made any further 
submissions. And I see no reason to depart  from my provisional findings.  
my final decision
My decision  is I uphold  this complaint. In full and final settlement I require Moneybarn No 1 
Limited to 
1.cancel the finance agreement with nothing further to pay;
2.take the car back at no cost to Mr T;
3.refund  the deposit of £195  paid under the agreement;
4.pay interest on that refund at 8% simple a year from the date of payment to the date 
of settlement; and 
5.remove any adverse information  recorded  about the finance from Mr Ts credit  file.
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 April 2019. 
Ref: DRN51183624Claire Jackson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5118362