K820x#14complaint
Ms S says she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy. 
St Andrews  Insurance Plc (St Andrews) says its responsible for the sale and for this 
complaint.
background and summary to complaint
Ms S bought the policy  by post in 2006  a few months after taking  a mortgage. She was 
employed at the time as an officer worker and had been there since  2004.  What I have about 
her job, and in particular her length  of service, makes me think it unlikely Ms Ss sick pay or 
redundancy pay entitlement was worth  as much as 12 months full pay. 
The policy provided  cover  for Ms S for accident, sickness and unemployment   subject to its 
exclusions and limitations. For a successful claim it offered to pay just under £590  a month 
to help with Ms Ss mortgage related costs, and it cost at the time just over £35 a month.
Ms S has told us of a health  issue for which she was treated  with medicine on two separate  
occasions a few years apart, missing a few weeks work each time. The last time was more  
than ten years before the PPI sale. Ms S hasnt told us of having had any more  problems or 
time off work due to this issue after that, or of having had any other health issues.
St Andrews  has sent us evidence to show the mortgage account started in 2005.  Ms Ss 
representative has made lengthy  and substantial representations on her behalf. I will not 
restate them all here,  but I have  read and considered them  all carefully.  In summary, Ms Ss 
representative says:
St Andrews failed to meet the sales standards which applied  at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on handling 
PPI complaints under DISP App 3, it should be presumed Ms S wouldnt have taken the 
policy and the complaint  should  be upheld. Ms Ss representatives  believe there to be no 
evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a successful 
claim meant  the policy was of inherently poor value  as shown by the low claims ratio. 
The common law duty of utmost  good faith means  St Andrews should have told Ms S 
about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means St Andrews should have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Ms S and the 
impact they would have had on her chances of making a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is generally 
someones biggest ever long-term  transaction  cover would stop at the time it would be 
most needed; and
Ref: DRN57180902The information Ms S received was misleading.  These policies were promoted  as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and had a chance to 
give their responses to the adjudicators  opinion.  Ms S disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion for several  reasons. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been  
passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Ms Ss. I dont intend  to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Ms Ss complaint.
The credit agreement itself was with a third-party  and not St Andrews (and in any case the 
mortgage was arranged after mortgage lending became  regulated in October 2004  and as 
such was an FCA regulated mortgage). That means  the unfair relationship  provisions set out 
in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme  Court judgment in Plevin  about  s.140 of 
that Act and the rules  and guidance  made by the FCA about  the handling of complaints  
about the non-disclosure of commission in light of the Plevin  judgment, arent applicable.
This sale took place  in 2006 after the sale of general  insurance  products like this became 
regulated by the Financial Services Authority (FSA) in January 2005. So the FSAs and the 
FCAs overarching principles for businesses and insurance conduct rules  (ICOB)  are 
applicable to this complaint.
It is also relevant to note that there have for some  time been codes governing the sale of 
insurance products  such as PPI. There is much in common between  the present statutory 
regulatory regime and the non-statutory provisions that preceded  it (and, indeed, the position 
at law). Although  the non-statutory  provisions no longer apply as specific requirements on 
those selling insurance, I consider they still represent a helpful  guide to good  industry  
practice. As a result it is appropriate  for me to take them  into account along with the relevant 
ICOB rules and the other  relevant considerations:
The General  Insurance  Standards Councils  General Insurance Code for private customers  
the GISC  Code. 
In the period immediately before statutory regulation in 2005, there was a period of industry 
self-regulation by the General Insurance  Standards  Council (GISC). It published  the GISC 
Code, which  set out minimum standards of good  practice for its members  to follow when 
selling insurance,  including  PPI. 
Ref: DRN57180903The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for all 
intermediaries (Including Employees of Insurance Companies) other  than Registered 
Insurance Brokers   The ABI Code.
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct Marketing/ 
Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
Among other  things, the Code said: As a condition of membership of the Association of 
British Insurers (ABI),  members undertake  to enforce this Code  and to use their best 
endeavors to ensure that all those involved in selling their policies observe its provisions. 
The insurer  was a member of the ABI and the seller  its agent  was acting as an 
intermediary.
The sale took place  after the sale of mortgage products became regulated by the FSA. So 
the mortgage conduct of business rules  (MCOB)  are applicable to this complaint. Prior to 
regulation subscribing  lenders and mortgage intermediaries followed a voluntary mortgage 
code. While predominantly about mortgage  related matters, it also included  some insurance-
related commitments.  As with the sale of general insurance, there is much in common  
between the pre and post-regulatory position.
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. The sale took place after insurance mediation became  a regulated  activity  in January 
2005, so St Andrews  was required to take into account the provisions in DISP App 3 when 
considering Ms Ss complaint.
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me the key questions  I need to 
consider in deciding what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this 
complaint, are:
-If St Andrews gave advice, whether it advised Ms S with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for her, given her needs and 
circumstances. 
-Whether St Andrews  gave Ms S sufficient, appropriate and timely information  to enable 
her to make an informed choice about  whether to take the policy, including drawing to 
her attention and highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading way  the main 
provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and exclusions.  
Ref: DRN57180904-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Ms S, I must 
then go on to consider  whether  and to what extent Ms S suffered loss or damage and 
what I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Ms S and 
St Andrews,  Ive decided  not to uphold Ms Ss complaint.  Ive set out my reasoning  below. 
did Ms S know she had a choice?
St Andrews  had to make  it clear the PPI policy was optional. Ms Ss mortgage  started  in 
2005 and St Andrews and Ms S agree the PPI was sold in 2006. So, as Ms S had got her 
mortgage without  taking PPI, I think she wouldve known she didnt have to take PPI to get 
the mortgage  and known the PPI was something separate. Also, Ms S hasnt said anything  
to make me think St Andrews didnt give her a choice about  the PPI  or anything  to make 
me think she was pressured. Taking  everything into account, I think  its likely Ms S knew  the 
PPI was optional  and agreed  to take it without  undue  pressure. 
did St Andrews provide  advice?
St Andrews  says it didnt  give advice during  this sale.  Ms S hasnt said St Andrews did give 
advice. Taking all this into account, Im persuaded St Andrews didnt give advice. This 
means St Andrews didnt  have to check if the PPI was suitable for Ms S. Instead,  it had to 
give her sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable  her to make  an informed 
choice about whether  to take the policy, including drawing to her attention  and highlighting  
in a clear,  fair and not misleading way  the main provisions of the policy  and significant  
limitations and exclusions.  
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not Ms S was given a broad  description of what the policy 
was intended  to cover (that is, it would pay its benefit to help her meet  her mortgage related 
costs if she were unable to work through accident, sickness or unemployment) and of the 
approximate costs. I have  reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely  Ms S would 
have taken the policy without any sense of what it was for and of how much the premium 
might be. Also,  the form Ms S signed  to take and agree payment for the policy  called the 
policy Mortgage Repayments Cover, referred  to protection in the event  of disability and 
unemployment and set out the monthly benefit  amount and the monthly premium. 
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  St Andrews gave sufficient  
information about the exclusions  or limitations before Ms S agreed  to take the policy. 
So I dont  think St Andrews gave Ms S sufficient, appropriate and timely  information to 
enable her to make  an informed choice  about whether to take the policy, including  drawing 
to her attention and highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading  way  the main 
provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and exclusions.  
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Ms Ss representative has raised  a number 
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
Ref: DRN57180905PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Ms Ss. Ive considered 
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have explained 
the low claims  ratio  what Ms Ss representative considers to be poor value.
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just told 
Ms S about the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone further and explained the 
significance of them to her. 
Im not persuaded by Ms Ss representatives  views  on this. The duty of utmost  good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find this extended to the insurer having to disclose the claims 
ratio information or explaining the significance of the limitations and exclusions  in the way 
Ms S has suggested. And, taking into account  the law, industry  codes and standards  of good 
industry practice applicable  to this complaint, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to 
impose such requirements on St Andrews.
what effect did the shortcomings of St Andrews have on Ms S? To what extent did 
she suffer  loss or damage as a result?
Ive found St Andrews  didnt do all it should  have done when it sold this policy to Ms S. So I 
have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Ms S suffered 
loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide whether  or not she would have 
still taken the policy,  had St Andrews done  things properly.
Ms S says she wouldnt  have taken  it and believes I should presume this to be the case 
given the significant failings identified  above.  Ive considered  the representations of both 
sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
As this was a non-advised sale, Ms S had to weigh up in her own mind the cost of the policy 
against the benefits offered and the potential consequences if she didnt insure against the 
risk of being  unable  to work. 
As Ive found above, Ms S chose to take this policy. So I consider  that its reasonable to 
conclude she had some  interest in the benefits offered by this type of insurance. But she 
made this decision  based  on incomplete information. So what Ms S thought she was getting 
is not exactly what she got. The extent to which this differed is a relevant consideration when 
determining whether Ms S has suffered any loss or detriment.
The information Ms S was given about  the cost and benefit was clear. But the information 
about other aspects  of the policy, such as the limitations and exclusions, wasnt  as clear as it 
should have been.  
Possibly the most significant differences between what Ms S thought she had bought and 
what she actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded disability claims relating to health issues Ms S knew  or shouldve  
known about at the policy start, or about  which she had seen or arranged  to see a doctor 
in the 12 months  before the start,  although a claim could  be considered  if, in the 24 
Ref: DRN57180906months before the claim, she had been  symptom  free and had not seen or been due to 
see a doctor  about  or had treatment for the condition;
The policy also excluded disability claims related to chronic conditions, being  a health 
issue that continued indefinitely, or was controlled rather than cured,  or had symptoms  
which recurred and had required treatment or consultation more than once in the past, or 
that required long term treatment  or investigation;
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health conditions 
placing more onerous evidential requirements  to support a claim on those  grounds;
The policy in some situations limited or excluded unemployment cover if Ms S wasnt a 
permanent employee;
The requirement that, to be eligible for disability, Ms S be stopped from doing her own or 
any similar job, and be stopped  from doing any paid work her experience, education  or 
training reasonably qualified her to do; and
The policy paid benefits for up to 12 months  rather than the remaining mortgage term.
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations or exclusions above might  well have caused 
Ms S pause for thought  and may well have caused her to conclude  the policy  wasnt as 
good as she thought and she might have decided not to proceed. The limitations on the 
cover, when  coupled  with the other shortcomings in this sale, might  have  dissuaded some  
consumers in slightly different circumstances from Ms S from taking the policy.  
But, the evidence  about Ms Ss circumstances at the time of sale shows the policy wasnt 
fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. She was eligible for its benefits and it provided 
cover that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proven valuable  to her should  the 
insured risks have  become a reality. 
Ms S couldnt have  claimed for future work  absences related to her past health issue. But 
Ive nothing to suggest shed suffered any problems or further work absences related to this 
issue in the more than ten years that had passed between her last treatment and the sale of 
the PPI policy. Also,  the past absences it had caused were  relatively  short - the PPI offered 
cover for longer and more  significant absences that might arise from other causes and have 
more impact on Ms Ss income and ability to meet  her outgoings.
I dont overlook that, despite the above, Ms Ss past health issue  mightve recurred and for 
longer than it had in the past  but, in the light of all I have, Ive nothing  that makes  me think 
this possibility was one Ms S wouldve placed much  weight on at the time of the sale when 
making her decision about  the policy. So, with all Ive said above in mind,  on balance what  I 
have doesnt make me think better  information about this exclusion wouldve changed her 
decision to take the policy. Also, Ms S didnt have  any other health issues  that mightve been 
excluded, and I havent seen anything to suggest  she wouldve been caught  by any of the 
other significant exclusions  she was in permanent employment, for example.  So, with all 
Ive said above  in mind, I think  Ms S still had some good reasons to take the policy.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were  more onerous than Ms S might  
reasonably have expected. But its unlikely she would have expected to be able to make a 
disability claim without  having to provide some evidence to support that claim.  And while this 
limitation might have dissuaded  some consumers in slightly different circumstances to Ms S 
from taking the policy,  Ms S, in her circumstances,  still had some good reasons to take it.
If Ms S had known she could only claim for disability  if she were  not only stopped  from doing  
her own or any similar job but also stopped  from doing any paid work  her experience, 
Ref: DRN57180907education or training reasonably qualified her to do, it might have played into her thinking 
about what to do. And I accept it may have given her pause for thought  although, given 
what I have about  her circumstances, on balance I think Ms S wouldve still been  interested 
in taking the cover.
St Andrews  may not have told Ms S any claim she made would be limited  12 months. This 
may have  differed from what  she expected  and mightve hoped  for. But its likely 12 months 
was longer than Ms S wouldve received full sick pay and her redundancy entitlement  was 
also unlikely  to be worth  as much as 12 months income. In those circumstances, I consider 
it likely  Ms S wouldve  still thought  a policy that paid up to 12 monthly  benefits  would benefit 
her and help her manage the consequences  if she couldnt work  in the circumstances the 
policy covered. The policy allowed multiple  claims and, by covering mortgage related costs, 
the benefit could help reduce Ms Ss outgoings   making it less likely her home  would be 
placed at risk at what could be a difficult time if she were unemployed or too sick to work. 
Having considered all the evidence and arguments in this case,  I consider  it more likely than 
not Ms S wouldve  still taken the policy. It was sufficiently close  to what  its likely she thought 
she was getting  and provided  benefits  that would help her manage  the consequences  if she 
were made redundant, or unable to work through accident or sickness. In the circumstances, 
I consider it more likely  than not Ms S wouldve  taken the policy  in any event notwithstanding 
the limitations on cover.
Ms Ss representatives say the rules about how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken PPI, unless there is evidence to outweigh  the presumption. 
They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances. That guidance  is for 
firms, but it is a relevant  consideration so I take it into account  along with many  other  things 
when I decide  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable.  Considering the purpose of the 
guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended  to be at odds with the approach  I have taken. 
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Ms S would not have bought the PPI she bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Ms Ss 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Ms S 
found herself in as a result of the sale was the same position  she would have been in had 
the breach or significant  failings not occurred. 
Ms S believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws  in the sales  process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including her own comments  that she would not have taken 
the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments.  
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Ms S in the position she would have been in if she had 
not bought the policy.  
Ref: DRN57180908That is because,  while I accept its possible she wouldnt have taken the PPI, I am satisfied, 
of the two possibilities, its more likely than not she wouldve still taken it had she been given 
clear, fair and not misleading information  about the policy she was buying. So Im not 
persuaded it would be fair and reasonable, in those  circumstances, to conclude St Andrews  
should pay Ms S compensation,  as that would  put her in a better  position  than she would 
have been in if everything had happened as it should have  done.
Im also aware Ms S thinks St Andrews misrepresented the terms of the policy in how it 
described the PPI. While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of the 
statements of St Andrews misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why 
St Andrews  failed to act fairly and reasonably was not because  of what it did or didnt say in 
the information it provided  but because the overall information St Andrews gave  Ms S, in 
the way it did, was insufficient  to meet the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to 
expect it to have  met in 2006 when providing information about  an insurance policy.
Ive also thought about the approach Ms Ss representative says a court  might  take if it were  
to find St Andrews negligently misrepresented  the contract to Ms S and about the remedy  a 
court might award if it were to find St Andrews had been in breach of its duty of utmost good  
faith. But this doesnt persuade me to alter my conclusions  about what is fair and reasonable 
in all the circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out, I dont think  it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Ms S in a better  position  than if everything had happened as it should  
have done.
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 January 2021.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5718090