K822xcomplaint
Ms T complains that Gain Credit LLC, trading as Lending Stream, lent to her irresponsibly. 
Ms T is represented by a third party. 
background 
Using the information from Lending  Stream, I have  created a table which gives  brief details 
of the approved loans.
Ms T emailed Lending Stream in November 2016  to say that she had lost her job and asked 
for a payment  plan to be set up for the three  outstanding loans she had at that time.  She 
offered to pay £50 a month. She had supplied income and expenditure details to Lending 
Stream. 
Ms T approached her representative on 2 November 2016. It wrote to Lending  Stream  
initially in June 2017 asking for disclosure of all her agreement details and in July 2017 it 
wrote again  claiming  irresponsible lending  of the high-cost  short-term  loans approved  for 
Ms T. The final response to that complaint was sent to her representative on 20 March 2018. 
This was resent to Ms Ts representatives in July 2018 at which date it referred the complaint 
to this service. It claimed that the loans were unaffordable, and it made  reference  to the 
creditworthiness of Ms T. It sought  the following on her behalf:  
We seek a refund of the interest  and all charges our client paid, plus statutory interest, in 
respect of each loan provided to our client. We also seek for the unaffordable loans to be 
removed from credit file and any existing balance to be written  off. 
In November 2018 Ms T was in contact with Lending Stream  directly  about the arrears. In 
December 2018  she was informed that her loans had been transferred to a third party earlier  
in the year.  
One of our adjudicators looked  at the complaint in July 2019  and thought that Lending 
Stream should put things right for Ms T for all four loans. This was based mainly  on the 
credit searches Lending Stream had carried out at the time and had lent to Ms T despite  
those results. And it ought  to have realised that it was unlikely Ms T was able to repay  the 
loans sustainably. 
Lending Stream agreed. So, the complaint in relation to all the loans has been  resolved.loan date amount duration  and 
highest instalment 
figure (rounded)repaid
1 22 May 2016 £100 188 days
£4427 October 2016
repaid early
2 3 September  2016 £100 178 days
£44outstanding
3 23 September 2016 £120 186 days
£52outstanding
4 16 October 2016 £250 194 days
£106outstanding
Ref: DRN50766112The outstanding issue surrounds the redress  calculations about which one of our 
adjudicators has been  checking  the figures in detail. The final figures including  the details 
surrounding the amounts paid, the interest on the refunded charges added (less the tax to 
be removed) and the amount which lending Stream can set off against the outstanding sums 
have all resulted  in a final position.  That is that Ms T still owes Lending Stream  £112.16.
These were  sent to Ms Ts representative  on 11 November 2019.  The figures may alter 
slightly over the coming days until this complaint  is resolved once and for all, but for the 
purposes of this decision I plan to refer to the calculations set out in that correspondence.  
Ms T was asked why she wished me to review the complaint  as the core of it has been 
resolved. Her answer is very specific and so I set it out here: 
because when taking  a loan with lending stream  I was in arrears  with another 9 active loans 
they put me I a worse  situation I was ever in as they borrowed me around 500 over 3 
separate loans  it's only now I'm finally getting  my life back I realise how irresponsible that is 
an a reduction just isn't good  enough as these loans  affected my mental health on a daily 
basis
So, the redress element of the complaint remains unresolved and so it was passed to me for 
a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms Ts reply is poignant, and I empathise. However, having reviewed all the complaint 
details and the correspondence and documents from both parties, and having considered 
Ms Ts recent response my final decision is that the redress being offered by Lending  
Stream is in line with what we would expect and is fair.
Ms Ts complaint about each loan being irresponsibly lent has been accepted by Lending 
Stream. As we expect it to have  done,  it has removed unpaid charges, applied  all the 
amounts Ms T has paid to the principal sums borrowed,  and Ms T has had the benefit of an 
8% interest additional sum in respect of Loan  1 which was successfully paid in 
October 2016. 
As Ms T has had the benefit of the £570  principal sum lent to her over the four loans it is fair 
and reasonable that Ms T repays that £570 to lending Stream. My understanding  is that 
Ms T had many debts.  And whilst  I appreciate that being in debt has been hard for Ms T, I 
have not seen enough for me to conclude that her difficulties arose just because  of the four 
loans that she took from Lending Stream. So, I dont think  its fair to direct Lending Stream to 
write any balance  off. 
I think that Lending Streams offer in relation to the redress following its full acceptance it did 
lend to Ms T irresponsibly is fair. I do not make  any additional direction in relation  to Ms Ts 
request that the balance due to Lending Stream be written off. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Ms Ts complaint as it has been conceded already, and that 
the compensation figures Lending Stream  is offering are fair. 
Ref: DRN50766113Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 December  2019.
Rachael Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5076611