K821x#15complaint
Mr C complains about the service he received from Aviva Life & Pensions  UK Limited
(Aviva) regarding his retirement  policy.
background
Mr C says he asked Aviva to confirm there were no penalties on his policy.  It told him the
fund value and transfer value were  the same, so this was clear, but he didnt agree. Hed
been invited to view his policy online but hadnt  been able to as it wasnt one that was
suitable for this. Aviva  sent him £150  because  the correct documents  were  not sent with the
retirement pack and for other confusion in its correspondence.
He also complained his retirement  date was shown as 2013 and the number of units in his
policy seemed to be changing  but it wasnt clear why. He was unhappy with the service
provided by Aviva and said hed lost confidence  in it.
Aviva said that Mr Cs policy  was set up in 1986  following a transfer in from a former
employers pension fund.  His selected  retirement date was in early 2013. Mr C hadnt taken
his pension in 2013 but postponed retirement but the selected  retirement  date remained on
the policy.
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision in this case. I said it isnt the purpose of this service to punish  
a business for mistakes.  We can however investigate mistakes  and make an award for any 
loss and distress and inconvenience. This means  that we cant make  a business change  its 
behaviour. It is clear Mr C is frustrated by his dealings  with Aviva. He says his aim isnt to 
gain compensation but a hope that his confidence could be restored  in Aviva.  He said he still 
doesnt have all the information  he wanted but wasnt specific about what  was missing.
Ive seen a copy  of the original member acceptance for the transfer from Mr Cs former
employers scheme. I have also seen the policy schedule  and scheme booklet and
projections. This is a policy for money purchase  benefits. Aside  from death  benefits there is
no guaranteed  level of pension benefit  at retirement.  As Mr C noted  even  the mid-range
projections showed the policy couldve been worth £35,000 by 2013 rather than the much
lower £7,000 approximately that is shown as the current fund value.  However these were
projections and not guarantees and based on generous assumptions about  growth  that
wouldnt be used under current rules.
Mr C was keen to understand any penalties on transfer. Aviva  have provided confirmation
that the fund value  and transfer value are the same. They have not however commented on
any administration fee that might  be payable for a transfer. So I didnt think  their reply  was as
full and helpful as it couldve been.
I considered the issue of the retirement  date being listed  as 2013. I thought the explanation
was reasonable.  I noted that it wasnt uncommon for the original retirement date to remain
listed even when retirement is postponed. This can be important when calculations  are done
by reference to that date. Although in this case I noted that the passing of the retirement  
date didnt stop deduction of charges that shouldve stopped and which I considered in more 
detail.
Ref: DRN51716362I also considered the failure to enclose all information with the letter  to Mr C. I believed  the
missing enclosures had now been  supplied. So while this is annoying the mistake has been
remedied.
Since the investigator issued his decision Aviva provided an explanation for the change  in
the number of units in the policy. It said that each month an amount  was deducted to meet
the cost of the widows death after leaving service pension. As Mr Cs retirement date had
passed this was no longer relevant and shouldve stopped. A policy  correction had been
implemented to reflect the error  and the number of units in the policy  was now higher. This
explanation seemed reasonable to me. It is disappointing that it required a question  from Mr 
C to bring the error to light and to have the correct  units  restored to his policy.  As the 
position has been reversed, it didnt seem  there  had been a financial loss. However this 
wouldnt have helped  restore Mr Cs confidence  in Aviva.
Mr C said he didnt find the explanation very helpful  and still felt he wasnt  receiving the
service he should. I think the explanation is reasonable. I can understand that Mr C feels
there is a gap in service  but as I have  said I cant make Aviva change  the way it works and in
the absence of details from Mr C, I cant consider any gaps and whether we can assist.
Our purpose  is not to punish and we are not the regulator so cannot  demand changes in
policy or behaviour.  However we can award  compensation.
I have considered that Aviva has already paid Mr C £150 for its mistakes. However  it is
concerning that the unit error  was only just discovered and its impact has further shaken
Mr Cs confidence. Given this I thought an award of a further £200 would be appropriate in 
the circumstances.
I proposed to uphold  this complaint and direct that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited should
pay Mr C a further £200 in addition to the £150  already paid.
Aviva said it accepted the decision  to award  a further £200  in compensation.
Mr C said that only once  before in his life had he felt the need to write to the CEO. On this 
occasion he wrote four times before he got a reply. He said that while this service  couldnt 
make Aviva change the way it worked, it could at least  make sure it followed the Mifid EU 
regulations and if it didnt to explain  why it hadnt  done so. Finally he hoped Aviva  would 
learn from this complaint  and noted  that the CEO had now left. 
Ref: DRN51716363my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I remain of the view that my proposed  award was fair and reasonable for the 
reasons I gave.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and direct that Aviva  Life & Pensions UK Limited should
pay Mr C a further £200 in addition to the £150  already paid.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 February  2019.
Colette Bewley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5171636