K820x#14complaint
Mr F complains about incorrect information  given  by HSBC UK Bank plc (HSBC). And about 
the response from HSBC  when he complained.  He would  like £100 compensation.
background
Mr F says HSBC  told him, in branch,  he could  use his debit card to access  an unarranged 
overdraft. But he says when he later tried to withdraw money he wasnt  able to do so. 
He says HSBC  then told him he couldnt  access money as he had no funds in his account. 
HSBC said it couldnt find any evidence to show Mr F had been told to use his debit card 
when he had no funds  in his account.   It said it would never encourage customers to do this.  
It asked Mr F for more  information to try to find out who he spoke to .But Mr F didnt respond 
to this request.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. She found insufficient evidence  that HSBC  had 
done anything  wrong for her to feel it was fair to recommend HSBC paid Mr F £100  
compensation
HSBC accepted this view but Mr F didnt. He explained if the advice from HSBC  had been 
correct he would have  been able to withdraw money.
Our adjudicator considered this point  but didnt change her view. She explained that had the 
correct advice been given Mr F wouldnt have been able to withdraw money. So she didnt 
feel Mr F had suffered any loss.
Mr F still didnt agree  with this view and asked for a Final Decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its very difficult to establish what has been said in a conversation between two people 
when there  is no record  of that conversation  to consider.
Mr F is adamant that HSBC told him he could use his debit card to access  an unarranged 
overdraft.
I cant be sure what HSBC told Mr F. But HSBC has said its unlikely it would have told Mr F 
he could do this. As this isnt advice it would normally give its customers. I am inclined to 
accept that since  banks have a duty to act responsibly. And it doesnt seem very responsible 
to me to suggest  to someone, with no funds  in their account, that they can access  their 
account to get money  as I understand it by using an unarranged overdraft. So I think  its 
unlikely HSBC would have given Mr F this advice.  
I know that Mr F wasnt happy with HSBCs response.  But I think HSBCs  response letter  
was entirely reasonable. It asked Mr F to give more information to establish  who he spoke  to 
so that feedback and possible training  could  be provided if Mr F had been given wrong 
information. I understand the bank doesnt have any record that Mr F responded to that 
request.
Ref: DRN50436862I think HSBCs  response showed that it took Mr Fs complaint seriously. But it wasnt  able to 
take it any further without  more information  from Mr F to try to work  out who he spoke to.
I dont accept that Mr F has lost out. HSBC has been clear that it doesnt allow withdrawals  
from accounts with no funds in them on the basis of an unarranged overdraft. So Mr F 
wouldnt have been able to withdraw any money.  
I appreciate Mr F had the inconvenience of trying  to withdraw money  and not being able to 
do so. But I have no evidence that HSBC told him he could  do this, so I cant reasonably ask 
HSBC to pay Mr F £100 compensation as he would  like.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 June 2019.
Bridget Makins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5043686