K820x#14complaint
Mrs M says Philip Williams & Company Insurance Management (PW) should have informed 
her earlier that her new partner could  not be covered on her Police Federation  group life 
insurance policy. If it had, she wouldnt have paid the additional  premiums  to provide spouse  
cover since  2010. Also,  cover for her new partner will now be more expensive  than it would 
have been.
background
PW took over the administration of this employee group insurance policy in 2017. It said it 
wrote to Mrs M at that point asking her to confirm her nominated beneficiary but did not get a 
response. 
Mrs M said she did not receive this letter. However, she said she had told the Federation of 
her divorce, following her retirement, and thought PW should  have been informed of this.
An investigator at this service did not feel the complaint  should  be upheld  as it was for Mrs M 
to tell PW about her change of status.  Also, he said it was not required to proactively inform 
her that a new partner  could not be added to the policy after she had retired.
Mrs C did not agree, and said:
Having held this policy for 30 years, it was incumbent on either PW, her Federation 
or the policy provider  to advise  her about the substantial differences in the level of 
cover that applied post-retirement
No reasonable  person could expect  to recall the specific features referred to in the 
original terms  and conditions 30 years on, and at the point they finally became 
applicable
Had she known about the changes after retirement, she would have stopped paying 
the partners life cover element  after her divorce
Shes ended  up paying for cover she is not entitled to and could never claim on  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this case I agree with the investigator  and for the same reasons.
Given this, I am not sure what I can usefully add to what he has already said. Theres no 
evidence to indicate that PW were informed that Mrs C had got divorced and/or that she had 
a new partner. I can see no reason why it ought to have proactively tried to check this out; 
nor do I think it had a responsibility to do so.
I fully understand  why Mrs C would  not have been aware of the detailed terms and 
conditions set out 30 years earlier but this doesnt  mean that PW is responsible for her not 
being aware of these.
I have seen no evidence  to indicate  that PW has done anything wrong.
Ref: DRN51303222my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 July 2019.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5130322