K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains that Tesco Personal  Finance PLC refused his claim  under  section  75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974.  He wants a refund and compensation.
background
Mr W tells us he used his Tesco credit  card to pay for an engine refurbishment service  
supplied by a company  Ill refer to as E. The cost was £900. But when the engine  was 
returned he says it didnt work. He says this was due to poor workmanship. Although  he 
complained to E he says it subsequently went out of business. And he submitted a section 
75 claim to Tesco for £2,390 - which he says are the costs  and consequential losses.
Tesco told us it didnt  think there was enough  conclusive evidence to prove  the faults with 
the engine were caused by E. It didnt  consider  the inspection reports supplied by Mr W had 
been independent as these had been  compiled  by mechanics who had worked on the 
engine. And there was no way to conclusively determine that any faults had been caused by 
the merchant  and was not due to the reinstallation of the engine.  It said it had made the 
correct decision to decline the section 75 claim.
The investigator did not recommend the complaint should be upheld. She felt there was 
insufficient evidence  as to the extent of the contract for the engine reconditioning. And that it 
wasnt clear who was responsible for the reconditioned  engine  not working.
Mr W didnt agree with the conclusions of the investigator and said he wanted an 
ombudsman to make the final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  that Mr W has experienced  the frustration and expense which has arisen due to the 
circumstances of his complaint.  And I can understand his feelings  of disappointment at being  
unable to obtain what he would see as proper recompense.
Its important to understand that we are an evidence-based  service - that is we look not just 
to what the parties  tell us but also at documentary and other evidence to help us reach  a 
decision. 
And where  evidence is incomplete, unclear or contradictory - as some of it is here - I make 
my decision  on the balance of probabilities. That is to say I decide what  I think  is the most 
probable explanation for whats happened.
Mr W brings his claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act, 1974.  And whilst I dont 
apply the law -directly - I do take it into account.
In brief,  section 75 potentially gives  a consumer a like claim against the provider of finance 
as they would have against the supplier of the goods and/or services.  But it only applies in 
limited circumstances  and requires certain  conditions to be met. And it depends upon a 
misrepresentation and/or breach of contract having  occurred.
I should also explain that my decision on Mr Ws complaint relates to how Tesco  dealt with 
his claim.  Its not about the merits of the underlying claim he had against  E.
Ref: DRN59601842The basic  circumstances are relatively straightforward.  Mr W purchased  a vehicle which  
required the engine  to be repaired.  In a reply to Mr W, prior to his placing the order, E had 
confirmed to him, the price quoted is to fully recondition your own engine.  
The process required Mr W to arrange for the faulty engine to be removed from the vehicle 
bodywork. E was to collect it, recondition it and return it to Mr W. It was then necessary for 
Mr W to arrange for the engine to be refitted to his vehicle. 
Whilst theres no precise description of the extent  of the work which would amount to 
reconditioning of the engine I dont think that affects  my final decision. For the purposes of 
this complaint Im going to assume  the term recondition is given  what I think is its plain 
meaning. One dictionary definition is to restore to good or satisfactory condition. And it 
seems to me common  sense that what E was offering and what Mr W was expecting  was an 
engine in working order after reconditioning  had been completed.
When Mr Ws mechanic,  who Ill refer to as O, began the task of refitting the engine he 
reported issues with the work that had been done by E. He reported the pre-tensioner bolt 
had sheared off and had been painted over. And he felt this had been  the likely cause of the 
original engine failure. He described the returned  engine as unserviceable.  The sheared 
bolt required  drilling out and this was apparently  done by another local mechanic. 
O stated that once the sheared bolt had been removed he was able to complete the re-fitting  
of all the ancillary parts to the engine and reinstate it within the body of the vehicle. But after 
restoring the electrical  connections and power  supply,  the engine  still would not turnover or 
start. He concluded there was nothing further  he could do and advised  Mr W to return to E.
As Im looking only at whether Tesco dealt with Mr Ws claim in a fair manner Ive got to 
consider the evidence with which it was provided.  This showed - that whilst E had supplied a 
reconditioned engine - the engine had been  worked  on by at least two other mechanics. So it 
was no longer in the condition it had been  in when returned by E. 
There was no independent  evidence available as Os report  had arisen only because he 
had been commissioned  to refit the engine - not specifically to inspect it. And having  
commenced that work he reported faults  with the engine itself.  
The engine was then subject to further repairs by another  mechanic about whom I have no 
further information. And finally  it was returned to O, who completed the reinstallation  before 
finding the engine still would not work.
In order for Tesco to be liable under section 75, it would have to be shown that it was E 
which had been  in breach  of contract. And that would require evidence that the work it 
carried out in reconditioning the engine had not been carried out with reasonable care and 
skill.
In the absence of independent evidence I dont think its possible to fairly draw that 
conclusion. There have  been at least three separate mechanics work on this engine.  And so 
Tesco was, in my opinion, entitled to conclude it would be unlikely to be able to prove it was 
probably E alone  which was responsible for the defects.
Ref: DRN59601843Ive been referred  to some anecdotal evidence  which has been  posted online or using social  
media. And whilst all of these reviews reveal  unfavourable comment about  Es services I 
dont think it amounts to persuasive evidence.
Firstly, I dont know how representative  they are of the overall quality of Es services. No 
business is going to be able to provide  a perfect service every time.  And so it would almost 
certainly be possible to identify adverse comment about any business. And the manner  in 
which some  of the criticism has been  expressed  is hardly objective.
I also dont think Tesco took an unreasonable length  of time in dealing  with the complaint. 
The complaint was brought to Tesco on 7 January 2018. And it issued a final response letter 
in early June 2018. In the interim period it tried to engage with E and it kept in contact with 
Mr W. It was entitled to consider the reports it had been given and to itself consider the need 
for an independent assessment.
For completeness I feel I also ought to address  the totality of Mr Ws claim which at the start 
of the complaint he put at £2,390. This comprised the original £900 cost of the reconditioned 
engine and what he claims  to be consequential  losses which have  followed.
Its correct that if a breach of contract  occurs its sometimes  possible for consequential 
losses to be recovered.  But for that to happen  it would have to be shown both that the 
additional loss arose from the breach and that it had been foreseeable.  
As far as I can see £1,200  of the claim is attributable to the work of O in removing the 
engine, supplying various new parts and re-fitting the engine to the bodywork. All of this work 
would have been necessary anyway and some of it took place before E had supplied  the 
reconditioned engine. So it cant be said to be consequential upon any breach of contract by 
E - even if there has been one - which I do not find.
In summary,  I think Tesco dealt with the section 75 claim in the correct manner. And I dont 
think it was unreasonable for it to conclude there was insufficient  evidence of a breach of 
contract by E.
Whilst I know it will come as a disappointment  to Mr W, it would not be fair and reasonable of 
me to find that Tesco should be held liable for the section 75 claim. And so Im not upholding 
this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 May 2019.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5960184