K820x#14Mrs B says Lloyds Bank PLC (trading as Cheltenham and Gloucester) mis-sold her a 
payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.  Ill refer to the business as Lloyds in the rest of 
this decision.
background
Mrs B took out a mortgage and PPI through Lloyds in 1998  at a meeting. The policy  
covered her for accident, sickness and unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs B didnt accept our adjudicators view, 
so her complaint  was passed to me. She said, in summary, she:
was financially stable  when she took out the PPI and had no need for the policy;
felt under pressure  as too much emphasis was put on her being single and 
therefore vulnerable should something  happen; 
had banked with Lloyds for around 40 years, had never been overdrawn, had an 
impeccable credit rating and had maintained her mortgage for 14 years without any 
issue. She had not sought out PPI in the previous  14 years;
was in professional,  secure employment  and continuously employed for over 20 
years;
wouldve received  sick pay for 12 months, six months worth at full pay and six 
months worth at half pay;
had no pre-existing medical conditions that suggested she may need to take time off 
work long term;
had savings, an endowment policy and other investments. If shed cancelled these 
payments together they wouldve  probably  covered  her mortgage repayment in full;
her property was her biggest asset. Had she not have  been able to make her 
repayments the bank simply wouldve repossessed her home, so she wasnt  a risk to 
the lender;
Lloyds failed to consider  her suitability for PPI and didnt make her aware of the limits 
on cover;  and
was sceptical about the information  Lloyds now holds about her given how long ago 
this sale was and banks usual retention policies.
As agreement couldnt be reached Mrs Bs complaint  has been passed  to me to consider.
my findings
Although Ive summarised Mrs Bs complaint and her representations, I have read and 
considered all the evidence and arguments available to me, including everything shes sent 
in and said, to decide what  is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. As 
some of the evidence is either incomplete or contradictory, Ive made  a decision on what  I 
think is most likely  to have happened   based on whats available.
Our general approach to complaints about PPI is on our website and Ive followed it 
here. Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Bs complaint. Ill explain why.
I havent seen  anything to make  me think the information that Lloyds has provided cant 
reasonably be relied on. I think its been  taken  from internal records from the time of 
sale and before this complaint was known  about.
Ref: DRN54373732I cant know exactly what was discussed when the insurance was added. Mrs B said she 
felt undue pressure was placed on her to take out the policy because of the emphasis 
placed on her being a single person solely responsible for making the repayments. She 
said she was led to feel that PPI was in her best interests, when it wasnt. This is a very 
subjective area, and whilst this discussion may have led to Mrs B agreeing to take PPI, I 
cant see from what Mrs Bs said that Lloyds told her that she had to have it to get the credit 
or placed undue pressure on her to take it. From what Mrs Bs said, I think it probably was 
made clear to her this was an optional insurance and she chose to take it. If PPI had been 
presented as compulsory, I think it unlikely that there wouldve been a discussion about her 
vulnerability to meet the repayments as a single person. 
Lloyds recommended Mrs B take PPI, so it had to consider  whether  it was suitable for her. 
In addition, it had to give her information that was clear, fair and not misleading about the 
PPI so that she could make an informed  choice about whether it was right for her and she
wanted to buy it. If there was a problem with the sale, then I need  to consider whether I think
Mrs B has lost out because of that.
I cant see that this policy  was unsuitable for Mrs B. Ill explain why.
 Mrs B appeared eligible to take out PPI given her employment circumstances.
 Mrs B said she wouldve got six months  worth  of full sick pay and six months  
worth of half sick pay through her work if she couldnt work.  The policy wouldve 
paid out for up to 12 months per successful claim on top of her work benefits.  
She couldve used  her work benefits  to meet her other  household  expenditure  
knowing her mortgage repayments were  met. So, I still think PPI couldve 
provided Mrs B with a valuable benefit  to protect  her home  and her largest  asset.
Mrs B said she was in secure  employment.  But, the policy  wouldve also have 
covered her if she lost her job unexpectedly.
 Mrs B said she didnt  have any pre-existing medical conditions. And I cant see 
that she wouldve been affected  by any of the main  things the policy didnt 
cover at the time she took out the policy. So I dont think  having better 
information about these things wouldve made any difference  to her decision to 
take out PPI. Mrs B likely couldve benefitted from everything the policy offered.
 The premium was paid monthly. She couldve cancelled PPI at any time without 
losing out financially.  She didnt have  to pay interest  on the premiums. I cant  see 
that the policy was unaffordable.
Mrs B said she was paying for other  insurances  and into a pension  and other  
investments at the time she took out the policy, indicating that she didnt need the 
cover. However, I cant see that these other insurances provided her with 
duplicate cover. Nor can I see that her other  resources (including the investments 
shes mentioned) made  the policy unsuitable  for her.
She said she didnt  pose a risk to the bank  as her home couldve been 
repossessed if she didnt meet her repayments. The purpose of PPI was to 
protect her home from being repossessed if her financial circumstances 
changed. 
Having considered all of these factors, I still think, overall, the policy  was suitable for Mrs B. 
Its possible the bank  couldve given Mrs B clearer information, particularly about  the 
costs and benefits. I can see the costs were included in the policy certificate, but I dont 
know exactly when Mrs B was given this information. But, for the reasons explained, I 
think she wouldve likely still taken out the policy because  of the protection it afforded her. 
Ref: DRN54373733It appeared suitable for her needs, affordable  and I think she wouldve understood it was 
optional and came  at an additional  cost.  
I appreciate that Mrs B feels strongly  that this policy was mis-sold to her and will be 
disappointed at this outcome. But on balance, taking into account everything Ive read and 
been told, I dont think  I can fairly and reasonably say the PPI policy was mis-sold.
my final decision
My decision  is I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 December  2019.
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5437373