K820x#14complaint
Mr H is unhappy that CIS General Insurance Limited  has declined his insurance claim for 
stolen personal  belongings.  Mr H also feels CIS hasnt dealt with his claim fairly and that 
theyve been misleading when communicating  with him.
background
Mr H had a Saga home insurance policy underwritten by CIS, including additional cover for 
unspecified personal belongings. In March 2017, whilst working at an event in his capacity  
as a professional  photographer, some  of Mr Hs photographic equipment was stolen. He 
contacted CIS to claim under  his policy, but was told he was not covered in the 
circumstances. 
CIS told Mr H that the policy didnt  cover customers for theft of property that was used in 
connection with any business, profession and trade. CIS correspondence at this point 
referred to Mr H having said that the equipment solely for business  use. 
Mr H doesnt consider the exclusion  in the policy to be clear.  He also feels CIS has 
deliberately manipulated the answers he gave to questions at the time in order to decline the 
claim. And that the communications he received had factual inaccuracies. 
After Mr H had exhausted  CISs  complaint process  he brought his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator agreed that there had been some errors in the correspondence sent to 
Mr H, and that CISs response  to the claim could have been  clearer.  But she felt that CIS 
had acted fairly and reasonably in declining the claim, as the equipment was used for 
professional purposed and that the exclusion in the policy was clear. 
Mr H remained  unsatisfied and so his complaint  has been referred  to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  But whilst  I have taken all of the points 
made into account, I have  focussed  the content  of this decision on what I consider to be the 
key issues.
I consider that there are two main parts to this complaint; CISs decision to decline  the claim 
and CISs  communications. 
In terms of the first point,  I agree with the investigator that CISs decision is fair and 
reasonable. The terms of Mr Hs policy largely exclude claims for property which is used  for 
business, profession and trade. 
The exception to this is claims  for business equipment,  which is defined in the policy as 
Office  equipment, furniture and stock.  I dont think it would be reasonable to consider 
Mr Hs photographic equipment to fall within this exception. 
And as Mr H has confirmed that the stolen property was used for his profession,  and indeed  
was being used in a professional capacity at the time it was stolen, I think it was appropriate 
to apply the general exception relied  upon  by CIS to decline  the claim.  
Ref: DRN52503222Mr H considers this exclusion to be misleading. But Im afraid  I dont agree. The exclusion 
states;
This policy  does not insure  the following:
2. Any property (which  is not business equipment) or money  you own,  hold in trust or 
use in connection  with any business, profession or trade. Nor any legal liability 
arising directly or indirectly from any business,  profession or trade.
I consider this is clear  that any property the policyholder uses  in connection with any 
profession is not covered. There is the exception  to this and also other situations which  also 
fall within  the exclusion. But I do not consider  this to be ambiguous. 
Ultimately, as Mr H was claiming for property he used for his profession, I consider CISs 
decision to decline his claim was fair and reasonable. 
Turning to the communications between CIS and Mr H, once  again  I agree with the 
investigator that errors were made here.  
I note that not all of the references to the claimed  items correctly described them. And that 
references to what  was said over the phone werent exact or exhaustive. But although Mr H 
has described this as CIS fabricating, altering and withholding the evidence, I am not 
inclined to agree. 
Errors were made, but I have seen no evidence to persuade  me this was a deliberate  
attempt to avoid  the claim. Such  action  wasnt necessary given the terms of the policy and 
the circumstances of the claim. Additionally, I dont think it would be reasonable to provide a 
full transcript of phone conversations  in a response to a claim. So it was necessary to refer 
to only parts of the conversation that took place. I dont consider this to have been CIS 
withholding information. 
CIS has itself said to us that there may have been some confusion  with regard to the use of 
the word solely and our e-mail clarifying  the position. And I do think CIS should  have been 
clearer here. The policy doesnt make any reference  to the use of the equipment being solely 
for professional purposes. And as Mr H didnt use this equipment  only for his business,  by 
using this term CIS has caused Mr H trouble and upset. 
But I dont feel the errors  made led to an incorrect outcome on the claim or that the 
inconvenience caused by them warrants a compensatory award.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules  of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or reject  my decision before 
11 July 2019.
Sam Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5250322