K821x#15complaint
Mr L complains  about four buy to let mortgages he holds  with Bank of Scotland plc trading 
as Birmingham Midshires (BM). His daughter Miss N, who holds one of the mortgages  jointly  
with Mr L, has given  her consent  to the complaint. 
Mr L complains  that BM gave him misleading information about whether  he could extend the 
term and fix the interest rate on his mortgages. He says hes suffered inconvenience  and 
financial loss as a result.
background
Mr L has four interest only buy to let mortgages with BM, one of them held jointly  with his 
daughter Miss N.
The mortgages were  approaching the end of the terms, and the interest  rates were about to 
revert to the standard variable rate (SVR). Mr L contacted BM to ask it to extend the term 
and apply a new fixed rate but it refused. Mr L then consulted a broker, who was able to 
apply for a term extension  and a new five year fixed rate online.  
However, BM contacted  the broker to say that the application couldnt go through, because it 
didnt extend mortgages with less than two years to run beyond  five years. And its five year 
fixed rate wasnt for five years from the date taken out; rather,  it was to a fixed  end date just 
over five years into the future  beyond  the end of the term even if extended to the maximum 
five years.  This meant it couldnt extend  the term beyond five years,  and couldnt  apply  the 
five year rate selected as it would run beyond the end of the extended term.
Mr L and his broker complained. Someone at BM Mr L spoke to agreed  that the terms could 
be extended by six years so that five year rates could be applied to the mortgages.  But then 
BM said this couldnt  be done after all. Mr L ended up taking the five year term extension 
and fixing his interest rates for two years.
Mr L complained. He said BM hadnt said anywhere  on its website, or to brokers,  that the 
maximum term extension was five years. Theyd  been told twice   once when the broker 
applied, and again when he complained  that it could  be done only for those offers  to be 
withdrawn. He said this would  cause  him considerable loss, because hed have to pay an 
extra set of interest rate product application  fees again in two years, and because hed have 
to spend extra time on the standard variable rate. 
Our investigator didnt  think that BM needed  to extend the mortgage terms further, or apply 
the five year rates. But she did think that BM had given  Mr L misleading information that 
raised his hopes  and caused him inconvenience. She said it should pay him £400 
compensation. BM accepted that, but Mr L didnt.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Mr Ls frustration with the situation,  and why he believes  its caused him 
loss. He was led to believe he could have a longer  term extension,  fixing his rates for a 
longer period  which he wanted to do. But then he learned it wouldnt be possible.
Ref: DRN51706692Ive seen that BM did  eventually   follow its correct policy. When  a buy to let mortgage 
comes to the end of its term,  it will consider an extension, but only to a maximum of five 
years from the date of application.
Ive considered what Mr L has said about his circumstances. I dont think  it was 
unreasonable for BM to agree to five years  but no more. These  are buy to let mortgages; 
theyre not secured over Mr Ls home, and theyre essentially a business proposition.  Mr L 
agreed when he took the mortgages  out that they would be repaid at the end of the term, 
and its reasonable to expect him to do that. If hes not in a position to do so, BM will 
consider an extension up to five years to give him time to arrange his finances to repay the 
mortgages  but no more.  I think  thats  fair. 
And I understand why Mr L would like longer, so that he can benefit  from lower interest rates  
for longer. But hes already benefited by not having  to repay the capital when he originally 
agreed he would,  from selling the properties  or otherwise  instead, he can continue  to 
benefit from the rental income and capital  growth. I think BMs decision to allow  a maximum 
of five years  struck a fair balance, in this case,  between BMs desire to be repaid the capital 
it had lent and Mr Ls desire to continue to profit from it.
However, BM shouldnt  have led Mr L or his broker to believe that it would allow  a longer 
extension, or that a five year interest  rate product would be allowed. That wasnt in fact 
something it was willing  to do, and it shouldnt have suggested otherwise.
I dont think Mr L has in fact incurred the financial loss he suggests, though. Theyre  future  
losses  based  on extra product fees and time on the SVR with two two year rates and a five 
year term rather  than one five year rate and a six year term. However, Mr L was never 
entitled to the five year rate / six year term. It wasnt something available to him under BMs 
lending policy. BMs mistake was telling him it was, not in not giving it to him. And when a 
mistake is made, the fair thing to do in my view is to put the parties back in the position they 
would be in had the mistake never  been  made,  not the position they would be had the 
mistake been correct.
That means that Mr L has ended up in the position he should  have  been  in all along   with a 
five year extension,  a two year rate and the option to apply for another  rate when it expires. 
The problem is that BM should have made that clear  from the start, rather  than leading  him 
to believe he had other options when  he didnt. I think that did cause him upset and 
inconvenience in trying to resolve the situation. I think  £400 is fair compensation in the 
circumstances. As Mr L was managing all four mortgages, and was the one caused the 
upset and inconvenience, it should  be paid to him.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I uphold  this complaint and direct Bank of 
Scotland plc trading as Birmingham Midshires to pay Mr L £400 compensation  including 
the amount its already paid.
Ref: DRN51706693Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L and Miss N to 
accept or reject my decision  before  18 March  2020.
Simon Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5170669