K821x#15complaint
Mr P has complained that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) unfairly decided he was responsible  
for causing damage to another drivers car under his motor  policy. This in turn increased  his 
premium and reduced his No Claims Discount (NCD).
background
Mr P said he parked his car outside  a shop on 14 January 2018 and went  in to buy 
something to eat. When he came  out, the other  drivers car was parked right up again  his 
and the other driver was blaming Mr P for parking  so close. The other driver took a number 
of photographs.  Mr P said this other driver finally  calmed  down, given there was no damage 
to either  car and both went on their way. Mr P said as there was no incident, he didnt inform 
UKI about it.
On 2 March 2018,  UKI received a claim from the other driver  stating  Mr P had caused 
damage to his car on 14 January 2018.  The photographs of damage were taken on 17 
January 2018.  As Mr P couldnt explain how this damage occurred, UKI decided to hold Mr P 
liable and settled  the other drivers  claim.
Mr P complained but UKI wouldnt  change its stance. The investigator didnt think UKI had 
done anything  wrong. Mr P disagreed  so his complaint was passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision on 28 February  2020.  I said the following:
As the investigator  explained, our role in such complaints isnt to decide  who was at 
fault for causing  any accident, our role is merely  to ensure the insurer UKI came to its 
decision reasonably,  given its right in the policy terms to deal with any incident as it 
thinks fit.
Here I dont think UKI has dealt with this reasonably. This is because the 
photographs the other driver produced of the incident of 14 January 2018 dont show  
any damage to his car, but the photographs taken three days  later on 17 January do. 
Therefore if the photos at the scene show no damage,  its more than likely a possible 
intervening event took place, which didnt involve Mr Ps car causing  damage to the 
other drivers  car. 
Mr P was involved  in an incident  where he came out of a shop to find another driver 
in a state because Mr Ps car was right up to this other cars bumper. And potentially  
this other  driver did this himself, as theres  nothing to say he didnt, theres merely his 
allegation against Mr P.
So I dont  consider UKI investigated the issue appropriately  with the other  driver at 
the time.  It surmised wrongly in my view that photos  taken three days later concerned  
the same  incident.  I dont  think  the evidence shows this, because the photos taken 
three days earlier show no damage,  a point, which the case handler in UKI confirmed 
to Mr P in his email  of 23 October 2018. So I think too much emphasis has been put 
on the fact that given  the proximity in dates of the photos, the other drivers account  
was truthful. 
But if this is the case, there was no reason for this other driver to wait until 2 March 
2018 to present his claim. The fact he delayed so, impinges on his veracity  of the 
Ref: DRN57354412events, in my view. This is because Mr P confirms  the other driver was agitated at 
the time,  but Mr P said he left the scene in a much calmer fashion, apparently having 
been assured  that there was no damage to his car. Then  three days  later,  he takes 
photographs of damage, and nearly two months later presents his claim, claiming Mr 
P was at fault.  So I dont think the other driver has shown  coherent  chain of causation  
that puts Mr P at fault. 
So I think UKI didnt  think  this through fully enough  and werent at all robust  with the 
other drivers  claim, so as to protect Mr Ps interests.  I think  thats possibly  
understandably, given the low value  of the claim  making it simply easier for UKI to 
accept it. But I think thats not being  fair to Mr P. And consequently, I consider UKI 
have prejudiced Mr P unreasonably. According  him no incident  occurred where  his 
car damaged this other  drivers car as the photos  of the day show. Therefore, he 
quite obviously cant say how such damage to this other drivers  car then happened. 
Further I agree there was no reason  for him to report  any incident, because  other  
than an agitated stranger who turns out to be this other driver, who may or may not 
have driven his car up against Mr Ps, and then made a scene  about  it when Mr P 
came back,  there was nothing to report.  
So given all this I consider it was unfair of UKI to penalise Mr P in the way it has. 
Therefore, I consider  it should remove the fault and any marker from Mr Ps 
insurance record and databases, reinstate his NCD and refund him any subsequent 
premium increase it charged  him.
I consider this caused Mr P some inconvenience, trouble, and upset. So I think it 
should pay Mr P £150 compensation.
Mr P agreed with my provisional decision.  
UKI didnt.  It said the photographs taken by the other driver on the day were  of poor quality 
being black and white. So it said they didnt show the damage, which  was evident  on the 
later photographs,  dated three days later. It also said Mr P didnt deny he was there or that 
the incident occurred. And lastly, the levels of the bumpers of both cars were the same.  
Therefore, it thought  it had decided the claim coherently.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I remain of the opinion I expressed in my provisional decision. If UKI thought  
the photos taken by the other driver  on 14 January were of poor quality given they were in 
black and white, there  was nothing to stop it asking the other driver to send in his colour 
copies of these  photographs. But UKI didnt do this. 
Theres also no indication on UKI file that it ever thought these photographs were of poor 
quality either  as its case holder clearly confirmed to Mr P on 23 October 2018 that the 
photographs taken  on 14 January showed  no damage to the other drivers car. 
I dont consider the fact the bumpers  were the same  height to be of any relevance without 
the photos of 14 January showing damage had occurred. 
Ref: DRN57354413Therefore, I remain of the view that UKI has unfairly prejudiced Mr P, given it didnt 
investigate the other  drivers claim reasonably.
my final decision
So its my final decision that I uphold this complaint.
I now require U K Insurance Limited to do the following:
Remove this fault marker from Mr Ps record and indeed  ensure there  is no incident 
registered against Mr P for this other drivers claim. 
Reinstate Mr Ps NCD.
Recalculate Mr Ps premium and refund him any increase caused  by this incident.  
Adding interest of 8% simple per year from the date Mr P paid any increase  to the 
date it refunds him. If income tax is to be deducted from the interest,  appropriate 
documentation should be provided  to Mr P for HMRC  purposes.
Pay Mr P the sum of £150 compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 April 2020.
Rona Doyle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5735441