K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that Tesco Underwriting Limited  wont disclose the amount of discount  its 
applied to his motor insurance policy as a result of him being a member of a supermarket 
loyalty scheme. 
background
Mr S took out a motor insurance policy  with Tesco through a price comparison website. Mr S 
was charged an annual premium of £333.90. Shortly after the policy  started, Mr S called 
Tesco to ask it how many  loyalty points hed get on his supermarket loyalty  card for taking 
the policy out. Tesco told Mr S that purchasing a motor insurance policy attracted no loyalty  
points but it did attract a discount  on the premium for loyalty card holders.
Mr S asked Tesco amount of discount was applied  to his policy. Tesco said it couldnt tell 
him how his price was calculated or the discount  applied because such  information was 
commercially sensitive.  Mr S complained to Tesco. 
Tesco looked into Mr Ss complaint  but didnt think itd done anything wrong. It confirmed 
hed received a loyalty  card discount  on his premium  but said it couldnt give him a 
breakdown of how it calculated the price or the discount applied.  It said there were over 500 
calculations involved in generating his premium and the loyalty card membership was used 
within many  of them to help reduce his price. Finally  it said that being  a loyalty  scheme  
member allowed it to confirm much of the information hed provided which  in turn reduced  
the risk involved in providing cover and so reduced the premium.
Unhappy with Tescos  response, Mr S complained to this service. Our adjudicator looked 
into his complaint but didnt think Tesco had behaved unreasonably so didnt recommend 
that it was upheld. Mr S asked for his complaint  to be referred  for an ombudsmans  decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Although  I appreciate it will come as 
disappointment to Mr S, I dont think his complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why.
Its important to understand that this service  doesnt normally  assess pricing methodology 
generally. So we generally accept that insurers can charge what they feel they need to for 
covering the risk of providing insurance  so long as they act fairly. In simple terms, that 
means that they should apply their chosen pricing  model consistently  between their 
customers whilst ensuring that the customer has the information they need to make an 
informed decision about taking the policy at the price offered. 
When calculating Mr Ss price, Tesco said it involved making over 500 calculations  and that 
the loyalty card information fed into these which had the effect of reducing the overall price. 
Insurers are entitled to assess whatever factors  and apply whatever discounts - they 
choose when  setting the prices of their policies.  They will rate these  accordingly  and they will 
be used to determine the price. Commonly used factors are postcode, number of claims, 
driver age etc. They also factor in their administration costs  and profit requirements.  
One of the factors Tesco has said it used was the fact Mr S was a loyalty  club member. It 
said that the fact he was meant his premium  was discounted as a result.  Tesco has said that 
Ref: DRN57009162the discount wasnt applied as a final discount  but was included within the calculation  of the 
premium. It said it couldnt provide an actual monetary value. 
I know Mr S wants to know  the amount, or at least a percentage figure, of discount hes 
received on his annual motor insurance premium as a result of being a loyalty  card holder. 
Unfortunately for Mr S, such information  is commercially sensitive. If a competitive insurer 
was to get hold of such information it could be used against Tesco. It wouldnt be fair for this 
service to make an insurer disclose confidential information that could cause it commercial 
harm. 
Tesco has been  able to show us that the fact Mr S was a loyalty  card holder meant  his policy  
benefitted from a discount, so Im satisfied that hes been treated the same as any other 
customer that provided their loyalty card details during the sale.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 September 2019.
Claire Woollerson 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5700916