K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that Barclays  Bank  UK PLC didnt assist or encourage him to repay his loan 
early.
background
Mr C took out a Barclays career development loan in 2013 but says Barclays could have  
done more to allow him to repay  the loan earlier and avoid the interest he paid. He says it 
was extremely difficult to speak to Barclays about this issue  and it should have allowed him 
online access to his account so he could have  managed it differently. Mr C says there was a 
lack of information in the statements he was sent and that he should be entitled to receive a 
significant part of the interest  he has paid refunded to him. He also says Barclays could have 
encouraged him to repay the loan early.
Barclays doesnt accept  making a mistake and says Mr C signed the loan agreement which 
contained details  of the amount borrowed, interest charged and amount of repayments.  It 
says online  banking isnt available  for this type of loan but it sent statements to Mr C. It also 
says Mr C contacted it on a number of occasions about his loan and was given balance 
information as well as other information about  the loan when he called. Barclays has 
apologised for Mr C not being able to speak to the correct department but says it was his 
responsibility to mange  the loan account.
Mr C brought his complaint to us but our adjudicator didnt uphold it. She thought Barclays 
hadnt made a mistake  and Mr C had agreed  to the loan terms and conditions.  The 
adjudicator thought Mr C had been sent annual account statements and information  in the 
terms and conditions about paying the loan back early or making additional repayments. The 
adjudicator also thought  Mr C had been  in contact with Barclays and in 2016 had been given 
information about the interest rate and it was up to him to decide if he wished to repay the 
loan early.
Mr C doesnt accept  that view and says Barclays hasnt made it easy  for him to reach out to 
it and he was caused stress and frustration in trying  to speak to it. He believes Barclays 
treats its customers with this type of loan differently.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall view as the adjudicator for the same reasons. I realise Mr C will be disappointed by 
my decision.
Ive looked at the terms and conditions of the loan which Im satisfied Mr C agreed to by 
signing the agreement. And Im satisfied those  terms  and conditions make clear  the length  of 
the loan, the amount borrowed and the amount to be repaid each month. I am also satisfied 
information is given  about early repayments and that Mr C was given an annual statement.  
So I dont  think Barclays has acted unfairly  or made  a mistake here and has acted in line 
with the agreed  account terms and conditions. Im satisfied  its taken  the correct  amount of 
repayments and charged the agreed  interest rate.
I appreciate Mr C says Barclays could have done more  to encourage him to repay the loan 
earlier and could have  allowed him for example online access to the account  details. But I 
think its Mr Cs responsibility to make those decisions and I think  he was given enough 
Ref: DRN55431342information in any event about  that. I also think its up to Barclays when exercising its 
commercial judgement to make such decisions on allowing online account access.
I can see from Barclays records that Mr C spoke to Barclays on a number of occasions  
about his loan for example on two occasions in 2016. And I can see that he was given 
information about the account balance and also complained about the interest. So I think not 
only did Barclays provide  the information  about the loan to Mr C but also I think he had an 
opportunity to repay the loan back earlier if he had wanted to then.
Overall Im satisfied Barclays has acted fairly and hasnt made a mistake.  I appreciate  that 
Mr C spent some time trying to contact it but I can see that Barclays has fairly and 
reasonably apologised for any delays. For those reasons I cant fairly order  Barclays  to 
refund any of the interest as Mr C would like.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 July 2019.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5543134