K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs W say Santander UK Plc, trading at the time as Abbey National, mis-sold them a 
payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
I issued my provisional decision on Mr and Mrs Ws complaint  in May 2019 (see attached). I 
said I was minded not to uphold their complaint and set out my reasons. As Id added  to the 
reasons our adjudicator had given for recommending their complaint should not be upheld, I 
gave Mr and Mrs W and Santander  the opportunity to let me have  anything  further they 
wanted me to consider before I issued a final decision. 
Neither Mr and Mrs W nor Santander  have said anything more.  Mr and Mrs Ws complaint 
comes to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to complaints  about  the sale of PPI is on our website. Ive followed it here.  
As theres  nothing new to consider I see no reason to depart from my provisional decision 
and for the reasons set out in that decision.  So, I do not uphold  this complaint.
my final decision
I do not uphold  Mr and Mrs Ws complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  9 September 2019.
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Provisional decision  May 2019
complaint
Mr and Mrs W say Santander  UK Plc, trading at the time as Abbey National,  mis-sold  them  a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr and Mrs W took out an Abbey National mortgage in April 2003. PPI was also added to their 
account to protect their mortgage repayments. The policy covered Mr W only. It cost £34.97  per 
month for £579 per month of cover for accident, sickness and unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint. Mr and Mrs W disagreed. They  said,  in the 
main, they were paying for something they didnt know they had. They also said they didnt need PPI 
because they had adequate sick pay and savings.  They  said the policy was useless as they didnt 
claim on it.
Ref: DRN54090082As agreement  couldnt be reached their complaint comes  to me to decide.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach  to complaints about the sale of PPI is on our website. Ive followed it here. 
Im currently  minded not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs W say they didnt  know PPI was added. I cant know what  was discussed at the 
meeting with Abbey National. Ive seen the mortgage application Mr W completed.  There was no 
mention of PPI on that form.  Abbey  National  said for PPI to be added  a separate  application  form 
and direct  debate  mandate wouldve had to be completed. It no longer has a copy of these 
documents. Banks often only keep records for six years, so thats not surprising. Ive seen a copy 
of a letter Santander says Mr W was sent, at the time, confirming  hed taken out PPI, including 
the separate cost of it. I think  had Mr W not agreed to take out PPI, likely he wouldve  said then 
he didnt want it. So I think  it more  likely that it was made clear  to Mr and Mrs W that PPI was 
optional and they opted to take it, knowing they didnt have to take it to get the mortgage. I think 
they were probably  persuaded that PPI was right for them  given  the long term financial 
commitment they were  entering  into. 
Santander has proceeded on the basis  that it recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs W. Given  the 
lack of information now available, and Santanders offer to treat this as an advised sale, I have 
worked on this basis too. That means  Santander  had the added responsibility  of checking whether 
the cover was right for them. It also had to give them  clear,  fair and accurate information, so they 
could make an informed choice for themselves  about whether  they wanted  to buy PPI.
As this was a joint mortgage, Ive taken  into account Mrs Ws circumstances too when deciding  this 
complaint, even though only Mr W was covered under the policy.
It doesnt  look as if PPI was unsuitable for Mr and Mrs W, based on what  Ive seen of their 
circumstances at the time. I say this because:
Mr W seemed  eligible  to take out the PPI.
they said they were  both eligible to get at least  6 months  worth of sick pay through their 
employers. The PPI would  have paid out on top of Mr Ws work benefits and for up to 12 
months per successful accident, sickness or unemployment claim, so potentially  longer than 
he wouldve got full pay for, from his employers. The policy wouldve  also have covered him if 
he lost his job unexpectedly.
Mr and Mrs W said their parents couldve helped  out from their savings. I accept  they may 
have wanted to, but help of this kind cant always  be guaranteed when the time comes, so I 
havent place much  reliance on this. Also, they said their parents had earmarked these 
savings for their grandchildren, so they mayve been reluctant to use them  unless absolutely 
necessary.
Mr W said he had death in service benefit and life cover. But both of these insurances paid 
out on death,  so I cant see that they provided  him with duplicate cover to meet his mortgage 
repayments if he wasnt  working.  
The policy  would  have allowed them to use Mrs Ws income to meet  their other household 
expenses at what  mightve been a difficult time for them financially,  if Mr W wasnt working.  
So, I cant  see that Mr and Mrs Ws other resources made the policy unsuitable for them.  I 
think the policy wouldve  provided  valuable protection, safeguarding their home if Mr W wasnt 
able to work.
I cant see that the policy was unaffordable  and the monthly premium couldve been cancelled 
at any time without  them losing  out financially.
Ref: DRN54090083Mr W mentioned having a medical  condition. But he also said that this was not a problem as 
such and that it cleared  itself during the lifetime  of the mortgage. Their mortgage ended in 
2005. I think even if Mr W was affected  by any of the main limitations or exclusions in the 
policy because he had a pre-existing medical  condition, that he wouldve  likely still taken the 
cover. I say this because I dont  think he wouldve  thought it likely  hed have to make a claim  
for this medical condition. So, I think he wouldve  still considered the policy  worth it, in their 
circumstances.
Overall, I think  the PPI would have been useful to Mr and Mrs W, in their circumstances.
Its possible Santander didnt give Mr and Mrs W all the information they needed  before they decided 
to buy PPI. I dont know when it made the cost clear or when it pointed  out the main  things the policy 
didnt cover. So, although  the information  may not have  been as clear as it couldve  been, before I 
decide whether to uphold their complaint, I must consider whether Mr and Mrs W have lost out 
because of this. I cant see that they have. I think they wouldve understood they had to pay 
something for PPI, and as Ive said above the cost was affordable and the policy  appeared  suitable. 
Ive considered carefully all of Mr and Mrs Ws comments, including that they said that the PPI was 
useless because they didnt  claim on it. The purpose of insurance is to provide cover if certain 
unforeseen situations arise,  in Mr and Mrs Ws case there was no need for them to make a claim. But 
that doesnt mean  that the policy wasnt right for them in the first place.
It follows, I dont think Mr and Mrs W have lost out because of any problems  with the sale and I dont 
think this policy was mis-sold to them.  
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that I a minded not to uphold  this complaint for the reasons set out above.
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5409008