K821x#15complaint
Miss B complains  that Uncle Buck Finance  LLP was irresponsible  to lend her money.
background
Uncle Buck  gave Miss B nine loans between  November 2014 and January 2016.  A summary 
of the loans is set out below:
Loan Number
Date taken  Amount borrowed
Repayments Date repaid
1 7 November 2014 £100 £135 14 November 2014
2 17 November 2014 £125 £169 15 December 2014
3 14 December 2014 £250 £337 15 January 2015
4 15 January 2015 £225 £279 13 February 2015
5 13 February 2015 £320 £161 x 3 13 March 2015
6 18 May 2015 £320 £158 x 3 13 June 2015
7 24 August 2015 £125 £60 x 3 15 September 2015
8 10 October 2015 £100 £52 x 3 13 November 2015
9 15 January 2016 £500 £252 x 3 still outstanding
Miss B doesnt think that Uncle Buck carried out enough checks before agreeing to lend. 
Miss B says she was stuck in a cycle  of payday  lending that led to stress.  Miss B says she 
had to borrow from family which added additional  strain to her relationship.  
When Miss B first complained to Uncle Buck it offered  to refund the interest  that she had 
paid on loan four. Miss B didnt accept this offer so her complaint came  to this service.
The adjudicator recommended that Miss Bs complaint be upheld  in part. She thought that by 
loan seven Miss Bs repeated borrowing meant the lending was unsustainable. The 
adjudicator asked Uncle Buck to refund interest  and charges and remove  loans seven to 
nine from Miss Bs credit file. 
Uncle Buck  hasnt replied  to the adjudicators recommendation so the complaint has come  to 
me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Uncle Buck  needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure that  
Miss B could repay  the loans in a sustainable manner. These  checks  could take into account 
a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment  amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
Ref: DRN50896212But certain factors might  point to the fact that Uncle Buck should  fairly and reasonably  have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Uncle Buck  was required to establish 
whether Miss B could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments  were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Financial  Conduct Authoritys Consumer Credit Sourcebook 
(CONC) defines sustainable  as being without undue difficulties. 
In particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while  meeting other 
reasonable commitments; as well as without having  to borrow  to meet  the repayments. And 
it follows that a lender  should realise,  or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower is unlikely  to be able to make  their make their repayments in a sustainable manner 
if they have a history  of rolling loans over.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Bs complaint.
Ive also looked  at the overall pattern of Uncle Bucks lending  history with Miss B with a view 
to seeing if there was a point at which Uncle Buck should reasonably have seen that further 
lending was unsustainable or otherwise harmful. So that Uncle Buck  shouldve  realised that 
it shouldnt have provided any more loans to Miss B.
Given the particular  circumstances of Miss Bs case, I think that this point was reached by 
loan seven. I say this because:
loan seven was Miss Bs seventh  loan from Uncle Buck  in about nine months. Uncle  
Buck could see in the past that Miss B had often asked to borrow  again either 
immediately upon or shortly after repaying  a previous loan. I think  that this indicated  
that Miss B was sometimes borrowing again to cover the hole repaying  her previous 
loan was leaving in her finances.
Ref: DRN50896213although Miss B asked to borrow less for loan seven than her previous loan, I think  
that the pattern of repeated lending shouldve alerted  Uncle Buck  to the likelihood 
that Miss B was having  problems  managing her money. So I think  that it shouldve 
been concerned  that Miss B wouldnt be able to repay the loans sustainably. 
I think that Uncle Buck shouldve  seen that Miss Bs indebtedness  was increasing in 
an unstainable  way. I think that Uncle Buck shouldve reasonably  seen that further 
lending was unsustainable or otherwise harmful.
I think that Miss B lost out because  Uncle  Buck continued lend to her from loan seven 
onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Miss Bs indebtedness by allowing 
her to take expensive  credit intended for short-term  use over an extended period of 
time.
the number  of loans, combined with the total length of time Miss B had been 
borrowing from Uncle Buck, was likely to have had negative implications on her 
ability to access mainstream credit. This kept Miss B in the market for these high-cost 
loans. 
So Im upholding  Miss Bs complaint about  loans seven to nine.
putting things right  Uncle Buck should:
refund  all interest and charges Miss B paid on loans seven to nine;
 
add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum  to each  of these amounts from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement*;
write off any unpaid interest and charges on loan nine;
if it chooses to, apply the refund  to any outstanding principal balance  on loan nine before 
paying any remaining  balance  (if there  is any) to Miss B**; and
the number  of loans taken from loan seven onwards means  that any information about 
them is negative.  So all entries  about loans seven to nine should be removed from     
Miss Bs credit file.
If Uncle Buck has sold the remaining debt to a third party  debt purchaser  it should buy it 
back before  doing  what  Ive said above.  If this isnt possible,  Uncle  Buck should (in addition 
to the above if necessary):
arrange to repay any portion of the sum due to the third party  that is made up of interest  
and charges  including any added  by the third party;
refund any interest and charges that Miss B has already paid to the third party, plus 8% 
simple interest from the date of payment to the date of settlement*;
instruct  the third party to remove any information it may have recorded  about loan nine 
from Miss Bs credit file.
Ref: DRN50896214* HM Revenue & Customs requires Uncle Buck to take off tax from this interest. Uncle  Buck 
must give Miss B a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if she asks for one. If 
Uncle Buck  intends  to apply the refund to reduce any outstanding  balance, it must do so 
after deducting the tax.
**if after taking the above steps there is still a principal balance  due, I remind Uncle Buck  of 
its obligation to treat any repayment offer that Miss B might make, sympathetically and 
reasonably.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold part of Miss Bs complaint and direct  Uncle  Buck Finance 
LLP to put things  right as detailed above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 June 2019. 
Gemma Bowen
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5089621