K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs G are unhappy with the decision Ageas Insurance Limited has made following a 
claim for storm  damage  they made  under their property insurance policy.
In my decision, Ill refer to Ageas and its agents  as Ageas.
background
Mr and Mrs G submitted  a claim for storm damage in May 2018.  Ageas assessed the claim 
and agreed to provide a settlement for the internal damage to Mr and Mr Gs property. As 
Mr and Mrs G had already had the work  done, Ageas offered a cash settlement in line with 
that it would  have cost it to do the repairs.
But Ageas declined to cover  the repairs for the external damage to the roof at 
Mr and Mrs Gs property. It said there were no storm conditions present  at the time of the 
loss, and this meant the damage  couldnt  have been  caused by a storm. It also said the 
damage to Mr and Mrs Gs roof was because of wear and tear. 
Mr and Mrs G disagreed  with Ageas findings  and referred the complaint to our service. They  
wanted Ageas to cover the repairs to their roof, and cover the difference  between its offer of 
a cash settlement, and the invoice from their contractor for the internal damage.  
Our investigator reviewed  the complaint and recommended  it shouldnt be upheld. He 
thought there were  conditions around  the time Mr and Mrs G claimed that could be classed 
as a storm. But he didnt  think the damage to their roof was consistent with the conditions.  
He also said he didnt  think  the storm was the main cause of the damage  as it was unlikely 
that heavy rain alone would cause the roof to lift and crack.
Our investigator also thought Ageas had assessed the claim  for internal damage fairly. He 
said that as Ageas didnt have an opportunity to arrange its own repairs,  it was fair for it to 
settle this part of the claim based on what it wouldve cost it to do the work.
Mr and Mrs G disagreed  with our investigators  findings and asked for an ombudsman  to 
review the complaint. So its been passed to me to make a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I wont  be upholding this 
complaint, Ill explain  why.
Our service has an established  approach in regards  to storm perils. And Ill use this to 
determine if Ageas has assessed Mr and Mrs Gs claim fairly. So I need to consider:
1.Was there evidence of a storm event  around the time of the claim?
2.Is the damage typical of the damage that would be caused by a storm?
3.Was the storm the main cause  of the damage?
In order for the claim to be successful, the answer to all three questions  must be yes.
Ref: DRN52503692Ive also looked  at Mr and Mrs Gs policy. Under the general exclusions, which apply to the 
whole policy it states You must at all times: b) Keep the premises, property,  contents and 
other maintainable property which is insured by this policy in a good state of repair. It goes 
on to say This policy does not cover  the cost of maintenance, routine decoration, or wear 
and tear. 
So Ill also consider if Ageas  has assessed Mr and Mrs Gs claim fairly in line with these  
terms.
Ageas said there werent storm conditions present at the time Mr and Mrs G claimed. Ive 
looked at weather reports in the days surrounding  the claim.  The reports do show that heavy 
rainfall occurred in the days before  Mr and Mrs G claimed. But I couldnt see any evidence of 
strong winds  the maximum  gust on the report was 30 mph.  
Despite the lack of strong winds here,  I do think the amount of rainfall was exceptional.  So    
I am satisfied there was a storm. Ive then thought  about what damage Id expect to see in 
line with those conditions.  And Ive also thought about whether the storm was the main 
cause of the damage.
Ive considered the emails that Mr and Mrs Gs roofing contractor sent to Ageas. Theyve 
said the storm caused the roof felt to lift, which meant that water  got underneath and caused 
damage. But they also said the roof became water logged by heavy rain due to bad repair  
work by previous  roofers.
Mr and Mrs G have provided some photographs and a video of the damage caused  so Ive 
considered these too. But based on what Ive seen Im not satisfied the damage  caused is 
consistent with the weather conditions reported. I say this because I havent  seen any firm 
evidence of how the rainfall alone couldve caused  the roof felt to lift or tear.
I am more persuaded the storm  highlighted an existing  issue with the roof  and this is 
supported by the comments from the roof contractor in relation to previous repair work. So 
this leads me to conclude  the storm wasnt the main cause of the damage either.  So I wont  
be telling  Ageas to revisit the claim.
Ive next considered Mr and Mrs Gs claim for internal damage to the property. I appreciate 
Mr and Mrs Gs comments  about why they needed to get the repair  work done  so soon. But I 
also think it was reasonable for Ageas as their insurer to have an opportunity  to assess  the 
damage. This wouldve  allowed them  to present their options for settling the claim, including  
the option of getting their own contractors to undertake the repair.  
Mr and Mrs Gs policy states that in the event of a cash settlement, Ageas wont pay any 
more than it wouldve  cost them to repair the damage.  As the repairs  were already done, I 
dont think Ageas had any other option here. Its possible that Ageas mayve  been able to 
repair the damage for the lower cost, so I think it was reasonable for them to offer the 
discounted cash settlement to Mr and Mrs G to settle the claim.
Ageas has provided  a breakdown of the scope of work to Mr and Mrs G. Ive seen this and it 
sets out what it wouldve  cost Ageas to do the repairs for the internal damage. Having 
considered this I think Ageas has acted in line with the terms and conditions of the policy as 
the cash settlement  is in line with this breakdown. So Im not going to tell it to revisit this part 
of the claim either.
Ref: DRN52503693my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 April 2019.
Dan Prevett
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN5250369