K821x#15complaint
Mrs G says CFP Management Limited  (CFP) took too long to produce its pension transfer 
report and this delay  has caused her a financial loss in the form of a lower  cash equivalent 
transfer value  (CETV).
background
Mrs G had deferred benefits in a former employers final salary  occupational pension 
scheme (OPS). She got a CETV from the OPS.  It was dated 27 October 2016. It showed a 
CETV of £302,965,  guaranteed until 18 January 2017.
To complete the transfer Mrs G needed to demonstrate to the OPS  trustees  shed had 
financial advice from an adviser with the relevant permissions. Mrs Gs financial advisers 
didnt hold those  permissions and so outsourced the case  to CFP who did. 
Mrs Gs adviser  completed the background paperwork with her and sent it on to CFP on 8 
November 2017.  The case was logged by CFP on 14 November 2016.  Letters  were  issued  
to Mrs G and the OPS administrators on 17 November 2016.
In its letter  of introduction  to Mrs G CFP gave  an outline  as to how long it would take for it to 
produce its report. CFP said, once all the information  needed  was provided, a period of six 
weeks was required to review it and complete the advice.
The OPS  administrators responded to CFPs information request on 29 November 2016. 
CFP say they began work on the case on 8 December 2016.  CFP say the first phase  of this 
was completed on 13 January 2017, verified  on 18 January 2017, with the report finalised on 
13 February 2017 after a file review.
The report  confirmed that the transfer would be in Mrs Gs interests.  But, by this time, the 
CETV had already expired.  The OPS  only provided one CETV each year,  meaning  Mrs G 
had to wait until November 2017  before getting  a new CETV. 
This time the CETV was £284,835. Mrs G used a different firm to complete the transfer  for 
the lower amount. She complained to CFP stating  its delay in providing advice had caused 
her to lose out on the higher CETV originally offered.  
An adjudicator looked at the complaint and agreed  with Mrs G. The adjudicator said, as CFP 
had been provided with all the information needed  to complete the transfer on 29 November 
2016, CFP should have been  able to finalise its report  and provide this to Mrs G by 13 
January 2017  at the latest, as per its own guidelines. 
The adjudicator also pointed out that it would have been possible for CFP to have contacted 
the OPS and asked  for the CETV deadline to be extended. The OPS administrators had 
confirmed such requests are considered on a case by case basis, but CFP did not attempt to 
do that. 
The adjudicator said, to put things  right, CFP should  assume that Mrs G would  have been  
successful in securing  the CETV  of £302,965  on 18 January 2017. The amount of growth 
she would  have received should  be calculated. That should be done by reference to the 
investment choices she made later in 2017. CFP should also offer Mrs G £250 for the 
Ref: DRN57883342disruption to her retirement  plans. The later reduced  CETV paid of £284,835 could be 
treated as a withdrawal.
CFP didnt agree with the adjudicators view. CFP said the CETV  deadline was arbitrary and 
that it was more important  to get the advice right. Even if its report had been produced by 13 
January 2017,  it was unlikely Mrs G could have completed the paperwork and got it to the 
OPS administrators before the deadline of 18 January 2017. 
CFP also pointed out that it was stated  clearly in their letter  to Mrs G at the outset in 
November 2016  that CFP couldnt guarantee the report would be completed and the CETV 
secured. CFP also said its introducer  agreement stipulated it be given full control over 
requesting the CETV. But that wasnt done  and so valuable time was lost.  
The adjudicator didnt agree. He said the CETV deadline was important as it would have had 
a material effect on Mrs Gs financial  circumstances.  And it would have been possible for 
Mrs G to have  reserved  the CETV. Once  shed ascertained that it was in her interests  to 
transfer, all that was required was a signed application form to reserve the CETV,  and this 
could be sent by email.  The adjudicator felt this could  have been completed in five days.
The adjudicator noted that the introduction letter to Mrs G said there  was no guarantee the 
transfer would happen in time. But CFP should still have produced  its report sooner. The 
adjudicator did reconsider his recommended redress. He said it should be taken into account 
that CFP would have charged  a fee of 3%.
CFP disagreed. The complaint  has been referred  to me to decide.              
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs Gs complaint is that CFP delayed in dealing with her transfer. Thats all Ive considered. 
I havent looked into the suitability of the advice,  that is whether Mrs G should have been  
advised to transfer.  
Looking at the time taken, I note what CFP says about Mrs G already having  got a CETV 
before CFP was instructed. Time is often tight in advising  on a CETV  with a three month 
window for acceptance.  Here some three weeks or so of the guarantee period had already 
expired. But I dont think that, or the fact that CFP may have said at the outset that it couldnt 
guarantee its report would be completed in sufficient time for the CETV  to be secured, must 
mean Mrs Gs complaint doesnt  succeed. CFP knew the CETV was time critical. CFP 
should have acted accordingly.  
The adjudicator set out in his view how things had progressed. His view was that CFP had 
sufficient information  to begin work on Mrs Gs pension  transfer  report on 1 December 2016. 
But that work didnt  start until a week later, on 8 December 2016.  Given that the CETV was 
time critical  and with the upcoming Christmas/New Year  break, Im inclined to agree with the 
adjudicator that more  priority should have been  given to the matter.  That said, I recognise, 
particularly given the holiday period, that it might  still not have been  possible to produce the 
transfer report in sufficient time before  the CETV expired. But on balance I think it should 
Ref: DRN57883343have been possible  for CFP to issue  its report  on, say, 13 January 2017.  That would have 
been in line with the six week timeframe  CFP had set out. 
And I dont  think its unreasonable to say, if CFP had stressed the urgency of the matter and 
the deadline which was, by then,  just five days away,  Mrs G and her adviser would have 
ensured the paperwork was completed  and returned in sufficient time for it to have been 
submitted to the OPS administrators by 18 January 2017,
But perhaps of more concern is the adjudicators point about there being a mistaken belief 
that the CETV could simply be extended, and that it did not become clear until April 2017 
that this wasnt the case. The adjudicators  enquiries  of the OPS administrators revealed that 
it would  have been possible to have asked  the OPS trustees to extend  the CETV  deadline  
before it expired on 18 January 2017.  But that wasnt  done  and it wasnt  possible to extend  it 
after it had expired. 
I think responsibility for making  any request to extend the deadline  rested with CFP  it was 
the party giving the advice  about the transfer  and it knew that Mrs G was dependent  on 
having to satisfy the OPS trustees that shed had advice before any transfer could proceed.  
The OPS  administrators told the adjudicator  that CETV extensions are granted  on a case by
case basis so it cant be certain that an extension would have been granted. I acknowledge 
that but the OPS administrators didnt say that an extension  wouldnt have  been  forthcoming. 
I dont think its unfair  to proceed  on the basis that an extension is more likely  than not to 
have been granted. There was after all a procedure in place and a lot of work had been  
done towards giving Mrs G the advice she needed  before  the transfer could proceed. So any 
extension should  have been relatively  short. 
All in all I agree with the adjudicator and for the reasons  he gave that the complaint should  
be upheld. I think the redress  he suggested is fair and reasonable and Ive adopted it. I note 
the adjudicator  said the fee that Mrs G would have been charged (believed to be 3% of the 
transfer value) should be taken be taken into account. CFP can do that. 
fair compensation
In assessing what would  be fair compensation, my aim is to put Mrs G as far as possible to 
the position shed probably now be in if CFP had dealt with the matter  properly. I think Mrs G 
would have invested sooner and as she did later when the transfer did go ahead. 
what should  CFP do? 
To compensate Mrs G fairly CFP should:
Calculate growth on the value of Mrs Gs CETV produced on 27 October  2016  (£302,965.89 
less CFPs fee as per its agreement with Mrs G) from 18 January 2017 to the actual date of 
transfer. 
Its reasonable to assume, had Mrs G successfully transferred  out by 18 January 2017, 
shed have invested the proceeds in the same way she did later.  The notional value on the 
date that she actually invested  (fair value) should  be compared with the actual value on that 
date. If the fair value  is greater than the actual value, theres a loss and compensation is
payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable. 
Ref: DRN57883344If theres a loss, CFP should  bring  the loss up to date using the fund choice in the same 
proportion as Mrs Gs investment choices for the rest of transfer value.  CFP should  then pay 
into Mrs Gs pension plan, to increase its value by the amount of the compensation and any 
interest. The payment  should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief.  
The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing 
protection or allowance. 
If CFP is unable to pay the compensation into Mrs Gs pension  plan,  it should  pay it direct  to 
her. But had it been possible  to pay into the plan, it would have provided a taxable income. 
The compensation should be reduced  to notionally allow for any income  tax that would 
otherwise have been paid. The notional allowance should be calculated  using Mrs Gs actual 
or expected  marginal rate of tax at her selected retirement age. For example, if Mrs G is 
likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement age, the reduction would equal  
the current basic rate of tax. If she would have been  able to take a tax free lump sum, the 
reduction should be applied to 75% of the compensation.
In addition CFP should pay Mrs G £250  distress and inconvenience.
CFP should provide  the details of the calculation to Mrs G in a clear,  simple format.
investment 
namestatus benchmarkfrom 
(start date)to 
(end date)additional 
growth
27 October
2016 CETVstill existsMrs Gs 
investment 
choices  taken 
out in 201718 January
2017date of actual  
investmentMrs Gs 
investment  
choices to 
date of 
calculation
actual value
This means  the actual plan value at the end date.
fair value  
This is what  the plan would have been  worth  at the end date had the higher CETV been
transferred and had it produced a return in line with the benchmark  from the start date.
Any additional sum paid into the investment  should be added to the fair value calculation
from the point in time when it was actually paid in. Any withdrawal, income or other 
distribution out of the investment should  be deducted from the fair value at the point  it was 
actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation  from that point on.
my final decision
I uphold Mrs Gs complaint. CFP Management Limited must redress Mrs G as Ive set out 
above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 August 2020. 
Ref: DRN57883345Lesley Stead
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN5788334