K821x#15the complaint
Mrs and Mr M say TSB Bank plcs IT problems have had an impact  on them.  
what happened
At the end of April 2018 TSB experienced IT problems. Mrs and Mr M said they havent been 
able to see their mortgage account  details online since then, as the system kept asking them  
to log in when  they were  already logged  in. Theyre unhappy this hasnt been fixed  yet. 
One of our adjudicators looked  at the complaint. She noted that there didnt seem to be any 
financial impact on Mrs and Mr M, but that theyd  been caused  some inconvenience and 
frustration. So she recommended TSB pay £150  as compensation for that. 
Mrs and Mr M initially accepted that recommendation, but TSB only paid them £120. It said it 
had already paid £30 to Mrs and Mr M when they first made a complaint about this issue in 
May 2018. Mrs and Mr M didnt think that was fair  and they also said they still cant  see 
their mortgage account online. The system  now says the service  is unavailable.
A second adjudicator reviewed the complaint. He explained to Mrs and Mr M that this is an 
issue affecting lots of TSB customers and, although TSB is working to fix it, it hasnt been 
able to do so yet. The adjudicator explained  that we look at the overall impact the problem 
has had and, after doing that, he thought the recommendation made  by the first adjudicator 
was fair. And he also thought it was fair for TSB to deduct the £30 it had already paid. 
As Mrs and Mr M didnt accept that outcome, the case has been  passed to me to decide. 
what Ive decided and why
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
After doing so, I think the compensation the adjudicators have  already  recommended is an 
appropriate way to resolve this complaint. 
Its clear that Mrs and Mr M feel very strongly  about  the poor service theyve had from TSB. 
Mrs M in particular  has mentioned a separate incident involving a missed  payment on one of 
her accounts, which she feels was handled  badly  by TSB when she was going through a 
difficult time. 
Mrs M has already acknowledged  that this isnt connected to the mortgage account 
problems, and I have  to make clear  that Im not looking at it as part of this complaint. But its 
open to Mrs M to make a complaint to TSB about it if she wants to. And if she isnt happy 
with the answer  she gets, she can ask us to look at that for her as a separate  complaint.  
As far as the problem  with viewing mortgage accounts online goes, as the adjudicators have 
already explained, this is an issue TSB is well aware  of and is working  to fix. It certainly  
doesnt only affect Mrs and Mr M, although I know that wont make it any less frustrating for 
them. 
Mrs and Mr M have  asked  me to make  TSB give them online access to their mortgage 
information. But Im afraid I cant do that. If TSB was refusing to give them  access when  it 
Ref: DRN58588022was capable of doing so, I could  tell it to give them access. But I cant  order  TSB to fix 
something which it already knows is broken  and is already trying to fix. That wouldnt be a 
reasonable use of my powers. 
TSB is working to fix this issue for all its customers and when it does Mrs and Mr M should 
be able to see their mortgage details online again. Unfortunately I cant say when  that will 
happen but, until it does, Mrs and Mr M can ask for paper statements or visit a branch to 
check their mortgage details. So they can still access information  about the mortgage.
This issue hasnt caused Mrs and Mr M any financial losses.  And they havent  suggested  
that they have  any other concerns about how the mortgage account  itself is working. Their 
only issue is that they want to be able to see the mortgage details online and they cant at 
the moment. Thats frustrating, especially given how long its been  going on for and as 
theres no clear end date.  But without evidence to show this is having  any other effects on 
Mrs and Mr M, Id have  to say I think the £150  the adjudicators have already recommended 
is fair compensation for the inconvenience  caused.  
In her recommendation letter  the first adjudicator explained that £150 was a total amount 
and that TSB could  deduct from this anything  it had already paid. The £30 TSB paid in May 
was compensation  for the same  issue, so TSB was entitled to include it as part of the 
settlement the adjudicator recommended. 
Given all of the above, Im satisfied  that TSB has complied with the adjudicators 
recommendation and has made a fair compensation payment to settle this complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mrs and Mr Ms complaint  as I accept that 
TSB Bank plcs IT issues have caused  them some inconvenience and frustration.  But the 
total amount of £150 TSB has already paid is fair compensation  to settle  this complaint, so I 
make no further order or award. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  11 April 2019.
Dawn Griffiths
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5858802