K820x#14complaint
Mr M says that First Rate Exchange Services  Ltd wont refund money he didnt withdraw 
using his payment  card.
background
Mr M was abroad and says that when he tried to withdraw 300 Euros using his payment card 
the cash machine  he used didnt give him any cash.  He says that instead he paid a 
restaurant bill using  the card for all his friends who were with him and who paid him their 
share of the bill in cash to him. When he got home  he found  that he had been debited for the 
cash withdrawal and disputed it.
First Rate said it wouldnt be refunding  this money. It had received information from the 
operator of the machine showing that the notes were dispensed. And it pointed out that the 
card payment to a restaurant Mr M referred  to had happened the night before. 
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint be upheld.  She said that she couldnt  
see any errors with the cash being dispensed. And Mr Ms account of trying the withdrawal 
twice didnt tie up to the machine record which only showed one successful attempt to take 
out money. She also agreed that the payment to the restaurant had been made the night 
before.
Mr M didnt  agree and wanted his complaint to be reviewed. He said that any of the friends 
he was on holiday with can verify what happened. He wouldnt pursue this for so long if this 
wasnt a genuine  claim and he is honest.  He said he had no idea why the cash point had a 
different date to the restaurant  purchase. He said that his position is that the machine  made  
a serious error anyway.  And he asked why he would have paid the restaurant bill by card if 
he had been able to take out money. He said that CCTV  evidence would have resolved this.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand how strongly Mr M feels about  this. I wont be able to say exactly  what  
happened here but Ill need to think about what was most likely. I cant  put too much  weight 
on what he says he would  or wouldnt have done.  I need to look at the evidence to support 
this.
There is no record of Mr M trying  to use his card to withdraw cash at any other  time during 
his holiday. I think hes had a print out of the cash point log for the disputed withdrawal. It 
shows his card was entered into the machine at 20:02:40  on 30 September  2018 - just 15 
seconds after a previous  consumer had withdrawn cash. The correct  PIN was entered  and a 
withdrawal of 300 euros requested. It does seem  the option  to pay for this locally in sterling 
was taken. The card was ejected at 20:03:13 and the notes  were  dispensed and taken by 
20:03:29 and a receipt printed and taken at 20:03:47. The next customer  used the machine 
nine seconds  later and took out cash.
There is nothing here to suggest anything untoward happened  say for example that Mr M 
could have been distracted and someone took his money  or that there was an error. 
Machines are not infallible  and we often see evidence to show  the machine in question  
Ref: DRN56663622balanced when  it was next checked by the operator.  Although weve asked  for that 
information First Rate has said it doesnt  have it. And its not usually possible to get CCTV 
evidence for a third party machine especially from abroad.
But Im also looking at the plausibility of what Mr M has said and I think thats key here. His 
account of later having to pay for a meal using his card doesnt tie up. That transaction was 
made at 23:09  the day before. Of course  system timings can be incorrect  but Im looking at 
what is most likely.  To agree with Mr M there was an error  Id need to think not only that the 
machine didnt dispense the notes but that all the date information  was wrong too. And thats 
something Id likely be able to spot by comparing the times  on the information about the 
payment from First Rate and the machine log. Ive not seen  any discrepancy.
Ive balanced  all these  factors  in making my decision  and Im afraid I dont think  there was 
most likely an error made here with the cash being  dispensed. So I dont have  a basis to 
require First Rate to refund his money.  I know Mr M will be very disappointed by my finding.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 June 2020.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5666362