K820x#14complaint
Mr C and Ms R complain  that an appointed representative of Mortgage Advice Bureau 
Limited gave them  unsuitable advice about a mortgage.
background
Mr C and Ms R wanted to move home. They had a mortgage with an existing lender. The 
representative recommended  that they take a mortgage with a new lender.  There  was no 
mention made of an early repayment  charge (ERC)  of over £7,500  due on their existing 
mortgage. Mr C and Ms R say that they did not know they would have to pay this until after 
they had exchanged contracts and were  committed to the new mortgage. They want  the 
ERC refunded together with the fee that they paid the representative.
The adjudicator did not recommend that the complaint be upheld. He said that:
-The representative completed a fact find with Mr C and Ms R on 16 March 2018. This 
recorded that there were no repayment charges on the existing mortgage and that 
they were currently paying that lenders standard variable rate.
-He said that this was detailed  information that had been completed by them  at the 
fact find stage.
-He had asked  Mr C and Ms R to provide a copy of the product switch offer from their 
previous lender which they had accepted. This was dated  3 December 2017 and set 
out that the new product was a five year fixed  interest rate with an ERC payable until 
31 December 2022.
-Mr C and Ms R had not had any advice  about  the product switch  from their existing 
lender. He thought that they reasonably knew about the ERC. And that was because 
they had only taken the new product a few months earlier.
Mr C and Ms R did not agree. They said that the representative had a duty of care to them 
and should have requested a copy of the mortgage offer from the existing lender. He should 
not have assumed there was no ERC. And theyd been told if he had known about it he 
would have recommended  that they ported their existing mortgage product. They had 
approached the representative for expert mortgage advice. They  found it strange  that it is 
only now that what was put down on the fact find is being referred  to. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would expect the representative  to take reasonable care in collecting and using information 
to support his recommendation to Mr C and Ms R. 
I can see that one of the items he asked them for was a copy  of a mortgage statement. In a 
email response to him on 12 February 2018 Mr C says he was having difficulty  downloading 
this. And on 14 February 2018 that he had attached  it to an email. The document  the 
representative was given was a letter dated  24 January 2018 about  an overpayment  that   
Mr C and Ms R was making to their existing mortgage. And on 14 March 2018  the 
representative handwrote the current mortgage balance provided  by Mr C on that document  
and initialled this. The representative has said in a subsequent statement that he had also 
been provided with a spreadsheet setting out that balance and the amount of borrowing 
required. He says he thought it was safe to use this figure.
Ref: DRN56463202The representative clearly  went through a fact find with Mr C and Ms R that covered a 
significant amount  of information about their financial position and requirements for a 
mortgage. The adjudicator has referred  to a specific section about their existing mortgage.  I 
cant determine exactly what was said at that time. But I think it most likely Mr C and Ms R 
had a reasonable opportunity to correct or clarify  anything if they were not sure about  the 
information.
In my view a key point here is how recently they had entered into a new agreement  for a 
fixed term product with their existing  lender.  The representative had no involvement in that. 
And the documentation  the existing lender provided  to them clearly set out the terms and the 
ERC involved. Theyd entered  into this just at the time an existing fixed  term product had 
expired. And theyd  been making  and continued  to make until March 2018 significant 
overpayments to that mortgage. The existing  lender  issued a statement to them dated 
January 2018  which  again  set out the ERC that applied if they repaid the mortgage. And the 
suitability letter from the representative and his emails  set out the implications of committing  
to a new five year fixed interest rate product  and gave  details  about  overpayments  to that 
mortgage. 
I need to balance these factors in reaching a decision about  this case. I dont think it is in 
dispute that had the representative  had all the information then this new mortgage would not 
have been recommended.  And if possible Mr C and Ms R would have ported their existing 
mortgage and taken further borrowing from their existing lender  clearly  subject to its 
agreement. I find that the representative  did ask for the relevant information  from Mr C and 
Ms R. They were aware what information he had. And he went through  with them his 
understanding of the position with their existing mortgage. It would have  been  preferable for 
him to have  insisted  on seeing the evidence thats now being provided. But I think  that 
finding is outweighed here both by the impression of the position with the mortgage given to 
him by Mr C and Ms R and their related knowledge about the recent change theyd agreed to 
that mortgage. 
So Im afraid  I dont have  a reasonable basis to require Mortgage Advice Bureau Limited to 
refund the ERC or its own fee.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C and Ms R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  14 March  2019.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5646320