K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains that AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA)  miis-sold him a payment protection  
insurance (PPI)  policy  in relation to his mortgage.
background
Mr P took out a mortgage via a broker in 2000. At the same time he was sold a PPI policy 
which wouldve covered  the repayments  on his mortgage for up to 12 months at a time if he 
was made  unemployed.
AXA was not the seller  in this case  it was the insurer. But as the seller wasnt regulated at 
the time of sale AXA, as the insurer, has agreed  to take responsibility for the sale  even 
though it doesnt have  to.
Mr P says it wasnt  made clear  to him that the policy  was optional and he doesnt  believe the 
policy wouldve paid out if hed needed to make a claim.
The adjudicator didnt think Mr Ps complaint should  be upheld.  Mr P disagrees,  so the case 
has been passed to me to make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website  and Ive taken 
this into account  when deciding this case.  Having done so, Im not upholding Mr Ps 
complaint. Ill explain  why Ive reached this decision. 
The sale took place  over 18 years ago, so unsurprisingly there  arent many documents 
available in relation to the PPI from that time. Mr P says that he doesnt remember being  
given a choice  about taking the PPI and that he thought it was part of the mortgage 
package. AXA say that the insurance was optional.
I cant know what was said during the meeting  when  the PPI was sold. Mr P hasnt explained 
what was said or done to make him think  he didnt  have  a choice. I note from the documents  
supplied by both parties that theres no suggestion any mortgage offer was reliant on Mr P 
taking PPI. And Mr P paid separately for the insurance, indicating that it wasnt  part of the 
mortgage costs. 
On the limited information I do have, I cant safely say that Mr P was led to believe he had to 
buy the PPI. I think its more likely Mr P bought the PPI knowing he had a choice about it.
The seller  likely advised Mr P to buy the PPI, so it had to take reasonable steps to make 
sure it was right for him. Looking at Mr Ps circumstances at the time, I think  that it was. Mr P 
only bought unemployment cover. Hed only been in his job for a very short  period of time so 
I dont think hed have  been entitled  to much, if any, redundancy pay. 
Mr P says that he had ample savings to cover  his mortgage if hed needed to. I accept that 
Mr P had some investments that he couldve used, but the policy  wouldve paid out 
regardless of his existing  means and for up to 12 months at a time. This wouldve left his 
Ref: DRN54908232savings to help cover other uninsured  expenses   which as Mr P was solely  responsible for 
the mortgage repayments wouldve been  important.
Mr P says he doesnt believe the policy  wouldve paid out if hed made a claim. I dont know 
why Mr P thinks  this wouldve been  the case, but having looked at the terms of the policy I 
dont see any reason why Mr P wouldve been  prevented from making a successful claim if 
hed lost his job.
The cost of the policy was comparable to other  similar policies on the market  around the 
same time and I havent seen any evidence to suggest it was unaffordable  for Mr P. 
Its possible Mr P didnt  receive all the information  he ideally shouldve done  to help him 
make up his mind about buying the policy. But I dont think more  information wouldve made 
a difference to his decision. I think it wouldve just demonstrated  that the policy was suitable 
for him in the way Ive already described.  
So, I dont think Mr P lost out as a result of anything  the seller  did wrong.
my final decision
Im not upholding Mr Ps complaint so it follows  that AXA Insurance UK Plc doesnt  have to 
pay any compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 February  2019.
Sally Allbeury
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5490823