K820x#14complaint
Mrs W complains about the way that Hoist Finance UK Limited, trading as Robinson Way, 
has contacted  her about a debt that was transferred to it.
background
Mrs W had a credit card debt with a third party that was transferred to Robinson  Way in 
October 2018. Robinson Way used the contact details that the third party  had provided to it, 
including her mobile phone number, to contact Mrs W about  the debt and it left a message 
on her phone in December 2018. Mrs W wrote to it later that day and she asked it to only 
correspond with her in writing by post. But it continued to phone her and she wrote further 
letters to it later that month and at the beginning of January 2019 and she said she was 
complaining to this service. Mrs W has made a complaint to the third party about the transfer  
of her debt to Robinson  Way  and that complaint is being dealt with separately.
Robinson Way sent a final response  by e-mail  to Mrs W in which  it said that it had removed 
her mobile phone number  from its records so wasnt  upholding her complaint. The 
investigator didnt  recommend that this complaint should be upheld.  He said that Robinson  
Way had dealt fairly with Mrs Ws complaint.
Mrs W has asked  for her complaint  to be considered by an ombudsman. She says, in 
summary, that shes not received a final response  from Robinson  Way, shes  not provided 
an e-mail  address to it and shes asked it to only correspond with her in writing by post.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mrs W 
and to Robinson  Way on 9 October 2019.  In my provisional decision I said as follows:
The third party transferred Mrs Ws debt to Robinson Way in October  2018.  Mrs W 
has complained  to the third party about  the transfer and that complaint  is being dealt 
with separately so Im not going to say anything more about  that in this decision.
Robinson Way used  the mobile phone  number that the third party  had provided  to try 
to contact Mrs W  and it left a message for her in December 2018.  Mrs W wrote to it 
later that day and said:
All and any further  communication  must  and will have to be in writing by post 
only.
Robinson Way phoned Mrs W again  later that month and she sent another  letter to it. 
And it made further  phone  calls to her in late December 2018 and early  January 
2019. Mrs W wrote to Robinson Way again and told it that she was complaining to 
this service.
Its clear from Robinson  Ways  final response  letter that it received those letters  from 
Mrs W. But it continued to phone her until after it had sent its final response letter to 
her in February 2019. I consider  that it shouldve amended  its records soon after it 
received the first letter  from Mrs W to show that it should only correspond with her in 
writing sent by post. 
Ref: DRN51035472Its failure to do so and the continuing  phone calls that Mrs W received will have 
caused her distress and inconvenience. I find that it would be fair and reasonable in 
these circumstances  for it to pay £50 to Mrs W to compensate her for that distress  
and inconvenience.
Robinsons Ways final response letter was sent to Mrs W by e-mail and said:
I would like to apologise for any distress that has been caused to you. We do 
have a duty of care to advise you of our current process and any potential 
next steps that may be taken. In closing, your telephone number  has been 
removed from our files and we will contact you via email, where  appropriate. 
That said,  it is important for you to understand that we do reserve the right to 
contact you via letter, should we find it necessary, to discuss the maintenance 
of your account.
But Mrs W had clearly said that she only wanted  to be corresponded  with in writing  
sent by post. And she says that she didnt receive  the final response letter  from 
Robinson Way. I consider that Robinson Way shouldve sent its final response  letter  
to Mrs W by post. And its failure to do so  and Mrs W not receiving  the e-mail that it 
sent to her  will have caused  her further distress  and inconvenience. So in addition  
to the £50 compensation referred  to above,  I find that it would be fair and reasonable 
for Robinson  Way to pay her another  £50 to compensate her for the further distress 
and inconvenience  that shes been  caused.
I consider that Robinson  Way should  also ensure that it only corresponds  with Mrs W 
in writing sent by post. But I consider that Robinson Way does need to contact Mrs W 
so that it can seek repayment  of the debt thats owed by Mrs W (to the extent  that its 
legally entitled  to do so). But if Mrs W is experiencing financial difficulties, it must 
respond to any such difficulties positively and sympathetically.
So subject to any further representations by Mrs W or Robinson Way, my provisional 
decision was that I was minded to uphold this complaint.
Mrs W has accept  my provisional  decision but Robinson Way has responded to it in detail 
and says that its already accommodated Mrs Ws request for communications  to be in 
writing but it doesnt  feel that compensation is merited. It says that it will continue to engage  
with Mrs W positively and sympathetically,  but it needs Mrs W to enter into meaningful 
communications with it around her circumstances,  so that it can support her with reducing 
the outstanding balance.
It also says that Mrs W approached this service  within eight weeks of the events complained  
of and its endeavoured to assist her. It says that its apologised for not removing the mobile  
number timely but its contact has been  voicemail only. And whilst  it understands that e-mail 
was the contact preference on the complaints case,  as complaint handling isnt a regulated 
activity, it doesnt feel that compensation ought to be awarded due to this particular method 
being used.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not persuaded that I 
should change  my provisional  decision.
Ref: DRN51035473I still consider that Robinson Way shouldve amended its records  soon after it received the 
first letter from Mrs W to show that it should  only correspond with her in writing  sent by post. 
Its failure to do so and the continuing  phone calls that were made to Mrs W (even if it only 
left voicemail messages  for her) will have caused  her distress and inconvenience.  I find that 
it would  be fair and reasonable in these  circumstances  for it to pay £50 to Mrs W to 
compensate her for that distress and inconvenience.
Robinson Way has said that because complaint handling isnt a regulated activity, the 
compensation that Ive recommended in my provisional decision in respect  of the final 
response letter shouldnt  be paid here.  Ive had regard to that, but in coming  to this decision, 
Ive taken into account that Mrs Ws complaint is about Robinson  Ways communication with 
her  of which the final response was another example. The final response letter was sent by 
e-mail and said that Robinson Way will continue to contact Mrs W by e-mail when shed 
clearly written to it to say that: All and any further  communication must and will have to be in 
writing by post only . 
So I consider that it hadnt taken proper account  of Mrs Ws clearly  stated  preference  for all 
communications with her to be written and sent by post. Its failure to do has caused distress  
and inconvenience  to Mrs W and I consider  that the additional £50 compensation for that 
that I recommended in my provisional decision is fair and reasonable.
my decision
For the reasons  set out above, my decision is that I uphold Mrs Ws complaint. And I order 
Hoist Finance UK Limited,  trading as Robinson  Way, to:
1.Ensure that it only corresponds with Mrs W in writing sent by post.
2.Pay £100 to Mrs W to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience that shes 
been caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 January 2020.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5103547