K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a credit 
card in 2002. Mr W says Canada Square  Operations Limited,  trading as Egg, mis-sold him 
the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ws case.
Having done so, Ive decided the PPI wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why below.
When selling  the PPI, Egg had to make it clear  to Mr W that he had a choice about it. But 
Mr W says he was made to believe the PPI was part of the card and he had to have it in 
order to get the credit.
Mr W has said the credit card and the PPI were sold over the phone.  But Egg has said that 
all applications for this credit card had to be done online at the time.  And, based on the 
evidence Ive seen,  I think its likely  the credit card and PPI were sold online here.
Egg has sent us screenshots of what it says the online application form for the credit  card 
wouldve looked like. These include a section  on PPI, with yes and no options to show 
whether the customer  would like to take it out. Egg has also sent us its records from Mr Ws 
application, which show he selected  the yes option.
Based on this, and what I understand  about  its sales practices at the time, I think  Egg made 
it clear to Mr W that he had a choice about  the PPI. And that he chose  to take it, knowing he 
didnt have to.
I havent seen  clear evidence that Egg gave  Mr W any personalised advice about the PPI. 
So I dont  think it recommended the PPI to him. This means Egg didnt have to check if the 
PPI was right for Mr W. But it did have to make  sure he got the information  he needed to 
decide if the PPI was right for him.
Its possible the information Egg gave Mr W about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve 
been. But, based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, it doesnt  look like he 
was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover.  And the policy  couldve 
paid out for longer than hes told us he wouldve  received sick pay. So it would have been 
useful for him if something went wrong.
Mr W has said it wasnt made clear to him what the PPI was or what  it covered. And that, 
when he was struggling to make  his repayments,  he borrowed money from his family which 
shows he didnt need the PPI. But, based on the screenshots of the online application form, I 
think Egg gave Mr W a reasonable  explanation  of what  the PPI was and what it covered.
The nature of insurance means sometimes paying  for cover you dont use. And while family 
members may always want to help, peoples  financial circumstances can change.  So they 
may not have been able to help when or for as long as needed. The PPI meant  Mr W didnt 
Ref: DRN53368042need to rely on his family to make  his repayments if he wasnt earning. And I dont think  
Mr W not using the PPI some time after the sale means it wasnt made clear  to him what it 
covered or that it couldnt have been  useful to him.
It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont  think better information about the PPI 
would have put Mr W off taking it out.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr W to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 April 2019.
Alan Millward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5336804