K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs W complain about the way QIC Europe Ltd dealt with a claim on their home 
insurance policy and that the amount paid to settle the claim was less than the amount 
originally offered.
Where I refer to QIC Europe  Ltd, this includes agents and claims handlers acting on its 
behalf.
background 
Mr and Mrs Ws home suffered extensive damage following a leak of water. After some  initial  
discussions QIC offered a cash settlement, with Mr and Mrs W to arrange for repair work  to 
be done. There was some correspondence  between  QIC, it agents and a loss assessor  
instructed by Mr and Mrs W about  the claim.  QIC subsequently reduced the amount  it was 
prepared to pay. Mr and Mrs W were  unhappy  about  the reduction.  They  complained to QIC 
and then to this service.
QIC acknowledged that the claim  could have been dealt with more quickly  and offered a 
goodwill payment of £1,000. It said the settlement had been  reduced because of work that 
already been done. Mr and Mrs W said none of the repair works had been started so they 
didnt agree with the reduction. They said they had to accept  the payment from QIC so that 
they could pay for the work  to be carried out, but said it was unfair that they didnt receive 
the full amount of the claim.
Mr and Mrs W moved out of their house while repairs works were  done. Although QIC 
agreed to pay the costs  of alternative accommodation Mr and Mrs W said it only paid 
enough for three weeks and they were  away for longer.
Our investigator initially thought QIC should pay the amount originally offered. After further 
correspondence he concluded this wouldnt be fair, as QIC had arranged for contractors  to 
do some  initial work,  drying  out the house. And Mr and Mrs W hadnt  paid for this 
themselves. But he said QIC should pay Mr and Mrs W £10 each per night for the period 
from the point they made their claim to the date QIC paid for alternative  accommodation.
QIC agreed to pay an additional  weeks accommodation costs but didnt agree it should pay 
an allowance for the period when Mr and Mrs W were still in their home.
Mr and Mrs W still felt it was unfair for QIC not to pay the amount it had originally offered and 
asked for an ombudsman to make  a decision on this.
As no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed  to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision on the complaint in September. In the provisional decision I 
said:
The policy provides cover for loss or damage  caused by an escape of water, and for the cost 
of alternative accommodation  where the policyholder  cant stay in the property because  its 
not fit to live in. So Mr and Mrs W could claim for the cost of putting  right the damage, and 
for the cost of alternative  accommodation if they had to move out.
Ref: DRN50284272Under the policy terms, QIC may arrange  for repairs to be carried  out or choose  to pay a 
cash settlement to cover the cost of repair  or replacement. In this case,  QIC has settled the 
claim through a cash payment.
An insurer  should  handle  claims  promptly  and fairly.  QIC has accepted  it could have dealt 
with the claim better and paid £1,000 to acknowledge this. It has also paid most of the cost 
claimed by Mr and Mrs W. Theres no need for me to make a decision about those aspects 
of the claim that have  been resolved.
There are essentially two points outstanding  
whether QIC should pay the difference between the amount originally offered for 
repair costs and the amount actually paid (a shortfall of around £2,000);  and
how much QIC should pay for alternative accommodation and for the disturbance  
caused to Mr and Mrs W while they were living in their property before the repairs  
were done
QIC has explained that it reduced the amount offered, because  the original sum included  the 
costs of drying out the property. That work was then arranged by QIC. As Mr and Mrs W 
didnt have to arrange or pay for this to be done, it wouldnt be fair to include that cost in the 
settlement paid to them   otherwise, they would be receiving money for a cost they didnt 
incur. This would go beyond indemnifying them and give them  more  than the policy entitles 
them to. For that reason  I think it was fair for QIC to reduce  the amount of the settlement. 
With regard to accommodation costs, Mr and Mrs W stayed in a hotel for a couple of days 
soon after the incident and QIC paid £390  to cover  those costs. When  the repair  works were  
carried out, they moved out again.  QIC paid £1,870, which was to cover  three  weeks 
alternative accommodation (so £623.33 per week).  Mr and Mrs W said the amount wasnt 
enough to cover their costs. QIC said its surveyor had advised this would be enough, and 
couldnt control how long it took for the work to be done, but said it would pay for an 
additional week. I think thats fair.
The remaining  point is the disturbance  allowance. This is intended to cover additional costs 
the policyholder  has incurred  - for example, where  they can show  that their food bill is higher  
than normal.
In this case, Mr and Mrs W had a period when they were  still living  in their home  but couldnt 
use the kitchen  because it had been  flooded and the electricity was turned  off. The floor was 
uneven and was a hazard   particularly for Mr W who has a disability. Im satisfied they 
werent able to use the kitchen for that period. They had to do their washing up in the 
bathroom sink. And I think its likely this would have  increased their costs  for example, 
through having to use microwave meals, which are likely  to be more  expensive.
Mr and Mrs W dont  have documentary evidence to confirm the additional expenses.  In 
these circumstances,  industry practice is that the allowance should be paid at a rate of £10 
per day for each adult  in the property. This is what our investigator recommended.  I think  
thats a reasonable starting point  and I havent seen  anything to persuade me this should not 
apply in the circumstances of this case.  In my judgment, the allowance should cover  the 
period from when they made their claim up to 23 May (when QIC made the payment for 
alternative accommodation while the works were done) but not including the two nights they 
spent in a hotel soon after the claim was made, as they have already been paid for that.
Ref: DRN50284273my provisional decision
For the reasons  above, I intend  to partly uphold the complaint and direct QIC Europe  Ltd to 
pay Mr and Mrs W:
£623.33 for an additional  weeks accommodation costs; and
a disturbance allowance of £3,380 based  on £10 per day to each of them  for the 
period from 27 November 2017 to 30 May 2018 (less the two nights hotel stay).
developments and findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs W say although they havent got everything they were seeking, they are happy  
with my findings and the settlement in the provisional decision. They  had nothing  to add, 
though they would like the chance  to comment on any additional points made by QIC.
QIC has not made any further comments in reply to the provisional decision.
In the circumstances, I see no reason to change my conclusion. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, my final decision is that I partly  uphold the complaint and 
direct QIC Europe Ltd to pay Mr and Mrs W:
£623.33 for an additional  weeks accommodation costs; and
a disturbance allowance of £3,380 based  on £10 per day to each of them  for the 
period from 27 November 2017 to 30 May 2018 (less the two nights hotel stay).
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  3 November 2019.
Peter Whiteley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5028427