K820x#14complaint
Ms D is unhappy that PSA Finance UK Limited incorrectly  calculated  her voluntary 
termination and GAP insurance quotes. Shes also unhappy they defaulted her account. 
background
In 2014 Ms D took out a new car on hire purchase for £21, 385 from PSA and also took out a 
loan for GAP  insurance.  In 2016  Ms D wrote to PSA to say she wanted to return  the car by 
voluntary termination.  PSA said Ms D could voluntarily terminate her agreement  and needed 
to pay £451.48  for the agreement and £294.53  for the gap insurance  loan. Ms D was 
unhappy with their response  as she believed shed paid half and didnt need to make any 
further payments.  And in fact she was due back a rebate on the insurance. She decided  to 
cancel her direct debit which  after a large amount of correspondence  between Ms D and 
PSA  led PSA to default the account.  
On reviewing her complaint PSA said Ms D needs to pay half of the amount due under the 
agreement  which works out as £451.48   and as detailed in the loan agreement  Ms D 
needs to pay the remainder of the total balance for the insurance loan, although this may be 
reduced by rebate. 
One of our investigators  looked at Ms Ds complaint and thought that PSA didnt need to do 
anything further  to put things right. PSA accepted  our investigators opinion.
Ms D didnt agree with the view. In summary her main points were:
-PSA didnt respond to any of her communications  after the Voluntarily termination 
notification
-Interest cant be charged for the full period once voluntary termination has been  
submitted
-PSA put a default on her credit file without entering into any correspondence
As Ms D didnt agree with the investigators  conclusions, the complaints been  passed to me 
for a decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And in doing so I broadly  agree with our 
investigator. 
voluntary termination:
Ms D says that when  she contacted PSA about  the voluntary termination shed already paid 
half the amount  payable  under the agreement  so she didnt owe PSA any more money. 
She says that interest cant be charged  for the full period once voluntary termination is 
submitted. Ive considered Ms Ds argument. But Im afraid I dont agree. Ill explain why. 
Ref: DRN55233572The law that applies here is the Consumer Credit  Act 1974  sections  99 and 100  which say 
the debtor  has the right at any time before the final payment to terminate the agreement by 
giving notice. 
The Act also states that when the agreement  is terminated the debtor shall be liable to pay 
the creditor half of the total price immediately before the termination. Unless  the agreement  
provides for a smaller  payment or does not provide  for any payment.  
what does Ms Ds agreement say?
The relevant  term in the loan agreement says Ms D is entitled to terminate the finance  
agreement at any time before the final payment fails due  and pay half the total amount 
payable under the agreement plus any arrears. 
Ive reviewed the loan agreement  and Im satisfied its clear that if Ms D terminates the 
finance agreement  then shell be required to pay half of the total owed including  interest for 
the whole  period. Ive looked  at whether  the quotes provided by PSA are accurate and I think 
they are. I say this as in the agreement the total amount payable  is £21,385.68  and the 
section headed  Right to Withdraw says that half of this is £10,692.84   the figure quoted  by 
PSA. 
is Ms D due a rebate  on her GAP insurance?
Ms D believes that shes due a rebate from PSA for the GAP insurance. Ive looked at the 
finance agreement  which says I will still be required to pay the balance of the total amount 
payable in respect of any insurance loan, although  this may be reduced  by a rebate. I think  
its clear that Ms D is required to pay any balance  remaining for the insurance at the time of 
voluntary termination,  but she may receive  a rebate for the loan. Im aware  Ms D has already 
received a rebate from her insurance company for the remainder of the insurance. And PSA 
issued her a rebate of £12.79 for early  settlement of the loan. This means Ms D is still in a 
position wheres shes required to pay the balance of the loan to PSA.  So Im satisfied the 
amount which  PSA requested,  £294.53,  for the remainder of the insurance  loan is owed by 
Ms D. 
was it reasonable  for PSA to default  Ms D
Ive seen copies  of letters sent to Ms D in 2016  and early 2017. These include arrears 
notifications and a default notice which says Ms D has 28 days  to make  an arrangement or 
contact PSA to make full payment or a default  may be registered on her credit  file. Ms D 
says that PSA didnt engage  with her about  her missed payments, but Im satisfied  the 
arrears notifications and the default  notice are quite  clear in explaining Ms D needs to 
contact PSA to discuss the outstanding balance.  
In conclusion I think its reasonable  for PSA to request  payment of £451.58 for the car 
finance  as this would be half of the agreement  and £294.53 for the insurance, in 
particular as Ms D has already received  a rebate from her insurance company. Im also 
satisfied, as PSA notified Ms D that her account may default,  she could have taken steps to 
stop her agreement defaulting.  
I dont think PSA need to do anything more here.
Ref: DRN55233573my final decision
I dont uphold Ms Ds complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Jeff Burch
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5523357