K820x#14Complaint
Miss M has complained to us to us that Bank of Scotland plc (BoS), trading as Halifax,  
mis-sold her a mortgage  payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy in November 1991.  
Background
Miss M bought the policy when she was arranging  to take out a mortgage. It included  cover 
for accident, sickness and unemployment.  
She says she wasnt given a choice about  having the PPI and that taking it out was part of 
the mortgage terms. She also says she didnt need it. 
One of our adjudicators looked  at Miss Ms complaint  but didnt think the policy had been 
mis-sold. 
Because Miss M disagrees,  her complaint has been  passed to me for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of payment protection 
insurance on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Miss Ms complaint. Ill explain why. 
Miss M told us that she recalls discussing the mortgage during a meeting. But on her 
complaint form she also said shed bought it by post.  Ive taken this to mean she completed  
her PPI application by filling in a form that was sent to her. Miss M also says she thinks BoS 
made a recommendation about  taking  out the policy. BoS has agreed  that it did. That means 
BoS needed to ensure that the policy was suitable  for Miss Ms situation  and that the 
information it gave  her about  the policy was clear  and not misleading.  
Miss M says that the PPI wasnt  included with her first mortgage  offer but that it had been  
added to the second one. BoS says there were 3 PPI applications  in fact, and has sent us 
copies. The PPI she bought corresponds in terms of timing with the second application form 
she completed and signed, at the end of November 1991.
Ive also taken into account what I already know about BoSs sales process for this type of 
policy at the time. And Ive kept in mind that this policy was sold almost 18 years ago, so its 
difficult to know precisely  what happened and no records have been kept of the meeting 
itself. 
Miss M told us that the sale paperwork made her feel she had to take the PPI as it said that 
all borrowers were  expected to arrange  PPI given  the financial  climate. She also pointed out 
that this wording didnt  appear in her initial mortgage  offer.   But I think a distinction needs to 
be made between  being  told that having  PPI is a good thing to have and not being given a 
choice about whether  to take it out. Given that she filled out and signed the PPI application 
form and answered questions to confirm she was eligible to apply  for the PPI, its likely there 
was a discussion between  Miss M and BoS about  PPI. And I therefore think that Miss M 
Ref: DRN59474882would have been aware she was making  an application to buy PPI cover  and that 
ultimately it was her decision whether to take it. 
It looks as if Miss M was eligible for the policy and I havent  seen anything  to make me think  
she was affected  by the main limitations  which are usually found in this type of policy.  If Miss 
M had made  a successful  claim  for accident or sickness,  the policy would pay out for up to 
24 months and for up to 12 months  were  she to lose her job. Miss M also told us she had 
some savings and could have relied  on her family to help he her if she couldnt  help.
The PPI would have  paid out in addition to and for longer than Miss Ms existing employer 
benefits and it would  have avoided the need  for her to dip into her savings  or other  finite  
financial resources. And whilst I understand  that Miss M felt she could rely for financial help 
on her family that very much depends on individual financial circumstances that can easily 
change. 
As I havent  seen all the paperwork, I cant say that Miss M was given details of the monthly 
cost of the policy  which  was £22.50 to cover a premium of £450  at the time of the sale. 
BoS on the other hand says that Miss M was given this information.  But on the basis that the 
policy was suitable  for Mr A, being  a useful  benefit that could help protect her first home at 
what could be a difficult time financially, I think the policy would have been useful to have. 
I can see its possible there  may have been some shortcomings in the way this policy  was 
sold, including giving  the cost details. But, having  looked at the sale carefully,  I think  Miss M 
would still have decided  to buy the policy if theyd  been  better advised and informed.
It follows that I dont think the PPI was mis-sold. So BoS doesnt need to refund everything  
Miss M paid for it. But BoS has already offered to give Miss M back some of the cost of the 
PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.  And from what Ive seen BoS has already 
paid this back to Miss M.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 October  2019.
Michael Goldberg
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5947488