K820x#14complaint
Mr S complained that he was mis-sold a Keyman policy, with a car loan, by Lombard North  
Central Plc. At the time of the sale, Lombard North  Central Plc was acting as an appointed 
representative of The Royal  Bank  of Scotland  Plc (RBS). So RBS is responsible for 
answering this complaint  and Ill refer to RBS from now on. 
background
Mr S bought the Keyman policy in January 2008.  RBS said that the sale took place by phone  
with papers being sent out afterwards, and that it didnt  advise  Mr S to take out the policy.  
Mr S agreed. Mr S said he wasnt aware  the cover had been  added to the loan. 
Mr S was a sole trader at the time of the sale, and the loan was granted  to him in his 
business capacity.  The policy  provided  life and personal accident (which  meant  permanent  
total disability,  blindness in either or both eyes or loss of a hand or foot) cover for Mr S for 
the 61-month term of the loan, at a monthly  cost of £12.65. So it wouldve paid off the 
balance owing on the loan if Mr S had suffered a specified type of accident or had passed  
away. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think there  was enough evidence to say that RBS had mis-sold the 
policy, so didnt uphold  the complaint. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Ss case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ss complaint. Ill explain why.
RBS sent us copies of its sales documents, including the demands and needs statement, 
initial disclosure document, summary of cover  and the loan agreement. It couldnt provide a 
call recording. 
In the absence of a call recording (or a sales script) I cant know  what was covered during 
the call. But I can see from the demands  and needs statement that Mr S had to tick a box 
and sign the form to say that he wanted  the Keyman policy, and then he had to return  a copy  
to RBS. So I think Mr S had an opportunity to say no to the cover if hed changed his mind  
after the call. And from whats on the form I think it wouldve been clear enough what he was 
agreeing to. 
So overall I think he was aware of the policy and was given a choice  about  taking it  and 
decided to do so. I think he probably just doesnt  remember doing so as it was so long ago. 
The paperwork from the time of the sale states that RBS didnt recommend that Mr S took 
the cover. And Ive seen  no evidence  to contradict that. So RBS didnt have to make  sure 
that the cover was suitable for Mr S. But it had to give Mr S enough  information  for him to 
decide if the policy was right for him. 
Ref: DRN55774992The monthly cost of the policy  (and the total cost over the term of the loan) was clearly 
shown on the summary  of cover,  and the level of cover was on the demands and needs 
statement that Mr S had to sign. 
The policy summary  seems to have been part of the sales documentation  that Mr S 
received. I cant know whether, during  the call, the salesperson clearly explained the things  
not covered, but I cant see that Mr S would have been affected by any of these.  There  were 
different levels  of cover available, so I think its likely that there was some discussion of the 
Keyman policy to allow Mr S to decide what  cover  he wanted. As Ive said I cant know  how 
the salesperson  explained  the policy over the phone. But from whats  on the policy summary 
I think Mr S could  reasonably have  understood the main points. 
I dont have much information  about  Mr Ss circumstances   for example any other 
insurances he may have  had - at the point of sale. But as the loan was given to him in his 
business capacity,  I think Mr S could reasonably have wanted to make  sure that the 
business asset he was buying  that is the car  was protected  in the event of his death or a 
serious accident.
Overall, I cant be certain that RBS fully explained  the details of the policy. But even if it had, 
I dont think that it would have affected Mr Ss decision to take it. This means I dont think the 
policy was mis-sold. Which means RBS doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the policy  
to Mr S. But RBS will pay back some  of the cost of the policy  to Mr S because: 
RBS got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the premium) - 
so it should have told Mr S about that. Because RBS didnt tell Mr S, that was unfair.  
To put that right, RBS has basically offered to pay back  the amount of commission and 
profit share that was above 50% of the premium - and I think that offer is fair in this case.
what the business needs  to do
RBS has to pay back to Mr S any commission and profit share it got that was more  than 50% 
of the premium. RBS should also pay back to Mr S any extra interest he paid because of 
that.
RBS should pay back to Mr S the extra he paid each month because  the commission and 
profit share it got was more than 50% of the cost of the policy. RBS should also pay Mr S 
8%* simple interest on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr S can claim back the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
Ref: DRN55774993my final decision
The policy wasnt mis-sold   so The Royal Bank  of Scotland Plc does not have to pay back  
all of the cost to Mr S.
But The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc does  have to pay back to Mr S any commission  and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 April 2019.
Jan Ferrari
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5577499