K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) to 
Mrs B. 
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in 1995.  Bank  of Scotland sold 
Mrs B the policy at the same time that she applied for the card.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  be upheld. Mrs B disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive considered what Mrs B has said, but Ive decided the policy  wasnt  mis-sold. I will 
explain why.
Mrs B has said she wasnt told PPI was being  added and was told just where to sign. 
However, it wouldnt be fair to say Bank  of Scotland didnt  give Mrs B a real choice,  unless I 
had some firm evidence  to back this up. And, this did happen about 24 years  ago, and I 
wouldnt necessarily expect someone to remember all the details of what happened.  
I can see that the form does set out the PPI as a choice which you make  by ticking a box, 
and the box has been ticked (although I dont know by who); but there are other personal 
details written in by hand that are more  likely  to have been written  by Mrs B herself. This 
does suggest  Mrs B took more of an active role than just signing  although I cant be sure of 
that. However, overall, so many years  later it wouldnt  be easy to decide who actually filled in 
the form, and who ticked the box. And, without  stronger  evidence, I couldnt fairly say Mrs B 
wasnt given a choice  about the PPI. 
Bank of Scotland recommended the PPI to Mrs B, but it doesnt look as if it was unsuitable  
based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time. The PPI could have helped  pay 
the credit  card bill for a period longer  than Mrs Bs employer sick pay and other resources 
are likely to have lasted. And it would  have paid out at the same time as any sick pay or 
redundancy pay, so leaving Mrs B more financially secure for longer. It would have meant 
Mrs B wouldnt need to fall back on other resources, such  as the family support shes  
mentioned, so soon.  So, overall, the PPI was potentially useful. It also looks  like the PPI was 
affordable. And I cant see any other reason why the recommendation was unsuitable.
Its difficult now to know how well Bank  of Scotland explained the PPI. Its possible the 
information Bank of Scotland gave  Mrs B about  the PPI wasnt as clear as it should  have 
been. But I dont  think, in her circumstances, full information about costs and benefits would 
have affected  whether  she took the PPI. And it doesnt look like shed have been affected by 
any of the significant exclusions in the policy. 
Ref: DRN53872372my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland  plc does not have to pay back the cost 
of the PPI to Mrs B.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs B to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 January 2020.  
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5387237