K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains that Amtrust International Underwriters DAC turned down a claim on his 
mechanical breakdown  insurance policy. 
For ease any reference to Amtrust includes its agents. 
background
Mr W contacted  Amtrust as his car wasnt running  properly.  He took it to a repairing  garage  
who said the exhaust valves had burnt out and needed replacing. The garage  spoke  with 
Amtrust who said burnt out exhaust valves werent covered by the policy. Because of this 
Amtrust turned down  Mr Ws claim. 
Mr W paid to repair his car and complained to Amtrust, he said there  were  other  parts 
repaired which should be covered. Amtrust said as the failed part wasnt  covered his policy  
wouldnt cover  him for the repair. Mr W disagreed  and brought his complaint to us. 
Our Investigator  reviewed Mr Ws complaint  and didnt  think  Amtrust had done anything  
wrong. He found  that the other parts which had been replaced were either not covered or 
only replaced as part of the repair for the exhaust  valves. Because of this he didnt 
recommend Mr Ws complaint was upheld.  Mr W disagreed and asked for his complaint to 
be reviewed. 
As Mr W disagreed the complaint has been  passed to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions  of Mr Ws policy say Amtrust will contribute  to the cost of repairs 
due to the unexpected  breakdown of listed parts. It defines breakdown as the sudden and 
unexpected failure  of a Component arising from any permanent mechanical or electrical 
defect causing  the sudden stoppage of its function,  necessitating immediate repair or 
replacement of the Component before normal operation can be resumed.
The repairing  garage said the part which had failed was the exhaust valves. They  said this 
was because they were  burnt out. Mr Ws policy does cover exhaust  valves  but goes on to 
say it excludes  overheating, de-coking,  burnt,  pitted  and sticking  valves. As the repairing 
garage diagnosed the fault with Mr Ws car as a burnt-out exhaust valves,  Im satisfied the 
fault with Mr Ws car is in relation to an excluded part. 
I understand Mr W said there are other  items on the repair  invoice which have also failed 
and not been covered. Ive looked  into these and Im not persuaded these should  be 
covered. I say this because some of the parts arent  covered by the policy.  For the parts 
which are covered Amtrust said these were only replaced because they needed to be to 
repair the burnt-out exhaust valves. As there isnt anything to suggest  these  parts had failed 
it wouldnt be fair and reasonable to tell Amtrust to cover them. Because  of this I wont be 
telling Amtrust to do anything else. 
Ref: DRN55104792my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 December 2019.
Alex Newman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5510479