K820x#14Complaint
Mr B complains that Ageas Insurance Limited  unfairly declined  his home insurance claim 
after an item was accidentally damaged.
background
Mr B bought a turntable in the 1980s.  Last year, he made a claim for the item on his home 
insurance. He told Ageas  that his grandchildren  had accidentally  knocked it onto the floor 
from a cabinet. He said the forearm cartridge and the motor were  damaged  in the fall and 
the turntable no longer  worked. Ageas appointed a company to assess the item but they 
reported that it was in a very poor condition and the damage was inconsistent with the 
reported accident. The report noted:
-Given the items weight, its unlikely  the item would have been knocked off a table.
-Theres a lack of impact marks, despite its weight and build.
-The tone arm has five or six marks which look like they have been  caused by pliers.
-Within the casing, a capacitor has been ripped  from the board.
-Nuts are unattached  to the bottom  of the unit.
-The record deck motor isnt working.
-Within the tone of the arm, there  are four wires which have been ripped from the 
cartridge.
Based on the report, Ageas declined the claim. Mr B said the damage had been caused by 
the turntable landing upside down, but Ageas and the assessing company  maintained  the 
damage wasnt consistent with such an accident,  and there  was no evidence  of impact. 
Mr B disagreed with Ageas decision and brought his complaint to our service.  An 
investigator here looked into Mr Bs complaint, but she didnt think  it should  be upheld. She 
concluded that Ageas had thoroughly inspected the item; and based  on the photos and the 
observations in the report, she thought Ageas had acted fairly.  
Because Mr B disagreed  with our investigator, his complaint  has been passed  to me for a 
final decision. 
Mr B has explained the item fell on to carpet with underlay, and he says this is the reason  
why there  wasnt the expected damage to the casing or the floor. He said the arm was bent 
due to the fall and that can clearly be seen;  and the marks on the arm were from where it 
was being held in place  during non-use, in an armrest, to prevent damage being caused  to 
the stylus. He also noted he would  be prepared to negotiate with Ageas in terms of the 
settlement figure. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where evidence  is inconclusive or 
contradictory, I have  reached my decision on the balance of probabilities  this means  I have 
determined what I consider is more likely to have happened, based  on all the evidence that 
is available and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Ref: DRN53468522I accept Mr Bs grandchildren  pulled the item off the top, and his explanation of why the unit 
doesnt have further signs of impact  damage  due to the carpet. I would also expect there to 
be various other marks, or minor  damage, with an item of this age  and simply because an 
item has some age-related wear  is not, in my view, a fair reason to decline it. However, the 
assessor has also made other observations about wires being ripped out, a capacitor  being  
detached, unattached nuts,  and the motor  not working  and this not being  consistent with 
impact damage,  in his opinion.
When theres a dispute such  as this, we consider the submissions of both parties to decide  
what, on balance,  we are more persuaded by. We tend to place more  weight  on those 
considered to be industry experts. Here,  the assessor has given a relatively detailed  
explanation of how hes reached his opinion, and overall, Im more persuaded by his 
observations  as the expert   than anything else we have been told or shown.
Mr B hasnt presented  anything that persuades me much  of the reported damage could have 
been caused by the fall. So, having carefully  considered the arguments made, Im not 
persuaded Ageas unfairly declined his claim.
my final decision
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr B. But, for the reasons  given above, I dont uphold  his complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 December 2019.
Rebecca Kemp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5346852