K821x#15complaint
Mr C is unhappy that Assurant General Insurance Limited (AGIL) wont pay for a faulty
mobile phone.  Hes also unhappy with the handling  of his claim.
background
Mr C has mobile  phone insurance with Assurant General Insurance Limited. Last year
Mr Cs mobile  phone was damaged.  AGIL  decided  that the original mobile phone was
beyond repair so after Mr C paid his excess,  AGIL provided Mr C with a replacement mobile
phone. The replacement mobile  phone  didnt work  properly so AGIL provided Mr C with
another replacement  mobile phone. Around  three months later Mr C contacted  AGIL to say
that this replacement mobile phone was also faulty.
Mr C had lost faith in the replacement mobile phones that AGIL were providing. He wanted
to upgrade or get a different model mobile phone.  AGIL agreed that instead of replacing  his
mobile phone for a third time, they could offer Mr C a cash  settlement of £370.  Mr C
accepted the cash  settlement offered. AGIL asked Mr C to package  the mobile  phone  in the
original packaging.  Mr C agreed and AGIL arranged for a courier  to pick up the mobile
phone from Mr Cs address. AGIL told Mr C that the money would be in his account around
three to five days after they received  the mobile phone.  Mr C was happy  with this.
AGIL received Mr Cs mobile phone five days later. They  say that the mobile phone was
physically damaged when they received it. AGIL  decided that as the mobile phone was
physically damaged, they couldnt consider the claim  under the warranty.  Mr C wasnt  aware
of this until he contacted AGIL three days later and asked about his cash settlement. AGIL
informed Mr C that when  they received his mobile phone it was physically damaged.  They
explained that Mr C could either  set up a new claim  and pay the excess  or they could
return the damaged  phone  to Mr C unrepaired.
Mr C said that the phone wasnt physically damaged when he gave it to the courier.  And he
had packaged  the mobile phone using the original packaging that AGIL  had used when they
sent him the phone. Mr C asked AGIL if they could provide him with a photo of the 
packaging so that he could see if the packaging  had been damaged during transit.  AGIL  said
that the packaging had been disposed of. AGIL returned Mr Cs damaged  mobile phone to
him unrepaired. Mr C is still in possession of the damaged phone.
Mr C wasnt happy and made a complaint to AGIL. AGIL apologised that there  had been a
delay in contacting him to inform him that his phone had been  received with damage.  AGIL
offered to pay Mr C £25 to compensate him for any distress and inconvenience  this caused.
However, in relation to the damaged mobile  phone; AGIL stated that as Mr C had been  in
possession of the mobile phone for around three months, it was reasonable to consider that
the damage to the phone occurred whilst Mr C was in possession of the phone  or whilst the
phone was in transit between Mr C and AGIL. AGIL stated  that the customer was
responsible for the mobile phone until they received it. AGIL went  on to say that irrespective
of whether the damage occurred whilst in Mr Cs possession, or during transit,  the warranty
is void if the handset is received with damage.
Ref: DRN52079542Mr C wasnt happy with AGILs  response, so he brought a complaint  to our service.  One of
our investigators looked into Mr Cs complaint. The investigator thought  AGILs offer of £25
to Mr C for the three-day delay in contacting him was fair. However, the investigator didnt
think that there was enough evidence to say that Mr C was responsible for the damage  to
the mobile phone. The investigator felt that Mr C had done  what  AGIL had asked him to do
in relation to returning the phone. The investigator felt that AGIL should settle Mr Cs claim
without the need for him to register an additional  claim  or pay an excess.
AGIL didnt accept the investigators  view,  so the matter was passed  to me to decide.
my provisional decision  
In my provisional decision,  I said: 
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having viewed all the relevant evidence  and considered the accounts  of both sides,  Ive
decided to uphold  Mr Cs complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr Cs mobile  phone insurance policy with AGIL states: if your mobile phone  is damaged  or
breaks down, we will either:
repair the mobile phone (where possible) or
replace it with a mobile phone of the same make  and model.  If we cannot do this, you 
will be given  a choice of models  with an equivalent specification.
The policy also states; you need to pay a contribution of £100  every time you make a
successful claim  for loss, theft, damage  or breakdown. This policy is provided in addition  to
any manufacturers warranty  that applies to your mobile phone.
When a person contacts  their mobile phone insurance provider,  Id expect them  to assist
their customer by making reasonable efforts to deal with the claim promptly and fairly. Id
also expect the insurer to provide reasonable information to their customer  on its progress.
This complaint relates to replacement  mobile  phones provided to Mr C by AGIL. When  Mr C
had an issue with his original mobile  phone, he should have been provided with a suitable
replacement under his contract of insurance. The first replacement  phone provided  by AGIL
was not a suitable replacement as it developed a defect within  days. This phone  was then
replaced under the warranty and the second  replacement developed a fault after around
three months. Im satisfied that the replacement phones provided  to Mr C were not suitable
replacements as Mr C has provided testimony that each developed  a defect within  a short
time. Mr C was entitled to suitable replacements under both the policy of insurance and the
warranty and I dont  think he received that.
Ref: DRN52079543In their final response letter to Mr C, AGIL conclude that the phone  must have been
damaged whilst in Mr Cs care. However, AGIL havent provided any evidence to support
this claim.  Ive considered the evidence  available in this case. Mr C has provided testimony
that the phone was in good order when he handed  it over to AGILs  courier. AGIL have
provided testimony that the phone was damaged  when it was received at their premises.  In
the absence of any evidence to counter these testimonies, I accept both testimonies and
think that on the balance of probabilities, the phone was damaged whilst in the possession  of
the courier.
As mentioned earlier, AGIL say that Mr C was responsible for the phone  until they received
it. Ive considered; when  did the phone leave Mr Cs possession and enter AGILs
possession. In this case AGIL  employed  a courier to collect  Mr Cs phone from his address.
Mr C had packaged the phone as AGIL had requested him to do before handing it over to
the courier. Im satisfied that once Mr C handed to phone over to the courier, Mr C was no
longer responsible for the phone.  I dont think it would  be fair for Mr C to be responsible for
the phone  whilst it is in the possession of a courier acting on behalf  of AGIL. Therefore, Im
satisfied that AGIL  are responsible for this damage.
The warranty states your replacement device comes with a 12-month warranty,  well take
care of things for you, but we wont be able to help if the defect  is caused  by damage. AGIL
didnt test the phone whilst it was in their possession, so we cant say whether the damage
to the phone (the crack on the back) actually  caused the defect (lines across the screen).
There is nothing in the warranty that states that damage  in itself - to the phone will
invalidate the warranty. Therefore,  even with the damage present - in the absence of any
evidence that the damage  to the phone actually caused the defect  - Mr Cs phone should  still
be covered by the warranty.
Mr C was expecting AGIL to pay his cash settlement  within  three to five days of receiving  his
phone. Mr C was disappointed when he heard that he would not receive the cash  settlement
and that AGIL wanted him to set up a new claim and pay £100. I accept that this loss of
expectation caused Mr C some distress and inconvenience.  However,  I dont think  this issue
was significant  enough to warrant  further compensation. Im satisfied that the £25 offered by
AGIL for the delay  in updating Mr C is sufficient to cover Mr Cs distress  and inconvenience.
Mr C has had to purchase  a new phone himself.  As AGIL didnt pay him the £370  in March
2019, he wasnt able to put this money  towards the cost of his new phone. Therefore, I think
its fair that AGIL should pay Mr C the £370 plus interest at 8% simple from the 26 March
2019  when AGIL received Mr Cs mobile  phone.
the response to my provisional  decision 
Mr C said he was happy with my provisional  decision. 
AGIL said that they had nothing further  to add. 
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN52079544As neither party have  asked me to consider any further information  and havent made any
comments in relation to my provisional  decision,  I see no reason to reach a different
conclusion to the one I reached  in my provisional decision.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Cs complaint. 
I direct  Assurant  General  Insurance  Limited  to: 
Arrange for a courier  to collect Mr Cs mobile  phone from his home address, if they 
want the mobile phone back.
Pay Mr C a £370 cash settlement plus 8% simple  interest*  per year from 26 March 
2019 to the date of payment.
Pay Mr C £25 compensation for not updating  him, if this hasnt been paid already.
Assurant General Insurance Limited must  pay the compensation  within  28 days of us telling
them that Mr C accepts  my decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay interest at 8%
simple* a year on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of
payment.
* If Assurant General  Insurance Limited  pays interest  and considers that it should deduct
income tax from the 8% interest element of my award it may do so, but it should give Mr C
the necessary  certificate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 March 2020.
Anthony Coyne
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5207954