K820x#14complaint
Mrs C complains that she was mis-sold  a payment protection insurance, (PPI), policy.
Its been agreed that Financial Insurance Company Limited, (FICL), should accept
responsibility for the sale. For simplicity Ive referred  to FICL throughout my decision.
background
Mrs C took out a store card in spring  2002.  A few weeks later she took out PPI during  a 
phone conversation.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  should  be upheld.  As Mrs C disagreed 
the matter has been  passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive followed this in making my decision in Mrs Cs case.
Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint.  I explain  why below.
I think that Mrs C knew  that the PPI was optional and that she chose to take it. I say this 
because Ive seen  her signed  store card application form. This has a section in it dealing  
with PPI. And I can see that that has been  crossed  through. I dont know  why she changed 
her mind  and decided to buy the insurance during the later phone call. But she had already 
had her store card for some weeks by then so Im satisfied she knew  that she didnt have  to 
take out the policy to be accepted for the card.
FICL didnt  recommend Mrs C to take out the PPI. So it was up to her to decide whether  she
wanted it or not, taking into account her circumstances at the time. But FICL did have  to give
Mrs C clear, fair and not-misleading information about the policy so that she could make an
informed decision.  Its possible that FICL didnt tell Mrs C everything she needed to know
about the PPI. But, based  on what I know about Mrs Cs circumstances  and the terms and
conditions of the policy which, on balance, I think would have applied at the time it was sold,
I find that:
Mrs C was eligible for the policy;
Mrs C wasnt  caught by any of the policys main limitations and restrictions - such  as
those affecting  someone  who was self-employed or who had a pre-existing medical
condition;
The policy cost £1 a month for each £100  outstanding on Mrs Cs store  card account. 
And Ive seen nothing  to suggest that these premiums were unaffordable.  In any event, 
as it was paid for monthly, Mrs C could have cancelled the policy at any time without 
further cost if she later found that she couldnt  afford  it or no longer wanted it;
Ref: DRN57832352Mrs C has told us that she wasnt entitled to sick pay from her employer. And that she
didnt have any savings  or other insurance  to help her make her monthly  store card
payments had she been off work.  Following  a successful claim the insurance would have
paid 15% of Mrs Cs store  card balance each month had she been unable  to work
because of accident, sickness or involuntary unemployment. These  payments  would
have been made until shed paid off her balance or until shed returned to work,  if earlier.
So I think that the PPI would  have  been of use to her.
It may be that FICL  didnt give Mrs C all the details about the policy that it should have done. 
But from what Ive set out above I dont  think that Mrs C would  have made a different 
decision and decided  not to take the PPI had she been given clearer information.  So I find 
that she hasnt  lost out because of anything that FICL may have done  wrong  during the sale.  
Accordingly theres nothing that I require FICL to put right.
As Ive said above,  Ive considered everything  that Mrs C has told us including  that her 
parents would have  helped  her make her payments had she been unable to work. We set 
out our usual approach to possible financial help from friends and family  on our website.  And 
Ive seen nothing  in this complaint to make  me deviate from that. So I havent taken this 
possible assistance into account in making my decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Ros Barnett
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5783235