K820x#14complaint
Mr F complains that Siemens Financial Services Ltd wrongly told him that his account was in 
arrears when it was not.
background
Mr F is a sole trader. In December 2018  he hired a printer from Siemens, for five years. The 
rental payments were to be paid quarterly and in advance, which  meant that the first 
payment was due immediately. Mr F elected to pay by direct  debit, and this was duly set up.
The hire agreement was brokered by a third party, who waived the facility fee (which was 
£149 plus VAT, or £178:80).  Unfortunately  when  the broker told Siemens about this, 
Siemens wrongly recorded both the facility fee and the first rental payment as paid. This 
resulted in Siemens  not collecting the first direct debit payment.
This error was compounded when Mr F phoned Siemens on receiving an arrears letter for 
the unpaid first rental payment   which he thought  he had paid by direct  debit  and he was 
told on the phone that no payment was due until March 2019. This was of course incorrect.
After an exchange  of emails with Mr F, Siemens eventually apologised for its mistake, and 
offered to waive four annual service charges (which  were £50 plus VAT,  or £60, making  a 
total of £240). Mr F was not satisfied with this, mainly because he says he was unaware of 
these charges, so he should not have  had to pay them in the first place. But he also 
questioned why only four and not five charges had been waived.
Mr F also asked  to change the date of his direct debit payments. There  was normally a £300 
fee for this, but Siemens agreed to waive it.
Mr F agreed  to accept Siemenss offer, but he still complained to our Service.  He said he 
wanted to be paid at least another £100,  not by waiving  a fee that would otherwise fall due in 
the future,  but as a cash  payment.
Our investigator did not uphold this complaint. He said that Siemens had already done 
enough, in waiving £240 or (if Mr F changed  his payment date) £540 of fees. Mr F asked for 
an ombudsmans decision.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I do not uphold it. I will explain why.
I dont know why Siemens  only offered  to waive four of the five annual  service fees. It might 
be an oversight. But I think that waiving £240 of fees is already quite enough compensation 
for what went wrong, and so I wont tell Siemens to increase  it.
I think £240 is fair compensation because it is more  than I would  have awarded  if Siemens  
had made  no offer and Mr F had come  to us empty-handed. My role is not to punish  
Siemens for its mistake by fining  it, but only to compensate Mr F for his inconvenience and 
anxiety, and £240 is proportionate. I actually think a smaller sum would have been fair, but 
for the fact that the £240 is not being paid to Mr F in a lump  sum and immediately, but rather  
consists of waiving annual  fees which would otherwise  have been  charged in the future, 
Ref: DRN57915182beginning a year after Siemens sent him the arrears letter. So I think the higher  sum makes 
up for the fact that it is effectively being  paid to Mr F in instalments.
The annual service  charge is described  on the first page of Mr Fs agreement.  If (as he says) 
he was rushed into signing it, then that is a matter he should  take up with the broker.
my final decision
So my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 September  2020.
Richard Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5791518