K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain  that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS)  mis-sold them a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. The complaint is brought on their behalf by a 
claims management company.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out in 2009. The policy  was taken out to cover  
their mortgage. It provided them with cover for accident, sickness  and unemployment and 
the benefit was split equally between  them.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  should  be upheld.  Mr and Mrs B didnt 
agree. Their representative said,  on their behalf and in summary, that:
They  werent  told the PPI was optional.
They  had significant sick pay entitlements and savings, so didnt need  the PPI.
If theyd been given  information about the policys costs  and benefits, they wouldnt have 
taken it.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
I dont think from what RBS has told us that it recommended the PPI. As RBS didnt 
recommend the policy, it didnt need  to ensure that it was suitable for Mr and Mrs B.
So the key question I need  to consider  is did RBS give Mr and Mrs B information  that was 
clear, fair and not misleading in order to put them in a position where they could make  an 
informed choice about the insurance they were  buying?
And, if there  was a problem with the way the policy  was sold,  then I need to consider 
whether Mr and Mrs B are worse off as a result. That is, would they have done something 
different  such as not taking out the policy  if there hadnt been  any problems with the 
sale?
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Bs complaint for the following reasons:
I cant be sure what was discussed during their mortgage application. But RBS has been  
able to provide  some  of the paperwork. From that I can see that the mortgage application 
included a separate section headed, Your protection  and there were clear  options to accept 
or decline PPI. The form has been completed electronically, but Mr and Mrs B wouldve had 
the opportunity  to read through it before they signed it. They  also had to sign a separate  PPI 
application form and direct debit mandate. So, overall I think  RBS made Mr and Mrs B aware 
that PPI was optional and they chose to take it out.
Ref: DRN50317562Its possible the information RBS gave Mr and Mrs B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But I dont think they would have been put off taking out the policy  if they 
had received better information. I say this because:
Mr and Mrs B were  eligible for the policy  given  their circumstances and the terms and 
conditions. 
They  werent  affected by any of the conditions limiting the policys main benefits  such  as 
those affecting  self-employed  people or people with pre-existing medical conditions. As 
they couldve benefitted from the full extent of the cover, I think it unlikely they needed 
better information about the policys exclusions and limitations.
Mr and Mrs B recall  that they were both entitled to six months  pay from their employers 
if they couldnt work  due to sickness or an accident  and that they had some joint 
savings. Their mortgage was a major long term financial commitment  and their home 
was at risk if they couldnt meet the repayments. The PPI wouldve covered them for up 
to 12 months,  so couldve been  a useful benefit  in addition  to their existing 
arrangements. It also covered them if theyd become  unemployed. 
-I cant see that the cost of the policy was clearly  communicated to Mr and Mrs B before 
they agreed to purchase it. I dont think they were told it would cost £35.43  each month 
until after the mortgage had started. For this reason  I have considered whether clearer 
information about the cost would have affected  their decision to purchase  the policy.  
They had chosen to take out the policy, knowing they would  have to pay something for it. 
The policy was competitively priced  and apparently affordable.  So I think it unlikely they 
would have made a different decision if better information about the cost had been 
provided.
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont think Mr and Mrs B wouldve made  a different decision 
about taking out the policy  if better  information had been provided to them   overall  I think 
they would  have still taken out the policy.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  14 November  2019.
Elizabeth Dawes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5031756