K821x#15complaint
Ms D has complained Black Horse  Limited  granted her a hire purchase agreement without 
carrying out proper  affordability checks.
background
In 2016 Ms D took out a hire purchase agreement  with Black Horse for a holiday home. The 
home cost £100,000 including  park services and fees. Ms D paid a deposit of £20,000  and 
took out credit for the remainder. The hire purchase agreement she signed was for a 10 year 
period. Ms D would  be paying £1,115.46 a month. Over the full period of the agreement, she 
would be repaying  nearly  £134,000 for the £80,000 credit  granted.
At the time,  Ms D had retired  from work and bank statements  show she was receiving a 
monthly income of just under  £675.
Within a couple of years, Ms D was finding  the agreement  unaffordable. There were  also 
issues shed taken up with the holiday park managers about the condition of the home, 
including the cladding. Ms D complained to Black  Horse about the agreement being  
unaffordable. Black  Horse believed Ms D had been  earning £27,600  a year and that she was 
able to pay the deposit in cash  so didnt agree this was unaffordable. They also pointed  out 
Ms D hadnt  complained about affordability aspects when shed complained  about  the 
condition of the holiday home.
Ms D brought her complaint to the ombudsman  service.
Ms D fell further into arrears. Black  Horse took action to repossess Ms Ds holiday home. 
The agreement was terminated in April 2019.  Black  Horse was asking Ms D to repay 
£31,272.02; the outstanding amount.
Ms D was also concerned  at the action around  repossession. Shed not been given an 
opportunity to take her belongings out of the structure and these had been strewn  around 
the caravan park. Black  Horse offered to pay Ms D £50 for their error.
Initially our investigator didnt think there were any affordability issues. However  a further 
review highlighted  some inconsistences.  Although Black Horse  confirmed Ms D had stated 
her annual earnings in a phone call with them, there  was no other  evidence   including  bank 
statements  which supported this was the case. Our investigator thought Black Horse had 
failed to carry out the proper checks.  Subsequently  the hire purchase agreement had proven 
to be unaffordable.
He asked Black Horse to waive any outstanding debt and refund interest Ms D had paid from 
the start of the agreement. 8% simple interest needed to be added to all refunds.
Black Horse  didnt agree  with this outcome. They pointed out that Ms D had benefitted  from 
an inheritance  and shed had a considerable sum available to her in her bank accounts when 
taking out the hire purchase agreement.
Ms Ds complaint has been  passed to an ombudsman for decision.
Ref: DRN50036072my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I explain below why Ive reached  the outcome I have.
There are a number of different strands to this complaint. These include the complaints Ms D 
made about the condition of her holiday home and the action Black Horse  took to re-possess 
Ms Ds property. When Ms D first brought her complaint to our service,  its clear she was 
concerned about  the pressure put on her to take out the hire purchase agreement. Ive also 
seen two different  quotations for the holiday home  Ms D eventually bought.
However the central part of Ms Ds complaint is about unaffordability. These aspects dictate 
the resolution I believe is fair and reasonable.
In reviewing the affordability aspects, Ive considered  amongst other things  the rules  and 
guidance for lenders set out in the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC) within  the 
Financial Conduct  Authoritys handbook. 
Im also aware that our investigator  completed  a detailed view dated  18 January 2021.  I 
wont be repeating  all the points there: only those things that explain the decision Ive made.
I think there are two overarching questions  I need to consider in order to decide whats  fair 
and reasonable in the affordability circumstances of this complaint. These questions are:
1. Did Black  Horse complete reasonable  and proportionate checks to satisfy  itself that Ms D 
would be able to repay the borrowing in a sustainable way?
a.If so, did it make  a fair lending decision?
b.If not, would  reasonable and proportionate  checks have shown that Ms D could 
sustainably repay the borrowing?
2. Did Black  Horse act unfairly  or unreasonably  in some other way?
If I think Ms D has been disadvantaged  in any way by Black  Horses actions, Ill go onto 
consider what I think is a fair way to put things right.
Did Black Horse  complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Ms D 
would be able to repay the borrowing in a sustainable way?
Before granting credit,  Black Horse were  required to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment  of Ms Ds ability to sustainably repay  the debt. This is often 
referred to as an affordability check. This check had to be borrower-focussed. This means it 
needed to be concerned  with whether Ms D could sustainably afford the borrowing 
(considering her specific circumstances), rather than how statistically  likely  she was to repay.
The latter is the risk posed to Black  Horse as the lender, or their credit risk but this is not 
necessarily the same  as an assessment of affordability.
Whats considered reasonable and proportionate will vary depending on a number of factors 
such as, but not limited  to:
Ref: DRN50036073The amount  of credit;
The total repayable and the size of the regular repayments;
The duration of the agreement;
The cost of the credit; and
The consumers individual circumstances.
What this means is that there isnt a one-size-fits-all approach to what is considered 
proportionate as any of these factors (or others) might influence what a reasonable and 
proportionate check ought to be.
Ms D took out a hire purchase agreement with Black Horse.  The total amount repayable for 
the agreement, taken  out in May 2016, was nearly £135,000 repayable over ten years.  The 
APR was 11.9% and Ms D was paying just over £1,115  a month. 
This was therefore a long-term and costly  commitment. My starting  point is that any 
reasonable and proportionate assessment of affordability ought to have been quite thorough.
Black Horse  has provided us with details of the checks carried out prior to lending  to Ms D. 
These helped them  to understand what Ms Ds current credit commitments were  and to see 
how she was managing them. There appears  to have  been about nine other credit 
commitments. Ms D was up-to-date with all her payments and had not missed recent 
payments.
Black Horse  has told us that they were aware  of Ms Ds salary of £27,600 and this was 
confirmed in the telephone conversation  they had with her prior to granting hire purchase.  
Because of the time that has passed, theres no other record of this call apart  from Black  
Horses lending notes.  The problem here is that Ms D was definitely not earning that level of 
salary and a cursory look at her bank statements around this time would have verified  this.
Black Horse  has said that their creditworthiness  checks gave them  a reasonable level of 
confidence that the stated  salary of £27,600  resulted in monthly living  costs  of £520. Ms Ds 
net monthly income was assessed to be £1,821.   
I cant see that Black Horse undertook any further income and expenditure checks nor is it 
clear that her bank  statements were  reviewed.  
Im aware that more  recently  Black  Horse has provided further  information  about Ms Ds 
current and savings accounts at the time.  They believed she was in receipt of a large 
inheritance and had more  than £90,000  at her disposal. Ive seen nothing which shows they 
specifically checked  whether Ms D might have been  responsible for dispersing  share  of a 
family inheritance to her wider family. That would certainly explain why she had a high 
balance in her account  for a time.
I can see Black Horse   based  on what they believed was her disposable income  
assessed her as able to meet the monthly repayment of £1,115,  despite  this being about  
60% of Ms Ds complete income.  Its worth restating that Black Horse sought  no evidence  of 
Ms Ds salary. Whilst they may have carried out checks  through  a third party,  I cant see they 
asked for evidence from Ms D apart from what they state was a verbal  confirmation.  I also 
note the hire purchase agreement at the time stated  Ms D was retired and had no employer. 
Ref: DRN50036074I accept Black Horses argument that an income of £27,600 can be received through  a 
pension. But Id add that this would  suggest  Ms D had a very reasonably-sized pension pot, 
far higher than the average. This fact, too, suggests further checking would have been 
appropriate.
Overall, I dont  think Black Horse completed  reasonable  and proportionate  checks  when 
thinking about the amount  of information and supporting  evidence  they gathered  to assess 
Ms Ds creditworthiness.  Particularly as Ms D was borrowing a high amount, Id have 
expected them to have carried out further  checks to assess Ms Ds affordability.
Did Black Horse  make  a fair lending decision?
So having  looked at further information   which Black Horse didnt gather  I have significant  
concerns about  their decision  the lending was affordable and sustainable.
Its clear that within two years of taking out an extremely  high-value credit agreement, Ms D 
was unable to continue making  regular  repayments.  What Id have expected Black Horse to 
have been considering is what  ability Ms D had to meet  any financial shocks or life changes. 
I can see no evidence they did this.
Ms Ds bank statements  for 2016 show she was only in receipt  of a small monthly pension. 
This was for less than £675  a month.  These statements dont suggest Ms D was in a 
financially robust position.
Even based on what Black Horse  believed, they assessed Ms D to be using 85% of her 
disposable income to make her monthly repayments. This seems to be an extremely  high 
percentage leaving Ms D with very little money.  Particularly as Ms D had nine other credit 
agreements according  to Black Horses  credit check.  
How Black Horse  came  to the conclusion that Ms Ds financial situation  indicated a further 
long-term credit agreement was sustainable  and affordable is baffling. 
Overall, I dont  think Black Horse took appropriate consideration of the information they had 
gathered  or could have gathered  about Ms Ds financial circumstances. 
Black Horse  has pointed out Ms D may have  benefitted from an inheritance to the value of 
£95,000. This is at odds  with the evidence  provided by her representative  who states Ms D 
got £48,000 and used  £20,000 of that for her deposit. Ms D has rightly  wondered  why shed  
have taken out credit at all if shed  got that amount  as paying in cash would have saved her 
more than £50,000 in cost of credit.
I can only state that even  if Black  Horse is correct, Ms D is still somewhat short in terms of 
being able to meet a complete financial commitment of nearly £155,000 over 10 years.
In correspondence  with Black Horse  prior to completing my final decision, I highlighted their 
statement Ultimately  it was for the customer to decide if the repayments  were affordable 
based on her proposed  expenditure  patterns  which  she has the ability to control and 
influence through  discretionary, non-essential household expenditure. I dont agree nor do I 
believe this reflects the requirements placed on lenders by the regulator. In fact the decision 
and burden for that decision is placed  mostly on the lender as they have the ability  to make  
the proper and measured assessment of someones  financial  position.
Ref: DRN50036075Its worth  remarking that Ive read Black  Horses detailed submission of 15 March 2021. I can 
see theyve alleged Ms D lied to them when confirming a salary  which  has turned out not to 
be the case. And that theyve suggested weve only seen a few details of Ms Ds bank 
statements. I can reassure them I believe our investigations have been thorough. Im also 
not convinced  its fair and reasonable for them to hold Ms D liable for issues when they have 
not undertaken sufficient checks.
Given all of the above, I dont think Black  Horse made a fair lending  decision and they 
shouldnt have approved the hire purchase agreement.
Black Horse  needed to ensure Ms D could afford  to sustainably repay the borrowing  without  
causing her financial  difficulty or the need  to borrow further. I think they didnt collect 
sufficient information  during  the application process  to realise Ms D was not in a position  to 
sustainably repay  this agreement. And if they had carried out those additional  checks, they 
wouldnt have granted the borrowing.
Did Black Horse  act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Black Horse  has already  admitted the re-possession of Ms Ds holiday home  wasnt 
managed well. Theyve offered £50 in compensation.
Ms Ds representative has said their belongings were strewn  around the holiday park.  
However Ive seen a letter  from the holiday park management which  confirmed theyd held 
onto their personal belongings which were available for collection. Overall I believe  £50 is 
fair and reasonable.
Putting things right
As Black Horse  shouldnt  have granted a credit agreement to Ms D, I think  it would be fair 
and reasonable for it to now write off the outstanding  balance  and refund the interest Ms D 
has paid on the agreement.
Ms D made payments for nearly two years  before getting  into financial difficulties. 8% simple  
interest will need to be added to the money to be refunded.
Ref: DRN50036076my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is to instruct  Black  Horse Limited to:
Write  off any outstanding balance  from Ms Ds hire purchase  agreement;
Refund Ms Ds deposit  of £20,000;
Refund interest and charges from the monthly  payments  Ms D made; and
Remove any negative  data relating to this agreement from Ms Ds credit record.
Black Horse  should pay 8% simple  interest a year on all refunds calculated  from the dates of 
payment to the date of settlement, less any tax lawfully deductible.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 June  2021.
Sandra Quinn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5003607