K820x#14complaint
Mr F complains about Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance  Plc (RSA), trading as More Th>n, 
for declining  his buildings insurance  claim.  
Mr F wants RSA to pay for the building damage to be repaired, and for internal decoration to 
be repaired. 
 
background
Mr F has held a home insurance policy with RSA since early 2017.  
In late 2018, Mr F noticed water ingress into a top floor bedroom. This was penetrating 
through the bedroom ceiling and was causing damage.  
Mr F reported this and submitted a claim to his home insurer, RSA.  
RSA sent a surveyor to assess the damage and they identified  that the cause of the water  
ingress was a damaged roof tile. RSA considered that this damage had arisen out of wear 
and tear to the broken tile, which was not covered by the policy, so declined the claim. 
Mr F complained to RSA and RSA sent its final response in December 2019. It rejected the 
complaint and maintained its assessment that the damage did not appear to have been 
caused by a sudden event, such as a storm, but had developed over time. It pointed to 
evidence of algae staining which had accrued,  and an internet image search which  showed  
the property in May 2018 in which the broken tile was visible.  
Mr F was not happy with this response and contacted us. 
One of out investigators has looked into this complaint and set out her view to the parties. 
This was that, on the evidence available, RSA was reasonable to conclude  that the damage  
was not caused by an insurable event. She therefore did not think that RSA had done 
anything wrong  and did not uphold  the complaint. 
Mr F has not accepted  that view and asked for an ombudsman decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint .
Firstly, I understand Mr Fs view and frustration at what has happened  at his home. He has 
pointed out that the property was recently  built and that there  has not been sufficient time for 
the tiles to deteriorate to the point of cracking. This is a reasonable assumption  and I can 
see why he feels that the damage  must  have  been due to an event instead. 
Mr F has, however, accepted that he has not been  aware of any incident which would have 
caused damage to the concrete roof tile, and that no debris  has been found to suggest that it 
was damaged by another property. 
Ref: DRN53361772I have considered the reports  prepared by RSA and have seen the internet photographs  
which show evidence of the damaged tile from around May 2018. I accept that this does 
appear to show the tile being damaged from at least May 2018 onwards. 
Mr Fs policy sets out that it includes accidental  damage, including caused by storm or flood, 
but it excludes
Any loss, damage, liability,  cost or expense of any kind directly or indirectly  caused  by,
or resulting from wear and tear, depreciation, corrosion, rusting, damp,  insects, vermin
(except for cover 6 under  Home Emergency cover where selected), fungus,
condensation, fading, frost or anything that happens gradually, the process of cleaning.
Dyeing, repair, alteration,  renovation or restoration,
The policy wording also adds that it does not cover customers  for the cost of gradual 
deterioration and makes clear that it is not a maintenance contract. 
On the basis that there is evidence that the damage to the roof tile had existed for some time 
before Mr F noticed that it was causing damage  to the property, and because  there  is 
insufficient evidence  to show that the broken tile was caused by a sudden event, which 
would be covered by the policy, I cannot  say that RSA has acted unfairly in declining the 
claim. 
Whilst I sympathise with Mr F, and understand that this decision will be disappointing to him, 
I agree  with the view of the investigator  and do not uphold this complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I do not uphold this complaint and do not ask Royal  Sun & 
Alliance Insurance  Plc to do anything further.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 March  2020.
Laura Garvin-Smith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5336177