K820x#14complaint
Mr S has complained about Alwyn Insurance Company Limiteds decision to reject  a theft 
claim he made under his car insurance policy. Alwyn said that Mr S hadnt taken reasonable 
care to safeguard  his car.
background
Mr S bought a car insurance policy  through a broker with the insurer;  Alwyn. In December 
2018 he made a claim for the theft of his car. Mr Ss car was recovered after being involved 
in a collision and damaged. An engineer reported  that the damage was structural and so 
Mr Ss car was declared a total loss.
Alwyn investigated  Mr Ss claim. It decided not to meet the claim because it said Mr S hadnt 
taken reasonable  care to safeguard his car.
Mr Ss mother on his behalf asked us to look at her sons complaint. Our investigator initially  
recommended Mr Ss complaint should be upheld.  But on further  review,  he changed his 
mind. The investigator thought Alwyn had reasonably applied the safeguarding condition 
under the policy  due to the circumstances  of the case.
Mrs S didnt agree and wants an ombudsman to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S told Alwyn  that he had been out drinking  with friends and invited people back  to his 
home. The people  who came back included friends of friends   although  it later transpired 
that some  of the people who came back werent  known  to Mr S or his friends before that 
evening. 
Mr S told Alwyn  that he wasnt sure where  he left his car key, but it is usually on the side. 
Mr S said that he went to bed upstairs and left a couple of people  downstairs. He said that 
when he woke later that morning there was nobody downstairs  but the front door was wide 
open and his car was gone.  
Mrs S doesnt agree  that Mr S didnt take reasonable  care. She said even if hed taken his 
car key upstairs with him, theres no way of knowing whether a friend or stranger wouldnt 
have stolen the key anyway. And so Alwyn  cannot  be certain who stole the car. The fact is it 
was stolen. There isnt anything in the policy that states Mr S cant drink alcohol in his home 
while he has friends and acquaintances with him. 
When Mr S came  downstairs  hours  later, he told Alwyn that his front door was wide open. 
He told us that he kept his house and car keys together. So it seems  the keys were used to 
open the front door (and leave it wide open). Alwyn said its possible that a passer by could  
have taken the opportunity to enter Mr Ss home while the door was wide open. Or 
somebody who had come back to Mr Ss home  that evening had taken them. There are a 
number of possibilities  as to what happened that evening or early  hours  of the following 
morning. 
Ref: DRN54847762The condition Alwyn  is relying on from its policy says:
Looking after your car
You or any permitted drivers are required to maintain the insured vehicle in a 
roadworthy condition.  You or any person in charge of the insured vehicle are required 
to take all reasonable care to safeguard it and its contents from loss or damage,  for 
example the car should not be left unlocked.
From what  Mr S said,  I think he failed to take reasonable  care to safeguard his car. Its not 
the fact that Mr S invited people to his home.  The test of risk is that he left his car keys 
downstairs with people  some he didnt know - while he slept  upstairs. I think  this is 
significant when  deciding whether reasonable care was taken to safeguard  his car. Its a 
common term in most  motor insurance  policies. Insurers include such a condition is to 
reduce the risk of claims where  a customer hasnt taken reasonable care to protect the 
insured item. 
I understand Mr S will be very disappointed with my decision. But I think  Alwyn applied  the 
reasonable care  condition  in a reasonable way and in line with the policy.  This means I 
dont think it should  meet Mr Ss claim. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 May 2020..
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5484776