K820x#14complaint
Ms M and Mr B say that they were mis-sold a regular premium mortgage  payment protection  
insurance (MPPI) policy by Bank of Scotland plc (BOS).
background
Ms M and Mr B jointly took out a mortgage with BOS  in 1994. At the same  time they took out 
a regular premium MPPI policy with the benefit  split 50/50 between  them.  The policy  
wouldve covered  repayments on their mortgage  if they couldnt  work due to accident or 
sickness for up to 24 months or if they lost their jobs for up to 12 months per claim.  
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld. He thought  it wouldve been  
clear from the paperwork BOS used at the time that they had a choice in taking the policy 
and thought it wouldve provided a suitable  benefit.
Ms M and Mr B disagree. They say they were pressured into taking it and didnt need it.
So the complaint has come  to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Ms M and Mr Bs complaint.
BOS had to make it clear  to Ms M and Mr B that they had a choice in taking out the policy.  
Ms M and Mr B say this wasnt done but havent provided much detail about  what  was said 
to make them think this. Given the length  of time since the sale I wouldnt expect Ms M and 
Mr B to have a detailed  recollection of what was discussed. So Ive relied  more  on what the 
documents from the time show.
Separate application forms were completed for Ms M and Mr Bs MPPI  and mortgage and 
BOS have given  us a copy  of both. 
I can see on the mortgage application  form that under the section that deals with MPPI that 
BOS recommends that you consider our Mortgage Payments Protector Scheme  And I 
can see right below this it says Do you wish to join the scheme  and a Y has been imputed 
into the box next to this. If they didnt want MPPI they couldve put a N in the box.
Following the completion of the mortgage application Ms M and Mr B then went  on to 
complete a separate application  form for MPPI. So I think BOS did make it clear  that Ms M 
and Mr B had a choice  in taking out the policy because  they were  given  a choice on the 
mortgage application form and I think they signed  the completed MPPI  application  form 
because they wanted the cover.  
This was an advised  sale. What  this means  is that BOS not only had to provide information 
about MPPI  in a clear, fair and not misleading  way so that Ms M and Mr B could make  an 
Ref: DRN58365162informed choice about buying  MPPI. It also had to make  sure that if it were to recommend 
MPPI that the policy was suitable for Ms M and Mr Bs needs  and circumstances.
Ms M and Mr B say they felt pressured into taking the policy because the advisor was 
insistent it would be in their best interests.  But I dont think  this is evidence of strong 
pressure  but rather a recommendation of a product. And providing  the recommendation is 
suitable there is nothing wrong with this.
I dont know if BOS  did take all the steps  it shouldve. But I think  the policy  was a suitable 
recommendation for them for the following reasons:
They were both eligible for cover and it doesnt  look like they would have been 
caught by any of the main exclusions in the terms and conditions of the policy which  
couldve made it difficult to make a successful  claim. 
At the time of the sale Ms M and Mr B say they were entitled  to a good  level of sick 
pay and had a small amount in savings but had no other means of making their 
repayments if they couldnt  work. But a successful claim on the policy wouldve paid 
out on top of this and for potentially  longer  covering Ms M and Mr Bs mortgage 
payments for up to 24 months if they were unable to work due to accident or sickness 
or for up to 12 months if they lost their jobs. 
So I think the policy wouldve provided  a useful benefit to Ms M and Mr B in their 
circumstances especially considering they were  taking  on a significant  and long term 
financial commitment. Given the implications  if they were unable to meet  their 
repayments, I think they wouldve been interested in protecting  them. And I note also 
that they did benefit from the policy when Mr B made a successful unemployment 
claim.
There was nothing  to suggest that the policy wasnt affordable to them at the time. 
And if they decided  they no longer wanted  the policy they could cancel it. 
I also need to consider  whether BOS  gave Ms M and Mr B information in a way which was 
clear, fair and not misleading so that they could make a proper choice about whether or not 
they wanted to take the policy out. 
I can see the costs were clear from the MPPI application but I dont know  if BOS gave all the 
information as it shouldve. But for the same reasons that the policy was suitable  and based  
on what Ms M and Mr B have told us about  their circumstances at the time, I think they 
wouldve still taken out the MPPI policy if theyd been given all the proper information at the 
time of sale.
Which means BOS doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the MPPI to Ms M and Mr B.
But BOS  has paid back some of the cost of the MPPI to Ms M and Mr B because:  
When the policy  was sold, BOS expected to get a high level of commission  and profit  
share (more than 50% of the PPI premium)  - so it should have told Ms M and Mr B about 
that. Because BOS didnt tell Ms M and Mr B, that was unfair. 
To put that right, BOS has paid back the amount  of commission and profit share that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ref: DRN58365163my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland  plc does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the MPPI  to Ms M and Mr B.
But Bank of Scotland plc does have  to pay back to Ms M and Mr B any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the MPPI premium.  I understand it has already 
done this, so I dont  award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Ms M and Mr B 
to accept or reject my decision before 1 March 2019.
Caroline Davies
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5836516