K820x#14The complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken in 2002  when    
Mrs S applied for a credit card by post.  Mrs S says Barclays Bank Plc  trading  as 
Barclaycard  (Barclays) mis-sold  her the PPI.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Ss case.
Having done this, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why. 
Mrs S says the policy was added  to her credit  card account without her consent. The 
application was made using a form Mrs S completed and posted to Barclays.  
Barclays should have  made Mrs S aware she had a choice  in buying the policy.  Looking  at 
the copy of Mrs Ss application form that has been  provided by Barclays,  it asks applicants  to 
tick a box to say if they wanted PPI. This box has been ticked  on Mrs Ss form and shes 
signed the application form. So, I think Barclays made it clear that Mrs S didnt have to take 
out the PPI  and she decided to take it. Although I can understand why she doesnt 
remember this now. 
As I havent  seen anything to suggest  Mrs S had any direct contact with a Barclays advisor 
at the time of the sale, it doesnt look like Barclays recommended the PPI to Mrs S. So, it 
didnt have to check if it was suitable  for her. But it did have to make  sure Mrs S got the 
information she needed to decide if it was right for her.
Looking at everything Ive been given its possible the information  Barclays gave Mrs S 
about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should have been. But based on what  Ive seen  of her 
circumstances at the time it doesnt  look like she was affected by any of the exclusions to or 
limits on the PPI cover  such as any pre-existing medical conditions  or unusual working 
patterns. Mrs S originally  told us that she was working less than 16 hours  a week but has 
since confirmed she was working at least 16 hours and sometimes  more. So, she was 
eligible for the policy. 
Mrs S says she didnt have any other means  of making her repayments  such  as employee  
sick pay benefits or savings. So, I think the PPI would have been useful to her if something 
went wrong.
From everything Ive been given, it also looks like the PPI was affordable. So, I dont think  
better information about the PPI would  have put her off taking  out the cover.  
Overall, I dont  think Mrs S has lost out by anything Barclays might  have done wrong. 
My final decision
For the reasons  explained above, I dont  uphold this complaint. 
Ref: DRN54837142Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs S to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 December 2020. 
Claire Marchant-Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5483714