K820x#14complaint
Miss S has complained  National Westminster Bank Plc wont  refund two transactions  done 
using her credit card which she didnt make.
background
Miss S took out a credit  card with NatWest  in February 2018.  She didnt use the card very 
much. And when  she did this was for petrol  or supermarkets. On 4 July 2018 Miss S called 
NatWest. Shed seen  two transactions which shed not made. Both of these were overseas. 
Her credit card account had been  debited  with £773.25 and £384.10  plus £10.56 in foreign 
exchange costs.  On this call with NatWest Miss S confirmed  she still had her credit  card.
NatWest didnt think it was possible that an unknown third party would have been able to find 
out Miss Ss PIN, take her card and replace  it to allow the disputed transactions to take 
place. They wouldnt refund her. Miss S brought her complaint to the ombudsman service.
Our investigator reviewed  the evidence. This showed Miss S wasnt overseas at the time of 
the transactions so couldnt have  made  them herself. However  this didnt mean  NatWest  
couldnt still ask her to repay the debt as our investigator believed it was most  likely Miss S 
had authorised the transactions.
Miss S disputed this. She said she didnt know anybody who was overseas at the time and 
had never  disclosed  her PIN to anybody. Shes  asked an ombudsman  to consider her 
complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
decision as our investigator. Ill explain  why.
The Payment Services Regulations primarily  require banks to refund customers if they didnt 
make or authorise payments themselves. Certain  other circumstances do apply but nothing  
thats had a marked impact on the decision Im making here.  So when we look at whether a 
bank has acted fairly in rejecting someones fraud  complaint, one of the things we consider 
is whether the customer made the transactions  themselves or allowed  them  to be made. If 
they did, then we generally wouldnt  ask the bank to refund them.
So to help me decide what happened, Ive looked at the evidence of the transactions, as well 
as what both NatWest  and Miss S have told us. 
Firstly I can see the timeline of events and how the transactions were made were 
comprehensively covered in our investigators view of 28 January 2020. I dont intend to 
repeat everything  that was said there. However  I am satisfied Ive reviewed the complaint 
thoroughly.
The following  summarises what Ive considered:
The last PIN-based  transaction  Miss S confirms she made  was on 23 June. This was 
more than a week  before  the disputed transactions were made on 2 July 2018.
Miss S has told us her card wasnt missing.
Ref: DRN59459472Theres no dispute Miss Ss passport and mobile phone data show that she wasnt 
overseas at the time of the transactions.
The transaction data for the disputed  transactions  show at least one transaction  
and more likely both  were  completed using the genuine card and PIN.
The correct PIN was entered first time as there were no rejected transactions.
It appears whoever  used Miss Ss card more than likely knew her credit limit. The two 
disputed transactions  took Miss Ss account over its credit  limit but they didnt try any 
further transactions which could have led to her card being rejected.
NatWest questioned why someone wouldnt continue  to use the card until they could 
use it no more. Theres no data to suggest this happened here but I agree thats the 
most likely thing  to happen  when someone  uses a card without consent.
NatWests mobile banking log does show Miss S logged  onto her mobile banking 
service regularly around the time of the disputed transactions.  NatWest  would show 
the two disputed transactions as pending prior to them  debiting  Miss Ss credit card 
account. Like our investigator  I wonder why Miss S didnt raise her concerns as soon 
as she noticed  these but I should add this hasnt  played a major part in my decision.
I note Miss S reported  what had happened both to Action Fraud  and her local police.
Im also aware that part of Miss Ss complaint  is about how she was treated  by 
NatWest.
The test under the PSRs isnt whether there was an opportunity for the card and PIN to be 
compromised; rather whether the payment services user (Miss S in this case) authorised 
these transactions.  Its not my role to decide how someone else could have got hold of 
Miss Ss PIN, made these  transactions  or to investigate who that potential  fraudster may be. 
However I do need to believe there are scenarios which explain how someone could have 
used Miss Ss card and PIN without  her consent. This is difficult when I note Miss S believes 
the card remained in her possession. I cant see how someone would have known her PIN 
either. Coupled  with the information that whoever  used Miss Ss card knew her balance  and 
available credit, this suggests to me its more likely Miss S authorised  this use.
I appreciate Miss S is not going to agree with this outcome but overall  I think  this lays out the 
most likely scenario.
Taking all the evidence into consideration, I believe Miss S authorised  these transactions. I 
wont be asking NatWest  to do anything further.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is not to uphold Miss Ss complaint against 
National Westminster Bank Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 May 2020.
Sandra Quinn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5945947