K820x#14complaint
Mrs and Mr W complained that Yorkshire Building Society (YBS)  should have given them 
advice about moving  their mortgage  from their fixed rate product. They  feel theyve been 
overpaying for a considerable amount of time.
Mrs and Mr W believe YBS should  compensate them for the extra  interest theyve been 
paying.
background
In August  2010,  Mr and Mr W applied to remortgage  to YBS.  They applied online,  and on the 
application form they applied for a fixed rate mortgage of 4.99%, fixed  until 2020.
On 3 November  2010, YBS issued a mortgage offer for £56,000.  It was for a repayment  
mortgage for 12 years. The offer set out that the interest rate until 30 November 2020  at 
4.99%, and then the standard variable rate for the rest of the term. On page 3 of the offer 
letter, there were two boxes about whether or not YBS had given  advice. The one which  was 
ticked said on page 3 Yorkshire Building Society have not recommended a particular 
mortgage for you. You must make your own choice whether to accept  this mortgage offer.
Page 6 of the offer letter  also set out early repayment charges (ERC) which  Mrs and Mr W 
would have to pay if they paid off their mortgage before 30 November 2020. There was a 
sliding scale, with five different  stages. 
Ms and Mr W went ahead  with the mortgage, and completed on 22 November 2010.
In September  2013, Mrs W sent a message to YBS. She asked if they could transfer  to 
another product. She said that due to illness, they were finding  things  very difficult  
financially. She said they were desperately trying to find a way to ease things. YBS replied  
that they should phone, because  messages werent  secure. 
Mrs W rang YBS on 25 September. The call handler said that the information would be on a 
non-advised basis and if Mrs W wanted  advice, it would need  to be at a branch. He told 
Mrs W that the outstanding balance on their mortgage was £46,160, and that if they changed 
product, theyd have  to pay a £3,231 fee which theyd have to pay up-front. He said that the 
lowest rate YBS had available for them was 2.69%. If Mrs and Mr W changed to this product, 
theyd save £24 a month  on their payment.  But on the figures, the ERC  would outweigh this 
saving. 
Mrs W rang YBS again on 8 August 2017. The call handler again said that the information 
would be on a non-advised basis and if Mrs W wanted advice, shed need to use a branch. 
By then, there were just over three years left on the fixed rate part of the mortgage and the 
call handler said that a 3 year fixed rate would  be 1.84%. The current  balance  was £28,842 
and the ERC  if Mrs and Mr W were to change  product would be £1,155. The call handler  told 
Mrs W that the saving would be £285.  This was over the three years which  remained  of the 
ten year fixed term. Mrs W said that wasnt worth the paperwork.
In April 2018, Mrs and Mr W complained to YBS. YBS replied  that when Mrs W had phoned 
in 2013 and 2017, there would only have been a maximum saving of around £25, so Mrs 
and Mr W had decided not to go ahead. Mrs W had also complained that she felt the 10 year 
product they took out in 2010 wasnt a good or fair deal, and they could have saved a lot of 
Ref: DRN59740122money by going  elsewhere. YBS said that when they took out the mortgage, the offer made  
it clear that it was on a non-advised basis. 
Mrs and Mr W werent satisfied and complained  to this service.
The adjudicator looked at the calls which Mrs W had made in 2013  and 2017. She explained  
to Mrs and Mr W that this service couldnt look at what had happened in 2010 when they 
took out the mortgage. There are rules  about time limits, so we couldnt look as far back as 
2010. But the adjudicator  did note that Mrs and Mr W had taken out the 2010  deal on a 
non-advised basis.
Looking at the 2013 and 2017 phone calls,  the adjudicator didnt think  YBS had acted 
wrongly. She considered that the call handler had given Mrs W enough information to make  
an informed decision.  And YBS only had to look at its own product range, not the whole 
market, because it was acting on a non-advised  basis.
Mrs and Mr W were still unhappy. Mrs W said shed told YBS they were  struggling because 
Mr W was ill. She said she didnt know  what rate they did their calculations  on, but many  
people had told her that if shed  looked around, shed probably  have been  paying half what 
she did pay. YBS had never explained  that, and should have  done.  Mrs W said she 
remembered telling her husband that if they changed to another  rate, they wouldnt be 
saving much money. At the time shed assumed the rates quoted would be competitive, but 
clearly they werent.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint,  including listening to the recordings of the 
phone calls in 2013 and 2017.
I sympathise with Mrs and Mr W that the ten year fixed rate which  they took out in 2010 
turned out wit hindsight  to be more expensive than theyd have paid if they hadnt fixed the 
rate  because interest rates have fallen significantly since then. But my job is to look at 
whether YBS did anything wrong.
As the adjudicator explained,  I cant look at the original 2010  deal,  because  were bound  by 
time limits. And Mrs and Mr W didnt bring their complaint  about  2010 to us within  those time 
limits. But I can look at Mrs Ws calls to YBS in 2013  and 2017.
In both calls, YBS told Mrs W that it wasnt offering advice. This means that although YBS 
had to provide  accurate answers to Mrs Ws questions about rates, it didnt have to do more 
and advise Mrs and Mr W about what they should  do. Nor did it have to provide other 
options  for example tell them what other lenders might offer.
Mrs and Mr Ws mortgage offer sets out the rules  for the mortgage. This includes what  Mrs 
and Mr W would have to pay, as an ERC, if they wanted to get out of their fixed rate before 
the end of the ten years. 
This ERC is on a sliding scale,  and sets out that Mrs and Mr W would have to pay
-7% of the outstanding balance before the end of November 2013, reducing to
-6% of the outstanding balance before the end of November 2015, reducing to
-4% of the outstanding balance before the end of November 2017, reducing to
Ref: DRN59740123-2% of the outstanding balance before the end of November 2019, reducing to 
-1% of the outstanding balance before the end of November 2020.
So it gets much cheaper to get out of the rate, as time goes on. This is for two reasons. First, 
the actual percentage goes down, as Ive set out above. Secondly,  the mortgage is 
repayment, so the outstanding balance on which the ERC is calculated gets lower, too.
When Mrs W first rang YBS in 2013,  at that point the percentage theyd have to pay was still 
7%. And their outstanding  balance was £46,160.  Ive checked the ERC quoted  by the call 
handler, and its accurate  that it would have  been £3,231. The call handler  told Mrs W that 
the lowest available rate they could swap to would  be 2.69%, and that this would save  them  
£24 a month in monthly repayment.  Such calculations are complex  computer calculations,  
and I cant check them. But, assuming the lower  rate would indeed save them  £24 a month, 
what theyd save would  be outweighed by the £3,231 charge.
The mortgage situation had changed by the time Mrs W rang again in August 2017. By then, 
the ERC  had reduced to 4% of the outstanding balance. And Mrs and Mr Ws outstanding 
balance had reduced too, to £28,842.  This meant  the ERC would be £1,155.  Ive checked 
this figure  and its accurate on the balance  stated. The call handler  said Mrs and Mr W could 
go to a 3 year fixed rate product at 1.84%. The computer calculations for this meant theyd  
pay £1,440 less in monthly  repayments over the rest of the product term  but theyd have 
had to pay the £1,155  ERC. So theyd only save £285. Mrs W told the call handler that this 
saving wouldnt be worth the paperwork.
I dont know whether other lenders  might  have had cheaper products at either of these 
times, which theyd have been willing  to offer Mrs and Mr W. Theyd have needed  advice 
about this, depending on their own particular  circumstances. But the point is that YBS wasnt 
obliged to tell Mrs W about  other  products either, because  it was a non-advised call.
I do appreciate that Mrs and Mr W feel that YBS should have spelled out to them  that non-
advised meant YBS was only going  to give them information about its own products, and 
that they might get better rates from another  lender.  But as the phone recordings clearly  
show that on both occasions the YBS call handler  said that the call was non-advised, its not 
open to me to say that YBS should have done more.
Similarly, when Mrs W rang the second time in August  2017,  she and Mr W were  only three 
months away from the next significant drop in the ERC. As Ive set out above, the mortgage 
offer shows  that after the end of November  2017,  the ERC percentage dropped from 4% to 
2%. So the figures would have been  different just a few months  later. It feels  harsh  that YBS 
wasnt required to point  this out to Mrs W during that call. But YBS wasnt  required to do that, 
and Mrs and Mr W would  have had a copy of their own mortgage  offer.  Indeed if the call 
handler had mentioned this, he might then have  been accused of giving  advice (wait three 
months) when it was specifically set up as a non-advised call.
So I do sympathise  with Mrs and Mr Ws situation.  They couldnt have known, when they 
took a 10 year fixed rate product in 2010,  that interest rates would drop in the way they did. 
But YBS was entitled to charge the ERCs set out in the mortgage  offer.  And it wasnt 
required to do more  than it did, in the two non-advised phone  calls in 2013 and 2017. As it 
didnt make any errors, I cant uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN59740124my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs and Mr W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  4 March 2019.
Belinda Knight
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5974012