K820x#14complaint
Mrs R and Mr M complain  that HSBC UK Bank  Plc closed their account. They say this 
caused them  trouble and upset and they want HSBC to pay them compensation.
background
Mrs R and Mr M had a joint account with HSBC.  
In May 2019, HSBC  wrote to Mrs R and Mr M to let them know that due to their conduct in 
branch it had decided to close  their account. HSBC  gave them 60 days  notice and told them 
that they needed to make  alternative banking arrangements.
Mrs R and Mr M say they have been very upset by HSBCs decision to close  their account 
and that theyve been put to a great  deal of inconvenience  trying to sort out a new bank 
account. Theyve said because of HSBCs  actions they had to return  to the UK from 
overseas to try and sort out a new bank account, and had to stay in a hotel. Mrs R says 
HSBC should  cover the costs she incurred for the hotel. Mrs R has explained that both she 
and Mr M have health problems and that HSBCs actions have made them  very feel unwell. 
Mrs R has also said that she feels HSBC have  discriminated against  her and Mr M on the 
grounds of their religion.  And that is the real reason HSBC closed their account. She wants 
HSBC to pay £5,000 compensation for the distress  and inconvenience caused  by the 
closure of their account.
Our investigator didnt  uphold Mrs R and Mr Ms complaint. She was satisfied HSBC had 
acted fairly  and in line with the terms and conditions of the account.  Mrs R disagreed. Shes 
still upset that HSBC closed the account. She says HSBC has discriminated against them 
and treated her and Mr M unfairly.  As no agreement could be reached the complaint has 
come to me to decide.
findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand why Mrs R and Mr M are upset. Im sorry this experience has made them 
feel unwell. And that this has been a stressful situation. I can also appreciate why Mrs R and 
Mr M are unhappy with HSBCs decision and that the impact  this had on them  may have 
been greater due to their health conditions. But for me to uphold their complaint  I have to 
think the bank  has done something wrong. And in this case, I dont think  it has. I will explain 
why. 
HSBC has provided  evidence to show that theyd decided to close Mr Ms accounts due to 
his racist  conduct towards staff at a branch on more than one occasion.  
HSBCs terms  and conditions, under section 27, say that they can close an account when 
the customer has acted  abusively,  offensively or violently towards staff.  Ive looked  at the 
information HSBC  has provided our service and having done so, Im satisfied that Mr Ms 
behaviour was abusive at times  when  he visited a branch on three  separate occasions. 
Ref: DRN58505582I appreciate that Mrs R has explained, that Mr Ms behaviour could be linked to his learning 
difficulties. But while Id expect HSBC to make reasonable adjustments  for customers, I dont 
think this removes their responsibility to protect the welfare  of their staff.  Based  on the 
information Ive looked at, I consider  Mr Ms behaviour  to be improper at times,  it follows  that 
I think HSBC has acted  fairly, and in line with the terms and conditions,  when deciding to 
close the account. 
I acknowledge that Mrs R and Mr M have said that the bank is discriminating against  them  
on the grounds of their religion. And believe  that this is this is the rationale for the account 
closure. Whilst I recognise the strength of their feelings, Ive not seen any evidence  to show 
any discrimination on the part of HSBC.
I also understand Mrs R has raised  concerns about  the service  she received from HSBC.  
Although I appreciate her dissatisfaction with whats happened Ive not seen anything  to 
show HSBC has acted  inappropriately.
In summary,  I appreciate  that my decision will come as a great  frustration and 
disappointment to Mrs R and Mr M. But overall,  having looked at whats  happened here 
I dont think HSBC treated  Mrs R and Mr M unfairly  when it closed their account. So for this 
reason I wont be asking HSBC to pay Mrs R and Mr M compensation for any trouble and 
upset theyve been caused.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  17 November  2019.
Sharon Kerrison
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5850558