K820x#14complaint
Mr F has complained about the way U K Insurance Limited handled a claim he made under 
his car insurance policy.
background
In September  2018 Mr F told his insurer UKI that another driver hit his car at a petrol station. 
The other driver wasnt insured. Mr F asked UKI to obtain CCTV footage of the incident from 
the petrol station  supermarket.  UKI settled Mr Fs claim by paying a total loss settlement to 
the car finance  company.
Mr F complained that UKI gave him incorrect information about how long he could have a 
hire car for. He said UKI initially  agreed  to consider his Personal  Injury (PI) claim  but 
changed its mind when it realised it couldnt obtain  CCTV footage. He said this failure 
prevented him from being able to make  a PI claim through  an independent solicitor. Mr F 
said UKI gave him differing information about  how the claim would be recorded.
UKI agreed  it had failed  to request the footage in time and had given Mr F incorrect  
information about how long he could use a hire car. In recognition of its failings, UKI applied  
its uninsured driver promise  benefit.  So it said once it recovered  the costs  from the third 
party, it would record the claim  as a non fault incident and allow Mr Fs NCB so that it 
wasnt affected. Mr F didnt owe the excess.
UKI paid Mr F £200 compensation  for the distress and inconvenience it caused him. 
Our investigator thought overall UKI had done enough to put things right.  
Mr F didnt  agree. So hed like an ombudsman to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont intend to uphold 
it. Ill explain why. 
I think UKI made  some mistakes in the handling of Mr Fs claim. When things go wrong, we 
look at what an insurer did to put things right  and whether this is reasonable in line with the 
policy. 
By the time UKI contacted the petrol  station  supermarket, the footage had been deleted.  
Mr F said that UKI initially  considered his PI claim  but once it realised it couldnt  obtain the 
CCTV footage, it changed  its decision.  Mr F said he then instructed an independent  solicitor  
to pursue his PI claim for him. But they couldnt because they didnt have the CCTV footage.  
He said hes been  told UKI had a legal obligation  to obtain it  and that as the insurer it 
would only be released to them. Mr F therefore believes UKIs failing here is significant as it 
has prevented him from being able to pursue a PI claim. 
From the timeline, Mr F had instructed his own solicitor before UKI was aware  of a problem 
in obtaining the CCTV footage. The investigator  asked Mr F to provide anything to support 
his view that UKI had a legal obligation  to  and was the only party  that could request  the 
CCTV footage. Mr F hasnt provided any further  information. 
Ref: DRN51328482From what  Ive seen, I cant safely conclude that UKI is responsible for Mr F being prevented 
from pursuing a PI claim because it didnt request the CCTV footage  in time. In terms of its 
responsibility to deal with the claim under the policy, I think  UKI did enough to put things 
right. Its pursuing the third party for the recovery of the costs of the claim.  Its recorded the 
open claim allowing  Mr Fs NCB  and its waived  the excess payment. This is in line with its 
uninsured driver promise under the policy. I think its decision to record the claim under this 
benefit in recognition of its failings was fair and reasonable. 
UKI has the details of the other driver  so its pursuing them  directly  for its costs. Even if it 
had CCTV footage to prove the other driver was at fault, the claim would be recorded in the 
same way. Because the other driver isnt insured, it means recovery  of their costs might  be 
more difficult than if it was able to settle with the other drivers insurer. 
Mr Fs policy says that if his car is written off, UKI will allow Mr F to have  use of a hire car for 
seven days after its paid the total loss settlement.  It wrote to Mr F to tell him this. However, 
a few days later Mr F called UKI for an update about  the footage. During this call, Mr F also 
asked about how long hed have a hire car for. The agent incorrectly explained that hed 
have the car for the duration of the repairs  not realising  that a total loss settlement had 
been made. 
Mr F said the differing  information meant he was inconvenienced as he was without  a hire 
car sooner than he expected. Mr F was correctly allowed use of a hire car for a week  after 
the settlement  was paid to the finance  company in line with his policy.
UKI paid Mr F £200 compensation  for its failings. I think overall this was fair and reasonable 
and in line with similar awards  we give. 
I appreciate Mr F will be disappointed with my decision. But based on what Ive seen, I think 
UKI has dealt with Mr Fs complaint reasonably. So Im not asking it to do any more.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 November  2019.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5132848