K820x#14complaint
Mr P has complained about the way Highway  Insurance Company Limited  handled his claim 
for damage  to his motorhome  whilst  abroad  under his motor policy.  
background
Mr Ps motorhome was damaged when he was abroad in continental Europe in July 2018. 
He called Highway  to report a claim and although he was promised he would be contacted,  
this didnt happen. 
So he returned back to the UK, where Highway  then processed his claim for the repair of his 
motorhome. It also acknowledged that it didnt progress his claim efficiently enough.  So it 
waived payment of Mr Ps excess, ensured the claim was recorded as a non-fault on Mr Ps 
insurance record and paid him £100 compensation. 
Mr P didnt think this was enough  and brought his complaint to us. The investigator didnt 
think Highway needed to do anything more. Mr P disagreed so his complaint has been 
passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding this 
complaint. Ill now explain  why.
I can understand how stressful it was for Mr P to find out his motorhome had been damaged. 
However, Highway  didnt cause this damage,  another party  did. So Highway isnt 
responsible for the fact that Mr Ps motorhome was damaged  when he was abroad. And 
neither is Highway responsible for the fact that the person  or entity  that damaged his 
motorhome also denied being  responsible. And neither is Highway responsible  for the fact 
that Mr P was away when  his daughter  was expecting her baby and had some problems, 
which thankfully seem  fully resolved now.
Its very frustrating and distressing for all this to have happened to Mr P but Highway merely 
insured his motorhome and nothing more.  
Highway has admitted its service to Mr P at the time he reported the damage and wanted to 
make a claim in July 2018 wasnt good  enough. It didnt set up his claim properly until 8 
August. That in turn delayed the repair of Mr Ps motorhome  and impeded  Highways  ability 
to get the party who did damage  his motorhome to refund it the repair costs it paid to Mr P. It 
also admits it didnt  return Mr Ps calls at the time and generally  made  things more  difficult  
for him.
So when something goes wrong  like this, my role and the role of this service is to see 
whether Highway did enough  to put things right. I think it did. Ill explain why.
Highways duties towards Mr P were to deal with his claim efficiently and get the party  who 
damaged his motorhome to accept liability for causing the damage. Had it been 
unsuccessful in getting the other party to accept liability, (assuming it set up his claim when it 
should have) Mr P would have been left with a fault claim on his insurance record and would 
have had to pay his excess.
Ref: DRN58344792But because Highway  didnt  set up his claim correctly or efficiently,  it then ensured  it put 
things right for Mr P in the following way.
First, it paid for the costs  of Mr Ps repair, as it should have done. Secondly,  despite not 
being able to get the party responsible for causing  the damage  to refund Highway these 
repair costs, Highway ensured the claim  was logged on Mr Ps insurance as non-fault.  This 
means going forward Mr P wasnt penalised  for having a fault claim on his insurance record  
given the party responsible for causing  the damage didnt pay back  Highway. It also said Mr 
P didnt  have to pay his excess  of £100,  which in effect meant Mr P didnt have to get that 
back himself from the party who damaged  his motorhome, as the excess payment isnt 
insured under any motor policy. So Mr P hasnt had to pay this when possibly he might  have  
had to. And lastly, it paid Mr P compensation of £100 for the inconvenience it caused him. 
That amount  of compensation, (effectively  £200 since he didnt have to pay his excess) is 
around the same I would have awarded  had Highway not done so. Its in line with other  
awards I have made in similar circumstances, so I consider it fair.
This is all I would have expected  Highway to do in this situation  where  it failed to log the 
claim in a timely manner.  I dont  think it matters whether or not Highway  can find the call 
recordings of the calls Mr P made  to it in July, as its clear  Highway admitted it delayed 
setting up his claim efficiently, so its already accepted responsibility for that. 
Mr P believed because  Highway didnt sort out his claim  properly that he had to return  to the 
UK to sort it out. But Mr P was going  back and forth to the UK anyway given  the damage 
occurred when Mr P left his motorhome in a parking facility  abroad in order to go home  at 
the end of June 2018.  He also said that he returned back to the UK on 8 July both to sort this 
out but crucially  for me, given the news he had received concerning  his daughter,  also as Mr 
P detailed  in his email  to Highway of 4 August  2018.
Mr P also complained that Highway called him when he specifically asked it not call to him. 
However, Ive not been able to find any evidence of that in Highways file. Its file does list 
and detail all the contact it had with him, thereby clearing showing initially,  it didnt deal with 
his claim properly, but there isnt anything to show that Mr P asked it not phone  him. 
So I consider Highway did enough to put things right for Mr P.
my final decision
So for these reasons, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 May 2020.
Rona Doyle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5834479