K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment  protection insurance (PPI) 
policy taken  out in 1994 alongside a mortgage. Ms R says 
NRAM Limited mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered  all the available evidence and arguments  to 
decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the 
sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in 
deciding Ms Rs case.
Ive decided the policy  wasnt mis-sold, and Ill explain why. 
Ms R has given us several different accounts of what  happened 
when the policy was sold to her. In her PPI questionnaire  she 
said she was advised  by the sales person to take out PPI, but 
Ive also seen that she said her sons advised  her that she 
should take out the policy.  And, in her most recent  letter to us, 
Ms R says that at the time of sale nothing was mentioned to her 
about the policy.  I appreciate that this policy was sold a long 
time ago  around 25 years ago  so Im not surprised Ms Rs 
recollection isnt very clear. But this is something I have to keep  
in mind  when  coming to a decision on what I think is more likely  
to have happened.  
Ms R says the PPI was taken  out in a meeting. Ive seen that 
Ms R took out her mortgage in a meeting,  but looking at her 
mortgage application form,  it looks like PPI wasnt selected at 
this time. And Ms R hasnt  told us what she recalls happened  
after this, nor has she been  clear  about  what happened  around 
that time. And I think its likely Ms Rs recollection of being  in 
Ref: DRN53932972branch relates to the time she took out her mortgage, but not 
necessarily the PPI. NRAM  says it thinks  Ms R took the PPI out 
via a mailshot application due to the fact that the PPI was taken  
out 3 months after Ms Rs mortgage. And as Ive not seen any 
persuasive evidence that the PPI was taken out in a branch,  
Ive also considered this sale to have been taken out via a mail 
shot application. 
NRAM has provided  a sample of a mailshot application pack 
which it says wouldve been used  around the time  and Ive 
relied on this as Ive not seen  any reason to think that this type 
of form wouldnt have been used. And I think its clear from this 
document that - while NRAM  was suggesting that this policy 
would be a useful policy  in the event of accident, sickness  or 
redundancy - the PPI was optional.  And the applicant  wouldve 
had to complete the application form and sign it for it to be 
added to their account. So in the absence of any stronger 
evidence to the contrary, I think its likely Ms R completed and 
signed a form similar to the one Ive seen. So Im satisfied that 
its more likely  than not NRAM  made it clear  that Ms R didnt 
have to take out the PPI and that she chose  to take it out  
although I can understand why she cant  remember this now.
The adjudicator assessed this case as an advised sale, and 
neither party responded to dispute this. So I have considered 
this case on the same basis. 
As an advised sale Nationwide had to check that the PPI was 
right for Ms R. And based on what Ive seen of her 
circumstances at the time, I think  that the PPI was suitable  for 
her. I say this because  she wasnt  affected by any of the 
exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover and she seems to have 
had a need for the cover.  
Ms R has told us that she had sick pay and wouldve been able 
to rely on her sons  to help her. But help from others cant be 
Ref: DRN53932973relied upon as their circumstances can also change over time. 
Upon a successful claim  the PPI wouldve paid out on top of Ms 
Rs sick pay, so these funds could been used for other 
expenses. And as the mortgage  is likely to have been Ms Rs 
most significant financial commitment at the time, having the 
PPI policy wouldve provided her with some additional security 
had she suddenly been  unable  to work. And so I still think  the 
policy was suitable for her. 
Its possible the information NRAM gave Ms R about the PPI 
wasnt as clear as it shouldve been. But she chose to take it 
out - so it looks  like she wanted  this type of cover. And it seems 
like it would have been useful for her if something went wrong. 
So I dont think  better information about the PPI would have  put 
her off taking out the cover. 
This means NRAM doesnt have  to pay back all of the cost of 
the PPI to Ms R. But NRAM  will pay back some of the cost of 
the PPI to Ms R because:  
NRAM got a high level of commission and profit share  (more 
than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Ms R 
about that. Because NRAM  didnt tell Ms R, that was unfair. 
To put that right,  NRAM has basically offered to pay back the 
amount of commission and profit  share that was above 50% 
of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this case.
what the business needs  to do
NRAM has to pay back to Ms R any commission  and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
NRAM should  also pay back to Ms R any extra interest she 
paid because of that.
Ref: DRN53932974NRAM should  pay back to Ms R the extra she paid each month  
because the commission  and profit  share it got was more  than 
50% of the cost of PPI. NRAM should also pay Ms R 8%* 
simple interest on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Ms R 
can claim back  the tax if she doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so NRAM Limited  does not 
have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Ms R.
But NRAM Limited does have  to pay back to Ms R any 
commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of 
the PPI premium. 
Under the rules of the Financial  Ombudsman Service, I am 
required to ask Ms R to accept or reject my decision before 
20 March 2019.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5393297