K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a regular premium  payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken 
out in 2003 when Mrs R took out a credit card by post with Bank of Scotland plc (BOS). 
Mrs R says BOS  mis-sold her the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Rs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
 I think BOS  made it clear that Mrs R didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose to 
take it out. She was given the option  to either select PPI or not on the credit agreement 
and I can see that she selected  to take it by signing separately in the section to take 
PPI. So I think  she wouldve  understood she didnt  have  to take the PPI - although I 
can understand why she cant remember this.
 BOS didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs R as it was sold by post with no staff 
involvement, so it didnt have to check that the PPI was right for her. But even if it was 
recommended - based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time - I think that 
the policy was suitable. For example she wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to or 
limits on the PPI cover and a successful claim on the policy wouldve paid out on top of 
any work benefits or savings  and for potentially  longer covering her credit card 
repayments if she couldnt work due to accident or sickness or lost her job.  
 Its possible the information BOS gave Mrs R about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But she chose  to take it out - so it looks  like she wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems  like it would  have been useful for her if something went wrong. It 
also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would 
have put her off taking out the cover. 
Which means BOS doesnt  have to pay back the cost of the PPI to Mrs R.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I do not uphold Mrs Rs complaint against  BOS Bank PLC.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 March  2019.
Caroline Davies
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5513806