K820x#14complaint
Mr As complaint against Barclays  Bank  UK PLC is about the decision to charge fees on his 
investment account.
background
Mr A had an investment  account with Barclays for some years.  In 2015 Barclays wrote to 
Mr A to say that accounts like his would be moved across to a new service at the end of the 
year. Mr A was given  three  options   agree to the move, ask Barclays  to sell his investments  
and close his account, or transfer to another provider.
Barclays also told Mr A that he wouldnt be charged  a customer  fee for the first year of the 
new service. During that time, the services available to Mr A would be limited and he 
wouldnt be able to manage his investments online. 
Mr A opted  to transfer to the new Barclays service,  and his account moved across at the 
end of 2015. 
It took longer  than expected for Mr As account  to be given all the planned services, 
including online access. Barclays  therefore told Mr A that hed continue to pay no customer 
fees until things  were resolved. 
In April 2019, Barclays wrote to Mr A to let him know hed have full access  to his account 
services from June  2019. Barclays said theyd therefore begin charging him the monthly 
customer fee from that point, with the first fee due to be collected  in July 2019.  
Mr A complained that was unfair as he had a long-term arrangement not to pay fees. He said 
that when Barclays  last tried to charge,  hed complained, and they continued to waive  the fees.
Mr A told Barclays he wanted to transfer  his investments elsewhere. But he wasnt happy with 
the amount of time Barclays said it would take to transfer his account  to another provider.
Our investigator looked into what had happened but didnt  think  Barclays  had done  anything 
wrong. Mr A disagrees and has asked for an ombudsman to make  a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive seen a copy  of the letter Barclays sent to Mr A in 2015. Barclays  explained that Mr As 
account would be moving to a new service. They said he could  agree  to the move,  sell his 
investments or transfer to another provider.  The letter also said that Mr A wouldnt be 
charged any customer fees for the first year of the new service. 
When Mr As account moved  across  there  were  limitations on the services available to him, 
and he was unable  to manage his investments online.  It took Barclays  longer than they 
expected to give Mr A access to the full range of services. Barclays  told Mr A theyd continue 
not to charge customer fees until things changed.  
Ref: DRN55305492Barclays wrote to Mr A in April 2019 to say hed have access  to the full range of services 
from June 2019,  so hed be charged customer fees from that point. The letter  from Barclays  
said that if Mr A was unhappy, he could transfer  his investments to another provider.  If Mr A 
told Barclays he wanted to do so by 1 June,  he wouldnt be charged any transfer fees.
Based on what Ive seen,  I think Barclays gave Mr A clear information  about the changes to 
his account. I think  it was fair for Barclays to charge  no customer fees for the extended 
period when Mr A didnt  have access to the full range of account services.  But once that 
changed, Barclays gave  Mr A notice that they would  start charging  fees.  
Mr A said Barclays  had waived his fees because he complained before. But from what Ive 
seen, Mr A wasnt  charged fees because Barclays were unable  to provide him with a full 
service. And Barclays treated Mr A in the same way as other  customers with similar accounts. 
Mr A has also said that the original  contract  he signed with Barclays didnt include any 
charges. Mr A opened  his initial account some  years ago, and it seems  the detailed  terms 
and conditions are no longer  available. 
But Barclays  have said that accounts  like Mr As would have had some charges.  And its 
likely that the terms of Mr As account would have allowed Barclays to make changes  if they 
gave sufficient notice.  So I dont think Ive got enough evidence  to say that Barclays did 
anything wrong  by making the changes they did to Mr As account.  
Mr A also complained about the transfer  of his account to a different provider. Mr A called 
Barclays in mid-May  to tell them he wanted to move  to a new provider and was unhappy with 
what they said about how long the transfer would take.   
I can see that Barclays wrote to Mr A on 30 May to say theyd started  the process of moving 
his investments. Barclays have said that the transfer  was completed on 19 June, and that 
Mr A wasnt  charged any fees for the transfer.  
It will usually take a little time for investments to be moved from one provider to another.  In 
this case, the transfer of Mr As investments  took just over a month.  And based on what  Ive 
seen, I dont think Barclays have  caused unnecessary delay.  
I realise this wont be the decision Mr A was hoping for, but I wont  be upholding his complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr As complaint 
against Barclays Bank UK PLC.
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 December  2019.
Matthew Young
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5530549