K820x#14complaint
Mr W is unhappy with the way Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) handled 
two car insurance claims.
background
Mr W had car insurance with LV and in September 2017 a named driver on his policy  was 
involved in an incident which  damaged  his car. Mr W felt the local council ought to take 
responsibility for the incident, because he didnt  believe there to be adequate warnings in 
place for the protruding  kerb, which led to the incident.
LV did not agree,  it felt that because the kerb was both stationary and visible  there would be 
no prospect of success in pursuing recovery from the council.
Mr W was then involved in an incident  with another vehicle, in March 2018. In this one, he 
believed the driver of the other vehicle should  be found liable. Mr W says the other driver 
was speeding,  failed to take account  of road signs and that he was on his mobile phone.
LV initially  pursued  the other  drivers insurer, based  on Mr Ws account.  But that was 
unsuccessful and when  it was passed to their solicitors for review, they felt there was no 
prospect of success.  LV explained to Mr W that without further  evidence  or independent 
witnesses it can be difficult to hold either  party entirely responsible.
Mr W thinks this is unfair. He points out that the policy terms and conditions refer to 
defending him where there  is a reasonable chance of success  with that being 51% or 
better. Mr W believes the claims in this case  had such prospects.
Mr W also believes there to be a fundamental unfairness in LV being able to decide  the 
outcome of a claim. He says the fact that premiums increase as a result of claims,  including  
loss of no claim discount (NCD) means it is too tempting for LV to simply settle  the claim, as 
the increase in premium goes towards offsetting  the cost of it.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It may be helpful to explain  that in cases like this, where a consumer  contests liability, were 
limited in what we can do. Its not our role to assess liability ourselves, rather we will 
consider whether the insurer handled the claim(s) appropriately. In general, insurers  will be 
entitled to settle  claims as they see fit  provided  they do so reasonably. Mr Ws policy says:
Were entitled to:
Have total control to conduct, defend and settle any claim
In this case I think LV handled Mr Ws claims appropriately, Ill explain why.
The September 2017 incident involved the named driver hitting  a kerb and losing control of 
the car. In ordinary  circumstances that would  always be deemed to be the drivers fault.  But 
in this case Mr W considers the local council to have failed to warn  road users  of what he 
describes as an unusual prominent  (sticky-out) kerb. Mr W pointed out that other  warnings 
Ref: DRN55767442do exist, and he believes theres a need  for one there too. LV considered  Mr Ws suggestion  
that the council should  be found liable.
But LV concluded that as the kerb was stationary and visible it wouldnt be able to pursue 
the council  as theyd  be able to defend the matter as driver error. I believe  LV gave 
appropriate consideration to the evidence presented by Mr W, and on doing so concluded  
there was no reasonable chance  of success. So, whilst I understand Mr Ws unhappiness,  I 
do not believe LVs conclusion to be unfair.
The March  2018  incident involved another driver. LV initially  attempted to hold the other 
driver responsible. But those attempts were unsuccessful as the other drivers insurer felt
Mr W was at fault. Because of this, it was passed  to LVs solicitors.  Upon  the solicitors  
review it was deemed that there  was no prospect  of success in pursuing the other  driver.
As with the earlier claim I believe LV handled this one appropriately too. The fact it went as 
far as referring it to solicitors, who I believe are better placed to assess liability,  shows  to me 
that the matter  was dealt with fairly. I can understand why Mr W considers the other  driver to 
be at fault, given his explanation of what happened. But as LV have explained, in a case  
where theres two drivers involved with no witnesses or dash cam footage, its difficult to say 
who is responsible.
Thats especially true where it happens  at a road junction, as in this case, because  it cant be 
said with certainty who had right of way or who was carrying out the manoeuvre  correctly. 
So, without any independent  evidence I dont think its fair to say LV shouldve done  any 
more for Mr W, even  though I understand how frustrating that can be.
It may be helpful at this point to explain that insurers generally classify  claims as fault or non-
fault, although those terms dont necessarily  give the full picture.  In both of Mr Ws claims I 
think its likely there would always have  been an element of fault, i.e. it may be difficult  to find 
the council or other driver entirely at fault.  Claims only tend to be classified as non-fault if a 
third party is found  to be entirely  at fault and a full recovery is made. So even if LV had been 
able to make  a partial recovery from a third party the claims would still be classified  as fault.
Ive considered Mr Ws concerns about  premiums increasing as a result of the claims and his 
loss of NCD. But given  that I feel the claims were handled appropriately, thats a natural 
consequence  and is usual across the industry. And I dont agree that insurers having the 
choice on settling a claim,  rather than pursuing  a third party, means  theyll be more  willing  to 
do the former.
By settling  a claim the insurer  has an outlay, which Im sure they would rather  avoid. And 
theres no guarantee theyll  keep their customer so it would be remiss of them  to assume 
they can recoup  their outlay from increased premiums further down the line. In view of this I 
dont think the way it works is fundamentally unfair  or unjust.
In any event, I note that LV decided to refund some of the increase in premiums because 
they had initially  rated  Mr Ws second  claim as being non-fault. When  they realised this and 
amended it to fault, as per the solicitors view on liability, an increase of £281.84  was charged 
to Mr W. On reflection, LV felt this was unfair  to have  charged so refunded it. I think that was 
the right thing to do in this case and would likely have required LV to do so if it hadnt 
already.my final decision
Ref: DRN55767443It is my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 March  2020.
Will Weston
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5576744