K822xcomplaint
Ms N complains that Pension  Insurance Corporation plc (PIC) unfairly reduced by 
£156,433 the residual  value of her preserved  pension after it had completed  a partial transfer  
of her benefits to another pension plan. She also complains that PIC treated her unfairly 
after she complained  about the reduction.
 
background to this complaint 
Ms N had a deferred  annuity contract  with PIC that guaranteed to provide a secured pension 
from age 60. Before age 60 she was entitled to transfer some or all of the value of her 
preserved pension  to another pension plan to enable  her to access benefits earlier and in a 
different format. Ms N has Enhanced Protection against the lifetime allowance.  
Ms Ns financial  adviser contacted PIC to request  the transfer  value of her preserved 
pension. In response, PIC provided  three  quotes,  as follows:
Date of quote Transfer value 
13 January 2017 £2,250,294
22 September 2017 £2,462,259
25 October 2017 £2,491,146
Ms N says that, based on the quote  of 25 October 2017, she instructed PIC to partially  
transfer £1,996,185 to another pension plan. Her adviser told PIC that it was essential this 
specific amount be transferred to retain Ms Ns Enhanced Protection. The advisers intention 
was for the residual  value in excess of £1,996,185 to remain with PIC to provide Ms N a 
lower, secured pension  from age 60.
In February 2018,  following completion  of the partial  transfer, PIC sent updated policy  
information to Ms N. This showed that the partial transfer of £1,996,185  had been deducted 
from a total transfer  value  of £2,334,713 rather than £2,491,146. Ms N was unhappy  with 
this because she had decided to partially  transfer  based on a total transfer value of 
£2,491,146. She thought  she had suffered  a financial  loss on the difference of £156,433, 
resulting in her residual  preserved pension from age 60 being £3,128 per year less than she 
was expecting. So she complained to PIC.
There was a delay  in PIC providing its final response. PIC eventually  upheld  this complaint. 
It said that, due to an administrative error, the quote of 25 October 2017 was incorrect. It 
apologised for not telling her about  the error  sooner. But it thought Ms N was in the correct 
financial position regardless. To compensate her for the error and poor level of service  
provided, it initially offered  her a £50 gift card. It later increased this to a cash  offer of £1,500. 
Ms N was dissatisfied with PICs response. She said the cash offer of £1,500  neither  
compensated her for the £156,433 reduction  in the value  of her residual preserved pension  
nor reflected  the time spent in trying to resolve this complaint.  She said she had made her 
decision to partially  transfer based on the quote  of 25 October  2017. So to put things right, 
she requested that PIC honour the quote of £2,491,146 and recalculate her preserved 
pension based  on a higher residual value.
Our investigator recommended that this complaint be upheld but not on the basis requested 
by Ms N. This was because PIC had provided  evidence that the quote  of £2,491,146  was 
incorrect due to an administrative  error. He was satisfied that the correct transfer value quote 
Ref: DRN59360802on 25 October 2017 was £2,334,713 based on evidence provided by PICs actuary. Our 
investigator told Ms N that the aim of this service is to place consumers  as close  to the 
position they would have  otherwise been in had the error not occurred. In Ms Ns case, he 
concluded that had the correct transfer  value been  quoted, it was more  likely than not that 
she would  have made the same decision to partially transfer £1,996,185 due to her objective 
of retaining her Enhanced Protection. He was satisfied that PICs cash offer of £1,500 
adequately compensated  Ms N for the administrative error and poor level of service 
provided. 
Since Ms N didnt accept  our investigators opinion, this complaint has been  referred to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Were PICs transfer value quotes  guaranteed?
Throughout this complaint,  Ms N has repeatedly made the point  that, in her opinion, the 
fundamental issue is that the transfer  value quotes provided by PIC were guaranteed, as 
stated by the Pensions Regulator, and so she is therefore entitled  to the transfer value  of 
£2,491,146 upon which she decided  to partially  transfer. Ms Ns understanding of the 
situation is incorrect. Ill explain why.
Her preserved pension with PIC is a deferred annuity contract. This is not an occupational 
pension scheme. Her deferred annuity contract  was established in 2015 after the trustees  of 
her former employers defined benefit scheme entered  into an insurance  buy-in transaction 
with PIC. For transfer purposes,  the value of her deferred annuity  contract  fluctuates  on a 
daily basis; the only guaranteed element is the level of secured income payable  from age 60. 
PIC confirmed the fluctuating nature of the transfer  value to Ms N in the quotes and cover 
letters it sent to her. PIC clearly and repeatedly stated that the figures  quoted werent 
guaranteed. Each quote sent to Ms N stated the following in separate  sections:
The transfer value is not guaranteed and the final payment will be based on market  
conditions at the time the transfer is paid. The final transfer value may be higher  or 
lower than the figure above.
The transfer value below is not guaranteed. The amount to be transferred  may 
change (be higher  or lower) as transfer  values  are not guaranteed  and are 
recalculated before they are paid
 I understand that the amount transferred may be higher or lower  as transfer values 
are not guaranteed and are recalculated before  being paid.   
Based on the evidence,  Im satisfied that Ms N was placed into an informed position from the 
outset regarding the fluctuating nature of the transfer values  and ought  to have understood 
that the figures quoted  werent guaranteed. I havent seen any evidence  that PIC misled                
Ms N to believe  the quotes were guaranteed.
Incorrect transfer value quote 
Ref: DRN59360803In my opinion, Ms N has suffered a loss of expectation and not an actual financial loss. Ill 
explain why.
Its not in dispute  that the transfer value quote  of £2,491,146 was incorrect due to certain  
elements within  the calculation  being doubled counted  which resulted in the inflated figure. 
While I have sympathy with Ms N and understand that she would have been shocked and 
upset to receive the updated policy information  that apparently showed she had suffered a 
financial loss of £156,433, she will, I hope,  agree  that she isnt entitled  to be placed into the 
inflated position. Shes only entitled to be placed into the position  had the correct  information 
been provided. 
Like our investigator,  Im satisfied that the correct transfer value  on 25 October 2017 was 
£2,334,713. In circumstances like this, I base  my decision on what  I think the consumer most 
likely would have done had they been provided  correct information. So Ive thought about 
what decision Ms N most likely would have made had PIC sent her the correct quote  of 
£2,334,713. 
I note that Ms N decided  to partially transfer  a specific  amount of £1,996,185 in order  to 
retain her Enhanced Protection  against  the lifetime  allowance. The lifetime allowance  is the 
limit on the amount of pension benefit that can be drawn from a pension plan without 
triggering an extra tax charge known as the lifetime allowance  charge. So it seems that                
Ms N, on the advice of her adviser,  requested to partially transfer £1,996,185 to avoid a 
lifetime allowance  charge.  This is a key point.  Given this fact, Ive concluded that had the 
correct quote  been  provided to Ms N, its more  likely  than not she would have made  the 
same decision  to partially transfer £1,996,185 due to the lifetime allowance  issue. On 
balance, Im not persuaded that she would have made any other decision. On that basis,  Ive 
concluded that shes in the correct financial position and has suffered a loss of expectation. 
Level of service provided by PIC
This service isnt responsible for punishing  businesses in respect of any regulatory breaches 
since that is the role of the regulator,  the Financial Conduct Authority.  But we can award 
compensation where businesses provide a poor level of service.
Its not in dispute  that PIC provided  a poor level of service to Ms N. It failed to tell her about 
the incorrect quote in a timely manner and deal with her complaint in accordance with the 
time limits specified in the regulators rules. Based on what Ive seen, I would have been 
minded to direct PIC to pay compensation to Ms N to reflect the poor level of service  
provided. However, in this case,  PIC has already offered £1,500 compensation to Ms N. I 
think this is a fair offer in the circumstances and adequately compensates her for the loss of 
expectation and poor level of service.
Ref: DRN59360804my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Ms Ns complaint. If Pension  Insurance  Corporation plc 
hasnt done so already, I direct it to pay Ms N £1,500 compensation in line with its previous  
offer.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 February  2020.
Clint Penfold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5936080