K820x#14complaint
Mr Ts complaint against TSB Bank plc (TSB) is that it wont  refund him for payments made  
from his account  which  he says are duplicates. 
background
Mr T had two payment  plans for his phone.  One for the handset, and another for his airtime 
contract. In 2018 he made payments to these from his TSB account using a debit card. 
In February 2019  he complained to TSB, initially saying hed not made these payments, and 
that he wanted a refund. So TSB re-debited them until it found out what had happened. On 
investigation it was found, and Mr T admitted,  that he had made the payments himself.
Due to this, TSB took the payments back out of his account. Mr T asked for his account to 
be closed. TSB notified him that it would be in 60 days, as per its terms and conditions.  It 
also advised him that it believed he had made fraudulent claims previously about payments 
to the same  providers, hence the account  would be closed in any event.
There was a balance  on the account, which TSB asked Mr T to repay  before it was closed. 
As he failed  to do so, the account was eventually passed to recoveries, and a default  was 
added. 
Mr T complained to TSB.  He said the payments  out of his account had been duplicates,  as 
he had another  account with another bank from which  he also paid this provider. He asked 
TSB to mark his account as fully settled.
TSB explained that it couldnt do that. It said it had closed Mr Ts account due to what it 
believed were previous  fraudulent claims by him, and hed failed to repay his outstanding 
balance. It also didnt  think  it had made  a mistake  when it took back  the temporary refund for 
the most  recently disputed payments. 
Mr T remained unhappy, so brought his complaint to our service.  
Our Investigator  considered matters carefully,  and obtained further evidence from both 
parties. He concluded  that TSB hadnt made a mistake,  and was entitled to take back the 
money for the disputed transactions; to close the account; and to register  a default.  He noted 
that Mr T hadnt provided any evidence from his other bank account, to prove that duplicate 
payments had been made. He gave  him an additional opportunity  to send this in. 
To date, nothings been received. Although I have noted that in March this year Mr T was ill. 
Its not known if hes recovered, which I very much hope is the case. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im in agreement with our Investigator that we cant uphold this complaint. I 
say this because  I dont see where TSBs  made a mistake, or treated Mr T unfairly.  
Mr T says that TSBs refusing to refund him for payments that have been  made  in duplicate. 
He says the same payments were  made  from two separate accounts. But there  are two 
Ref: DRN56357242problems here. One is that Mr T himself made these payments  using his TSB debit card 
(and why would he do so if hed already paid using the other account?).  The second is that 
Ive seen no evidence  of there being  another account from which these same payments 
were also made. This is something that could be easily proved by statements, but Mr T 
hasnt submitted these,  nor given us the information  wed need to be able to contact his 
other bank  ourselves, which  we offered to do.
Im satisfied from the evidence that Mr T himself made the payments he now disputes; that 
they were authorised by him (which he admits); and that theres no evidence  to show  that 
the payments  were  duplicated by another account with another bank. 
We also know that the payments made  from the TSB account matched  with the payments 
due to the provider. From the records weve seen, no overpayments  were  made.  So it does 
look as though the correct  payments were made corresponding  to the sums owed. And that 
Mr Ts had the benefit for what hes paid for.
Insofar as the account closure is concerned, Im satisfied TSB was entitled to do this in 
accordance with its terms and conditions, and in any event Mr T himself  also asked that this 
be done. 
Ive seen that there was a balance due at account  closure, and that Mr T was notified  of this 
and asked to settle it. But I havent  seen that he ever did so. As such, the defaults been 
correctly applied, and reported.
For all of these reasons, I cant uphold this complaint. I havent been satisfied that TSBs 
made a mistake,  or otherwise done anything wrong.  I do appreciate  this will be a 
disappointment to Mr T. I hope Ive explained  why, on the evidence, this is the only 
conclusion I can reach thats  fair to both parties.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 August 2020.
Ashley L B More
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5635724