K820x#14complaint
Mrs Cs complaint concerns a life and critical illness policy  she took out with HSBC UK Bank 
Plc. She says she was led to believe she had to take out the policy as a condition  of some 
new mortgage borrowing. 
background
Mrs C took out an HSBC £150,000 interest-only  mortgage over a 16 year term in 2003. This 
was on a non-advised basis, but she says HSBC staff led her to believe that for the 
mortgage application to be successful she needed to also take out the life and critical illness 
policy. She says this policy wasnt needed as the mortgage was going to be used to 
purchase rental properties, which could be sold to provide financial support for her husband 
and daughter if required.
Mrs C re-mortgaged with HSBC in 2007  but retained  the policy.  Later,  in 2013, with the help 
of an independent financial adviser  (IFA) she found  an alternative policy providing the same 
cover for around a third of the cost of the existing policy. She duly informed HSBC that she 
was changing  policies. This new policy recently came to an end and Mrs C, in light of the 
current PPI mis-sale situation,  was prompted to complain that shed been mis-sold the 
insurance.
HSBC didnt uphold  the complaint. It said there was no documentary evidence to support 
Mrs C being incorrectly told that the policy was a condition of the borrowing, which HSBC 
confirmed was not the case.
Mrs C referred  the matter to this service but our investigator reached the same conclusion as 
HSBC. The investigator  noted Mrs Cs recollections  as plausible, but didnt feel there was 
sufficient other evidence to conclude that HSBC had misled Mrs C or otherwise acted 
incorrectly.
Mrs C didnt accept this. She said, in brief, that there  had been a reluctance to lend on the 
part of HSBC without  the policy and an implication  that even if she had gone elsewhere 
similar terms wouldve  been applied. She therefore  had an absolute belief that the cover was 
a requirement. 
As no agreement could be reached, the matter been  referred to me to review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive come to the same 
conclusions as the investigator and for broadly the same reasons.
I appreciate Mrs C feels very strongly  that she was misled  by HSBC in 2003 and this led to 
her taking and maintaining cover that wasnt needed for 16 years.  But looking at the 
documentation available from the time of the sale, theres nothing that supports Mrs C 
recollections. 
I appreciate it may be that the information that led to her to believe she had to take out the 
cover was provided to her entire  verbally, in meetings with HSBC. But I nevertheless  dont 
Ref: DRN58948162think it would  be reasonable to make  a finding against  HSBS based solely on those 
recollections. 
Im conscious too that the life and critical illness wasnt  for the same  amount of the 
borrowing, which could have prompted  Mrs C to question, perhaps at a later date when she 
remortgaged, whether  the cover  had been, or was still, a condition. And Mrs C has 
confirmed that her IFA told her in 2013,  when the replacement policy was sourced for her, 
that cover  was not a condition of her borrowing and the cover  could be cancelled. But she 
maintained it regardless,  because  she has been  so persuaded by HSBCs initial sale.
I accept that the letter  Mrs C wrote to HSBC in August 2013 to explain that she was 
changing policies  does imply an understanding on her part that HSBC required details of her 
cover and for it to be ongoing. But I nevertheless dont feel theres  sufficient evidence  to 
conclude that Mrs Cs misunderstanding of what cover was required was the fault of HSBC.
Mrs C has explained that her and her husbands financial circumstances were such  at the 
time that there wouldve  been no need  or benefit to having the cover.  But given her husband 
was in his late 60s and they had daughter  under the age of 18, I dont think it was 
unreasonable to take out some additional  cover, particularly the critical illness  element, 
despite having the safety net of being  able to sell one or more of their properties.
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 December  2019.
James Harris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5894816