K820x#14complaint
Mr G is unhappy with the service hes received from Monzo Bank Ltd when  he made a 
chargeback.  
background
Mr G asked Monzo to raise a dispute  about a card transaction hed made. Monzo  raised the 
dispute and refunded the money to Mr Gs account.  The dispute was investigated  and not 
upheld. So Monzo told Mr G they would be debiting the money from his account. 
Mr G said he wasnt told the refund was temporary  and hes unhappy with how his concerns 
were handled.  Hes particularly unhappy that the head of Monzos complaints team  said he 
wouldnt speak to Mr G over the phone. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened. She explained the dispute  had been  
investigated and the information  from the merchant said Mr G had visited a bar and split the 
bill. She concluded  Monzo had taken reasonable steps to support the chargeback and theyd 
informed him the credit  was temporary. She also thought the steps Monzo  had taken to 
resolve the complaint were reasonable. 
Mr G didnt agree and asked an ombudsman to look at his complaint. He explained this was 
the first time hed been  made aware  of the reasons the chargeback was refused. In 
summary, he thought  the chargeback should go to arbitration and found it bizarre that Monzo 
could decide whether  they speak to him over the phone or not. Mr G also remains  unhappy 
that Monzo suggested  that he should  consider  whether their business was right for him. So I 
need to make a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Chargeback is the process by which settlement disputes are resolved between card issuers  
and merchants under the relevant card scheme.  Banks dont have to raise chargebacks   
they arent a right. However, its good  practice to attempt one if theres a good  reason to. So 
I need to decide whether the approach  Monzo has taken in Mr Gs case is fair and 
reasonable. I think it is because:
Monzo raised the chargeback as requested which is what Id expect them to do. They  
received a summary back from the scheme  which indicated  the transaction related to 
the splitting of a bar tab. The notes say: During the visit at our merchant the guests 
behaviour was in that way that the merchant had to contact security. Finally  the 
guests was asked  to leave  (sic).  Mr G says he never received the drinks. He also 
disputes he was asked to leave and says CCTV will demonstrate  this wasnt the case
Its for Monzo  to then decide  if they want to pursue arbitration, not Mr G. And I think 
their decision  not to pursue it is reasonable given the circumstances that are outlined  
in the report
I think Monzo made it clear  to Mr G that the refund to his account  was temporary. 
The transcript of the online  chat shows that the advisor told Mr G, Ill raise this as a 
Ref: DRN54526422dispute and credit your account with a temporary  refund while  [scheme] investigates.  
If we require any additional information, or if the dispute is unsuccessful, well be in 
touch with next steps
The head of the complaints team also sent a message to Mr G which concluded with 
the following  statement: It is becoming clear  that were unable  to provide a service 
which you consider  to be adequate. Its clear youve experienced  distress  and 
disappointment in using your Monzo  account.  In the interests  of both parties,  Id 
encourage you to consider whether Monzos  right for you, and whether you wish to 
continue using it. This was politely worded and I dont think it was unreasonable to 
suggest to Mr G, in summary, that he may wish to consider taking his business 
elsewhere
Im satisfied  Monzo made reasonable attempts to contact Mr G over the phone. And I 
dont think it was unreasonable  for them to decide  that it wasnt  going to be 
productive to speak to Mr G about  his complaint. By that point in time theyd  issued 
their final response  letter  confirming Mr Gs right to bring his complaint to our service. 
And theyd already  attempted to contact him a number of times. Mr G says he didnt 
receive the calls but based on the available evidence Im satisfied  its most  likely they 
were attempted.   
my final decision
Im not upholding Mr Gs complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, 
Im required  to ask Mr G to accept or reject my decision before 12 April 2019.
Anna Wilshaw 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5452642