K821x#15complaint
Ms D complains that Royal & Sun Alliance  Insurance plc is responsible for mishandling her 
home emergency insurance policy.
background
In January 2015 Ms D took out a home emergency  policy. It was branded with the name of 
an insurance intermediary. Until about November 2017 a syndicate of insurers  not RSA - 
was responsible for dealing with claims. 
The policy renewed  in February 2018.  RSA was the insurer responsible  for dealing  with 
claims. Where I refer to RSA I include the insurance  intermediary, other  companies  and 
individuals insofar as I hold RSA responsible for their actions.
In October  2018 Ms D called RSA for help with a leak or overflow. She complained that  
after a few visits  RSA said it wouldnt help her because her problem  was with a mains 
pressure hot water thermal storage system.
RSA reiterated  that position in its final response in late January 2019. Ms D brought  her 
complaint to us on 10 February 2019. The policy renewed on 27 February 2019.
our investigators opinion
On 2 May 2019  our investigator  didnt recommend that the complaint should  be upheld. She 
thought that the policy document showed  that RSA didnt provide cover  for the fault with the 
thermal storage tank.
On about 5 May 2019, Ms D asked RSA for help with water leaking through  her kitchen 
ceiling. RSA replaced a ball valve. Later it changed  a thermostat.
Our investigator changed her view. She recommended that the complaint should be upheld 
in part. She thought that RSA engineers had misdiagnosed the fault and the repairs  could 
have been carried  out in a timelier  manner.  She said Ms D had been left with a leaking  
ceiling for over six months  and having  to make multiple phone calls trying  to resolve this 
matter. The investigator  said this situation  had left Ms D in a great deal of distress and 
inconvenience. 
The investigator recommended  that RSA should:
1.cover  the cost of any damages caused to Ms Ds property as a result of the leak;  and
2.pay Ms D £250.00 in compensation for the avoidable stress and inconvenience  this 
matter has caused her.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Ms D 
and to RSA on 9 January 2020. I summarise  my findings:
RSA wasnt responsible for selling the policy in 2015.
Ref: DRN50282552RSAs engineer visited Ms D again  on about  Monday  27 May 2019 and  after it 
leaked again - said she needed a new tank. 
Without contacting RSA again, Ms D took matters into her own hands  and acted 
quickly. She contacted  a private plumber. Instead of a new tank, he recommended a 
new combi boiler and installed it on Friday 31 May.
That was Ms Ds choice.  It did away with the need for a tank and gave her a new 
boiler for many years to come. And she hadnt shown that her old boiler was suffering 
any fault. So I wasnt minded to find it fair to direct  RSA to contribute to the cost of 
Ms Ds new combi boiler.
Subject to any further information from Ms D or from RSA, my provisional decision was that I 
wasnt minded to uphold this complaint. I didnt  intend to direct  Royal  & Sun Alliance 
Insurance plc to do anything further in response  to this complaint.
Ms D disagrees with the provisional decision.  She says that it doesnt  address her complaint 
well.
RSA hasnt commented on the provisional decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
From what  she has said and from the policy schedule, I find that Ms Ds boiler dated from 
about 2009. Ive noted the model  name  and number, from which I find that it was a 
condensing conventional boiler. From RSAs  records,  I find that it was in Ms Ds kitchen.
Her boiler  wasnt a combination boiler which would have produced instant hot water to taps 
without any hot water storage. So Ms D had hot water storage in a tank or cylinder.
From what  her friend  said in January  2019,  Ms D didnt have a traditional hot water cylinder 
which would discharge  under gravity,  typically from an upstairs airing cupboard.  Rather she 
had a mains pressure hot water system running at the higher pressure of the water from the 
(cold) mains. 
And she didnt have an unvented  mains  pressure hot water  system. Rather  she had a mains  
pressure hot water thermal storage system. Such  systems run at yet higher pressure and 
higher temperature with a heat transfer to mains  pressure water.
RSA wasnt responsible for selling the policy in 2015. It wasnt  involved at all until late 2017 
or early 2018. So I cant find RSA responsible  for mis-selling the policy.  
The February 2018 policy schedule said the boiler  was eight years old. The policy 
documents said that the annual boiler  service wasnt part of the insurance and wasnt  the 
responsibility of RSA. 
The policy terms (November 2017 edition) contained separate sections on the central  
heating system, the central heating boiler and boiler replacement. It also covered other  
home emergencies  such as plumbing, electrics and drainage.
Ref: DRN50282553I consider that the policy was of significant benefit  to Ms D. So I dont find it fair and 
reasonable to direct  RSA to make  any refund  of premiums.
The section on the central heating system said it covered a hot water tank but didnt cover  a 
mains pressure hot water thermal storage system. That section  and the section on boiler  
repair were together  subject to a limit of £2,000.00. 
The section on boiler replacement provided  for boiler replacement  (up to a limit of £2,500.00) 
until the boiler was ten years old on a renewal  date. 
From what  Ms D and RSA have each  said, I think the leak in October  2018  was actually a 
dripping overflow pipe from the thermal storage system to the outside  of Ms Ds property. I 
havent seen any photographs or other  evidence of damage to her property.  
When Ms D and her friend complained  in January  2019 they described  the problem a 
follows:
There  is a leak in the heating coil which is allowing water from the heating system 
that is under  a greater pressure to leak into the heat transfer section of the thermal  
store, thus causing the water to rise in the reservoir  tank and out through  the 
overflow
From that and from RSAs  records, I find it more  likely than not that by late 2018 there was a 
leak inside  the thermal storage system. 
The policy terms for the year from February 2018  didnt cover  such a leak.  So I dont find 
that RSA treated Ms D unfairly  on its visits in October and December 2018.
The policy renewed  in February 2019.  The applicable terms were the September  2018 
edition. Those terms were  similar  to the 2017  edition. For example the sections  on the 
central heating system  and boiler repair were still subject to a combined  limit of £2,000.00.
But the new policy terms no longer excluded thermal storage systems. I dont consider that 
RSA had to proactively tell Ms D of that change in her favour. 
But when she reported a leak through a ceiling in early  May 2019, RSA didnt decline to work 
on the thermal store. It replaced the ball valve and for a few days  Ms D thought the issue  
was resolved. But the leak recurred on about  14 May. And RSA changed the thermostat. 
I accept that it is likely that Ms D had wasted some gas on heated water through the 
overflow. And I dont  doubt that she had suffered some inconvenience. But I consider that up 
to about 21 May 2019, RSA had acted  in line with the policy  terms. So I dont find that it had 
treated her unfairly. And Im not minded to direct  compensation for what  had happened.
In any event theres not enough detail of damage  to Ms Ds property, loss of earnings or 
other financial loss. So I dont find it fair to direct RSA to pay compensation for that.
But on 21 May Ms D told us the leak was still not resolved. And Im minded to accept her 
statement that RSAs  engineer visited again  on about Monday 27 May and  after it leaked 
again - said she needed  a new tank.  
Ref: DRN50282554Without contacting RSA again, Ms D took matters into her own hands  and acted quickly. She 
contacted a private plumber. Instead of a new tank, he recommended  a new combi boiler 
and installed  it on Friday  31 May.
That was Ms Ds choice.  It did away with the need for a tank and gave her a new boiler for 
many years to come. And she hasnt  shown that her old boiler was suffering any fault. So I 
dont find it fair to direct RSA to contribute to the cost of Ms Ds new combi boiler.
And overall  I dont  find it fair and reasonable to direct  RSA to do anything further in response  
to this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance plc to do anything further  in response to this 
complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 February  2020.
Christopher Gilbert
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5028255