K820x#14complaint
Mr B is unhappy with the settlement offer made by The Society of Lloyds (SOL) for a theft 
claim under his home insurance policy.
Mr B has been helped with his complaint  by a representative, but for ease of reading, Ill 
refer to all submissions as having  come  from Mr B himself.  
Any references to SOL also relate  to the actions of its agents.
background
Mr B had a home insurance policy with SOL and made a claim following a burglary on 
10 July 2018.  SOL agreed to settle the claim in respect of a number  of items of jewellery but 
a dispute still remains about two luxury  watch boxes,  the warranty  documents  contained 
inside the boxes and some spare  links.
Mr B and his wife were  wearing their watches at the time of the burglary  however the 
original box, documents and spare links were  stolen. SOL asked  Mr B for an estimate for the 
cost of replacement  boxes and links. But the manufacturer said, due to the risk of counterfeit  
fraud, it doesnt provide replacement boxes or warranty documents.  
Mr B told SOL if he were  to sell the watches without  the original boxes and documentation, 
they would  be worth significantly less than they would have been  worth if sold complete  with 
the original boxes and documentation.  He told SOL he wanted compensation for the loss in 
value of each  watch.
SOL said the policy required  it to replace  the stolen items and that it wasnt responsible  for 
any loss in value.  Because  it couldnt get replacement boxes and documents  directly  from 
the manufacturer and Mr B couldnt confirm the number of links in each box, SOL offered 
£470 as a cash settlement to replace both the boxes (£150 for each box, available  second-
hand online ) and one spare link (£85 each) per watch.
Mr B was unhappy with the settlement and complained to SOL. He said there was no way he 
could replace the boxes from a reputable source  and the offer didnt indemnify his actual 
loss. If he sold the watches to a reputable  dealer they would always  want  the original box 
and documentation  and without them the value  of each watch  would be approximately  15% 
lower, than what it wouldve been with its original box and documents. Mr B has concerns  
about the authenticity  and condition of any box purchased online and is worried  they may not 
be the correct boxes for his actual watches and could  in fact be stolen. 
In support of his claim,  Mr B produced  a report from a watch specialist  who said without the 
box and guarantee the retail would be approximately 15 % less so Mr B believes hes 
entitled to this material loss, which, equates to £930  for his watch  and £705 for his wifes  
watch.
SOL contacted the manufacturer directly  to ask if it could provide replacement  boxes and 
documents for Mr Bs watches, and to ascertain how many links would usually  be supplied 
with a new watch. Based on the information  it provided, SOL reviewed the claim and 
increased its cash offer to account for two links for each watch at £85 each; so a new 
settlement offer of £640. But it maintained its offer is fair and in line with the terms and 
conditions of the policy.
Ref: DRN51437252Mr B remained dissatisfied and so he complained to SOL,  but it maintained its position. 
While it notes the stolen  boxes have a value  in relation to watches  contained within, as the 
watches were not themselves part of the theft there is not a claim for loss or damage to the 
watch to consider. Neither does it consider the items a part of a pair or set as they would not 
be required  for the watch to perform  its primary function. As replacement boxes are not 
available from the manufacturer  the costs  of the settlement is based on the cost of such 
items available  second  hand. It concluded the decision to offer settlement in respect of the 
items stolen  rather than the loss in value to the watches was correct  and in accordance  with 
the terms of the policy. 
Mr B remained dissatisfied and so he complained to this service,  but our investigator didnt 
think the complaint  should be upheld. She noted  that as the manufacturer  doesnt offer 
replacement boxes and documents,  she thinks SOLs offer for the cost of second  hand 
boxes is the next best equivalent and fair given the circumstances. She explained Mr B still 
has both watches and hasnt yet suffered a financial loss in relation to them, explaining  that 
as our service can only deal with actual  financial  loss; we cant award  a payment for a loss 
thats not yet crystallised. 
Mr B did not agree  and asked for an ombudsman decision, so the complaint has been 
passed to me. 
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint  and Ive reached the same conclusion  as 
the investigator, for broadly the same reasons.
I understand Mr Bs concerns but I think SOLs offer is fair and reasonable. Ill explain why.
I think it would first of all be helpful  to highlight the section of the policy which  is relevant to 
Mr Bs claim. The policy terms say; 
 SOL can choose  to settle the claim by repairing, replacing, reinstating or payment. Where 
there is a total loss or destruction of any item it will pay the cost of replacing the item as new 
as long as the new item is as close as possible to but not an improvement on the original 
item when  it was new.  
In situations where  an insurer  is unable to replace an item with an exact match  because  it is 
no longer made or available  we expect it to put the policyholder as near as possible to 
where they were  before the insured event, in this case the theft.  
SOLs chosen to offer cash for the value of the spare links and second hand watch  boxes. It 
argues this is as close as possible it can get to putting the Mr B back into the position he was 
in before the theft happened. But Mr B isnt satisfied that SOLs  offer puts him back  into the 
position hed have been in if the theft hadnt  happened, arguing that if he sells the watches 
without the original box and documents, theyll be worth 15% less. 
Ref: DRN51437253Mr B argues  that each watch, its box and corresponding  documents  form part of a set and 
his claim should be settled under the policy as such.  Ive thought  carefully about what Mr B 
has said, as if considered a set; SOL would  have to pay the proportion that the lost items 
bear to the insured value  of the set. But as the watches can still be worn and used without 
their box and documents  I dont consider the items  to be part of a matching set. 
So under the terms of Mr Bs policy what I need to consider is whether SOL has settled the 
claim fairly for the items which were  stolen. 
Firstly, I think the offer with respect  to replacing the spare links is fair and is not being  
disputed by Mr B.
I accept the watches cant ever now be sold with their original  boxes. But, as there arent any 
serial numbers or other identifying features linking a specific  watch to a box, I think  the offer 
in respect of the watch boxes is fair. I understand Mr Bs concerns about the authenticity  of 
the boxes available online,  but once the claim is paid,  its for Mr B to decide if he wants to go 
ahead and use the funds to purchase the boxes or not.
The manufacturer has confirmed its watches come  with a guarantee/warranty card,  covering 
faults for a period of 2 years before July 2015 and 5 years post July 2015. Mr Bs confirmed 
his wifes watch is around 14 years  old and his is about 6 years old, therefore  neither 
warranty would be valid. The loss of an expired warranty document wont result in any loss 
with respect to repairs. Mr B has had the benefit of the warranty   so it wouldnt  be fair of me 
to ask SOL to make an award. 
Notwithstanding the fact the warranties have expired, Mr B also argues that the documents  
also show that a particular watch is authentic and that the watches  would likely sell at a 
reduced price without them. The valuation report Mr B has provided from a watch  specialist 
indicates a potential loss in value  and also describes the model and serial number of each 
watch. Im satisfied the report  provides  proof of ownership and authentication  and that any 
prospective purchaser would be able to verify  the watches as genuine. And because of this 
Im not satisfied that Mr B has shown he would likely make a loss upon the sale of the 
watches without the original documents.
I accept the documents cant ever be replaced  once theyve been  lost, stolen or destroyed. 
But they hold no intrinsic value and are worth nothing on their own. I accept that their 
absence could potentially  have an impact on the value  of the watches. But as they hold no 
value in themselves   whilst it may impact the value when Mr B comes to sell the watches, 
the policy doesnt extend to cover such consequential loss.
I also think most people are more concerned with whether  a watch is genuine, so whilst  I 
accept that some potential buyers (such as collectors) may pay a lower  amount or even 
choose not to buy the watches without the original box and documents, Im not satisfied Mr B 
has shown no one would buy them  for the same value as if he were selling them with their 
original box and documents.   
Whether the value of each watch would be compromised or not by the loss of its box and 
documents is yet to be seen as Mr B has not attempted  to sell them.  Mr Bs told us he was 
planning on trading the watches in but I havent  seen any evidence that makes me think he 
had any intention prior to the burglary to sell them. Nor would it be fair or reasonable for me 
to order SOL to make a payment to Mr B for a loss that has not yet occurred. 
Ref: DRN51437254I understand Mr B will be disappointed but for the reasons outlined  above, Im satisfied  
SOLs offer is fair.
my final decision
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 October  2019.
Sonal Matharu
ombudsman
 
Ref: DRN5143725