K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain  Liverpool Victoria Friendly Society Limited misled them over the 
value of their endowment  policy.  
background
Mr and Mrs P had an endowment policy, originally  with Teachers. These policies were later 
transferred to Liverpool Victoria, with the endowment policies being transferred to its 
systems in 2018. 
In 2017 Mr and Mrs P had been sent information showing the policy  was estimated to 
mature between £29,000 and £34,000.  Estimated  values were again  sent in 2018 of 
between £30,700  and £34,100 and £33,328.77  respectively.  
In December 2018 Mr P called and asked for a value and was told circa £49,000. He called  
on two further occasions  and was given similar information  circa  £49,000.  However, when 
Mr and Mrs P were  subsequently sent maturity information the maturity value was much 
lower. He queried this with Liverpool Victoria who logged a complaint.
Liverpool Victoria explained that when  the Teachers policies were transferred over some  of 
them were  transferred with incorrect values. This meant all value requests had to be 
manually calculated. It apologised as when Mr and Mrs P called about the values the call 
handlers hadnt asked for a manual calculations but gave the incorrect  figure. It apologised 
for the error  and offered Mr and Mrs P £500  to recognise the loss of expectation.  It also 
offered an additional £100 for the poor service  it had provided  and because it failed to return  
their calls. 
Mr and Mrs P asked  us to look into the matter. Our investigator concluded that although 
Liverpool Victoria had provided incorrect information  the compensation offered was fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. Mr and Mrs P have asked for the matter to be referred to 
an ombudsman. They say the compensation offered isnt even 1% of the difference in the 
values and Mr P was hoping to retire sooner which he now cant do. 
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I have decided  this 
complaint has already  been fairly resolved. I explain  why below. 
There is no dispute that Liverpool  Victoria provided incorrect information to Mr and Mrs P 
when they contacted it for the value of the policy. So I dont need to make any finding about 
that. My consideration is whether Liverpool Victoria has done enough to put this matter  right.  
Mr and Mrs Ps policy was set up with a target amount of £22,000. Although  this was the 
target figure there was no guarantee contained  within the policy itself that this target would 
be reached. Mr and Mrs P have  been  fortunate that their policy  had performed well and 
exceeded the target sum.
Although they had been given incorrect figures  about the value  during  telephone calls, I note 
that in the months just prior to the calls taking  place they were written to with estimated 
maturity values  with circa £34,000 being  the higher projection. I think  it fair to say that had 
Ref: DRN54815322the policy increased by approximately  £15,000 in just a few months  that would have been a 
very sizeable, and somewhat surprising, increase in value. 
If something goes wrong, as it did here,  the way to correct that is to put the customer in the 
position they would have  been in had nothing  gone wrong. I do understand how very 
disappointing it must have been  for Mr P to have his hopes  raised  about his retirement. But 
had Liverpool  Victoria given them the correct  information about  the value of the policy, as it 
ought to have done, then Mr Ps position  would be no different  he still wouldnt have been 
able to retire sooner.  
Its right that Mr and Mrs P are compensated for the error that occurred. But that amount isnt 
based on the difference between the two amounts, but is based  on the impact the error has 
had. As mentioned  above, quite understandably this would have  been  hugely disappointing, 
particularly as the incorrect information was given on more than on occasion.  Liverpool 
Victoria has offered £500 for the distress  and inconvenience this matter  has caused. I think 
this is in line with the type of award this office  makes  for this type of error, where there has 
been no financial loss. I also agree  that Mr and Mrs P ought to be compensated for the 
service they have received and promised call backs not being  made.  I find the offer of £100  
for this to be fair for the impact this poor service had. 
As Im satisfied Liverpool Victoria has already made  a fair offer of compensation I make  no 
further award against it. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  my final decision is that Liverpool Victoria Friendly Society Limited 
has already made a fair offer to settle  this complaint. I require it to pay Mr and Mrs P £600 if 
it hasnt already done so. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  20 July 2019.
Claire Hopkins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5481532