K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M say Nationwide Building Society  mis-sold them  two payment protection 
insurance (PPI)  policies.  
background and summary to complaint
Mr and Mrs M bought the policies in 1999 and 2000 at the same time as taking out loans. 
Nationwide no longer has a record of how Mr and Mrs M applied  for the first loan and policy 
but the second loan and policy were applied for over the phone. 
The policies one-off upfront premium of £266.87 and £1,238.10 were paid in advance by 
being added to the loans  (a single premium) where  they attracted interest over the term of 
the loans. The loans were repayable over 24 and 60 month terms and the policies  terms 
matched those of the loan The monthly PPI repayments were £12.80 and £26.99.  
The policies provided cover for Mr M for accident, sickness, unemployment  and life  subject 
to their exclusions and limitations.  They offered to repay Mr and Mrs Ms monthly loan 
repayments for up to the remaining term of the loans in the event of a successful disability 
claim and for up to 12 months in the event of unemployment.
At the time,  Mr M was employed as a pipe layer.  He told us he was entitled to redundancy 
pay and death  in service benefit and that the couple  didnt have any other  means, such  as 
savings, of repaying their loans should Mr M be unable to work.  Mr M has said he was in 
good health at the time of the sale. Mrs M has said that she had a medical condition  but, as 
already stated, it was only Mr M who was covered  under the policies.
Nationwide has sent us information  to show that the first loan account  was paid off when Mr 
and Mrs M took out the second loan in 2000.  The second loan ended in July 2003 when it 
was redeemed early.
Mr and Mrs Ms representative  has made  lengthy and substantial  representations on their 
behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr and Mrs Ms representative says:
Nationwide failed  to meet  the sales standards which  applied  at the time. In those  
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  APP 3, it should be presumed  Mr and Mrs M 
wouldnt have taken  out the policies  and the complaint should be upheld. Mr and Mrs 
Ms representatives believe there  to be no evidence to rebut  that presumption;
The policies excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress, which are some of 
the most  common reasons people are off work.  This significantly reduced the value 
of cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policies  were of inherently poor value as shown by the 
low claims ratio.  The common law duty of utmost good faith means  Nationwide 
should have told Mr and Mrs M about the poor value; 
Ref: DRN52284292The cancellation terms  were  unfair;
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Nationwide  should have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mr and Mrs M 
and the impact they would have had on their chances of making a claim; and
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr and Mrs M disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion for several  reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Ms. I dont intend  to set that 
out in much detail  here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ms complaint
This first sale took place  before  the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) published 
its code of practice in June 2000.  Both sales took place before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC code (in relation to the 
first sale), the FSAs (and FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses and insurance 
conduct rules (ICOB and ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint, nor is the FCAs 
Perimeter guidance (PERG).  
The final credit agreement  itself concluded in 2003.  That means the unfair  relationship 
provisions set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit  Act, the Supreme Court judgment in 
Plevin about s.140  of that Act and the rules and guidance made  by the FCA about the 
handling of complaints about the non-disclosure of commission in light of the Plevin 
judgment, arent applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
Ref: DRN52284293The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Nationwide at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take the ABI code and 
these other  publications into account when deciding, what  is in my opinion,  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of Mr and Mrs Ms case. 
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, contract  (including the express  and implied duty on professional advisers to give 
advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence; the law relating to the utmost  duty of good 
faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness). 
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Building  Societies 
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Building  Societies  Ombudsmans terms of reference  the Ombudsman  
was required to decide complaints by reference to what  was, in his opinion, fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances.
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Nationwide was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were  
guidance when  considering Mr and Mrs Ms complaint.  
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all circumstances of this 
complaint, are:
-If Nationwide gave  advice, whether  it advised  Mr and Mrs M with reasonable care 
and skill  in particular, whether the policies were appropriate or suitable for them,  
given their needs and circumstances. 
-Whether Nationwide gave Mr and Mrs M sufficient, appropriate and timely 
information to enable them to make an informed  choice  about whether to take out the 
policies, including  drawing to their attention and highlighting   in a clear,  fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions of the policies and significant limitations and 
exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr and 
Mrs M, I must then go on to consider whether and to what  extent Mr and Mrs M 
suffered loss or damage and what  I consider  would amount to fair compensation for 
that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr and Mrs M 
and Nationwide, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. Ive set out my 
reasoning below. 
Ref: DRN52284294did Mr and Mrs M know they had a choice?
Nationwide had to make it clear that the PPI policies were optional.  
Ive seen the credit agreements for both loans.  On both forms the PPI is described as 
optional credit insurance. Also, from what we know of Nationwides sales  processes at the 
time, the PPI was usually presented as optional and I havent seen anything that would lead 
me to conclude that something different happened  during  these sales.  
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mr and Mrs M knew the policies 
were optional and they agreed  to take them  out without undue pressure. 
did Nationwide provide  advice?
Nationwide says it didnt  provide advice  during  this sale. Mr and Mrs M havent commented 
on this aspect of the sale.    Looking at what happened when Nationwide  sold Mr and Mrs M 
the PPI, Im not persuaded that it provided  advice. Again, from what  we know of 
Nationwides sales processes at the time,  it didnt  provide advice and I again havent  seen  
anything that would  lead me to conclude that something different happened in this case.
This means  Nationwide  didnt have to check if the PPI was suitable  for Mr and Mrs M. 
Instead, it had to give them sufficient, appropriate and timely information  to enable Mr and 
Mrs M to make  an informed choice about  whether  to take out the policies, including  drawing 
to their attention  and highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading  way  the main 
provisions of the policies and significant limitations and exclusions. 
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr and Mrs M were given a broad description of 
what the policies  were intended  to cover (that is that the policies would protect  their 
payments if Mr M was unable  to work  through accident, sickness  and unemployment.)  I have  
reached this conclusion because the credit agreements refer to the policies as providing 
cover for disability, unemployment and life and I think its unlikely Mr and Mrs M would have 
taken out the policies  without any sense of what they were. And I think  Mr and Mrs M knew  
that the cost of the single  premiums being  added to the loans, the interest  being  added to 
those premiums and the monthly cost (as this information was, in my view,  sufficiently clear 
on the loan agreement Mr and Mrs M signed.)  
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Nationwide gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, or about the exclusions or limitations,  before Mr 
and Mrs M agreed to take out the policies. 
So I dont  think Nationwide gave Mr and Mrs M sufficient, appropriate and timely information 
to enable them to make an informed choice about  whether to take out the policies, including 
drawing their attention  and highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading way  the main 
provisions of the policies and significant limitations and exclusions. 
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded there were significant failings in this case.
Ref: DRN52284295In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr and Mrs Ms representative has raised  a 
number of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr and Mrs 
Ms. Ive considered these  carefully  and summarised them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr and Mrs Ms representative considers to be 
poor value   and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business rather than 
the insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr and Mrs M about the limitations and exclusions, it should  have  gone  further  
and explained  the significance of them  to them. 
Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Ms representatives views on this. The duty of utmost 
good faith in insurance law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose 
material facts and not to make material misrepresentations.  While I cant be certain what a 
court would say  I think its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer  
having to disclose the claims ratio information or explaining the significance of the limitations 
and exclusions in the way Mr and Mrs M has suggested. And taking into account the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude that Nationwide  ought to have done either. 
What effect did Nationwides shortcomings  have on Mr and Mrs M? To what extent  did 
Mr and Mrs M suffer loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that Nationwide didnt  do all it should  have  done  when it sold these policies to Mr 
and Mrs M. So Ive gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude  
Mr and Mrs M suffered loss and damage  as a result.  To answer this, I must decide whether  
or not Mr and Mrs M would  have  still taken out the policies, had Nationwide  done  things  
properly. 
Mr and Mrs M say they would not have taken them out and believe I should presume this to 
be the case given  the significant  failings identified above. Ive considered  the representations 
of both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
As this was a non-advised sale, Mr and Mrs M had to weigh up in their own minds the cost of 
the policies against the benefits offered and the potential consequences if they didnt insure 
against the risk of being unable to work.  
As Ive found above, Mr and Mrs M chose to take these policies out. So I consider that its 
reasonable to conclude  they had some  interest  in the benefits offered by this type of 
insurance. But they made this decision based on incomplete information. So what Mr and 
Mrs M thought they were  getting is not exactly what they got. The extent to which this 
differed is a relevant consideration when determining if Mr and Mrs M have suffered any loss 
or detriment.  
As Ive already  said, the information Mr and Mrs M were given about  the cost was clear. But 
the information about other aspects of the policies, such  as the limitations and exclusions 
wasnt as clear as it should have been. 
Ref: DRN52284296Im not persuaded Nationwide made clear exactly what Mr and Mrs M would get back  in 
return in the event Mr M made a successful claim. But I think  its unlikely Mr and Mrs Ms 
expectations about what the policies  would pay in the event of a claim (an amount sufficient 
to meet  their loan payments) were significantly different  to what the policies actually did.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr and Mrs M thought they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
The policies excluded claims relating to medical conditions that Mr M knew  about or 
ought to have known about  before the start date of the policies; 
The policies limited,  and in some situations,  excluded unemployment cover if Mr M 
wasnt a permanent employee.
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mr M be unable  to 
do his own job or any paid work.
I do accept that there is a possibility the limitations  and exclusions above  might well have 
caused Mr and Mrs M pause for thought   and may well have caused them to conclude that 
the policies werent  as good as they thought and they might  have decided not to proceed.  
The limitations on the cover, when coupled with the other shortcomings in this sale, might 
have dissuaded  some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs M from 
taking out the policies.  
But, the evidence  about Mr and Mrs Ms circumstances at the time of sale shows that the 
policies werent  fundamentally wrong  or unsuitable  for them. Mr M was eligible for their 
benefits and they provided cover that, despite  their limitations  and exclusions,  could have  
proved valuable to them  should  the insured risks have become a reality. I also havent  seen 
any evidence to suggest they would  have been  caught by any of the significant exclusions  
Mr M didnt  have any pre-existing medical  conditions and he was in permanent employment.  
So, I still think Mr and Mrs M had some  good  reasons to take the policies out.
The policies didnt  exclude back or mental health  conditions or place any additional 
restrictions or more onerous  evidential  requirements in the event of a claim on those 
grounds than would have applied to any other  disability claim. And I think its unlikely Mr and 
Mrs M would  have  expected to make a disability claim on the policies without first providing 
some evidence to support  that claim.
To make a disability claim, Mr M needed to be totally unable to do his normal job and not be 
doing any other work. I dont think this is likely to be too different to what Mr and Mrs M 
would have expected to make a claim. So it seems unlikely they would have thought Mr M 
would have been able to make a successful claim if he was still working,  whether  that be in 
his normal job or any other  job.
The policies did provide a pro-rata refund if they were cancelled  early, so the policies 
provided flexibility if Mr and Mrs M decided to repay the loans early and cancel the policies.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs M would still have taken  out the policies. The policies were sufficiently 
close to what its likely  they thought they were getting and provided benefits  that would help 
them manage the consequences were  Mr M made  redundant, or unable  to work through 
accident or disability.  In the circumstances I consider  it more  likely than not that Mr and Mrs 
M would have taken out the policies in any event  notwithstanding the limitations  on cover.
Ref: DRN52284297Mr and Mrs Ms representatives  say the rules about how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP 
App 3) make it clear that, where a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr and Mrs M would not have bought  the PPI they bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted  
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Mr and Mrs 
Ms circumstances as detailed above, I consider  it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr 
and Mrs M found themselves in as result  of the sale was the same  position they would have 
been in had the breach  or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr and Mrs M believe the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws  in the sales 
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken out the policies. I am not persuaded by these arguments.  
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), Im only doing  so because I dont consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs M in the position they would  have been  in if 
they had not bought the policies. 
That is because,  while I accept its possible they wouldnt have taken out the policies, Im 
satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not that they would still have taken  
out the PPI had they been given clear, fair and not misleading information about  the policies 
they were buying.  So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude Nationwide should  pay Mr and Mrs M compensation, as that 
would put them in a better position than they would have been  in if everything had happened 
as it should have done. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs Ms representative says a court  might take 
if it were to find Nationwide  had been in breach of its duty of utmost  good faith. But this 
doesnt persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mr and Mrs M in a better  position than if everything  had happened as 
it should have  done. 
my decision
Ref: DRN52284298Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I do not uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  11 September 2021.
Carole Clark
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5228429