K820x#14complaint
Mr K complains Phoenix Life Limited (Phoenix  Life) mis-sold him a personal  pension. Hes 
unhappy with the fund performance and the benefit at retirement.
background
Mr K took out a personal pension  with Abbey Life In September 1984. He paid £30 per 
month until August  1985, after this time no further contributions  were  made. Since  that time 
Abbey Lifes pensions business  has moved  to Phoenix Life.
Mr K first complained to Phoenix Life about  the fund performance,  the annual  management 
charges and the value of his plan in November 2017. He received a final response letter 
from Phoenix Life, they didnt uphold his complaint and they explained his referral  rights to 
this service.
In June 2018, Mr K complained to Phoenix  Life explaining he felt his personal pension  plan 
had been mis-sold and the adviser  at the time had indicated he would get back a much  
higher value than the plan is currently worth. In its final response,  Phoenix Life didnt uphold 
his complaint. This time he brought his complaint  to this service. He says the personal 
pension was mis-sold and he remained unhappy with the fund performance and the benefit 
at retirement. 
Our investigator looked into things for Mr K. She concluded  the part of his complaint relating 
to fund performance had been brought too late for this service to investigate.  This was 
because the final response letter sent from Abbey Life on 3 November 2017 said if Mr K was 
unhappy with its response he could refer his complaint to this service,  but he had to do so 
within six months of the date on the letter. As Mr K first complained  to this service on 26 
November 2018,  she found this to be too late for this part of his complaint.
But, she did agree this service could look into the mis-selling  and benefit  at retirement 
elements of Mr Ks complaint. After  carefully  considering all the information from both Mr K 
and Phoenix Life she didnt find anything to suggest  the pension  wasnt  suitable  for Mr K or 
any of the documents were misleading  and so couldnt agree the pension had been  mis-
sold. So she didnt ask Phoenix Life to do anything further.
Mr K disagreed. He said he didnt  think it was fair his complaint about fund performance  was 
out of time. He feels he couldnt complain about the fund performance until he knew the 
maturity value. He says the adviser  said his plan would achieve the 7% as shown in the 
illustration and as it didnt, he feels it was mis-sold to him. He asked for an ombudsman 
review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive looked at all the information from both 
parties afresh. Having  done so, Ive reached  the same  conclusion as our investigator and for 
broadly the same reasons.  Ill explain  why.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
Ref: DRN58069682board and think about it but because I dont think  I need  to comment on it in order  to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Firstly, I need  to consider  which aspects  of Mr Ks complaint this service  can consider. I can 
see Mr K complained in a telephone call, to Abbey Life, now Phoenix Life on 1 November  
2017. Abbey  Life issued  its final response  on 03 November 2017,  in respect of Mr Ks 
complaint regarding fund performance, annual management charges and the value of the 
plan at that time. It said he could make a complaint to this service within  six months of the 
date of the letter. It also said that if he didnt  do so this service would not have their 
permission to consider  the complaint.
There are rules, which apply to the complaints  this service can consider. These are set out in 
rules and guidance for this service and rule DISP  2.8. The investigator  set the rules out in 
full in her view issued  23 May 2019. In short, this says that a customer has six months from 
the business sending its final response letter to refer their complaint to us. Unless we have 
the consent of the business,  we cannot consider a complaint that is referred to us out of time 
unless in our view the failure to comply with the time limits is because of exceptional 
circumstances.
Mr K brought his complaint to this service on 26 November 2018. His complaint concerned 
the mis-selling of his personal  pension  plan and the fund performance.  I appreciate  he feels  
he couldnt complain  about the fund performance until he knew the maturity value, but he did 
complain in November  2017. As this service didnt  receive his complaint until November 
2018, it wasnt received  within the six months window set out in DISP 2.8. Mr K also hasnt 
made me aware of exceptional circumstances  for his failure to bring his complaint before  the 
six months have expired  and so under the rules of this service Im unable to consider this 
part of Mr Ks complaint.
With regard to Mr Ks complaint that his pension was mis-sold and the low value of the 
retirement benefits I can see Mr K first complained to Abbey Life 6 June 2018.  It issued its 
final response on 25 June  2018. Mr K brought his complaint to this service  on 26 November 
2018 and so Im satisfied  this is within the six month time limits allowed and so Im able to 
consider the merits  of this part of his complaint.
Mr Ks pension  policy was taken out before  the introduction of the Financial Services  Act. 
This means  financial advisers  werent  subject to the same rules, as they are now but they 
had a legal  obligation not to give misleading information about a policy.  They were also 
required to carry out their duties with reasonable skill, care and diligence to ensure any 
recommendations made were appropriate for the needs and circumstances of their clients.
I can see from the application form at the time Mr K took out his personal  pension plan he 
was self-employed  and his chosen  retirement age was age 60. He wanted  to pay £30 per 
month and opted  for waiver of premium benefit.  There isnt any information about Mr Ks 
income and expenditure, savings or other  investments.  But, on balance  Im satisfied the plan 
was affordable as Mr K paid into it for around 12 months. As a self-employed person, Mr K 
wouldnt have access to an employers  pension scheme and so a personal pension  plan 
would be an appropriate  way to save for his retirement.
Ive considered the fund options available. Mr K selected the managed fund that is a medium 
risk fund compared to the other  options such as the lower risk security fund or the higher risk 
equity fund. Typical investments could be a mixture of international and UK based 
investments as well as cash and government stocks. There isnt any information on Mr Ks 
Ref: DRN58069683attitude to risk; the fund is suitable  for a long-term  savings plan, such  as a personal pension 
and I havent seen, anything to suggest Mr K wasnt happy with it. 
From what  Ive seen, the personal pension plan Mr K took out was a suitable long-term 
savings vehicle for his needs and circumstances as detailed at the time. It offered  tax 
advantages and some  protection if he was unable to work.  Im satisfied the fund selected 
offered the potential  of growth  over the longer term, it wasnt  the lowest  risk but it wasnt  the 
highest risk either and I havent seen anything  to conclude it was unsuitable.
Mr K has said the advisor told him at the time it would achieve 7%. He says the illustration 
clearly shows  a £1,000  would  grow  to £17,449 and the advisor assured him on that basis;  
his investment would  achieve the same  on retirement.
 
Ive carefully considered  the document Mr K refers to entitled  what your plan offers you.  
In it, under  the heading tax advantages, it compares the tax relief  advantages on the 
contributions. It compares a single  investment  of £1,000 would be if left in a savings account, 
compared to what it would  be in a tax efficient savings vehicle, a personal pension. The 
growth rates used  in the illustration are 7 and 10% respectively and over a term of 10, 20 
and 30 years.
Its important to note that the policy was taken out over 30 years ago when growth rates  and 
projections were different  to today. But the key point is that they were projections, that is to 
say examples or illustrations.  The notes  section of the same document  make it clear  the 
figures are not guaranteed. It says:
 this unit growth cannot  be guaranteed since unit values  can go down as well as up or 
could grow at a faster or slower rate...It is not possible to predict  growth rates in the future  
and the actual results  will depend on the growth  achieved
I appreciate Mr K feels the advisor  told him something different and whilst I dont doubt  
Mr Ks recollection I can only reach  my decision based on the evidence  available. Theres 
also a significant  difference  in the illustration of a single investment of £1,000  and the actual 
contributions Mr K made  to this plan of £30 per month for around 12 months. 
I understand Mr K is disappointed with the retirement benefit of this personal pension  but I 
havent seen anything to suggest the personal pension  plan was mis-sold or that Mr K would 
achieve a guaranteed rate of growth  of his pension. It follows Im not going to ask Phoenix 
Life to do anything further.
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given I dont uphold this complaint
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 August 2019.
Wendy Steele
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5806968