K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC applied unfair charges to his account. 
Background
Mr B opened  his account with Barclays in 2003 and has an agreed overdraft and emergency 
borrowing limit. 
At various points from 2015 onwards, Barclays wrote to Mr B to let him know  that it wasnt  
able to take payments from his account  due to a lack of cleared funds. 
From around 2016, Barclays sent a number of financial assistance  letters and invited Mr B 
to contact Barclays if he needed help managing his money. 
Mr B wrote to Barclays in July 2018 and asked for a refund  of all charges from the previous 
six years. Mr B said that Barclays was in breach of the Lending Code and that his already 
strained financial  situation (in part due to his partners ill health and inability to work) had 
worsened due to the charges. He also said that the situation had impacted his own health.
Barclays called Mr B on 26 July 2018 to discuss  his complaint. It referred to the outcome of a 
Supreme Court ruling in 2009, and said that, generally speaking,  charges attached  to the 
account wouldnt be refunded unless the bank had made a mistake. The call handler 
suggested Mr B might  wish to contact Barclays Financial Assistance Team to discuss a 
financial assessment. Mr B said he wasnt interested in doing  that and that hed been treated 
unfairly. He was invited  to contact our service if he was unhappy. 
Barclays gave Mr B similar responses in August 2018 and he contacted us shortly  after as 
he wasnt happy with Barclays response.  
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. Thats because the 
investigator felt that Barclays had applied charges correctly  in line with the terms of Mr Bs 
account and had offered to discuss support with him when he incurred charges. 
Mr B was not happy with the investigators  view, so the complaint has been passed to me to 
decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  to hear about  the difficulties that Mr B experienced, both financially and in relation  
to his partners  health. And I can understand how Mr B feels that the charges on his bank 
account have  added  to his worries and affected  his own health.  Mr B wants Barclays to 
refund the charges on his account, as he feels it has a responsibility  to recognise the impact 
of those charges,  particularly if the customer isnt in a position to avoid them. 
I can see that Barclays responded to Mr B along  the lines that the charges were  applied in 
line with the terms  of his bank  account  and a ruling  made by the Supreme Court  in 2009. 
I dont necessarily disagree with what Barclays said  as the charges do seem to be in line 
with the general  terms of Mr Bs account. 
Ref: DRN55668592But I dont really think thats at the heart  of Mr Bs complaint. It seems that Mr B expected 
Barclays to be much more sympathetic to his case,  given  the financial difficulties that he was 
facing. Amongst other things, Mr B referred to the Lending Code (now known as the 
Standards of Lending Practice) when he wrote to us and says that Barclays  hasnt acted in 
line with its responsibilities. Ive considered those responsibilities  as well as other relevant 
regulations  in reaching my decision.  Having done so, I wont  be upholding Mr Bs 
complaint. Ill now explain  why. 
The Standards of Lending Practice says that banks should have systems in place  to monitor  
accounts and be able to recognise and support customers  who might be in financial 
difficulty. Theyre also expected to act promptly to address the situation with the customer  to 
avoid it getting  worse. The support that banks  can offer will obviously depend  on the 
individual customers circumstances, so another key expectation is listening to and acting 
upon information that the customer gives them, so that they can try to resolve the problem.  
Ive thought about what all of this means  for Mr Bs case and whether Barclays did enough to 
recognise that he might have been struggling and to help him. 
Its clear from the evidence that Mr B relied  a lot on his overdraft to help manage  his 
finances. And when  he exceeded it, Mr B tried to get back within  his limit as quickly as he 
could. Mr B said its not unreasonable to expect  Barclays to have  been  aware  of his financial 
situation, particularly  given his reliance on credit  and the high price he paid in charges. 
I appreciate Mr Bs point.  
I dont think the fact Mr B was regularly using his overdraft should in itself have led Barclays 
to believe that Mr B was struggling financially. Thats because, Mr B had agreed  an overdraft 
limit with the bank, so I dont think its unreasonable for Barclays to assume that hed use it. 
And there is evidence Barclays  was monitoring  Mr Bs account to the extent that it could  pick 
up when he was likely to incur charges, because hed exceeded  his overdraft or didnt have 
enough funds  to make agreed payments.
Ive seen that Barclays wrote to Mr B from at least 2015 onwards, because  there  werent 
enough funds  in his accounts  to make payments. And from at least  2016 theres evidence to 
show that Barclays wrote to Mr B and asked him to get in touch if he was struggling  to 
manage his money;  needed help; or wished to talk about his account  generally. That in itself 
suggests to me that Barclays was monitoring Mr Bs account. 
Its reasonable that Barclays would want to discuss Mr Bs individual  circumstances with him, 
so that it could tailor  its advice where possible. Mr B doesnt dispute  that Barclays tried to 
contact him, but questioned whether its motives for doing so were  genuine.  Ive seen nothing 
to indicate that they werent. Unfortunately, in the absence of any contact from Mr B, I think 
Barclays options became limited.  
Importantly though, Im satisfied that Barclays didnt just leave it there.  Ive seen other  
evidence to show that it wrote to Mr B again along similar lines over the following two years.  
Again, Mr B chose not to take Barclays up on its offers to discuss  his finances. Ive thought  
about whether  contacting Mr B in other  ways,  for example  by telephone, might have led to a 
different outcome. And Im not persuaded that it would have done. Thats because when 
Barclays did eventually contact Mr B by phone to discuss his complaint, he again decided 
that he wouldnt be contacting the Financial Assistance Team for help. Its not unreasonable  
to assume hed have  responded in a similar way if Barclays had phoned him earlier.  
Ref: DRN55668593I do appreciate, particularly given the other  life challenges  he was dealing  with, that Mr B is 
likely to have had his own reasons  for not wanting  to discuss  his financial situation with 
Barclays. But I cant say that Barclays did anything wrong. Nor can I say whether 
considering a refund of Mr Bs charges  was or wasnt  the right thing to do. Im satisfied that 
Barclays actions appeared reasonable in light of what it knew  about Mr Bs account. And in 
the absence of other information, I cant say that it could have done anything  more. 
Taking all of this into account,  I dont  uphold Mr Bs complaint. I recognise that Mr B is likely 
to be disappointed by my decision, but I hope  he understands the reason for it. Going 
forward, Id strongly encourage Mr B to talk to Barclays about his financial position and any 
support that it can give him. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  by 14 February 2020
Amanda Scott
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5566859