K822xcomplaint
Mr R has complained, with the help of a representative, that Aviva Insurance  Limited  
wrongly declined  a claim on his motor  insurance policy.
background 
At the end of 2017, Mr Rs car was damaged by rats. He took his car out of his garage just 
before Christmas and noticed  a couple of warning  lights  indicating faults at this time.
When he started the car again just after Christmas it had numerous faults as a result of 
the damage the rats had caused. He made a claim on his insurance  policy  with Aviva  for 
the cost of the damage  in early  2018. The damage  to his car was extensive,  with the 
repair cost totalling  just over £16,000.
Aviva refused to pay the claim because they said Mr Rs policy doesnt cover any damage 
or loss that was caused gradually, as set out in their terms and conditions.  Mr R felt this 
was unfair  because he did his best to take all reasonable steps to safeguard his car 
against damage. And he doesnt think the damage  can be classed as gradual in any 
event. He feels Aviva are interpreting the terms of his policy to suit their purpose and to 
avoid paying his claim. Mr R said he bought comprehensive insurance, which should 
include cover  in these  circumstances,  as the average person would expect.
I issued a provisional decision on 12 November in which  I said:
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive provisionally 
decided to uphold  Mr Rs complaint and make  Aviva settle his claim in full.
I appreciate the previous ombudsmans view that damage that happened over a period of 
two or three weeks is still damage that happened gradually. But I dont think  this produces 
a fair and reasonable outcome in this case. As Mr Rs representative has said, the word  
gradually is not defined in policy and I think it needs to be interpreted bearing in mind what  
the policy is intended to cover. And by taking into account the courts  view on sudden  (as 
opposed to gradual)  damage,  which has at times been viewed as something that is simply 
unexpected.
I think the starting point  here is that Mr Rs car was damaged in unexpected  and fortuitous  
circumstances. And this is what his policy is meant to cover. Obviously, its reasonable for 
Aviva to exclude damage that would be expected, like wear and tear. And I can see why 
they would  also want to exclude  damage  that happens over a long period of time. For 
example  paint  that has faded over a long period or a part thats  rusted over a long period. 
But its clear the timeframe for the damage occurring to Mr Rs car was fairly short.  Mr R 
has said he hadnt driven his car since late November and when he started it the week 
before Christmas to move  it out of his garage  warning lights  indicated the rear camera  and 
parking assist had failed.  He then didnt start it again until 28/29  December.  And, at this 
point, lots of warning lights came on. And it turned  out rats had caused extensive damage 
to the car.
I think, bearing in mind  only the rear camera and parking assist was faulty  when Mr R 
started the car just before Christmas. And that after Christmas there  were  multiple  faults, 
its fair to say the majority  of the damage done  by the rats was in the period just before     
Mr R moved the car out the garage and 28/29 December, which is around two weeks.  This 
Ref: DRN50665662means the time-frame  for the damage was fairly short. And while  I can see how some 
people might still view the damage as gradual  or even  as separate  incidents,  I think  it 
produces a fair and reasonable outcome in this case to view it as one continuous 
unexpected event leading to a significant  amount of damage.  Putting it another  way - I think  
it should be viewed  as a course of conduct  made  up of numerous  bites  by rats, which  
ended up causing  extensive damage. And I see this as a fortuitous and unexpected one-off 
insured event rather than series of events or one event that happened gradually. If it had all 
happened over a much longer period  say several months, I may well view it as a series of 
events or gradual  damage, but I dont think thats  the right way to view it so far as the 
damage to Mr Rs car is concerned.
In view of what  Ive said, I think the fair and reasonable  outcome to this case  is for Aviva 
to settle Mr Rs claim in full by treating it as one claim in accordance with the claim 
settlement terms in the policy.  This means  it can deduct one £700 excess.
Mr R has understandably  had his car fully repaired.  And I think  this was reasonable, as 
he couldnt be expected to wait nearly  two years to get this done. His representative has 
provided a detailed invoice for the repairs carried out. These  all seem  in line with damage 
detailed by Avivas  engineer. Obviously, its for a lot more than Avivas estimate. But I 
have no reason to believe  the costs are unreasonable or that any items not resulting from 
the rat damage  have been  included.  Although,  Ive asked  our investigator to forward a 
copy of the invoice to Aviva, as Im not sure its seen it. So - as things stand - I intend to 
award what Mr R paid for the repairs less the £700  excess.
I also intend to award  interest on this amount at our usual rate of eight percent per year 
simple from the date Mr R paid the invoice, as hes been without these funds since he 
did this.
my provisional decision
For the reasons  explained above, Ive provisionally  decided to uphold  Mr Rs complaint 
and make Aviva Insurance Limited  to pay him £15,324.40, plus interest at eight percent 
per annum  simple from the date he settled the invoice to the date of payment.
I gave both parties until 26 November to respond with any further comments.  Mr Rs 
representative responded to say he had nothing further to add. 
Aviva have responded to explain they dont  agree  with my provisional  decision. Theyve 
pointed out that they have had a number  of complaints concerning damage caused by 
rodent infestation referred to us, where they have rejected the claim on the basis  the 
damage was caused gradually. And these  have been found in their favour.  Theyve also 
pointed out Ive gone against the provisional decision of one of my colleagues. They dont 
believe the damage occurred as one incident  in line with the policy and have agreed to 
treat the damage as five separate  claims. And  from what  theyve said  I assume Aviva 
still believes  this approach would produce a fair and reasonable outcome. Having said 
this, Aviva have gone on to mention  that while the policy  doesnt  specifically exclude  
rodent damage, its not practical for them to list everything thing thats not covered 
individually. Theyve gone on to state the dictionary  definition of gradually. And they think 
the damage to Mr Rs car occurred over time. And that this means its not covered, due to 
the policy exclusion which applies in respect any loss or damage which happens 
gradually. 
Ref: DRN50665663I also asked Aviva to check the invoice  Mr Rs representative has provided for the repairs 
to his car to see whether theyre happy all the work  carried  out was to repair  the damage 
caused by the rats. And Aviva have now said they accept this at face value.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I should make  it clear that I need  to decide what  the fair and reasonable outcome  
is in this particular  complaint  is. And its not appropriate for me to comment on what  my 
colleagues have  decided in other complaints  or on the provisional findings of one of my 
colleagues on this complaint. 
I explained in my provisional decision  why I think it produces a fair and reasonable 
outcome in this complaint to view the damage  to Mr Rs car as happening as one 
continuous unexpected event, as opposed to gradual damage or a series  of separate 
events. And, nothing Aviva have  said in response  to my provisional  decision has changed 
my view on this. So far as Im concerned,  the incident should  be viewed as one course of 
conduct made up of numerous bites by rats, which ended up causing extensive damage.  
As I also explained in my provisional decision, the damage happened over a fairly short 
period of time and was unexpected. So, I think it should be viewed as sudden, as opposed 
to gradual. Therefore, it remains my view that the fair and reasonable outcome in this case 
is for Aviva to settle Mr Rs claim in accordance with the claim settlement terms of his 
policy. 
Mr Rs invoice looks reasonable to me for repairing the damage to his car caused by the 
rats. And Aviva accepts it at face value. And the policy covers the full cost of repairing his 
car, less the £700 policy excess. So, I think the claim should be settled based on this 
invoice less the excess. And because Mr R has been without this money  since he paid the 
invoice, I think he should get interest  on it at our usual rate. 
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above and in my provisional decision dated  26 November 
2019, I uphold  Mr Rs complaint and require  Aviva Insurance Limited to pay him 
£15,324.40, plus interest at eight percent per annum simple  from the date he settled the 
invoice to the date of payment1.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 January 2020. 
Robert Short
ombudsman
1 If Aviva Insurance Limited considers that theyre required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off 
income tax from that interest, they should tell Mr R how much theyve taken  off. They  should  also give 
Mr R a certificate showing  this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue  & 
Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN5066566