K821x#15complaint
Miss N complains that U K Insurance Limited (Sainsburys) mishandled  her home  insurance  
claim. She says it caused delays, didnt complete the work as it should have done, and 
offered an unfair settlement.
Miss N is being represented in this complaint. For ease,  references to Miss N include the 
actions and comments etc. of her representative. Similarly, references to Sainsburys include 
its agents/representatives.
background
I issued my provisional decision in April 2021, which set out the background to the case  and 
what I was minded to decide:
In July 2016, Miss N made an escape  of water claim on her buildings insurance policy,  for 
a leak under the floor in her kitchen. In November 2016, she reported that she was 
unhappy with the drying  work  and a new company was appointed to complete this. Around 
that time,  she complained that Sainsburys contractors had lost/damaged some of her 
items  and it offered her £250 compensation. Our service  reviewed  that complaint and 
didnt recommend that Sainsburys should do anything more.
It was agreed that Sainsburys  would cover  alternative accommodation due to the damp  
etc. in the home. After some short-term  stays, a six-month  rental was agreed from January 
2017 (which was subsequently extended). Miss N says she had to pay bills on both homes,  
and she couldnt  keep her pets in the new property.  She also says the location  meant  her 
daughter couldnt  keep  up her usual extra-curricular activities.  Sainsburys says she found 
and chose the accommodation   and didnt raise any problems with it at the time. Miss N 
says this is incorrect, and that a complaint  was raised to two firms who deal with sourcing 
accommodation for insurance claims,  which confirmed there were no suitable  alternatives.
Sainsburys made a settlement for the buildings damage in March  2018, which  Miss N was 
unhappy with. Around that time,  Sainsburys stopped providing alternative accommodation. 
Miss N says there  were  outstanding costs  relating  to this, and she and her partner had to 
stay separately with family  meaning they couldnt live together  with their daughter.
When Miss N complained about the settlement as well as delays and missed works 
throughout the claim, Sainsburys offered £500  compensation. But it said the settlement 
was fair as it wasnt required to pay more  than it would  have  spent getting  its own 
contractors to repair the damage.
Miss N referred the matter to our service.  She said there were outstanding invoices to 
be paid. Our investigator  recommended  that Sainsburys should increase  the 
compensation to £750 in total.  She also thought Sainsburys should pay any increased 
bill costs and council  tax Miss N paid during her period in alternative accommodation, 
subject to her providing reasonable evidence  of this. She thought  the claim had 
otherwise been  settled  fairly.
Sainsburys ultimately agreed  to pay the increased compensation. It also agreed  to 
increase the buildings  settlement to match a surveyors  estimate of the damage 
provided by Miss N. It said it would also pay for the cost of this survey,  and it would pay 
VAT on top of the damage  estimate  if she could evidence that this has been paid.
Ref: DRN54882492Miss N maintained there were outstanding costs. Such as for electricity,  storage, bills 
and accommodation.  Following this, Sainsburys agreed to pay a further £180 for skip 
hire, £1,000 towards a sofa suite that was damaged, and anything remaining of the 
£25,000 limit for alternative accommodation offered under the buildings cover.
Miss N said costs were still outstanding, the compensation wasnt  enough, and she 
should receive VAT as she paid it on materials for the works.
I then issued a provisional decision in February  2021. I awarded some additional costs 
but not everything Miss N said outstanding. I explained, based on what  Id seen,  I was 
minded to direct Sainsburys to pay:
1)Anything remaining of the £37,068.30 settlement for the buildings damage
2)£1,080 (including VAT)  for the report dated  31 January that was used for the 
basis of this settlement
3)£750 compensation
4)A further  £1,000 for the sofa
5)£360 for the two outstanding skip invoices
6)£70 for the phone reinstatement
I invited both sides to provide  any further comments and evidence  in response to my 
provisional decision. Sainsburys accepted my findings, but Miss N disagreed.  In summary 
she said information from Sainsburys  had been  presented as fact with little or no evidence;  
the references to the settlement date didnt reflect the true circumstances of the claim; 
extensive evidence  supported in support of the claim has been  dismissed;  and that the 
decision contained incorrect  information.  She submitted  further invoices which she said 
were outstanding. As this is new evidence, I consider it necessary to issue a further 
provisional decision.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive provisionally 
decided to partially uphold it. Ive explained why below, along  with what I think Sainsburys 
needs to do to put things  right.
Please note that Miss N has provided  detailed submissions  about this complaint. Ive read 
and considered all of these, but I havent responded in similar detail. If I dont mention a 
particular point or piece of evidence, it isnt because I havent  seen it or thought  about  it. Its 
just that I dont feel the need to reference it to explain  my decision.  This isnt intended as a 
discourtesy, its just a reflection of the informal nature of our service.
Settlement amount
Subject to the remaining  terms and conditions, Miss Ns buildings insurance policy covers 
her for loss or damage caused by water escaping from fixed water  or heating systems; 
underground drains and pipes domestic  appliances;  and storage tanks. Its not in dispute 
that her claim following the leak in her kitchen is covered.
The terms go on to explain that Sainsburys  will choose whether to
Ref: DRN54882493manage and pay for repairing or rebuilding the damaged part using our own 
suppliers;
pay to repair or rebuild  the damaged part using your suppliers; or
make a cash payment.
We wont pay more than the amount it would have cost us to repair  or rebuild the 
damaged part using our own suppliers.
It also clarifies  that the limits set out under  each  area of cover, such  as the total sum the 
policyholder has insured  their building for, still apply.
Sainsburys made a cash  settlement  in March 2018,  matching what its suppliers estimated 
it would  have cost them to repair the damage. Miss N disagreed  with this figure and its not 
in dispute that there were instances  when some works were incorrectly excluded from the 
estimates. The figure was later increased, seemingly to match an estimate she provided.  
But she says it only offered to increase the settlement by £5,070.17 in February 2019, 
rather than £5,646.17 as needed  to match her surveyors estimate of £37,068.30.
I accept there was some confusion about how much more needed to be paid to match the 
surveyors estimate. From what Ive seen this was due to the other  payments that were paid 
at the same  time as the buildings damage  settlement.  But I cant see that Miss N clearly 
set that out to Sainsburys at the time. Had she done so, given that it was in principle  
agreeing to match her valuation,  it seems likely it would  have accepted  this (as it did when I 
questioned it about this point).
Its important to note that, when Im considering this settlement, this doesnt include any 
VAT that may be payable on top of the actual  cost for the damage. Ill address VAT 
separately below.  What Im considering here is the value of the actual buildings damage 
being claimed for. Given that Sainsburys isnt required to pay more than its suppliers would 
spend, and as the figure its willing to pay matches the highest valuation provided  by Miss 
N, Im currently satisfied  that the total settlement offered  £37,068.30  is fair and 
reasonable. And whilst  I wouldnt expect  Sainsburys  to cover all and any surveyors Miss N 
chose to hire, its agreed to reimburse her for the January 2018 report given its significance 
in progressing the claim.
VAT
Sainsburys hasnt paid Miss N the VAT calculated in her surveyors report. Although she 
says she paid VAT on materials purchased to do the works, our service doesnt generally  
expect insurers to pay VAT on top of the damage costs unless incurred and paid to a VAT- 
registered contractor.  Thats  because VAT doesnt  form part of the cost of the repair  work 
itself. If VAT is charged by a contractor, they have to pay it on to HMRC  meaning theyre 
effectively collecting tax revenue for the government.
Ultimately, Miss N can choose how to use the settlement. Shes not required to complete 
the works.  And she may be able to get the work  done without hiring a VAT registered 
contractor. Sainsburys maintains that it will pay VAT if Miss N can evidence that shes paid 
this to a VAT-registered  contractor to get the works  done. But Ive seen nothing  to suggest 
that happened. So Im not minded to direct  Sainsburys to pay VAT on top of its settlement.
Ref: DRN54882494Alternative accommodation
My understanding is that the following has been  paid under  alternative accommodation:
1) £4,625 in January 2017 for six-months accommodation, comprising of £725 for 
rent per month plus a £275  application  and holding fee. Miss N and her family 
subsequently stayed in this property  until mid-April 2018.
2) £1,304.50 in January 2018  for a stay of around a month in November 
and December 2016.
3) £1,200 in February  2018  for disturbance allowance  whilst staying with family 
and friends prior to a longer term rental  being  secured
4) £3,772 for kennel costs in March 2018
5) £14,089.50 in August  2018  for what Sainsburys said was the remainder of the 
£25,000 alternative accommodation limit available under Miss Ns buildings  
insurance.
Miss N maintains that various costs  remain outstanding. Shes sent our service various 
invoices relating to this. My role here isnt to handle  the claim,  but Ill set out how I think 
the alternative accommodation costs  should  be considered.
Im conscious that Sainsburys paid Miss N £31,442.13 for the building  damage  in 
March 2018. Miss N says this was offered in January 2018, challenged,  and then declined.  
But this doesnt  detract  from the substantial payment that was made. She says her builder 
wasnt able to proceed due to the delay in payment from Sainsburys.  But Ive not seen 
anything to substantiate this. Nor do I agree that Miss N would have been unable  to make 
the house habitable after receiving the payment of £31,442.13 around March 2018.
So, whilst the March  2018 payment is less than the amount Sainsburys ultimately agreed 
to pay, Im satisfied it would have been enough  to make the property habitable. And when 
settling in cash, the insurer  doesnt  hold responsibility for the time taken by the policyholder  
or their workers  to arrange  and complete  the repairs.  Ive also not seen evidence that Miss 
N promptly and clearly  set out to Sainsburys  why she thought more was due. So, in 
general terms, I dont consider it reasonable to expect Sainsburys to pay alternative  
accommodation costs  going beyond March  2018.
That said,  I do think Sainsburys has made  an error in how it considered the alternative 
accommodation limit. It capped this at £25,000  - in line with the limit available under 
Miss Ns buildings  cover. But she also claimed under the contents cover, and this also 
provides a £15,000 limit for alternative  accommodation. So on receipt of evidence  of any 
further reasonably-incurred costs that would fall under alternative accommodation cover 
(such as kennel costs  duplicated household  bills and kennel  costs), incurred prior to 
April 2018, I think Sainsburys should pay these. This will be subject to the overall £40,000 
limit, taking into account the amounts  its already paid.
Ref: DRN54882495Ill offer a little more  detail to help both sides understand what this will entail. I wouldnt 
expect Sainsburys to pay further  kennel costs,  disturbance allowance, or storage and 
moving costs incurred after it paid over £30,000  in March 2018.  By that point Miss N was 
responsible for arranging  the repairs. But it does appear that there may be some  earlier  
outstanding costs  for example, earlier kennel costs. Additionally, Miss N says she was 
incurring bills (water, gas and electricity,  and council tax) at both her insured property and 
her alternative accommodation.  In principle, subject to the limits/expectations  set out 
above, I consider  it reasonable  that Sainsburys should pay the duplicate bills for her 
uninhabited property   if these go beyond the amounts already paid (such as the 
£14,089.50 paid in August  2018, which wasnt specifically allocated for any particular 
costs).
Also relevant  to this is that Miss N says there  are outstanding costs  for electricity used 
during the drying process. £812.16 was paid for drying costs  in a payment made on 
30 January 2018.  She says this only covered the second period of drying from November 
2016 to February  2017, not the first from August to November 2016. But having seen the 
overall level of her gas and electricity  bills during that period, it doesnt substantiate that 
the £812.16 already paid isnt enough  to cover the additional electricity costs  she incurred 
as a result  of the drying.  As this is a payment made towards her electricity use, Sainsburys 
can take this into account when consider what bills remain  outstanding  as this in part 
covers electricity costs when Miss N had already moved into her alternative 
accommodation in January 2017.
To enable  Sainsburys  to consider whether there  is anything further to pay, I suggest that 
Miss N sends it all the invoices that she considers  to be outstanding.
Compensation
Its not in dispute  that Sainsburys made  errors in how it handled this claim. It caused  
delays and some of the works it did (such  as the drying) werent of the expected  standard. I 
accept what Miss N has told us about impact  this had, including the specific instances 
shes focussed on such as the circumstances surrounding the £31,442.13  settlement in 
2018.
When considering  particularly the impact  of the delays. Im mindful that not all the issues  
Miss N is now reporting were clearly and efficiently flagged up with Sainsburys at the time. 
Its taken some time even  with us to clarify what she feels  is outstanding.
Im only able to award compensation  for distress and inconvenience Miss N herself suffered, 
caused by errors on Sainsburys  part. So, I cant award compensation for the unavoidable 
stress of the leak and resultant claim. Nor can I do so if I consider  Sainsburys actions 
reasonable in the circumstances.
Bearing that in mind, as well as what Miss N has told us about  how the claim has affected  
her, Im satisfied £750 compensation is a fair reflection of the substantial  impact 
Sainsburys errors had on her.
Ref: DRN54882496Other costs
Whilst these points seem to have been  accepted by both sides,  for the sake of completeness  
Ill cover  off the remaining amounts that need  to be paid. Sainsburys has agreed to pay a 
further £360 for skip hire, in addition  to £180  previously paid. This matches the invoices Ive 
seen. Its also agreed  to pay £70 for reinstating her phone  line  as the contractors  agreed  to 
pay a settlement for reinstatement  of the property (i.e. to return  it to its pre-loss  state). And 
its accepted that Miss N made a typo when submitted her contents  list, and so it will pay a 
further £1,000 for her sofa suite.  Im satisfied this is all fair, as it matches the evidence and 
invoices Ive seen.
my provisional decision
For the reasons  given  above, Ive provisionally  decided to partially uphold  this complaint and 
direct U K Insurance Limited  to pay:
1)Anything remaining of the £37,068.30 settlement for the buildings damage
2)£1,080 (including VAT)  for the report dated  31 January 2018, which Miss N 
provided that was used for the basis of the settlement figure
3)£750 compensation
4)A further  £1,000 for the sofa
5)£360 for the two later skip invoices
6)£70 for the phone reinstatement
7)any further reasonable alternative  accommodation costs  incurred up to March  
2018 which Miss N can show remain unpaid, subject  to the overall limit of 
£40,000 for this section of the cover.
8% simple  interest per year will apply  to items  four to seven, from the date Miss N can show  
she evidenced these  costs to Sainsburys to the date of settlement.
I invited both sides to respond. Sainsburys confirmed it largely accepted  my findings, but 
queried point seven. It explained it didnt  want to leave it open-ended  for Miss N to submit  
further costs. Miss N disagreed. So, taking into account those response (the key points of 
which Ive referred to in my findings), Im now making the final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive largely  reached the same conclusions as I did in my provisional  
decision. Except that, as agreed  with both sides, it wont  be left open  ended for Miss N to 
submit further costs. Shes confirmed shes already submitted everything to me, so Ill pass 
this evidence on to Sainsburys  for it to consider.
Ive addressed the key points Miss N has raised, to explain  why I otherwise havent departed 
from my provisional findings.  Ive fully read and considered Miss Ns detailed  response. But I 
dont consider it appropriate or necessary to refer to all her points  to explain my decision. 
Ref: DRN54882497settlement amount
Miss N queries how Sainsburys reached  its own estimates to repair the damage, stating that 
she wants evidence of this. But I dont need this to reach my decision. This is because the 
settlement isnt based on those estimates. Sainsburys accepted  the estimate from her 
survey  the cost of which its also agreed  to cover. I dont consider it warranted  to award 
interest on top of this, as Sainsburys has already gone beyond its strict liability by agreeing 
to match  her estimate (and reimburse  the cost of this). 
Additionally, whilst Miss N says she repeatedly challenged the £5,070.17 discrepancy with 
the increased settlement, she hasnt shown me evidence that she clearly  set this out to 
Sainsburys at the time.  Nor did she accept this increase when it was offered. So whilst I 
agree that Sainsburys should now pay the remaining amount, I cant fairly award  interest for 
loss of use as Miss N didnt agree to receive  the increased amount.  Overall, Ive seen 
nothing which changes  my provisional  findings  on this point.
VAT
Miss N says VAT formed part of the repair works and evidence  has been provided.  But this 
doesnt take on board the explanation in my provisional decision that Id only expect  VAT to 
be paid if it had been paid to a VAT-registered  contractor. So I havent departed from my 
provisional findings on this issue.
alternative accommodation
Miss N says shes  accepts the house  could have been made  habitable following the 
payment in March  2018. But she was disputing the amount and that it was a final payment. 
And the earliest  it could have been made  habitable  was July 2018.  Ive already explained 
above why, once the settlement was made,  I dont consider  it appropriate to keep directing 
Sainsburys to cover the costs Miss N says stems from the house being inhabitable.  There is 
also a mitigation of loss point to consider. Wed expect policyholders to minimise the costs  
they incur.  Yet it doesnt appear the repairs works were started or completed promptly after 
the payment was made. I understand there may have  been issues  following through  on the 
quotes given the gap, but again I cant see this was pursued (or that an alternative option 
was arranged) promptly.  
Miss N also says the additional bill costs should be covered. Ive already explained above 
how and why I think duplicated bills should  be covered, up to the combined limit of £40,000  
so that Miss N is only paying  for the bills she had use of. As mentioned above, Miss N has 
confirmed that shes  already  sent in the bills and invoices shes  claiming.  So Ill pass these 
on to Sainsburys directly.  
I know Miss N has also raised that she challenged the alternative accommodation at the 
time. From what shes told us, it seems  clear that no better  alternatives  were available. In 
any event, this point  doesnt have a bearing  on what Ive awarded for alternative 
accommodation. Ive therefore reached  the same  findings on this point as I did in my 
provisional decision. 
Ref: DRN54882498compensation
Miss N disagrees with my statement that not all the issues shes  now reporting were  clearly 
and efficiently flagged  to Sainsburys at the time.  Ive considered her comments  and the 
records shes provided of her contact with Sainsburys (alongside those provided by 
Sainsburys). Im still of the view that her communication  with Sainsburys did, at times, make 
it difficult to identify and address  what was outstanding. Whilst she states that her partner is 
also a policyholder, I dont have details  of this and only she has raised this complaint. In any 
event, even accepting  that her partner may have  an interest in the policy, Im still satisfied 
£750 compensation is fair for the overall impact of Sainsburys  errors  which I agree was 
significant. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I partially uphold this complaint. I 
direct U K Insurance Limited  to:
1)Pay anything remaining of the £37,068.30 settlement for the buildings damage
2)Pay £1,080  (including VAT) for the report dated 31 January 2018, which  Miss N 
provided that was used for the basis of the settlement figure
3)Pay £750 compensation
4)Pay a further  £1,000  for the sofa
5)Pay £360 for the two later skip invoices
6)Pay £70 for the phone reinstatement
7)Consider any outstanding alternative accommodation costs,  in line with the 
invoices Ive sent it, incurred up to March 2018. This should  include paying the 
duplicate bills for the uninhabited property. This is subject  to the overall limit of 
£40,000 for this section of the cover. 
8% simple  interest per year will apply  to items  four to seven, from the date Miss N can show
she evidenced these  costs to Sainsburys to the date of settlement.
If Miss N accepts  this decision,  it becomes legally binding on both parties. So she wouldnt 
then be able to take legal  action in relation to any issues covered in this case. On the other  
hand, if she rejects the decision, whilst  that wont affect her legal  rights, it will mean  that 
Sainsburys wouldnt be obliged to comply  with my order   so it would then be purely a 
matter of goodwill  as to whether it honours what Ive suggested.  Legally,  an offer isnt 
binding until unconditional acceptance of it has been communicated  by the offeree.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss N to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 June 2021.
Rachel Loughlin
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5488249