K820x#14Complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
2004. Mr and Mrs G say Lloyds Bank PLC,  trading as Cheltenham  & Gloucester Plc 
(Lloyds), mis-sold them the PPI.
Background
Mr and Mrs G took out a mortgage in 2001.  In 2004 they took out a further advance  and PPI 
was taken out to cover the repayments  on this advance only. 
They paid a monthly amount for the policy. The policy  provided  joint cover and if either 
Mr or Mrs G had made a successful claim,  the policy would have paid out 50% of the 
cost of the monthly repayments  for up to 12 months.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs G disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion, so the complaint has been  passed  to me.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Gs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
Lloyds had to make it clear that Mr and Mrs G didnt have to take out the PPI and they had to 
agree to take it out. Mr and Mrs G have said they were unaware that PPI had been  added to 
their account  and they think  it was added without their knowledge. So with disputes  like this I 
need to decide what I think is more likely to have  happened.
Ive been given a copy of the PPI application  form which was completed at the time and I can 
see that it includes personal details about  Mr and Mrs G. I think  its likely these forms were  
completed following  discussions  with a Lloyds staff member. The form has been signed by 
them which suggests  it reflected what they wanted. This form is separate to the application  
for the further  advance and so I think Mr and Mrs G would have been aware this was a 
separate product. And Ive also seen that Mr G signed a separate direct  debit form to enable 
the premium to be debited  from their account.  If Mr and Mrs G didnt want  the policy,  they 
didnt have to sign the separate  PPI form or complete the direct debit instruction.
So, based  on everything Ive seen and been told, I think Lloyds did make Mr and Mrs G 
aware that the policy was optional and they chose to take it out, knowing they could refuse  it 
if they didnt want  it.
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs G so it had to check that the PPI was right for 
them  and based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For 
example they werent affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover and they 
seemed to have  had a need  for the cover. 
Ref: DRN53295812Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs G about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But they chose to take it out - so it looks like they wanted this type of cover.  
And it seems like it would  have been useful for them if something went wrong. It also looks  
like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about  the PPI would have put them  
off taking out the cover.
Ive thought about everything that Mr and Mrs G have said, including what  they have said 
about not needing the policy as they had savings which  they say would  have covered their 
total income for approximately six months if anything was to happen. But by having this 
policy it enabled them to protect their savings for another purpose,  which appears to be 
something they wanted to do as they chose to take out this loan rather  than utilise  their 
savings. 
Mr and Mrs G have also said they had a salary replacement policy. Theyve told us the policy  
was taken out around 2001 but unfortunately they havent been able to provide us with any 
paperwork to show the circumstances  under which the policy  would pay out, the benefit  it 
would provide or whether  there was any deferral  period before the policy  would pay out. 
Without evidence  of this other policy Im unable to place  as much weight on this as 
Mr and Mrs G would have liked me to. Ive thought about this carefully  and, while I think its 
possible that Mr and Mrs G did have another policy in existence, I dont have enough  to 
show it would have  provided cover for the repayments on this loan. So this doesnt alter my 
decision.
This means  that I dont think the policy  was mis-sold  and so it follows that Lloyds doesnt 
have to repay any of the premiums paid for the policy.
My final decision
For the reasons  stated  above, I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 September 2019.
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN5329581