K820x#14complaint
Mrs S has complained that AXA France IARD  mis-sold her a store  card payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
This policy was sold by a third party acting on behalf of the policy insurer.  I cant consider 
this complaint against the seller of the policy directly. This is because the sale took place 
before that firm, or its predecessor-in-title,  was regulated  by the then Financial Services 
Authority (FSA) for insurance intermediation activities or was otherwise covered by our 
jurisdiction. But the seller was acting as the insurers agent.
Mrs S will notice that her complaint was originally set up against another  business  who were  
the original insurer.  However, that insurer has now transferred its business to AXA France 
IARD, so it has taken responsibility for the sale. To keep things simple, Ill just be referring  to 
AXA in this decision.
background
Mrs S took out the policy in a shop  in May 2001.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs S disagrees with the adjudicators opinion 
and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account  in deciding  
this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ss complaint and Ill explain why.
Ive seen a copy  of the application form that Mrs S completed at the time. There is a 
separate section  for PPI and Mrs S has signed  in that section to request the policy.  She 
could have left that section  blank  if she hadnt  wanted PPI  the wording says: Only  sign this 
box if you require Account Cover. I consider that Mrs S would have known from the wording 
and layout of the form that the PPI was optional.
Mrs Ss former representative had said that this section could easily have  been  perceived as 
being about protection for lost or stolen cards. However there was a separate section below 
for Card Protection which Mrs S has left blank. So Im satisfied that it was more  likely than 
not that Mrs S was aware  that she was signing for PPI.
The sale happened a long time ago and so it wouldnt be surprising  if Mrs Ss recollection of 
events has faded.  Based on the available evidence, it seems to me that Mrs S decided  to 
buy the PPI, knowing  that she didnt have  to, even if she no longer remembers  doing so.
AXA didnt advise  Mrs S to buy the PPI, so it didnt need to ensure that it met her needs.  But 
it did need to provide  her with enough  information for her to be able to make an informed 
choice about whether  or not the policy was right for her.
Ref: DRN53171782Mrs S would have received some sick pay from her job. But the PPI would have paid out in 
addition to any sick pay and potentially for longer than Mrs S would have received full pay 
for. Mrs S has told us she had some  savings. But having the policy  would have meant that 
she could retain these or used them to cover other outgoings at what would have  been  a 
difficult time. Overall, I consider that Mrs S had a need for the policy and could have 
benefitted from it.
Its possible that AXA didnt provide  as much information about  the policy as it should have, 
particularly about  the things that it didnt cover. But Mrs S wasnt  affected by any of those 
things. As I consider  she had an interest  in the policy  and decided  to buy it, I dont  think  that 
further information would have caused her to change her mind.  So she is no worse  off as a 
result of anything AXA may have  done wrong.  So theres nothing AXA needs to do to put 
things right.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  Mrs Ss complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 June 2020.
Carole Clark
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5317178