K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out 
between 1995  and 2000. Mr W says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold  him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ws case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Lloyds had to make Mr W aware that the PPI was optional and gain his consent before  
adding it to his card. There isnt any paperwork available from the time the policy was sold. 
But this isnt unusual  considering the time that has passed and that businesses  arent  
required to keep this kind of information indefinitely.  From the little information available  I am 
unable to say the policy wasnt presented as optional to Mr W, or that he didnt choose to 
take it.
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr W so it had to check that the PPI was right for him. Mr W 
has told us that he would  have been  entitled to good  sick pay when he took out the PPI. But 
the policy would have paid out in addition to Mr Ws sick pay, and for longer than he would 
have received full pay.
Based on what Ive seen  of Mr Ws circumstances at the time, he wasnt  affected by any of 
the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover  and he seems to have had a need  for the cover. 
So I think it was right for him.  
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr W about  the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve 
been. But I think he chose  to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover.  And it 
seems like it would have  been useful for him if something went wrong.  It also looks like it 
was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put him off 
taking out the cover.  
Which means Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr W.
But Lloyds has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr W because: 
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit  share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr W about  that. Because  Lloyds didnt  tell Mr W, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission  and profit  share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ref: DRN54530752my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank  PLC does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr W.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have  to pay back to Mr W any commission  and profit share  it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done  this, so I dont 
award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr W to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 September 2019.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5453075