K820x#14This final decision is issued by me, Nimish Patel,  an Ombudsman with the Financial 
Ombudsman Service.  
I issued a Provisional  Decision on 16 May 2019  (the Provisional Decision) explaining  that I 
was not minded to uphold the complaint  and setting out my reasons for reaching  those  
provisional conclusions.  I explained that I would consider the parties further  representations  
(together with the evidence  and arguments submitted before the Provisional Decision) 
before reaching  my final decision.  
Neither party made further  submissions.  This is my final decision on Miss Ms complaint.
summary
1. This dispute  is about the sale, in 1996, of a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy in connection with a hire purchase  (HP) agreement  sold by what  was then 
The First Personal  Bank plc, and is now Santander Cards UK Limited, who was 
acting on behalf of Financial Insurance Company Limited  (FICL).
2. I cannot consider  this complaint against Santander Cards UK Limited directly. This 
is because the sale occurred in March 1996, before that firm, or its predecessor-in-
title, was regulated by the Financial Services Authority (FSA) for insurance  
intermediation activities, or was otherwise covered  by our jurisdiction (for example 
through membership  of a former  scheme such as the Office  of the Banking 
Ombudsman Scheme).  As a result,  in the rest of this decision I will refer only to 
FICL unless it is appropriate  to differentiate  between  FICL and its agent,  for 
example in the application  of codes of practice.
3. Miss M complains that FICL  did not properly explain  the policys  features, 
exclusions and limitations. She says that, if it had, she would not have taken the 
policy out.
4. FICL  considers that Miss M was provided  with full details of the policy and that the 
policy was not mis-sold.
5. I have carefully considered all of the evidence and arguments submitted by 
both sides in order to decide what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of this complaint.
6. This is not a straightforward  complaint, with both parties  making credible 
arguments in support of their positions.  But, for the reasons I explain in detail 
below, I have decided to determine the complaint  in favour of FICL, to the 
extent that I have  not made  an award in favour of Miss M.
7. This is my final decision. In summary, based on the evidence  and arguments 
submitted during the course  of the complaint,  my final conclusions  are as 
follows:
Miss M made her decision  to take out the policy based on the information  FICL 
gave her about the policy.
Taking into account the law, industry  codes  of practice and what 
I consider to have  been good practice  in 1996 (the sale took place 
Ref: DRN50376352before the FSA began to regulate the sale of payment protection 
contracts like these), FICL should fairly and reasonably have provided 
Miss M with sufficient clear,  fair and not misleading  information about 
the policy it was offering  to enable her to make an informed decision 
about whether  to take it out.
FICL  did not act fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Miss M. It did 
not provide Miss M with sufficient  information about the costs, benefits,  
exclusions and limitations affecting the cover in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way to enable her to make an informed choice about 
whether to take out the policy.
Miss M made her decision  to take out the policy based on incomplete 
information. But if things  had happened as they should, on the 
evidence available  in this case,  it is more  likely  than not Miss M would 
still have taken out the policy.
It would  not be fair in those circumstances to make an award  to 
compensate Miss M for the money she spent  in connection with the 
policy.
8. Under  the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Miss M 
either to accept  or reject  my decision before XXX.
background to the complaint
a)events leading up to the complaint
9. Miss M applied for the finance  on 6 March  1996. The credit  agreement (which  included 
the payment protection insurance  application) was completed  in the store  
requesting both the finance  and PPI. The agreement started  on the same day.
10. I do not have details  of the transactions on Miss Ms account,  but FICL  says the PPI 
premiums charged to the account  amounted  to a total of £223.63.
11. FICL also told us that the policy is no longer active and that the HP agreement was 
closed in August 2005.
b)Miss Ms circumstances  in 1996
12. When Miss M initially brought her complaint to us, she said:
she had worked for her employer for 13 years when she applied for the loan 
and was earning £19,000 a year;
she was entitled  to sick pay and redundancy pay from her employer worth at 
least six months pay; and
she had savings of around £2,000 that were accessible at all times and had 
been set aside for an emergency.
Ref: DRN50376353she suffered with back pain in around 1990 for which she had received hospital  
treatment and used  medications including ibuprofen and paracetamol. She said 
the condition had not caused her to take any time off work. 
she bought  the policy in connection  with a store card she took out while buying 
clothing.
13. While I note Miss Ms representations, the evidence shows  she is mistaken both about 
taking out the policy  with a store card and about buying clothing at the time. Rather her 
HP agreement was for the purchase of computer  equipment  at Dixons.
c)the policy   what was being sold and what did Miss M buy?
14. FICL has not been  able to provide a copy of the policy terms and conditions that would 
have applied at the time of this sale. However,  I do have a copy of a policy  document   
entitled Payment Protection  Insurance Certificate of Insurance dated July 1997. The 
document post-dates the sale but, in the absence  of persuasive evidence to suggest 
otherwise, I am satisfied I can rely on it as indicative of what Miss Ms policy terms and 
conditions are more likely  than not to have  said.  
15. The terms and conditions  were  set out in a Certificate of Insurance (although the 
layout of the document suggests  it may have been provided to Miss M in the form of a 
leaflet). Among  other things,  the Certificate  of Insurance  shows  that:
There were  eligibility criteria, divided into two sections. The first section 
included a requirement (in relation  to disability and unemployment  cover) 
for the applicant to be aged  18 or over, but under 65, and working  in 
paid employment  for 16 or more hours  per week  when  the finance 
started. Had Miss M not met these requirements, she would not have 
been covered  by the PPI element of the policy  but from the information 
I have, Miss M did meet them. Additionally, for life cover the applicant 
had to be aged 18 or over and less than 70, which  Miss M was. 
This section also included criteria for accidental bodily injury and 
hospitalisation cover, where the applicant had to be aged 65 or over or 
permanently retired. This was not relevant  to Miss M (given that she was 
aged 48 and was working) at the time of sale.
The second section  of the eligibility  criteria said the applicant must not be 
aware of any sickness, disease, condition or injury in the 12 months  
before the credit  started which may cause them to claim disability 
benefits (or any time before the start date with regard to life cover).  Nor 
should the applicant be aware  of any impending unemployment. If they 
were, no benefits  would be payable for those  things. So this section of 
the eligibility criteria acted as a limitation on the PPI cover. 
 The policy provided life cover  it would have  paid off Miss Ms outstanding 
balance on her HP agreement in the event  of her death up to a maximum of 
£15,000.
Ref: DRN50376354 The policy provided disability cover.  Broadly,  if Miss M had been unable  to 
carry out the duties  of her normal job or a similar job which  she was qualified,  
or may reasonably become qualified, to do when considering her training, 
education and ability due to sickness,  disease or bodily injury, it would have 
paid a monthly benefit (usually equal to the monthly loan instalment) until the 
policy ended,  the outstanding balance had been  paid or a maximum of 12 
monthly benefits had been paid, whichever came first.
 The policy provided unemployment benefits.  Broadly, if Miss M had become 
unemployed, the policy  would have paid a monthly benefit (usually equal to the 
monthly loan instalment) until the policy ended,  the outstanding balance  had 
been paid or a maximum of 12 monthly  benefits  had been  paid, whichever  
came first.
16. There were  two underwriters listed in the policy  Financial Assurance Company 
Limited for the life cover and Financial Insurance  Company Limited  for the other 
insurance, both member companies  of Consolidated Financial Insurance.  The seller 
was acting as agent for both.  However, Miss Ms complaint focused on the PPI 
element of the policy,  and FICL provided this element of the cover, so it is the 
respondent in this complaint.
17. To put the benefits into context,  if Miss M had made a successful claim for 12 months, 
she would  have received £773.52  made up of £64.46 per month.
18. Returning to the policy terms and conditions, there were exclusions  for example, 
the policy excluded disability  claims resulting from pre-existing medical  conditions  
which you knew about (or ought  reasonably to have known about) in the 12 months 
before the Start Date [or] for which  you sought or received  advice, treatment or 
counselling from any Doctor  during the 12 months immediately  before the Start  
Date.
19. The policy also contained limitations  on the circumstances in which a successful 
claim could be made,  for example:
the policy would have covered Miss M if she was unable to work  because of a 
psychiatric illness or mental or nervous disorder (including  stress and stress 
related conditions),  but only if it had been  investigated and diagnosed  by a 
relevant consultant.
the policy would have covered Miss M if she was unable  to work because  of 
backache and related conditions, but only if there  was radiological medical  
evidence of abnormality causing the disability.
d)the complaint  and FICLs response
20. Miss Ms representative, Claims Advice  Bureau (UK) Limited  (CAB), made 
lengthy and substantial representations  on her behalf prior to the Provisional 
Decision.
Ref: DRN5037635521. I will not restate them all here. Instead,  I will refer to some of the specific  
representations she has made at relevant times  in this decision. But I have read 
and considered  them  all carefully. In essence,  Miss M said:
 FICL  did not give her the information  it should  have given her about the costs 
and benefits associated with the policy. She needed  to keep her costs  to a 
minimum and the policy was sold to her despite her having  other  ways  of 
meeting her monthly  repayments  if she was unable to work.
 It was not enough  to present the policy premium as the cost per £100 of the 
outstanding balance. The true costs were much  higher as the premiums were  
added to the account attracting interest  (which compounded over time) and the 
premiums would  continue  to be charged during the period  of a successful 
claim, reducing the benefit. This meant  the policy  was both expensive and 
represented exceptionally poor value.  
FICL  did not tell her about the poor value  of the policy, which is illustrated by 
the low claims  ratio,  where Miss M says that only 12% of the premium was 
going towards providing the insurance benefits.  
FICL  did not tell her about the limitations affecting the policy   in particular, that 
the policy would only pay out if she was unable  to do her job or alternative work 
she was capable  of doing and that claims arising from back injury  and mental  
health were excluded or limited which significantly reduced the cover provided  
by the policy  and the prospects of making a successful claim.  This reduced 
further the policys value, particularly as those conditions are the cause  of the 
most common reasons for long term absence.
These were substantial flaws in the sale process. Had she known the true cost 
of the policy, the limits on the cover and its poor value, she would not have 
taken it out.
In any event, the FCAs  guidance at DISP App 3.6.2 E makes  it clear that it 
should be presumed she would not have taken out the policy unless there is 
evidence to outweigh  the presumption. There is no evidence to rebut the 
presumption.
FICL  should pay compensation to put her in the position she would have been 
in if she had not taken out the policy.
22. FICLs representations were  set out in its response to Miss Ms complaint. 
Again I will not restate them all, but I have read and considered  them carefully.  
In essence, FICL said:
Miss M applied for her HP agreement in store in March  1996, and the PPI 
would have been presented as being  optional  at that point. FICL noted  that 
Miss M signed the section of the credit agreement relating to PPI.
No advice or recommendations would have  been  given about  the PPI, and it 
could find no evidence  that the sale was not carried out in accordance  with the 
relevant procedures.
Ref: DRN50376356Sufficient information would have been  provided  at the point  of sale for Miss M 
to make an informed decision,  including information about the cost. She would 
also have been sent the full details of the policy  including eligibility,  
exclusions and limitations, and levels of cover  after she took it out. It could 
not see that any of the policys limitations  meant  it would  have been 
inappropriate for Miss M at the time of sale.
Miss M would have been  made  aware of the PPI premium both at the 
time of sale and afterwards.
 
Overall, it said there was no evidence that the policy  was mis-sold.
23. Neither  party made any further  representations in response to the Provisional Decision.
my findings
24. I have read and considered all the evidence and arguments available to me from the 
outset, in order to decide what is, in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the case.
a)jurisdiction
25. As I have explained,  this complaint  is about  finance sold by The First Personal 
Bank plc  now Santander  Cards UK Limited  in 1996. At the time, The First 
Personal Bank plc was acting  as an agent of FICL, which was a member  of one of 
our former schemes at the relevant time  the Insurance Ombudsman Bureau 
(IOB). FICL has accepted that The First Personal Bank  plc was acting on its behalf 
in the sale of Miss Ms policy in 1996.  As such,  I am considering  this complaint 
about FICL.
b)relevant considerations
26. When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account 
relevant law and regulations,  relevant  regulators rules, guidance and standards,  
relevant codes  of practice and, where  appropriate, what  I consider to have been  good 
industry practice at the time, as set out in DISP 3.6.4 R1.
27. This sale took place  in 1996,  before the General Insurance Standards  Council (GISC) 
published its code of practice  in June 2000 and before the sale of general  insurance 
products like this became regulated by the FSA in January 2005. So the GISC code, 
the FSAs  (and FCAs) overarching Principles  for Businesses,  Perimeter  Guidance 
and insurance  conduct rules  (ICOB and ICOBS) are not applicable to this complaint.
28. FICL was not the lender in this instance.  That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out at s140A of the Consumer Credit  Act, the Supreme Court  judgment in Plevin2 
about s140A of that Act and the rules  and guidance recently made  by the FCA about  
the handling of complaints about the non-disclosure of commission  in the light of the 
Plevin judgment, are not applicable  either.
1 The Dispute  Resolution Rules can be found in the FCAs Handbook
2 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Limited  [2014]  UKSC 61
Ref: DRN5037635729. But there were a number of industry codes in existence at the time, which  I am 
satisfied are applicable  to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
The Association  of British  Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practic e for 
all intermediaries  (including  Employees  of Insurance Companies) other than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code
30. First introduced in 1989 and updated  in March 1996, the ABI Code set out a 
framework of general principles  within which ABI members and intermediaries 
were expected  to sell general  insurance,  including payment protection  policies like 
this.
31. The Code said that As a condition  of membership of the Association of British 
Insurers (ABI), members undertake to enforce this Code  and to use their best 
endeavours to ensure that all those involved in selling their policies observe its 
provisions. FICL was a member of the ABI and the seller  its agent  was acting  
as an intermediary.
32. Among  other things, the Code said that:
 It shall be an overriding obligation  of an intermediary at all times to 
conduct business with utmost  good  faith and integrity.
 The intermediary should:
oensure  as far as possible that the policy proposed is suitable  to the needs  
and resources of the prospective policyholder.
oexplain  all the essential provisions of the cover  afforded by the policy, or 
policies, which he is recommending, so as to ensure as far as possible that 
the prospective policyholder understands what he is buying.
odraw  attention to any restrictions and exclusions applying to the policy.
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
33. The ABI also issued  guidance to member  companies on the application of the ABI
Code and a note summarising the main points  of that guidance.
34. The Guidance  Notes  for Intermediaries  issued in December  1994  included:
When selling  insurance intermediaries must:
...2.5 Explain the essential  provisions  of the insurance cover, draw attention to 
any restrictions and exclusions under it, as well as the consequences  of 
non-disclosure
2.13 If an independent intermediary, disclose commission on request
Ref: DRN5037635835. The Resume for Intermediaries, published in July 1999 and relating to the ABI 
Code, explained  how insurers  should interpret some of the key requirements  of 
the code  including:
2.2.1 Best endeavours 
This aspect  is relevant  to ABI members  who are responsible for enforcing  the 
Code rather than intermediaries. The phrase is linked to the member 
undertaking to enforce the Code  and use of the phrase best  endeavours 
means that every practical effort should be made within reasonable bounds as 
well as in accordance with the general framework  of guidance and individual  
insurers operational methods. The procedural guidance in paragraph 3 
provides a more  structured framework whereby this obligation on ABI members  
can be met more definitely. 
2.2.2 Explain all the essential provisions
It is necessary for the intermediary (insurer, if dealing direct)  to provide an 
overview of the policy. The detail will vary depending on the particular class  of 
insurance. However, the proposer should have a reasonable understanding  of 
what he is buying, whether this is explained  orally or whether he is given a 
summary and his attention drawn to the main points. In this respect, it is 
important to recognise the responsibility  under the ABI Statement of General  
Insurance Practice that insurers will work  towards  clearer policy wordings.
The intermediary is not expected to go through all the provisions and exclusions 
in detail. The important  feature is to identify the level of cover  being provided (for 
example, in the case of household contents  whether it is indemnity or new  for 
old), that the type of policy being sold suits the circumstances of the proposer 
and the level of protection they are seeking as far as possible. It is not good 
enough simply to offer, for example, an indemnity basis of cover  without  
explaining the limitations and, indeed, that other options are available,  unless,  of 
course, the proposer  wittingly asks for that type of cover.
2.2.3 Draw attention to any restrictions and exclusions
The same general principles outlined above  apply equally here.  Certain 
exclusions, conditions,  restrictions etc under a particular policy will be common  
to all policyholders,  for example, a condition  about  fraud. In those 
circumstances, it would  not be necessary to identify  these other than by 
reference to general  exclusions  applying to all policyholders of a particular type 
of insurance, either  orally or in policyholder documentation.
However, some will be more relevant  and, indeed, significant to certain  but not 
other policyholders. An example would be where benefit to self-employed  
people is either  excluded or severely  restricted for redundancy cover  under a 
creditor insurance policy. Clearly, self-employed people should  be made aware 
of this so they can decide whether the other  benefits under the policy and the 
premium to be paid justifies taking out such a policy.
Ref: DRN503763593.1 Detailed procedural  guidance to assist insurers and intermediaries alike 
to more properly observe the provisions  of the Code have been prepared. As 
a reasonable minimum to comply with the overall  obligations under  the Code, 
members have agreed:
 to follow,  rigorously, revised  appointment criteria  for the 
appointment of new agents;
 to remind  intermediaries on a regular  basis (annually as a 
minimum) about their duty to display  a declaration of status, both 
in offices and documentation.  The examples of their sales  
documentation and other literature should also be provided 
(again annually as a minimum) for verification purposes;
 to supply all intermediaries with the ABI produced guidance notes 
designed to give a brief overview of the ABI Code. The notes are 
intended to help intermediaries to comply with their obligations to 
insurers under the Code and to explain how they should go about the 
selling process. 
an individual member  of the insurance  staff should be appointed  to 
oversee the procedural  aspects, possibly doubling as the ABI Code 
contact;
 for creditor, travel and extended warranty / mechanical breakdown 
insurance, where particular difficulties  have arisen, extra  care should be 
taken to ensure  that the relevant  sales forces are conversant  in the 
requirements of the Code and obliged to follow more  specific  procedures 
for dealing with agents selling these  mass-marketed products.
36. The Resume for Intermediaries also highlighted  the importance  of the ABI Code. 
It noted:
The Code is mandatory for business sold by ABI members in the UK. The DTI are 
responsible for ensuring that companies which are not members  of ABI comply 
with the Code and, in addition, bringing the Code to the attention of foreign 
insurance companies covering UK risks on a services basis  as part of the UKs 
general good rules.
The ABI Statement  of Practice  for Payment  Protection  Insurance
37. The ABI also published a statement in December 1996 about PPI. Among other 
things, it said:
Providers will give sufficient detail of the essential provisions of the cover afforded 
by the policy  so as to ensure, as far as is possible, that the prospective insured 
person understands what he/she is buying.
In particular:
Ref: DRN503763510 the suitability of a contract  will be explained  to those who are self-
employed, those on contract or part time work,  and those  with pre-existing 
medical conditions;
 details of the main features of the cover as well as important and relevant  
restrictions will be made available and highlighted at the time the insurance 
is taken out with full details  being sent afterwards;
 all written  material will be clear and not misleading;
 full details of the cover  will be provided  as soon  as possible after completion 
of the contract.
Finance & Leasing Association  (FLA) Code of Practice
38. This Code was introduced in 1992, and set out standards  of good practice for 
the finance and leasing industry.  Section 4 of the Code covered Credit 
Protection Insurance, the provisions being  as follows:
4.1 Members shall ensure that customers are made  aware,  where appropriate, of 
the availability  of credit protection  insurance.
4.2 Details of the major  items of cover and exclusions under credit protection
insurance policies  arranged by the member, including eligibility criteria,  shall be set 
out both clearly and prominently in appropriate literature. Customers shall be given  
this information,  together  with the cost of the cover, prior to making a decision to 
apply for insurance  or at the time that an application for insurance is being made.
4.3 Customers shall be supplied with full details of the credit  protection insurance 
policy terms as soon  as possible after the making of the agreement (but not more  
than 21 days after the making of the agreement or before any instalment becomes 
due under it, whichever is later).
39. As I have explained, FICL  was a member of the ABI, so it was subject to the ABI 
Code and its associated requirements  as set out above. The seller  but not FICL  
was a member  of the FLA and subscribed to the FLA Code, so I consider it 
reasonable to assume that the seller (as a member  of the FLA) should  have 
complied with its Code when  selling PPI, and this extends to when  it was acting as 
an agent of FICL.
40. So I am satisfied it is right that I should take these Codes into account when 
deciding what  is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Miss Ms 
case.
The law
41. I have also taken account of the law, including: the law relating to negligence and 
contract (including the express  and implied duty on professional advisers to give 
advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law relating to the duty of 
utmost good faith; the law relating to misrepresentation  and the law relating  to 
causation and remoteness.
Ref: DRN503763511The approach taken  by former schemes
42. Under  the Transitional  Provisions3 which  continue to apply to complaints like this about 
acts or omissions before 1 December  2001,  I am also required to take into account 
what determination the relevant former  scheme  in this case the IOB (which FICL 
subscribed to)  might have  been  expected to reach in relation to an equivalent 
complaint.
43. In that respect I note that, under the IOBs terms of reference, the Ombudsmans duties 
were, among other  things:
(i) To have regard to and act in conformity with
(a) the terms of any contract;
(b) any applicable  rule of law, judicial authority or statutory provision; and
(c) the general principles of good insurance, investment or marketing practice, the 
ABIs Statement  and Codes  of lnsurance Practice,  and the LAUTRO  and lMRO 
rules; but with (c) prevailing  over (b) in favour of the complainant.
(ii) To have regard to (without  being bound by) any previous decision of any
Ombudsman.
(iii) To have regard to (without  being bound by) any guidance of a general  nature 
given by Council.
(iv) ln the light of (i) (ii) and (iii), to assess what solution would be fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances.
The FCAs guidance  for firms Handling PPI complaints   DISP  App 3
44. I am also mindful of the evidential provisions  and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first 
issued by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should  handle  complaints 
relating to the sale of payment  protection contracts like Miss Ms.
45. The sale took place before insurance mediation became  a regulated  activity  in January 
2005, so FICL was required  to take into account the evidential provisions in DISP  
App 3 as if they were  guidance  when  considering Miss Ms complaint.
46. I note DISP  App 3 includes guidance  for firms about assessing a complaint in order 
to establish whether the firms conduct  of the sale fell short of the regulatory and 
legal standards expected at the time of sale  referred to as breaches  or failings. It 
did not impose new, retrospective,  expectations  about selling standards.
47. DISP  App 3 also contains guidance for firms about determining  the way the 
complainant would have acted if a breach or failing by the firm had not occurred. 
In relation  to that it says:
3 The Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Transitional Provisions) (Ombudsman 
Scheme and Complaints  Scheme) Order  2001 (SI 2001/2326)
Ref: DRN503763512DISP  App 3.1.3  G
Where the firm determines that there  was a breach or failing, the firm should consider 
whether the complainant would have  bought  the payment protection contract in the 
absence of that breach or failing. This appendix  establishes presumptions  for the firm 
to apply about how the complainant would have  acted if there had instead been no 
breach or failing by the firm. The presumptions are:
(1)for some breaches or failings (see DISP App 3.6.2 E), the firm should  
presume that the complainant would not have bought the payment 
protection contract he bought; and
(2)for certain of those  breaches  or failings (see DISP App 3.7.7 E), where  the 
complainant bought  a single premium payment protection contract, the firm 
may presume that the complainant would have bought a regular premium 
payment protection contract instead  of the payment protection contract he 
bought.
DISP 3.1.4 G
There may also be instances where  a firm concludes after investigation  that, 
notwithstanding breaches or failings by the firm, the complainant would nevertheless  
still have proceeded to buy the payment protection contract he bought.
DISP App 3.6.1 E
Where the firm determines that there  was a breach or failing, the firm should 
consider whether the complainant would have bought the payment protection  
contract in the absence  of that breach or failing.
DISP App 3.6.2 E
In the absence of evidence  to the contrary, the firm should presume that the 
complainant would not have bought  the payment protection contract he bought if the 
sale was substantially flawed, for example where the firm:
(3) did not disclose to the complainant, in good time before the sale was 
concluded, and in a way that was fair, clear and not misleading, the 
significant exclusions and limitations,  i.e. those  that would tend to 
affect the decisions of customers generally to buy the policy;
(8) did not disclose to the complainant, in good  time before  the sale was 
concluded and in a way that was fair, clear and not misleading, the total 
(not just monthly) cost of the policy separately  from any other process 
(or the basis for calculating  it so that the complainant could verify it);
(10) provided misleading or inaccurate information about the policy to 
the complainant;
DISP App 3.6.3 E
Ref: DRN503763513Relevant evidence might  include  the complainants  demands,  needs and 
intentions at the time of the sale and any other  relevant  evidence,  including any 
testimony by the complainant about  his reasons at the time of the sale for 
purchasing the payment protection contract.
Overall
48. Taking  the relevant  considerations  into account, it seems  to me that the overarching  
questions I need to consider in deciding what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable 
in all the circumstances of this complaint,  are:
 If FICL gave advice,  whether it advised  Miss M with reasonable care and skill  
in particular, whether  the policy was appropriate or suitable for her, given her 
needs and circumstances.
 Whether FICL gave  Miss M sufficient, appropriate and timely information to 
enable him to make an informed choice about  whether to take out the policy, 
including drawing  to her attention and highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  
and exclusions.
 If, having considered  these questions, I determine the complaint in favour of 
Miss M, I must then go on to consider whether and to what extent she suffered 
loss or damage and what I consider would amount  to fair compensation for 
that loss or damage.
49. Miss M says FICL ought fairly and reasonably to have gone further than I have 
suggested when providing information. I shall address Miss Ms representations 
about this later on.
c)the sale  what actually happened?
50. The evidence in this case is quite limited. When Miss M sent us her PPI 
questionnaire (PPIQ)  in March 2018 she said the policy  was sold in a meeting. She 
did not say whether she was advised to take out the PPI. 
51. FICL said that:
 Miss M took out the HP agreement  and associated  PPI in a store.
 The credit  agreement  had a section headed Payment Protection Insurance  
Application  in which  she had to sign (separately from her signature for the 
credit) to say that she wanted the policy.
 Sufficient information would have been  provided  at the time of sale for Miss M 
to make an informed decision,  including information about the cost.
 It would have  sent documentation  confirming the sale of the policy,  and 
providing full details of the insurance  (including details of the cooling off period 
and cancellation  terms), after Miss M took out the HP agreement  and policy.
Ref: DRN50376351452. FICL has provided copies of Miss Ms signed credit agreement  and a Certificate of 
Insurance which post-dates  the sale. In the section  of the credit  agreement headed 
Payment Protection  Insurance  Application it says:
An optional Payment  Protection Insurance plan (details with your copy  of the 
agreement) is available in connection with this Account and will be provided (subject 
to eligibility) if you sign the box opposite.  If you require Payment Protection 
Insurance the monthly premium,  currently  an amount  equivalent to 11.0%  of your 
monthly loan repayment should be remitted with your loan repayment each month. 
Current Monthly Payment Protection  Premium 6.39
Monthly Payment inclusive of Loan Repayment  and Insurance  Premium  64.46
The premium is variable  as is the method of calculation
I require Payment Protection Insurance
53. Below  this text was a box marked Signature . Miss Ms signature appears in the box.
54. Having  considered  both parties  representations,  and keeping  in mind the limitations 
in the evidence  they have been  able to provide (which is not surprising given  the sale 
took place  more  than 20 years  ago, and the account  was closed over 10 years ago), I 
find:
 Miss M took out the HP agreement  and policy while in a store,  with the 
account being opened there  and then.
It is more likely  than not that the HP agreement was part of a pack, given out at 
the time of sale, which included a customer copy containing more information 
about the policy  as the wording in the HP agreement suggests was the case. 
But in the absence of a copy of that document, or a sample copy, I cannot say 
how much information was included or how it was set out.
 It is more likely than not that FICL did send the policy document to Miss M after 
she took out the HP agreement, even if Miss M does  not remember receiving it 
 but that would  not have played a part in her decision to apply for the policy, 
so it is of little consequence to the sale (other than to clarify what  Miss M 
bought).
It is more likely  than not that policy terms and conditions similar to those set 
out in the Certificate of Insurance that FICL  supplied, and as I have  found,  this 
was more likely than not to have been sent out after the sale.
d)did things happen as they should in 1996?
Ref: DRN50376351555. Both parties agree  that the information  FICL gave Miss M about the policy was set out 
in a store. And I have not seen anything in the evidence I have that contradicts FICLs 
testimony so as to suggest that advice  was given. Rather, it seems more likely, given 
the circumstances of the sale  as I will set out below  that FICL gave Miss M the HP 
agreement and potentially other  information  containing information  about the policy  
while in store.
56. So the question I need to consider  is whether FICL provided Miss M with sufficient 
information in an appropriate way to enable her to make a properly informed decision 
about whether to take out the policy.
57. For the reasons  I shall explain,  I do not think it did. Exactly how, and the extent to 
which, FICL fell short of what was reasonably  expected of it, and its relevance to 
Miss M is, in my view, important to my consideration of the question which ultimately  
lies at the heart of this complaint: would Miss M have acted differently if FICL had 
explained things properly?
58. Having  considered all of the information,  including Miss Ms representations about 
what happened, I am satisfied  it is more likely then not that Miss M agreed to the 
policy, knowing that she did not have to take it out.
59. In reaching that conclusion, I note the HP agreement shows Miss M signed separately 
for the policy.
60. I have set out above the wording in the policy section of the credit  agreement.  This 
does not say the insurance is compulsory and, by having to sign to take out the 
insurance, I am not persuaded  Miss M would have been given the impression that she 
did not have  a choice about  whether  to take it out or not.
61. I have also considered whether the sales assistant gave Miss M sufficient 
information about the cover  provided by the policy to enable her to make an 
informed decision  about whether to take out the policy.
62. Miss M has not provided much detail about  the sequence of events  which  is 
unsurprising given the length  of time since she took out the HP agreement  and 
policy.
63. Because of the limited evidence, I cannot know what  happened in the store when 
Miss M took out the finance and policy. FICL says only that it gave Miss M sufficient 
information at the time of the sale,  and has provided  a copy of the signed  credit 
agreement and policy application  form. Given the sale was carried  out in a non-
financial business, I consider it more likely than not that any reference  to the policy  
would have been fleeting  nothing which might reasonably be described as a 
detailed discussion  or conversation about  it.
64. I think it is likely that, when Miss M went into the store, she was given the HP 
agreement and possibly more  material about  both it and the policy  so as to 
encourage her to take them.
65. However, the evidence from the time of the sale does not tell us whether Miss M was 
given any verbal  information about  the monthly premium  even in passing  or 
information about the monthly benefit or about  the exclusions  and limitations, before 
she agreed to take out the policy. The limited evidence there is suggests that FICL 
Ref: DRN503763516relied on the policy information set out in the customer copy  of the HP agreement  to 
provide that information, albeit which I can see did clearly include the monthly 
premium. I am satisfied that this reflected the true cost of the policy as, for example, 
unlike PPI attached to credit cards the premiums were not added to the account and 
so did not attract interest.
66. The HP agreement  did refer to the further details of the policy being provided to 
Miss M with her copy of the agreement. I have found that Miss M would more likely 
than not have  been given that document. But, as I have explained,  I do not have a 
copy of it, so I cannot  say how the policy information would have been presented, or 
how much of the document  would have  been  taken  up with the terms and conditions 
relating to the credit agreement. Neither can I know  what  opportunity  Miss M may 
have had to read such a document at the time of the sale.
67. While I am satisfied  FICL also sent the Certificate of Insurance  setting out full policy 
conditions to Miss M after the event, I do not consider that means  FICL gave Miss M 
the information she fairly and reasonably needed to make an informed decision 
about whether to take out the policy before she did so. I am mindful that:
Miss M did not base her decision  to take out the policy on the Certificate of 
Insurance.
There is not enough  evidence to show Miss M was told in store  that she should 
hold off making a final decision about  taking out the policy until she had received 
and considered the Certificate  of Insurance.
It was for FICL   and indeed its agent  to provide Miss M with the most important 
information she required to make her decision before she took out the policy  (see 
the 1996 ABI Statement of Practice for PPI and the FLA Code), with full conditions  
afterwards.
68. I think it is more likely than not that FICL  gave Miss M some  information about the 
premium, cover  provided, and things  like the significant restrictions  on disability cover 
because that was the kind of information it was required  to draw to the customers  
attention by the ABI Code,  which it had undertaken to comply with.
69. But I am not persuaded FICL did enough to present all of that information in a way 
that was fair and reasonable to Miss M. I am not persuaded that FICL drew the 
important information  about  the policy terms to Miss Ms attention, especially in the 
context of a sale in a store  while  she was purchasing goods.  And although I cannot  
say what took place  in the store at the point of sale, I consider it unlikely that Miss M 
was given much information about the policy verbally  as I have said above,  I 
consider it likely that any mention of the policy was fleeting.
70. Overall, having considered the parties representations about  what  happened, I am 
not persuaded FICL did enough to present information about the policy  in a way that 
was fair and reasonable  to Miss M. I am not persuaded that Miss M was given all of 
the information she needed about  the policy at the point of sale to make  an informed 
decision about whether to take it out.
71. However, as I have said, I am satisfied that FICL sent the full policy conditions to 
Miss M after the event. I have  also kept in mind that Miss M was charged premiums 
totalling just over £223 while the HP agreement was running.  As I have said, I think  
Ref: DRN503763517the monthly premium  was clearly set out in the HP agreement, and I have no 
evidence to suggest  that Miss M queried the premiums after the sale, or attempted  to 
cancel the policy if she was unhappy with it.
72. I have considered how my findings  interact  with the FCAs list of significant failings 
in its guidance  for firms handling PPI complaints set out at DISP  App 3.
73. It seems to me that it would be reasonable to conclude  that there were significant 
failings in this case. For example, I am not satisfied  FICL disclosed to Miss M before 
the sale was concluded,  and in a way that was clear, fair and not misleading,  the 
significant limitations and exclusions that would tend to affect the decision of 
customers generally to take out the policy [DISP App 3.6.2 E (4)].
74. Despite that, I am satisfied that FICL  disclosed the cost information  envisaged  at 
DISP App 3.6.2  E (8). FICL  disclosed the monthly premium  a very important piece 
of information   on the HP agreement. 
75. I have considered carefully Miss Ms arguments that FICL should have done  more 
than I have  found  it should  have done and provided additional information. I have 
given particular thought to Miss Ms view that the common law duty of utmost meant 
that:
 FICL should  have  explained the low claims ratio (and what  she considers  to be 
the inherent poor value) and the fact that little of the premium went to FICL as the 
insurer.
 FICL should  have  told her not just about the limitations and exclusions,  but also 
about the significance  of them.
But having done so, I am not persuaded by Miss Ms views in that regard.
76. Under  the law which existed  at the time,  both parties to an insurance contract  owed a 
duty of utmost  good faith to the other.  By way of summary only,  both parties had 
duties to disclose  material  facts and to refrain from making  material 
misrepresentations to the other.
77. Usually, the focus of any dispute tends to be on the extent of the obligations the duty 
of utmost good faith places on the person seeking insurance to disclose to the 
insurer the information  it needs to determine and calculate the risk it will be taking if it 
agrees to provide the insurance.
78. But an insurer also has a duty to disclose:
...all facts known  to him which are material either to the nature of the risk sought 
to be covered or the recoverability  of a claim  under  the policy which  a prudent  
insured would take into account  in deciding whether or not to place the risk for 
which he seeks cover with that insurer.4
79. MacGillivray  on Insurance Law5 explains that the duty does not extend to giving  the 
insured the benefit of the insurers market experience,  such  as for instance, that the 
4 Banque Keyser Ullmann SA v Skandia (U.K.)  Insurance Co. Ltd [1990] 1Q.B. 665, 772
5 MacGillivray on Insurance  Law 14th edition 17-094
Ref: DRN503763518same risk could be covered for a lower  premium either by another  insurer  or, 
presumably, by the same insurer under  a different  type of insurance contract; and 
the insurer is not required to perform the role of the insureds broker  in this regard.
80. I cannot  be certain, but I think it is unlikely a court would conclude an insurer should  
have disclosed  the claims ratio and value information, or contextualised the 
information about the limitations on disability cover in the way Miss M says FICL 
should have  done  by virtue  of the duty of utmost good faith.  In any event, I do not 
think it would  be fair or reasonable in the circumstances  of this case to impose such  
requirements on FICL. 
81. FICL was the insurer in this transaction   and as I have explained, the sale was 
carried out by its agent. The agent  is an intermediary for the purposes of the ABI 
Code, and that Code also referred to an overriding duty on the intermediary to act 
with utmost good  faith and integrity.
82. The Guidance  Notes  for Intermediaries  and the Resume for Intermediaries about the 
application of the ABI Code,  which I have referred to in this decision, do not refer to 
that duty or elaborate on what it was intended to mean. But I think it is unlikely  that it 
was intended  to place a greater or substantially different, obligation on the 
intermediary to that owed by the insurer.
83.  I consider it more likely than not that the reference to an overriding duty on the 
intermediary was a reminder of the importance  of disclosing material information  to 
both the insurer  and the insured (depending on whom the intermediary  was acting 
for), reflecting  the legal duty those parties were  under.  And it seems likely  the 
provisions of the ABI Code were  in effect intended to be practical  examples  of how the 
intermediary might  meet the overarching principles of utmost good  faith and integrity 
as well as expected  standards of good  practice.
84. I also note there was no expectation at the time under the provisions of the ABI Code 
that insurers or intermediaries  should proactively disclose commission   for example, 
the guidance to the ABI Code published  in December 1994 said only that 
independent intermediaries should disclose commission  on request.
85.  Nor do I consider it can reasonably be inferred from the ABI Statement of Practice 
for Payment Protection Insurance (which  gave further information about the 
expectations in PPI sales) that insurers or intermediaries were expected to disclose 
the kind of information Miss M says FICL  should have done.
86. So it seems very unlikely that it was ever the intention of the ABI Code that 
intermediaries should  provide the kind of additional information Miss M suggests it 
should. In any event, I am not of the view that it would  be fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of the case to impose a greater or substantially different, obligation 
on the intermediary  to that owed by the insurer.
87. Looking at the FLA Code, there is no reference to commission,  and it requires 
that details  of the cover  and the exclusions are set out both clearly and 
prominently in appropriate literature. So this did not impose  higher standards on 
the agent than the ABI Code did (through  FICL).
88.  Overall, taking into account the law, industry codes and standards  of good  practice  
applicable to this complaint, I am not persuaded that FICL  directly or through its 
Ref: DRN503763519agent  ought fairly  and reasonably to have provided the additional  information  
Miss M says it should have done.
89.  But for the reasons  and in the ways I have set out, I find the information  FICL gave 
Miss M was insufficient and presented the policy in an unbalanced way. I do not have 
enough evidence to say that Miss Ms attention was drawn  in a clear and fair 
manner  to the important  information  about  the policy.  So the information Miss M 
based her decision  on was  most likely  ultimately  misleading. I am not persuaded 
that was fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.
e)what effect  did FICLs  shortcomings  have on Miss M?
to what extent did Miss M suffer loss or damage as a result?
90.  I have found FICL did not do all it should  fairly and reasonably have done when it 
sold this policy  to Miss M, so I have considered whether it would be fair and 
reasonable to conclude Miss M suffered  loss and damage as a result.
91.  It seems to me that, whether or not Miss M has suffered loss or damage in this case 
depends on whether, if FICL had explained things properly, Miss M would have 
acted differently,  or whether  she would have taken  out the policy  in any event.
92. Miss M says she would not have taken out the policy and I should, in any event, 
presume that she would not have taken it out given  the substantial  failings  in the 
sales process I have identified (unless  FICL  can produce evidence to show she would 
have taken out the policy, which Miss M says it cannot because  the failings were  so 
fundamental).
93. I have carefully considered the representations of both sides and the evidence 
relating to them.
94.  Taking  out insurance like this, based  only on information, requires  the consumer to 
weigh up a number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Policies such as 
these typically  provide  cover in a variety of situations, some  of which  may be of 
greater interest or relevance to the consumer than others.  
95. Effectively the consumer has to weigh up in their own mind the cost of the policy  
against the benefits offered in return and the potential consequences  they will suffer if 
they do not have  insurance should  the risks come  to fruition. That is why it was for 
FICL (through  its agent)  to provide  the information about the policys features, so the 
consumer could make that assessment.
96.  The evidence  in this case suggests  that Miss M clearly  had some interest in taking 
out payment protection insurance.  In saying that, I do not mean she actively sought 
insurance or that it was her intention to take out insurance before she applied  for the 
HP agreement  I have seen  nothing to suggest she did.
97.  Rather, I mean when Miss M was given information in the store that there was a 
product she could  buy that would  both protect her HP payments in the event that she 
was unable to work because  of disability or unemployment and which would pay off 
her outstanding  balance if she died, that resonated with her in some  way and she 
concluded that she wanted  that product.
Ref: DRN50376352098.  The issue here is that the decision Miss M made was based on incomplete 
information, meaning  what she thought she was getting is not exactly what she got. 
And she would  have  had different things to weigh up when deciding  to take out the 
policy if FICL had provided the information in an appropriate way.
99.  I consider that, in deciding  what is fair and reasonable in this case  and whether 
Miss M suffered loss or damage  as a result,  the evidence about the extent to which  
the product differed  from what Miss M might  reasonably have expected  from what  
she was told, is relevant to the consideration of what  would have happened had 
everything happened  as it should have.
100.  In considering the above, I have  also borne in mind  that in this case,  the evidence  
about Miss Ms circumstances at the time of sale shows that the policy was not 
fundamentally wrong or unsuitable  for her. She was eligible for its benefits and it 
provided cover that could have  proved  useful  to her should the insured risks have 
come to fruition  even allowing for the limitations  on the disability cover it provided. 
101. Miss Ms own evidence or testimony  is that if she had been unable  to work 
through accident or sickness  her employer would  only have paid her for a limited 
time. If she was made redundant,  she says she would have received a payment 
equal to at least six months  pay. And she says she had savings of around £2,000.
102. I think it is reasonable to conclude that, from Miss Ms perspective, she saw some 
benefit in having  insurance  in her circumstances. If the risk the policy was concerned 
about came to fruition,  the policy would help her manage the consequences  it would 
help reduce  her outgoings during what would likely be a difficult period, despite her 
other means.
103. While Miss M was interested  in the policy, was eligible, had good reason for wanting 
cover and was informed what the cost and benefits were,  the policy did not work 
entirely as she might have thought.
104. I consider it unlikely that the limitations  and exclusions were  explained  to Miss M.
But I do think  that, even  if they had been explained to her adequately, it is unlikely 
to have dissuaded her from taking out the policy, for the reasons I have set out 
below.
105. I am not persuaded FICL  clearly  explained  the pre-existing medical exclusions to 
Miss M or the limitations regarding  claims for backache and related conditions  and 
for psychiatric  illness  or mental  or nervous disorders. But I do not think it is more 
likely than not that these would have  dissuaded Miss M from taking  out the policy. 
Although Miss M had suffered with back pain, that was several years before the time 
of sale. By her own account, the condition was treated when it arose and had not 
caused her to take any time off work. So I do not think Miss M would have 
considered it likely that the problem would recur or that she would have needed to 
claim on the policy for it. And she had not previously suffered psychiatric or mental 
illness. Nor have I seen evidence  to show it is more  likely than not that she would 
have thought  she would in her circumstances.
106. The terms of the policy  also differed  from what Miss M might have expected because 
she would  only be entitled to disability  benefits  if she was unable  to do her normal  job 
or a similar job which, in the insurers reasonable opinion, her training, education and 
ability qualified  her to do. I accept  this may have given Miss M pause  for thought but, 
Ref: DRN503763521on the other hand, and taking into account the employment information provided to us, 
it is possible she may have considered it unlikely that, if she was unable  (through 
disability) to carry on her own job, she would  have been able to do similar work that 
she may reasonably be qualified to do.
107. Miss M has provided information  about what she would have done with more  
information, which I have  considered carefully.  She says:
It was during  a meeting that I was sold the PPI policy  in March, 1996. I was sold the 
PPI at store. During the conversation we discussed the credit limit. When the policy 
was sold I had a salary  of £19,000.  As I was entitled  to full sick pay from my employer I 
did not require a PPI policy. Furthermore I would have received a payment if I were  
made redundant. I would  have received at least  6 months  full pay from my employer in 
the event  of redundancy. I had enough  savings  to cover monthly payments should I 
have not been  able to work due to sickness or unemployment. When the policy was 
taken out I had £2,000 in savings. My savings were  held with in Abbey National bank 
account. These savings are accessible at all times. The savings were  for an 
emergency and easily accessible. 
Santander Store Cards did not explain the terms and conditions of the policy.  
In particular they did not tell me how much the PPI really costs.  They  didnt explain the 
effects of compound interest  being  charged at store card interest rates  which I now 
understand means the balance would  at least triple over a 10 year period  or that 
premiums would continue during a claim.  I was never  given any indication of this true 
cost or how expensive it really would  be. 
The point  being that PPI was usually presented as being  cheap but I now understand 
that it was very expensive.  I would not have  bought the policy  if I had understood this. 
The exclusions and limitations  were also not explained  the reasons it would not have 
paid out. Claims Advice Bureau  say Santander  Store  Cards  had a duty to explain 
these exclusions  and limitations  in a way that an ordinary person like me would have 
understood. I can definitely  say that Santander  Store  Cards  did not do this. Claims 
Advice Bureau have further  explained  that a high proportion of reasons anyone  is likely 
to miss work were excluded   in particular bad backs  and mental conditions such  as 
stress, depression and anxiety.  These statistically are among the most likely reasons 
for anyone being off work and I can say that these exclusions were not disclosed to 
me.
If Santander Store Cards had said that they were excluding  the most  common reasons 
people miss work I can say that would not have  wanted this PPI for that reason  alone.
The policy was mean to protect  me from sickness. It is now obvious that it was never 
going to do what  it was supposed to be for. It was supposed to protect payments if you 
couldnt work but would  not have  done that in a majority of cases.
Let me be clear  I would not have wanted this policy had I been told this. In fact, I 
have suffered  from back  problems myself and although I have not yet lost time at work 
because of them, this shows  how people are likely to be affected  by them. On top of 
this, I also now understand  pre-existing conditions were not covered. This sounds like 
a piece  of jargon to me, but Claims Advice  Bureau have explained what it meant. I 
have had the following  health problems:      
Ref: DRN503763522Condition: back  pain, Date: circa 1990, Treatment: hospital, Meds  (inc. non-
prescription): ibuprofen & paracetamol,
So it turns out that bad backs might have been  excluded TWICE because they were 
pre-existing and possibly excluded anyway.  If the exclusion for pre-existing conditions  
had been explained  to me, it is clear I would  not have  wanted  this policy.   
In addition to the above,  there are more reasons as well why I now understand this PPI 
should not have been sold to me, and why if it had been explained  properly, I would 
not have wanted it.
In my job as a accounts department, I had sickness cover  see above. I also had 
redundancy and would have got at least 6 months  or more, but less than 12 months 
redundancy pay if I had been made  redundant. 
So the PPI was expensive and really  unlikely to pay out and on top of that I was 
covered anyway.
On top of this I now understand  that on average, firms kept 88% of each premium  
payment as profit and expenses. The policy was utterly appalling  value for money. I 
am not in a position to waste money  or make insurance businesses  richer at my 
expense. Everybody knows that companies  are entitled to make  a fair profit, but not an 
unfair one  I would  not have wanted  to be taken advantage of. I dont think anybody  
would. As well as everything else, I was financially  stretched. I have often had to run 
an overdraft. Claims  Advice Bureau  say that for me, even more than anybody else,  it 
was wrong for me to spend money on this PPI which was both really expensive,  and 
unlikely to pay out. 
I dont  think this PPI should  have been  sold to me and I would not have wanted it if it 
had been properly  explained. Claims Advice  Bureau say that Santander Store  Cards  
were supposed  to treat me fairly  and not take advantage of me, but it cannot be right 
to sell a product  like this without explaining  the exclusions, and that they were keeping 
so much  money for something with so little value to me. I feel badly let down by 
Santander Store Cards. PPI was just included as part of my package  with my store 
card. I had no interest in PPI and would not have had it if Santander  Store Cards  had 
not included  it with the package. 
108. Miss M is effectively saying that, as a result of what her representative CAB has told 
her, both about  what it considers should  have happened and what she should have 
decided at the time, she would not have taken out the policy.
109. In light of the findings I have already made, I do not think Miss Ms representations 
demonstrate what she claims, because much  of the information she says would 
have affected  her decision  would not have been  known  to her at the time of sale, 
even if everything had happened  as it should. For example:
 There was no legal,  code, or good practice  requirement on FICL  (or its agent) to 
disclose all of the information she says it should have  disclosed.
Ref: DRN503763523 I am satisfied  the requirement on FICL in 1996 was to draw her attention to the 
limitations, not to give the limitations the context  Miss M says FICL should have 
given them.
110. I am also mindful that: Miss Ms recollections of the sale are, owing to the 
significant passage of time, likely to be limited;  her representations about what  she 
would have done are made in support of a claim for compensation;  and the 
paragraphs I have  quoted resemble quite closely the consumer representations 
made in other cases where CAB represents the consumer.
111. But I do accept  the limitations on the policy might well have given Miss M pause 
for thought  as Miss M says, these  are common conditions.
112. While it is likely Miss M would have expected to provide some medical evidence to 
support a claim arising from a back condition or mental  health  condition (as the policy  
required for other  conditions), the steps required for these conditions  were more 
onerous than she might reasonably have expected (which is ultimately why FICL 
needed to draw them to her attention).
113. I accept Miss M may well have concluded  that the policy was not as good as she 
thought and she might have  decided not to proceed. This limitation on cover, when 
coupled with the other shortcomings  in this sale,  might have dissuaded many 
consumers in different circumstances  from Miss M from taking out the policy.
114. But Miss M, in her circumstances, still had some good reasons  to take out the 
policy, notwithstanding the limitations  of the policy.
115. I consider it fair and reasonable  to think Miss M would have weighed up the various 
other considerations, in particular her limited  other  means  of meeting her payments, 
particularly in the event she was off work  due to disability.  It is likely she would  also 
have thought  about whether the cost to benefit proposition still worked  for her.
116. Having  considered  all of the evidence  and arguments in this case  I consider it more 
likely than not that that Miss M would still have  taken out the policy.  The policy was 
sufficiently close  to what she thought she was getting and Miss M had limited other 
means of meeting  her HP payments if she was unable to work. And in those 
circumstances I consider it more  likely  than not that she would have taken out the 
policy in any event.
117. I have also considered Miss Ms representations about  causation and DISP App 3. 
That guidance  is for firms, but it is a relevant consideration I take it into account along 
with many  other things when  I decide what is in my opinion fair and reasonable.
118. I am mindful of the purpose  of the guidance.  I do not think it was ever intended to be 
at odds with the approach I have  taken. The FSA explained  its thinking in the policy  
statement6 at the time:
we have  taken as a starting point the typical approach in law (which we understand 
also to be the FOSs  general  approach) that the customer should be put in the 
6 Financial Services Authority Policy Statement 10/12 The assessment and redress  of 
Payment Protection  Insurance  complaints  Feedback on the further  consultation in CP 10/6 
and final Handbook  text  page  43 - 45
Ref: DRN503763524position they would have  been in if there had been  no failure to comply with its 
obligations on the part of the firm. Typically  that involves considering what  the 
customer would have  done but for the firms breach or failing. Firms have also been 
making such but for judgements for many years, it being the basic  tenet of complaint 
handling. Complaints  about PPI are not new or unusual in this respect. We are 
satisfied that the but for test is a reasonable one in the circumstances.
The presumptions represent a way of judging what a customer would generally have 
done, in our view.  Having  given due consideration to responses  concerning  
presumptions we remain of the view that the presumptions  we have set out are 
reasonable ones fully in the tradition of, and informed  by, the kinds  of judgements  that 
courts and ombudsmen  have  long and often been  making when assessing  claims and 
complaints and the potential need  to put the claimant, as far as practicable, back  in 
the position they would have been  in had the breach  not occurred.
We also recognise that it would not be possible to establish in every case what a 
customer would have  done in every individual  circumstance and that there has to be 
scope for a firm to depart from the presumptions. So, the presumptions  are rebuttable  
 that is, it is open to the firm to evidence that the customer would have bought  the 
policy notwithstanding the breach or failing,  in which case  no redress  will then be 
required.
119. It also said:
A recording of the sale is not essential  to rebut the presumptions. Where it is not 
available, firms must fairly assess the available evidence  to make a decision about 
what they think would have been likely to have  happened, but for the failing, given the 
circumstances and the evidence about the sale. For example, if the firm failed to 
disclose the existence of an exclusion relating to pre-existing  medical conditions, then 
it may be reasonable for the firm to rebut  the presumption that the customer would 
not have bought the policy if it can be shown that the customer  did not have a 
pre-existing medical condition. It is unlikely that a recording of the sale would elicit 
this information.  The PPIQ, if properly completed, will however provide this 
information.
We have carefully considered, in light of responses, the proposed  list of substantial 
flaws in the proposed  Handbook text. We are satisfied that the rebuttable  
presumptions cover substantial flaws and that our proposals are appropriate 
because in each  case the nature of the failing raises serious doubts over whether the 
customer would have  proceeded  with the purchase  if there  had not been such a 
failing.
It is true that the presumptions do not make allowance  for the materiality  of the 
failings. We consider that the failings amount to substantial flaws  irrespective  of 
their materiality to particular consumers, and that it is reasonable and simpler  for 
our guidance  not to differentiate the failings in terms of materiality. In practice, 
firms are likely  to be able to factor  in considerations of materiality  when potentially 
rebutting the presumptions  in the case of a particular complaint. For example if a 
firm failed to disclose an exclusion, and if that exclusion did not apply to that 
customer at the time of the sale (something  which can be evidenced relatively 
straightforwardly with reference to the policy), it may be reasonable for the firm to 
conclude (assuming there are no other failings)  that the exclusion was not 
Ref: DRN503763525material to that customer  and that he would  have bought the policy anyway, 
notwithstanding the firms  failure to disclose the exclusion
120. I have thought about  what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint  
might lead to. In the language of DISP App 3, I have found it would be reasonable to 
conclude there were  substantial flaws  in the sales process. In those circumstances,  
DISP App 3 says it should be presumed Miss M would  not have bought  the payment 
protection insurance she bought unless,  in the particular circumstances of the 
complaint, there is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
121. I am satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude  the presumption is 
rebutted in the particular facts and circumstances  of this complaint. Based on the 
evidence pertaining  to Miss Ms circumstances  I have considered above I consider it 
reasonable to conclude  the position  Miss M found  herself in as a result of the sale was 
the same position she would have  been in had the breach or significant failings not 
occurred.
122. But even  if I am ultimately departing from the guidance for firms  set out at DISP App 3 
(which I do not consider  I am), I am doing  so because I do not consider, in this case,  
that it would represent  fair compensation to put Miss M in the position she would have 
been in if she had not bought the policy.
123. That is because, while I accept it is possible that Miss M would not have taken out the 
policy I am satisfied  that, of the two possibilities, it is more likely than not that she 
would still have taken out the policy if she had been  given  clear,  fair and not 
misleading information  about the policy she was buying.
124. I am satisfied  it would not be fair and reasonable in those circumstances to conclude  
FICL should  pay Miss M redress, as that would  put her in a better position than she 
would have been in if everything  had happened as it should have done.
125. It follows from my findings that on the balance  of probabilities it is more likely than not 
that Miss M would have  taken out the policy if things  had happened  as they should, 
that I am not persuaded she has suffered loss or damage as a consequence of the 
way this policy was sold.
126. I have thought about  whether it would be appropriate to make an award  of some kind 
because of the flaws I have identified in the sale process even though  I have found  
Miss M would still have taken  out the policy. I have  not seen anything in the evidence 
relating to this case  which leads me to conclude  that Miss M suffered material  distress 
or inconvenience,  or any other form of non-pecuniary financial loss, because  of the 
way the policy  was sold.  In those circumstances, I do not consider it would be fair to 
make an award.
my final decision
127. Overall, having considered all the evidence  and arguments to decide  what is, in my 
opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the 
reasons I have  set out in detail above,  my final decision is that I do not make an award  
or direction in favour of Miss M.
128. I now ask Miss M to either accept  or reject my decision before  24 July 2019.
Ref: DRN503763526Nimish Patel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5037635