K821x#15complaint
Mr G complains that he wasnt properly advised  by Legal and General Assurance Society 
Limited (L&G) in respect of a transfer  from an Occupational Pension Scheme (OPS) to a 
personal pension  plan (PPP).
background
The background to this complaint was set out in the provisional decision I issued on 23 June 
2020. A copy of this is attached and forms part of this final decision. 
L&G didnt respond to the provisional decision findings. In summary, Mr G responded with 
the following  comments:
The whole process from the start had been extremely  stressful.  Hed engaged a 
solicitor to help him through this process  and wanted the ombudsman  to consider the 
costs he incurred as a result of this. Hed hoped his solicitors fees would be 
reimbursed but regardless  of this, he is happy to accept the ombudsmans ruling;
He again disputed that the insistent client letter had been written  by him or anyone  
he knew;
Hes unhappy with the way that L&G dealt with his complaint;
He has asked his former OPS  to provide more calculations to show how much  his 
pension would now be worth.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As noted above,  Mr G accepted my provisional decision findings but made some further 
points, including  asking  for the award to take into account his solicitors fees.
Mr G says he instructed a solicitor as he was unhappy with the way L&G were  dealing with 
his complaint. I understand his reasons for doing  this, but I think  this was his choice. So I 
dont think L&G is responsible for reimbursing him for his legal costs  in this case.
I appreciate Mr G maintains he didnt  write  the insistent  client letter and/ or that it wasnt 
written by anyone else he knew.  Ive made a finding  on this in my provisional  decision which  
forms part of this final decision. I dont think there is any new evidence  which  changes  my 
mind on what  Ive already  said,  so I wont comment any further on this point.
I also note Mr G is unhappy with the way that L&G dealt with his complaint. I appreciate that 
L&G didnt agree to uphold the complaint and also questioned whether it had been brought 
in time. But we exist as a free service when a consumer  doesnt agree with the outcome a 
business reaches  on a complaint, so I wont be making any additional award  where thats 
happened here. Nonetheless, as I said in my provisional decision, which forms a part of my 
final decision, Ive made  an award of £250  for the distress and inconvenience caused to 
Mr G as a result of the unsuitable advice he received from L&G and the impact  this has had 
on his retirement planning.  I dont think Mr G has provided any new evidence  which  changes  
my mind  on that.
Ref: DRN56834592Finally, in terms of the calculations hes asked his former OPS  to make,  he should note that 
L&G will only be obliged  to pay the award based  on a loss assessment using the 
methodology prescribed by the regulator  as Ive set out below. Mr G should also note our 
award limit means, whilst I can make  a recommendation that a financial business  pays  any 
compensation over our £150,000 award  limit, this will not bind L&G to do so. That is not to 
say the loss in this particular case will necessarily exceed £150,000. But Mr G should be 
aware that if it does,  its unlikely he can accept my final decision  and go to court to ask for 
the balance of anything over this amount. So he may want to consider getting independent 
legal advice before  deciding  whether to accept this decision.
Having reconsidered  everything again including Mr Gs further comments, for the reasons 
set out in my provisional decision attached below, which forms a part of my final decision,  
Im upholding this complaint.
my final decision
Im upholding the complaint. In assessing what would  be fair compensation, my aim is to put 
Mr G as close to the position he would now be in if he hadnt been  given unsuitable  advice 
which led to him deciding to transfer from his OPS.
Legal and General Assurance Society Limited should undertake a redress  calculation in line
with the revised  methodology issued  by the Financial Conduct Authority in October 2017.
This calculation should  be carried out as at the date of my final decision, and using the most
recent financial assumptions published at the date of that decision. In accordance with the 
regulators expectations, this should  be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate actuarial
services provider promptly following receipt  of notification of Mr Gs acceptance of the
decision.
Legal and General Assurance Society Limited may wish to contact  the Department for Work
and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Gs contribution history to the State Earnings Related
Pension Scheme (SERPS  or S2P). These details should then be used to include a SERPS
adjustment in the calculation,  which will take into account the impact  of leaving the
employers scheme on Mr Gs SERPS/S2P entitlement.
If this demonstrates a loss, the compensation amount should,  if possible, be paid into Mr Gs 
pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. 
The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing 
protection or allowance.
If a payment  into the pension isnt possible or has protection  or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr G as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have  been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement   presumed  to be 20%.  So making a notional  deduction of 15% overall  
from the loss adequately  reflects this.
The compensation resulting from the loss assessment must, where possible, be paid to Mr G
within 90 days of the date Legal and General  Assurance Society Limited  receives
notification of his acceptance of my final decision. Further  interest must be added to the
compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to
the date of settlement for any time,  in excess of 90 days, that it takes Legal and General 
Assurance Society Limited  to pay Mr G this compensation.
Ref: DRN56834593Legal and General Assurance Society Limited must also pay £250 to Mr G for the distress  
and inconvenience  it caused.
Where I uphold  a complaint, I can award  fair compensation of up to £150,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs  that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £150,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.
Determination and money award: I require Legal and General Assurance Society Limited  
to pay Mr G the compensation amount  as set out in the steps above, up to a maximum of 
£150,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £150,000, I additionally require Legal and 
General Assurance  Society Limited to pay Mr G any interest  on that amount in full, as set out 
above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds  £150,000, I only require Legal and 
General Assurance  Society Limited to pay Mr G any interest  as set out above on the sum of 
£150,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount  exceeds £150,000, I also recommend that 
Legal and General Assurance Society Limited pays Mr G the balance. I additionally 
recommend any interest calculated as set out above  on this balance  to be paid to Mr G.
If Mr G accepts my decision, the money award  is binding on Legal and General Assurance 
Society Limited. My recommendation is not binding on Legal and General Assurance Society 
Limited. Further, its unlikely that Mr G can accept my decision and go to court  to ask for the 
balance. Mr G may want to consider getting  independent legal advice before deciding 
whether to accept  this decision.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 August 2020.
Yolande McLeod
ombudsman
Ref: DRN56834594Provisional decision  of 23 June 2020
background
Mr G joined his former employers  OPS in 1983. This entitled him to a Defined Benefit (DB) pension 
when he reached its normal retirement age (NRA) of 55. At the end of 1992, Mr G was forced to 
resign from work due to ill-health. By this point, on retirement, he wouldve been  entitled to an 
estimated yearly pension of £15,132.
In March 1993, Mr G met with an L&G adviser at a friends house. The adviser had previously worked 
for Mr Gs former employer and had been introduced to him by a mutual  friend. It was noted  by the 
adviser on the personal financial analysis  form (the fact find) that: client required to advise (sic) on 
pension transfer only. Execution  only. None of Mr Gs financial details were  recorded  and most  
sections were marked execution only. A PPP illustration was prepared by the adviser in March1993 
 this set out the potential benefits  under  an L&G pension plan if Mr G was to transfer.
A Transfer Value  Analysis (TVAS) was prepared  by L&G in May 1993  this looked to establish  what  
investment growth rate, or critical yield, was needed for the PPP to replace the OPS  benefits.  The 
TVAS showed that with 13% investment returns on a transfer value  of £13,960, this would  have 
matched 66% of Mr Gs OPS benefits at the NRA of 55.
In August 1993 another L&G adviser dealt with Mr Gs case. This adviser noted that Mr G was 
introduced to him by an orphan  client.  Another fact find and PPP illustration  was completed by the 
new adviser. The PPP illustration showed potential benefits at the age of 60. The fact find was signed 
by the adviser  on 23 August 1993. Mr G signed  the form two days  later.  In summary, the fact find 
showed Mr Gs circumstances as:
 
He was in his early  30s and was registered unemployed;
He was divorced;
The Provision  for retirement was a priority for Mr G;
He wanted to retire  between  55 and 60;
His only asset was his DB pension.
The adviser  noted in the fact find that due to the high critical yield set out in the TVAS, he was 
recommending against  a transfer. In response to this advice, it was recorded  that Mr G had decided 
to act against it. The reason for this was noted by the adviser as Mr G wanting  to have the option to 
retire at the age of 60, which he wouldnt be able to do under the OPS  unless he (Mr G) was in full-
time employment.
In July 2017,  Mr G complained to L&G about the transfer saying that he hadnt been properly advised.  
Mr G said at the time of the advice in 1993,  he was in an extremely vulnerable position  due to 
mental health problems which resulted in him leaving work, and that he was asked to sign forms 
within a few minutes of meeting the first adviser. Mr G said he was advised by the first adviser that he 
would no longer  be able to stay with the OPS following  his resignation. Mr G has since been advised 
he couldve stayed with the OPS and that if hed done  so, his pension would be worth more  than it 
currently is under  his PPP with L&G.
Mr G expressed concern  about the legitimacy of some of the documents  L&G provided  to him relating 
to the advice  given in 1993. In particular, he said hed only met the first adviser.  He said he hadnt 
met, or spoke with, the second adviser referred to in the advice documents.
 
L&G didnt uphold the complaint. In summary,  it said Mr G had failed to follow  its advice to not transfer 
from his former employers OPS. L&G noted it was recorded by its adviser at the time that Mr G 
wanted the option to delay his retirement until the age of 60. L&G said the evidence supported this 
was the reason Mr G decided to override  its advisers recommendation and insist the transfer 
proceed. L&G said that before it accepted the transfer request Mr G had been asked to confirm,  in 
Ref: DRN56834595writing, that this is what he wanted to do. And that this disclaimer letter shows he understood the 
risks involved.
 
Unhappy with L&Gs response, Mr G brought his complaint to our service. In summary, in addition to 
the points above, he said:
 
He has since been advised that he couldve stayed with the scheme beyond the NRA of 55 
and that if hed done  so, his DB pension wouldve crystallised at that point, growing  at an 
accelerated rate;
The first adviser was a former member of the OPS  so shouldve known about  these benefits. 
He also mis-sold  a pension to their mutual friend and Mr G says this is indicative of the sales 
practices employed by him;
He maintains he never received advice from the second adviser;
As an alternative, Mr G shouldve been advised to stay with the OPS  until he reached 55, at 
which point he couldve reviewed his situation then rather than transfer early;
Whilst his signatures  on various documents appear genuine, he doesnt recall writing  or 
signing the letter insisting he wanted  to transfer (the disclaimer  letter).
Our investigator upheld the complaint. In brief,  she concluded L&G hadnt properly advised Mr G, 
which she said was ultimately  the basis for his decision to transfer against his best interests.  Despite  
the disclaimer letter  she didnt think this alone supported L&Gs claim  that itd provided  Mr G with 
suitable advice, particularly in light of him not being told about any other, more  suitable, alternatives.
 
Mr G agreed with the investigators view, but L&G disagreed. In summary, it added  that:
Its advisers should be judged by the standards of the time - the disclaimer letter was in line 
with the practice  at the time and theres no reason to doubt  its authenticity;
The written records L&G produced provide  an accurate  picture of what happened, and these  
showed that Mr G ignored its advice  not to transfer;
The evidence  shows that Mr G did meet  the second adviser despite what he says. So his 
comments about the first adviser are moot points as this (first) adviser wasnt responsible for 
Mr Gs transfer  advice.
So the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
 
Firstly, Id like to assure both parties that Ive considered all the issues raised.  Im very aware that Ive 
summarised this complaint  in far less detail than the parties and Ive done so using  my own words. Im 
not going  to respond to every single point made by all the parties involved - no discourtesy  is intended  
by this. Instead Ive focused on what I think are the key issues here. 
Further, although I understand Mr G has asked me to take into account  the actions of the first adviser 
in respect of his friends case, I can only make my decision based  on the particular  circumstances of 
this case.  I simply cant  be sure of the full circumstances  of the other case - so as far as this decision 
is concerned, I will consider  only the evidence that relates specifically to Mr Gs case.
Ill also mention at this stage  that where theres a dispute about what happened Ive based my 
decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, on what  I consider is most  likely to have 
happened in the light of the evidence. 
Mr G only remembers dealing with one adviser. But from the evidence, I can see two advisers were 
involved in the advice process.  The first is the one Mr G remembers but crucially it was the second 
adviser that recorded the advice. This adviser  also recorded the reasons why Mr G was acting against 
Ref: DRN56834596it. The fact find prepared by the first adviser in March 1993 had most sections crossed through  with 
notes saying, execution  only. No facts about Mr Gs financial situation were  recorded  in this 
document. Whereas the fact find from August 1993, prepared by the second  adviser, had most  
sections completed with personal  and financial  details  of Mr G.
All in all Im persuaded  that, on balance, Mr G did deal with both advisers and that the advice not to 
transfer was given by the second adviser. Its just not possible  to say how this second meeting came  
about or whether  it happened in person or over the phone  but Im satisfied that Mr G communicated 
with both advisers  during the advice process. And while the second adviser  did give advice not to 
transfer, I think all the information provided to Mr G including from the first adviser,  is equally relevant 
to my considerations.
In 1993 when  providing advice of this type,  L&G and its advisers were subject to a Code of Conduct 
set down  by its regulator, the Life Assurance and Unit Trust Regulatory Organisation  (the regulator). 
There was a best advice requirement which meant, amongst other things, advisers should not have 
advised a client, or prospective client, to transfer from an OPS unless they genuinely  believed  it to be 
in their (clients) best interest. And the adviser  also needed to have clearly  disclosed all relevant  
consequences and disadvantages during the advice process.
Similar requirements were set out in the regulators Statement of Principles under which advisers 
were required to exercise  due skill, care and diligence  ensuring they deal fairly with investors.  
Further, the principles required that advisers take reasonable  steps to give a customer  it advisers, in 
a comprehensible  and timely way, any information  needed  to enable him to make a balanced and 
informed decision. So in light of these and other requirements applicable at the time,  Ill consider the 
advice given to Mr G.
I can see that because of the high critical  yield set out in the TVAS, the (second)  adviser 
recommended to Mr G that he didnt transfer from the OPS to a PPP. The fact find doesnt show that 
any assessment of Mr Gs attitude to risk was done by the second adviser, but I think given his 
particular circumstances as Ive summarised above, I think he would  reasonably  have been 
considered as having a very cautious attitude  to risk. And a recommendation not to transfer seemed 
in keeping with this attitude to risk, given  the high critical  yield that would be needed to match  only 
66% of his OPS benefits. But Mr G went against the advice.  The disclaimer  letter addressed to the 
(second) adviser said:
"I confirm that [the adviser] has advised me that in Legal  and Generals opinion, a transfer of my 
benefits from [the OPS]  is not likely  to be in my interest and that by doing  so, it is possible that I might 
incur considerable financial  loss. I still, nevertheless, wish to process  with the transfer. I understand  
that Legal  and Generals advise (sic) is based  on current investment conditions and their view of likely  
changes in those conditions in the future".
Mr G denies  writing this letter and/ or having any dealings  with the adviser named in the letter. But 
given his signature  on this and other documents from the time does match his own, on balance,  I 
think Mr G either wrote  the letter himself, or at the very least, had sight of its contents before signing 
it. I dont  think, however, as L&G have  suggested, this somehow absolved them from giving Mr G 
best advice.  I also dont think going against its advice  changed  Mr G into an execution only client. 
By definition  an execution only transaction is one where advice wasnt given  this simply wasnt the 
situation here.
According to the advisers notes the reason  Mr G wanted to transfer was that "[he] requires  the 
option to retire at age 60. This would not be allowed by the [OPS]  unless the client was in full 
employment at that time. Client fully understands risks involved  and has written  a separate disclaimer 
letter."
L&G say that its regulator expected a signed letter in the clients own words for these  types of 
circumstances. The guidance L&G refers to relates to execution only clients, but I can see a similar  
point was made by the regulator in December 1993 when it said:
Ref: DRN56834597the reasons and consequences of the transaction must  be clearly explained to the client and his 
written authority must be obtained. In cases where the client decides  to go ahead in spite of clear 
advice to the contrary, the reason for the decision should be clearly and fully documented and agreed 
by the client. 
Although this guidance was issued four months after the advice,  given the timing, I think  it can 
reasonably be seen  as an indication of best practice for the time. This guidance also points to the 
need for clear advice before this decision is taken.  Read  alongside  the best advice requirements of 
the time, I think there was a duty on L&G to ensure  Mr G was properly  advised  before he reached his 
decision to transfer.
Turning now to that advice, I can see two PPP illustrations were prepared - the first, in March 1993,  
which was prepared by the first adviser, showed that to age 55:
With a rate of return  of 13% per year, Mr G could expect  to receive total fund of £183,000   
using this money he could  take a yearly  pension  of £11,200;
With a rate of return  of 8.5% per year, he could expect  to receive a fund of £69,100  using 
this money he could  take a yearly pension of £3,340.
These pensions had a 66.7% spouses pension  included so are comparable with the OPS 
pension.
And the PPP illustration prepared  in August  by the second adviser  showed  that to age 60:
With a rate of return  of 13% per year, Mr G could expect  to receive total fund of £317,000   
using this money he could  take a yearly  pension  of £20,800; 
With a rate of return  of 8.5% per year, he could expect  to receive a total fund of £99,300  
using this money he could  take a yearly  pension  of £5,280.
These pensions had a 66.7% spouses pension  included so are comparable with the OPS 
pension.
In both cases  the extra  illustration for the protected rights part of the transfer would add between  £240 
and £550 per year to this from age 65.
To understand what benefits were at risk, I think the adviser needed to have fully explained to Mr G 
what he could expect from his OPS,  which was what the TVAS  achieved.  The TVAS showed Mr G 
might receive  a revalued yearly income  of £15,132  from the OPS at age 55, and £26,453  at age 65. I 
accept the PPP illustrations include  a spouses pension  and given  Mr Gs circumstances at the time, 
the TVAS may have been based on single life pensions,  but I note even this suggests returns  in 
excess of 13% per year were needed.
Comparing the PPP illustrations and OPS benefits as set out in the TVAS, shows that Mr G would 
receive a much higher  income than any of those shown in the PPP illustrations from the age of 65. 
And with the inflationary increases the £15,132 yearly  OPS pension  from the age of 55, would mean it 
was also likely  to have overtaken the projected PPP income from age 60.
From the evidence  set out in Mr Gs disclaimer letter,  I do think  the adviser told him about the risk of 
losses as demonstrated by the illustrations and TVAS - but what is less clear  is whether, overall, the 
advice leading  to the recommendation not to transfer was best advice, in so far as Mr G was given 
clear and comprehensive information to allow  him to make a balance  and informed  choice. I say this 
with particular focus  on the reasons noted by the adviser for Mr G wanting  to transfer, which was to 
have the option to retire at age 60.
 
Under his OPS Mr G did have the option to retire beyond the NRA of 55, albeit that he had to be 
working as he approached  that age. And as Mr G was in his early thirties at the time of the advice, 
there wasnt a pressing need for him to transfer in anticipation of not being able to take his benefits 
later than he might  want to. I think its unlikely  hed have known about  the stated reason  until he 
Ref: DRN56834598received advice from L&G.  He didnt have an existing  detailed understanding of pensions, so 
someone else must have put this idea to him. I simply dont think  the evidence suggests  this was a 
priority for Mr G, and certainly not one where  hed be willing to put his retirement income  provision at 
risk when he was a long way from having to make this decision.
Mr G disputes  the reasons  set out by the adviser, claiming instead that he was given  the impression 
he had to leave the OPS once he resigned  from his employment. Whilst  I cant say whether Mr G was 
told this, as Ive said, I question  how strongly he felt about retiring later in life when his OPS wouldve 
provided better, more  secure  financial benefits, by the time he wanted to retire  at age 60. 
Mr G wasnt  the pension expert and wouldve  been relying on L&Gs representative to advise him 
appropriately. This would include making  sure that his reason  for going  against the advice was fully 
explored, along with discussing other options  but the advisers and Mr Gs respective notes  only 
demonstrate that he was made aware  of the risk of losses.  As Mr G points  out, he couldve been 
advised to wait until he was approaching 55 and then transfer if retiring  later was an issue at that 
stage. As the regulators code said best  advice meant discussing other options,  even if this meant 
the adviser didnt secure a sale for his firm.
In any event, even if Mr G did come to the view that retiring at 60 was an important factor, in my view,  
in line with the regulators principles and code  of conduct requirements, the adviser  had a duty to 
make it clear why this was not a good reason to transfer.  I dont think  there is sufficient evidence to 
show the adviser  firmly or comprehensively told Mr G that not only was he almost certainly going to 
be worse off by transferring, but that the ability  to delay retirement to 60 was not a good reason to 
transfer particularly as there was an option to do this under the OPS. There  simply  was no need for 
Mr G to transfer his existing  pension provisions to a PPP for reasons  the adviser said.
To this end, I think what is missing from Mr Gs disclaimer  letter  is him saying  in his own words  why 
he wanted to transfer against advice  and also pointing  to what the adviser had said in response to 
this, even if this was only to say he was told this was not a good reason. I think  this lack of detail  
leads me to the conclude that, on balance, it simply wasnt discussed  certainly Mr Gs recollections  
would suggest that the discussions were not particularly detailed. I think  in the circumstances  L&G 
shouldve taken care that Mr Gs disclaimer letter wasnt simply a papering exercise to tick regulatory 
boxes and that it made sense in light of advice he ought to have received at that time. 
Mr G has asked that I take into account the fact that he was extremely vulnerable at the time for the 
reasons Ive outlined above. I appreciate what he is saying here  he wasnt as careful  as he wouldve 
been when signing the paperwork without fully understanding what  he was signing up to. But I think  
that based  on what Ive seen, he wasnt  properly advised before agreeing to transfer.  And if he had 
been that wouldve introduced an element of balance  and meant  that any decision by him to go ahead 
 regardless of L&Gs  recommendation that he shouldnt  wouldve  been a properly  informed 
decision. I consider under  these circumstances Mr G would have followed  L&Gs recommendation not 
to transfer and the issue  of signing the paperwork would not have arisen.  
So for all these reasons,  Im intending to uphold the complaint.
my provisional  decision
Im intending  to uphold the complaint. In assessing what would be fair compensation, my aim is to put 
Mr G as close to the position he would now be in if he hadnt been given unsuitable advice which led 
to him deciding to transfer from his OPS.
Legal and General Assurance Society Limited  should undertake a redress calculation in line
with the revised methodology issued by the Financial Conduct Authority in October  2017.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision, and using the most
recent financial  assumptions published  at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken  or submitted to an appropriate actuarial
services provider  promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Gs acceptance  of the
Ref: DRN56834599decision.
Legal and General Assurance Society Limited  may wish to contact the Department for Work
and Pensions  (DWP) to obtain Mr Gs contribution  history to the State  Earnings Related
Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These  details  should then be used to include a SERPS
adjustment in the calculation, which  will take into account the impact of leaving  the
employers scheme on Mr Gs SERPS/S2P  entitlement.
If this demonstrates a loss, the compensation amount should, if possible, be paid into Mr Gs pension 
plan. The payment  should allow for the effect of charges and any available  tax relief. The 
compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension  plan if it would conflict  with any existing protection or 
allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection  or allowance implications,  it should be 
paid directly to Mr G as a lump sum after making  a notional deduction to allow for income tax that 
would otherwise have been paid. Typically,  25% of the loss could  have been  taken as tax-free cash 
and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax rate in retirement   presumed  to 
be 20%. So making  a notional deduction of 15% overall  from the loss adequately reflects  this.
The compensation  resulting  from the loss assessment must,  where possible, be paid to Mr G
within 90 days  of the date Legal and General  Assurance Society Limited receives
notification of his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be added to the
compensation amount  at the rate of 8% per year simple  from the date of my final decision to
the date of settlement for any time, in excess  of 90 days, that it takes Legal and General Assurance 
Society Limited to pay Mr G this compensation.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean  that the actual time
taken to settle  goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above  and so any
period of time where the only outstanding  item required to undertake the calculation is data
from the DWP  may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
Finally, I think  Mr G has been caused some trouble and upset to his retirement planning  as a result it 
would be fair and reasonable for L&G to pay him £250 to recognise  this.
Yolande McLeod
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5683459