K821x#15complaint
Mrs R has complained that Amtrust Europe Limited  (Amtrust) has refused to consider a 
claim she wanted to make  on her motor  legal expenses policy. In addition she says that the 
customer service  she received throughout the process was far below the expected standard.  
For the sake of clarity when I make reference  to Amtrust I mean  both the underwriter itself 
and any agents  working on its behalf.
background
In June 2016 Mrs R was involved in an incident  with a bus which resulted in her car 
becoming damaged.  She contacted Amtrust  to make a claim under her motor legal 
expenses policy. 
Mrs R was told that she needed to contact the agents who handle  legal expenses claims on 
behalf of Amtrust directly,  which she did. Mrs R says from the first moment she contacted 
the agent she became concerned with how it wanted to handle her claim.  She says it tried to 
force her into a no win no fee agreement, which was separate to her legal expenses policy 
and which  she deemed unnecessary. She said it also tried to refuse to consider her claim on 
the grounds that the other party was unidentified despite both the police and her motor  
insurance provider  having confirmed the full identity and contact details of the driver and 
associated bus company. 
Once the issue with the identity of the driver was resolved Mrs Rs claim was rejected by 
Amtrusts agent on the basis that it had a less than 50% chance of success. Mrs R sought 
legal advice from a barrister which disputed this was the case and who stated her claim 
would have a reasonable prospect  of success.  
Amtrust says that its agent closed Mrs Rs claim request because she became non 
responsive. It says that in the first instance  it had refused  to consider the claim because the 
other partys details were  unknown and the policy states that it will not provide cover where 
one party identity is unknown. Once  this issue was clarified it said it considered  the available 
evidence and concluded that the claim would have a less than 50% chance of success in a 
court of law and so it was not prepared to provide  Mrs R with cover  under the policy.  
When Mrs R provided the barristers opinion Amtrust responded by stating it noted  that the 
opinion letter stated  Mrs R did not suffer  any personal injury. It said that the claim in dispute 
was a personal injury  claim  and so it argued that Mrs R could not bring  a claim for personal 
injury where her own counsel has confirmed she has not suffered any. 
I issued a provisional decision on 14 November 2018. I found that Amtrust was entitled  to 
refuse to consider  the claim for personal  injury  based on the information provided  by Mrs Rs 
barrister. However I also said that the agent working  on behalf of Amtrust had caused 
extreme and unnecessary delays in how it had handled Mrs Rs claim and asked that 
Amtrust pay her £1,500  compensation  for the distress and inconvenience this had caused.  I 
asked both parties to respond with any additional information they wanted me to consider by 
28 November 2018.
Mrs R responded with a number of points. She clarified that she had only contacted  
Amtrusts agents to start a claim and had not specifically asked to make a personal injury 
claim. Her barrister has since provided an additional  letter to clarify that Mrs R did not say 
Ref: DRN56890602she had not suffered any direct personal  injury  and he was wrong to infer that she had. He 
apologised for the error and stated there was no medico-legal evidence to indicate that 
Mrs R should be prevented from making  a personal  injury claim if she so wished. 
Mrs R also asked me address specific failings  made  by the agents working on behalf of 
Amtrust. I know  Mrs R is pursuing a complaint about the agent directly  elsewhere and I have 
clarified with her why I am unable to comment  on these concerns within  my decision. 
Mrs R also wanted to clarify that she would like any settlement amount that I may direct 
Amtrust to make to be paid to a charity  of her choice. 
Amtrust responded  to the provisional decision with a number of questions.  Primarily it was 
concerned I was attempting to address issues regarding the work of its agent that fell outside  
of our jurisdiction. I will address these concerns below.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
I will start by addressing the issues surrounding jurisdiction as these were raised by both 
parties in different forms. Mrs R asked  me to comment  directly on the legal services  provided 
by Amtrusts agent and Amtrust expressed concerns that I was awarding a settlement for 
legal services that fall outside of our services  remit. 
I am not in a position to comment on the legal services provided  by Amtrusts agent as this is 
outside of our jurisdiction.  I have  clarified  this with both parties separately and I understand 
Mrs R is pursuing  this aspect of her complaint elsewhere. 
However, I am able to comment  on the service  it provided as an agent  of Amtrust in relation  
to Mrs Rs legal insurance claim,  as this is within our jurisdiction. Having done this, I believe 
the agent caused severe and unnecessary delays in regards to Mrs Rs claim.
Amtrust responded  to this by stating that it had not had the opportunity to review Mrs Rs 
claim directly as it had only been  considered by its agent. It asked  for the opportunity to 
consider the claim  anew  in the hopes it could reach a resolution acceptable for both parties. 
Mrs R has expressed  concerns that any new review of her claim, at this point in time,  would 
not be considered  without  bias.  
I dont agree that Amtrust  havent had the opportunity to review Mrs Rs claim. The claim 
was sent to Amtrusts  agents, whom  Amtrust  chose to delegate  these types of claims to. Any 
decisions made by the agents were made with Amtrusts authority. So it is incorrect to say 
Amtrust didnt have the opportunity to consider the claim, it did. It just decided to delegate 
the claim to an agent for consideration rather than investigate it directly. 
However, I believe Amtrust and its agents failed to consider  the claim properly in the first 
instance, and I think they should  do this now. I appreciate that Mrs R is sceptical in regards 
to how Amtrust will do this, but it seems to me that the fundamental problem is that Mrs Rs 
claim was never adequately considered.  So I believe it is reasonable that the business 
should do this now. 
Ref: DRN56890603This will require Mrs R to communicate with Amtrust directly. If Mrs R decides she doesnt  
want to do this Amtrust will be unable to consider her claim and the file will remain closed. 
However, if Mrs R does  want  to pursue the claim at this time, she should  contact  Amtrust.  If, 
after the claim has been considered by Amtrust, Mrs R remains dissatisfied  with the outcome 
she has the option to come  back to our service and we can investigate this for her. 
In regards to the proposed settlement for failings in how Mrs Rs claim was handled, I remain 
of the opinion that the agent was directly responsible for the extreme delays and additional 
expenses Mrs R experienced. And as the agent was acting on behalf of Amtrust,  despite the 
lack of transparency  Amtrust says it has had regarding  the details of the claim, the 
responsibility ultimately lies with it. As such I feel it is fair to ask Amtrust to pay 
compensation to Mrs R for the numerous problems she experienced when  she attempted  to 
make a claim on her legal expenses policy. 
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above and in my provisional decision I uphold Mrs Rs complaint. 
Amtrust Europe Limited should:
consider Mrs Rs claim  in line with the policy terms, and
pay Mrs R £1,500  in recognition of the distress  and inconvenience caused  by how its 
agent handled her claim  in the first instance
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Karen Hanlon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5689060