K821x#15complaint
Miss S complains  about end of contract charges when she voluntary terminated her 
agreement with Close Brothers Limited.
background
In March 2017 Miss S was supplied with a car and entered into a conditional sale agreement  
with Close  Brothers. The term of the agreement was 4 years  but Miss S decided  to end it 
early.
Following termination  the car was inspected and damage was found.  Close  Brothers asked 
Miss S to pay charges.
Miss S accepted  that some damage to the side of the car had been caused whilst the car 
was in her possession and shed arranged  for repairs  to be carried out. But she was 
unhappy about being charged for damage to the alloys and for a missing parcel shelf. She 
said the shelf hadnt been present when she was supplied  with the car and the other 
damage was pre-existing.
Our investigator upheld  the complaint. The investigator looked  at the damage and said there 
was no evidence about the condition  of the car when it was supplied,  including the presence 
of the parcel shelf. The investigator  noted  that the car was over 10 years  old at the point of 
supply and said because  of the age of the car the standards of acceptable  wear  and tear 
were lower than the BVLRA guidelines. The investigator said Miss S had arranged for 
repairs to be carried out on the front door but this hadnt been taken into consideration on 
the invoice. The investigator concluded that there wasnt enough evidence to show  that 
Miss S was responsible for the damage found  at inspection and recommended  that Close 
Brothers removed all of the charges.
Close Brothers didnt  agree. It said that BVLRA standards were applicable and that the 
inspector had taken  account of the age of the car. It said the damage to the car would have 
affected the sale price  (and therefore the amount it recovered towards the remaining 
balance). It said that Miss S had acknowledged  that she had caused some damage  herself  
and therefore  it didnt feel it was fair to waive the charges.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss S was supplied with a car that was over 10 years old in 2017, so its reasonable to 
assume that it wouldnt have been  in pristine  condition. She says there was damage present  
at the point of supply  and that the parcel  shelf was missing.  She acknowledged  that she 
caused some damage to the car whilst  it was in her passion but says she arranged  for that 
damage to be repaired.
Ive looked at the inspection report including the photos. Ive also taken account of the 
BVLRA guidelines. In doing so, Ive considered the impact  in terms of any loss Close 
Brothers would  suffer  as a result  of the damage. Ive taken the approach  that any damage 
should be assessed for fair wear and tear and then in terms of any loss in value and not just 
in isolation.
Ref: DRN50421012When considering  fair wear and tear the BVLRA  guidelines are recognised  as the industry 
standard. These guidelines set out what is acceptable and unacceptable  in terms of wear  
and tear. But in the case of a second  hand car, its reasonable to expect a greater degree of 
wear and tear than youd expect to find in a car which was new at the point of supply. The 
older the car, the more  wear and tear Id expect to see. So I dont think  its fair to apply the 
guidelines alone to determine  whether  the wear and tear is acceptable. In this case, the car 
was over 10 years old at the point of supply and I think the inspection  should have taken 
account of that. Miss S says the car had significant wear and tear (including damage) when 
it was supplied to her and I think its more  likely  than not that this was the case.
With this in mind, Ive looked  at the items of damage. The scuffs  to the wheels are to be 
expected on a car of this age. Ive seen evidence that Miss S had repairs  carried out to fix 
the damage she caused whist she was in possession of the car. This relates to inspection  
item 8 (offside door). In relation to the parcel shelf, the supplying  dealer hasnt been able to 
provide evidence that this was present at the point of supply.
The damage for which Miss S has been  charged  may well exceed fair wear  and tear under 
the guidelines. But Im not satisfied that Miss S was responsible for that damage. 
Close Brothers hasnt provided  a CAP valuation or provided details of what  the car was sold 
for at auction. Nor has it said whether any repairs were carried out before the car was sold. 
Because theres no evidence that Close Brothers has suffered a loss, either by paying  for 
repairs or recovering less than they might  expect to at auction, I dont think  its fair to ask 
Miss S to pay any charges.
For the reasons  Ive given I uphold the complaint.  Close Brothers Limited  should  remove  the 
charges.
My final decision
My final decision is that Close Brothers  Limited should remove the charges.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 August 2019.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5042101