K822xcomplaint
Mr M and Ms F have  complained that AXA PPP Healthcare Limited unfairly increased the 
offered premium for their group private  medical  insurance policy.
background 
Mr M and Ms F were  the only members of a group private medical insurance policy which  
was held with AXA PPP. When the policy was due to renew in 2018, Mr M and Ms F asked 
that they instead be switched to a different policy. AXA PPP asked  Mr M and Ms F some  
questions about  their health  and, based  on the answers given, offered the policy for a 
premium of £8,127.
Shortly after making this offer and before it had been accepted,  AXA PPP reviewed the 
application and decided both Mr M and Ms F had answered the health questions 
inaccurately. It therefore amended the offered premium to £11,668.
Mr M and Ms F complained about the change. AXA PPP explained the reasons for it. Mr M 
and Ms F disputed they had answered the health questions inaccurately and so felt the 
change in offered  premium was unfair.  They referred their complaint to us.
While the complaint was under investigation, AXA PPP acknowledged  that when it made the 
change to the offered premium it should also have offered Mr M and Ms F the opportunity to 
have a lower premium in exchange for certain exclusions on the policy.
I issued a provisional decision explaining why I thought it was fair for AXA PPP to change 
the offered  premium  in the way it did. I thought  the complaint should be upheld  but only in so 
far as AXA PPP should also have offered Mr M and Ms F the option of paying a lower  
premium with exclusions on the policy. My findings  were as follows:
When Mr M and Ms F applied for the policy, they were asked four questions about their 
health. These were:
1.Have you or any person included  in this application had any treatment in hospital  or 
consulted a medical practitioner in the last 12 months?
2.Do you or anyone else included in this application, have any treatment, any 
consultations, investigations, diagnostic tests planned or pending?
3.Do you or anyone else to be insured on this policy  need  to be admitted to hospital for 
an overnight stay for planned or pending treatment?
4.In the last five years,  has anyone to be insured  on this policy,  had, or received 
treatment for any form of heart condition or problem, stroke,  diabetes,  cancer, mental 
illness, including depression, that has required referral to a psychiatrist?
Mr M answered yes to question 1 and disclosed that he had seen Dr G, a consultant 
haematologist. The answers to the questions  for both Mr M and Ms F were otherwise no.
On the basis of the answers given, AXA PPP offered  the policy for a premium  of £8,127. Im 
satisfied this was fair.
Ref: DRN57977702AXA PPP then reviewed  the application  against  information which  it held on file concerning 
previous claims made against the existing  policy. It concluded that Ms F should  have  
answered yes to question 1 and Mr M should have answered yes to question  2 (AXA  PPP 
explained this wrongly in its final response letter but has since  clarified what  it meant  to say). 
It adjusted the offered  premium in light of this.
In respect of Ms F, within the past twelve months she had seen a cardiologist for urgent 
chest pain investigations after an abnormal ECG result at her GP surgery.  Mr M and Ms F 
have explained  that this was later determined to be nothing more  than muscular  pain which  
didnt warrant any further treatment. Nonetheless,  I think Ms F should  have answered yes 
to question 1 in light of this episode.  
In respect of Mr M, he received treatment for a splenic marginal zone lymphoma  in 2006. 
Since then,  he had met twice a year with Dr G to monitor his remission. He disclosed his 
meetings in the past twelve months by answering yes to question  1 but AXA PPP thinks  he 
should also have  answered yes to question  2 because he had future consultations  
planned.
Mr M doesnt agree that the regular meetings with Dr G are consultations. He has pointed  to 
dictionary definitions of consultations which refer to the doctor  making recommendations as 
to care and treatment and which he says Dr G doesnt do. He has provided  a letter from 
Dr G which states: 
"[Mr M] has been  seen for routine  follow up without  consultations and has not sought any 
consultations from me during that period of time".
I consider that, given  Mr M is meeting with a consultant to review his state  of health, it is 
reasonable to regard  these meetings as consultations. AXA PPP has shown that Dr G 
invoiced it on this basis. And after AXA PPP questioned Dr G about the inconsistency  
between his billing practice and his statement above, Dr G has since  conceded  that it is fair 
to regard the meetings as consultations. While  I appreciate that Mr M did not deliberately 
answer the question  incorrectly,  I think he should  reasonably have answered yes to 
question 2.
Given that the answers to two questions were  incorrect, I think it was fair for AXA PPP to 
withdraw its original offer and to recalculate  the premium. AXA PPP has provided  evidence 
of how it carried out this recalculation. I cant share  this information with Mr M and Ms F 
because it is commercially sensitive  but Ive checked it and am satisfied it calculated the 
revised premium accurately.
However, AXA PPP has acknowledged that it should have offered Mr M and Ms F the option  
of accepting an exclusion on the policy for their respective conditions in return for a lower 
premium. It has outlined  what this would mean in terms of exclusions  and premiums  and the 
adjudicator has made Mr M and Ms F aware.  I agree AXA PPP should have offered this 
option at the time the policy was taken out. If Mr M and Ms F now agree to accept an 
exclusion, AXA PPP should backdate  this to the time the policy  started and refund an 
appropriate proportion  of the premium,  plus interest.
I invited both parties to make further submissions in response to my provisional decision.
Mr M and Ms F responded to say they didnt accept  my provisional decision. Their  
comments can be summarised  as follows:
Ref: DRN57977703the health questions asked by AXA PPP were  unclear because  they mixed  a number 
of different issues;
AXA PPP was aware of Mr Ms regular visits to Dr G because it had provided  cover 
for these over the past five years;
these visits werent  described as consultations by Mr M when he rang AXA PPP to 
ask it to authorise them;
it was unreasonable to regard Mr Ms routine check-ups as equivalent to treatment 
for a medical condition  for the purposes of calculating  the premium;  and
AXA PPP was proposing to increase their premium by an unreasonable amount at 
the 2019 renewal  and the renewal documentation  contained  misleading  information.
AXA PPP did not respond.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not persuaded to 
depart from my provisional decision.  I shall explain why.
I agree  that some  of the questions asked by AXA PPP covered a number of different issues  
(for example, question 2 covered treatment, consultations, investigations  and diagnostic  
tests). However, Im satisfied that the questions were clear. And therefore I would have 
expected Mr M and Ms F to answer  them correctly.
I accept that AXA PPP would have knowledge  of Mr Ms previous visits to Dr G because  it 
had provided cover  for these. But it wouldnt have readily known whether he was due to 
meet Dr G in the future. It was therefore up to Mr M to disclose this in response  to the 
specific question he was asked. Furthermore,  the application form said it should  not be 
assumed that AXA PPP would check its records to verify the answers and therefore it 
remained the applicants  responsibility to ensure the information given was accurate and 
complete. 
Im satisfied that these  appointments  were  consultations for the reasons I have already 
explained in my provisional decision.  I havent therefore asked AXA PPP to provide 
telephone recordings  to enable me to hear how Mr M described them when he was seeking 
authorisation because I dont  think this matters.
Mr M and Ms F think AXA PPP should have  separated out the various  questions  so that it 
obtained more  detailed information rather than combine consultations, investigations and 
treatment in a single question and regard  them  as equivalent for premium-setting purposes.  
However, it is up to AXA PPP to decide  what information it needs to set the premiums for its 
policies. This is a matter  for its commercial judgement. I cant reasonably tell it what weight it 
should put on particular factors when deciding on the price of its products.
Finally, Mr M and Ms F have raised concerns about their renewal  premium  for 2019 and the 
way certain information  has been presented. These  are new concerns and so they would 
Ref: DRN57977704have to raise this complaint with AXA PPP in the first instance.  I cant consider these matters  
as part of this decision.  
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part.
I require AXA PPP Healthcare Limited to retrospectively offer Mr M and Ms F the option of 
excluding certain  conditions on the policy in return for a lower premium. If Mr M and Ms F 
decide to take up this option, AXA PPP should backdate this to the time the policy  was taken 
out and refund them an appropriate proportion of the premium since then. It should add 
interest to any refund  at the annual simple rate of 8%, calculated from the time the premium 
was paid to the date of settlement.* 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M and Ms F to 
accept or reject my decision  before  6 July 2019.
David Poley
ombudsman
* If AXA PPP considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from that 
interest, it should tell Mr M and Ms F how much its taken off. It should  also give Mr M and Ms F a 
certificate showing  this if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate.
Ref: DRN5797770