K820x#14complaint
The estate  of Mrs D has complained Lloyds Bank plc accepted  a lasting  power of attorney  
for managing Mrs Ds accounts  which she never  signed. This resulted in a number of 
transactions over three years being made  without  Mrs Ds authority.
The estate  is represented by one of Mrs Ds daughters, Ms D.
background
Mrs D died in February  2018. Ms D was concerned someone her mother had lived with (who  
Ill call Mr R) had been allowed to take money  from Mrs Ds Lloyds accounts.
For an extended period Ms D and one of her sisters  had fought to get control of her mothers  
personal care after her mother had a stroke  at the end of 2012. They believed, whilst their 
mother was unable to consent, a Lasting  Power of Attorney (LPA)  for finance and property 
issues was set up by Mr R for Mrs D. This had been registered by the Office  of The Public  
Guardian (OPG) in March  2013 and lodged with Lloyds  in April 2013. Mr R had then been 
issued with a debit card for use on Mrs Ds account.
Ms D didnt believe Mr R was acting  in line with the LPA which required all transactions  to be 
made for the benefit  of Mrs D. In August  2016  the Court of Protection reviewed a petition  by 
the OPG  that Mrs D didnt  have mental  capacity when  the LPA was reputedly  signed on 
24 January 2013.  The LPA was declared void.  A Deputy for property and affairs was 
appointed. The Deputy worked  for a firm of solicitors. They wrote to Lloyds in October  2016  
to confirm this appointment. Lloyds amended their records on 24 October 2016. Lloyds has 
not been able to confirm  what steps it took to ensure Mr R had no further access  to Mrs Ds 
account.
Ms D believes a number  of transactions were made without her mothers  or her 
representatives  proper authority. She complained to Lloyds about these and about a 
cheque paid out for funeral expenses  to another person (who Ill call Mrs D1 and is another 
of Mrs Ds daughters).
Lloyds believed theyd  acted in good  faith in accepting the LPA in 2013 as it had been 
approved by the OPG.  They also confirmed theyd  received a receipt for funeral expenses  
from Mrs D1 along with a copy of the will and had carried  out their required ID checks. They  
wouldnt agree  to reimbursing money to the estate. They didnt  believe  there  was any 
evidence the money  spent from Mrs Ds accounts  wasnt for her benefit.
Ms D brought her complaint to the ombudsman  service.  She provided extensive  material in 
support of her claim that her mother had been  mistreated by Mr R. There was limited  
evidence about  whether  the transactions were authorised or not for her mothers benefit.
Our investigator felt there was evidence Lloyds should have done  a better job of checking 
the LPA. He asked Lloyds  to make an offer of what transactions it felt were not for Mrs Ds 
benefit. He suggested half of the transactions could fall into that category as he accepted 
there would have been expenditure  over three  years  on Mrs Ds living expenses.
Neither Lloyds nor Ms D, on the estates behalf, accepted this outcome.
Ref: DRN51579682Ms D provided further evidence to support the estates claim. This included evidence which 
showed:
A doctor had agreed theyd had a conversation with Mrs D to establish she 
understood what the LPA was. That was subsequently proven not to be the case;
An employee from a solicitor whod drawn up the LPA had been censured;
There had been a police investigation  into her mothers care and subsequent 
consideration by the Independent  Office  for Police Conduct into this; 
Mrs Ds state  of health and concern by carers  about the daily care she was receiving;  
and
Concerns Ms D had raised with a number of other public bodies about  what had 
happened.
The estates complaint has been  referred to an ombudsman for a decision. I completed a 
provisional decision on 27 July 2020 explaining why I didnt believe it would be fair to ask 
Lloyds to repay any money to Mrs Ds estate.
Lloyds had no further comments to make.
Ms D, on behalf of the estate, provided further  documentation. Some  of this was evidence  
that had already been provided to our service  but also included:
Images of Mrs Ds physical condition after her stay in hospital in 2012-13;
A further  copy of Mrs Ds Power of Attorney  showing Mrs D1 had signed whilst  Ms D 
didnt believe she could  be an independent witness;
Mrs Ds care and medical records from 2013-16;
Information about expenditure on Mr Rs property  which  Ms D didnt believe her 
mother should have  been paying for; and
Details of cheque  payments made in 2013  to Mrs D1 signed by the attorney,  Mr R.
Ms Ds detailed comments on the provisional decision amounted to 11 pages. Ms D didnt 
believe the issue about the incorrect date of birth and lack of signature had been covered in 
the provisional decision, although both issues had been covered under the section on 
Lasting Power of Attorney. She also drew our attention to a number of errors  she believed  
had been included in the provisional decision, as well as querying why there  was so much 
reliance on the Payment Services Regulations.
Ms D further believed that the judge  when reviewing the Court  of Protection application didnt 
have all the evidence  available  to them although  a finding had been made that expenditure 
was in Mrs Ds best interests.
Ms D has continued to correspond and provide information which she believes may be 
relevant to the decision Im making.  This has included further information on what  checks  
she believes  a bank  must complete when receiving a Power of Attorney.
I now have all the information I need to complete a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached a similar 
Ref: DRN51579683conclusion to the one I reached  provisionally. Ill lay out my arguments below explaining why. 
Where relevant I will respond to further  issues raised by Ms D on the estates behalf.
Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint above in far less detail than Ms D and 
Ive done so using my own words. Im not going  to respond to every  single point  made by 
Ms D. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed  on what I think are the key 
issues here.
This simply  reflects  the informal nature of our service as a free alternative  to the courts. If 
theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I 
dont need to comment on every individual argument  to be able to reach  what I think is the 
right outcome. I will, however, refer to those aspects which  impact  the decision Im making.
Its worth  confirming  this service has received many detailed emails  and correspondence  
from Ms D and Ive reviewed these carefully  in coming to my decision. 
Where there is a dispute about what happened, I have based my decision on the balance  of 
probabilities. In other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light 
of the evidence.
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance  and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
The Payment Services Regulations (PSRs) are the relevant law here. These  primarily 
require banks to refund customers  if they didnt make or authorise payments themselves. 
Certain other  circumstances do apply  but nothing thats had an impact on the decision Im 
making here.  So when  we look at whether a bank has acted fairly in rejecting  someones  
fraud complaint, one of the things  we consider is whether the customer made the 
transactions themselves or allowed  them to be made. If they did, then we generally  wouldnt 
ask the bank to refund  them.
However the PSRs  do not cover cheque payments so  although  I have considered the 
general principles of this legislation   it doesnt apply to some of the payments in dispute 
within this complaint.
Ms D has questioned which regulations I am relying  on when considering whether payments 
were authorised.
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected  to process  payments 
and withdrawals that a customer  authorises  it to make without undue  delay,  in accordance  
with the terms and conditions of the customers account. I consider Lloyds should  fairly and 
reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made  or received  to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.  
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other  signs that 
might indicate that its customers were  at risk of fraud (amongst other things). This is 
particularly so given  the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.  
Ref: DRN51579684In some circumstances,  irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases  declined  to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers  from 
the possibility  of financial harm from fraud.
In this case, I need to decide  whether Lloyds acted  fairly and reasonably in its dealings  with 
Mrs D, or whether it should have done  more  than it did. 
So to help me decide what happened, Ive looked at the evidence of the transactions, as well 
as what Lloyds and Ms D have told us. Lloyds provided us with statements for all of Mrs Ds 
accounts for the period  2012 to 2018.
I can see the timeline of events and Ms Ds testimony were covered  in our investigators 
view of 14 October 2019. I dont intend to repeat everything that was said there. I will, of 
course, refer to those  aspects which form the basis of my decision. I can reassure Ms D and 
Lloyds Ive read the detailed file thoroughly. 
Ms D has alleged her mother was subject to emotional, financial and physical abuse  when  
she lived with Mr R. Mrs D was in her 80s by this stage and Mr R was not much  younger. I 
dont have the powers of a court so I cant consider evidence from all the parties  involved  in 
this dispute (so, for example, Mr R and Mrs D1). Nor is it my role to make a decision on 
whether abuse  took place.
Lasting Power of Attorney
A Lasting Power of Attorney was lodged with Lloyds by Mr R on 11 April 2013.  At the time 
Lloyds noted the incorrect date of birth had been used but didnt believe this invalidated the 
document as it was clear this identified Mrs D as the donor. The LPA had been  registered by 
the OPG.  Lloyds also noted there  was no full signature from Mrs D, just a cross. This had 
been witnessed by Mrs D1. A doctor  and a legal executive had also signed the LPA to show  
all the appropriate  checks had been  carried out.
Ms D has said Mrs D1 isnt an independent  witness. Ive reviewed the government website 
on this issue and I dont  believe Mrs Ds understanding  is correct.  This states:
Who can be a witness  or certificate  provider
Witnesses and certificate  providers must be 18 or over.
Attorneys can witness each other sign, but they cannot:
witness you (the donor) sign
sign as the certificate provider
You cannot be a witness if youre the person appointing an attorney.
From my understanding this doesnt state  Mrs D1 couldnt witness her mothers  signature (or 
cross, as in this case).
Lloyds no longer has a copy of what  their procedure would have been  in 2013 when 
receiving LPAs. Nor can they provide me with information on what they assume  that would 
have been nor what checks they did carry out. 
Im aware there was guidance  from the trade  body  at the time (the British Bankers 
Association) available for customers who may want to manage someone elses account. 
Ref: DRN51579685This provided information on lodging a LPA with a bank. Ive shared a copy  of this with Ms D. 
This doesnt specify any additional  checks which a bank  would  be expected to make over 
and above ensuring they have a formally completed LPA and have checked  the ID of the 
donor and attorney (if they didnt already have this on record).
I dont think theres any evidence to indicate  Lloyds should have done more than what was 
specified in this guidance. Lloyds  cant confirm whether they would have carried out any 
further checks over and above  knowing  the OPG had registered the LPA.  Having considered 
this, I think its more  than likely  they carried out any relevant name and address  checks  for 
Mr R. This would have been in line with industry guidance. Despite Ms Ds conviction  on this, 
I see no reason why theyd be expected to do more.
I also note its unlikely  the OPG was carrying out validity checks  into the donor and attorney 
 what they were doing was registering a properly-completed form and maintaining  a 
register. But in so doing, the LPA becomes a legal document  allowing the attorney to act on 
the donors behalf.
The OPG also deal with complaints and concerns about the misuse of money or decisions 
made by the attorney that are not in the interests  of the donor. But I accept this generally  
happens after something has occurred which may cause  concern amongst the interested 
parties.
Overall Im not sure I agree that Lloyds should have done more.  They  will have had a formal  
signature from Mrs D on record. But theres evidence  they had also been aware that Mrs D 
had been in hospital so wouldnt necessarily have been surprised she signed with a cross.
Ms D has argued Lloyds should  have done more  as theyd  known Mrs D had been in 
hospital. Although  they were aware  of this, I can see no evidence Lloyds knew  of the 
severity of Mrs Ds condition. It wouldnt  have  been their responsibility to check  the state of 
Mrs Ds health.
Mr R was given a debit  card to use on Mrs Ds account and cheque books were issued to 
show Mr R was the attorney under the LPA.
Ms D confirmed she complained to Lloyds in May 2013 about the LPA. They  have no record 
of this complaint  but I dont doubt  what she says. However the bank  wouldnt have been  in a 
position to revoke  or question the LPA.  This could only have been managed through  the 
OPG. Ms D and other family members didnt start the process to query whether her mother 
had consented  to the LPA until later. 
Whether Mr R was misusing Mrs Ds money was not an issue for Lloyds to consider under  
the PSRs. The PSRs talk about  authentication and consent as forming authorisation of a 
payment. Im in no doubt  knowing Mr R used his card at cash  machines  that proper 
authentication under the PSRs took place. Ive also seen copies of cheques  signed by him. 
The LPA provided formal consent for Mr R to carry out transactions on Mrs Ds behalf. I 
believe as there was an LPA in place, the transactions were  properly  authorised by Mr R 
from April 2013 onwards. I consider below whether Lloyds should  have identified any 
unusual activity was taking place.
Ref: DRN51579686Court of Protection
However thats not the end of the issue as District  Judge Ralton in the Court of Protection 
decided Mrs D had no capacity to enter  into the LPA and declared it void on 22 August 2016. 
I believe Mrs Ds Deputy then provided  a copy of this judgement to Lloyds. I can see from 
Lloyds copy that it was lodged as received on 7 October 2016.
Lloyds told us they were  unable to confirm when  we received the documents and what  
action we took, however  an LPA and a Deputyship order can run alongside each other .  
The judgement in the Court of Protection stated:
A requirement under Section 22(2)(a) of Mental Capacity Act 2005 for making both Lasting 
Powers of Attorney have  not been  met, therefore it is declared under s,15 that the grants  of 
Lasting Powers of Attorney are void. Accordingly the Public  Guardian  shall cancel the 
registration of both Lasting powers  of Attorney  under  paragraph 18(a)  of Schedule 1 of the 
Mental Capacity Act 2005.
This indicates that in this case the LPA and Deputyship didnt run alongside each other.
I also note evidence to the Court  from the Public  Guardian said:
under section 58(1)(h) of the MCA 2005,  this has not identified  any concerns over the 
decision made by the attorney, all decision and actions appear to of (sic) been  made  in the 
donors best interests.
Mr R would therefore have no authority  to continue to make  transactions  after 22 August 
2016. The appointed Deputy did not notify Lloyds of the revised arrangements,  however, 
until 6 October 2016. Their records show  everything  was updated on 24 October  2016  
although they are unable  to confirm, as noted  above, what  steps they actually took.
The Deputy  on Mrs Ds behalf  could have authorised Mr R to continue using Mrs Ds 
account but I cant see further  transactions made  with the debit card previously issued to 
Mr R were made after this 24 October 2016. I think its most likely Lloyds stopped  the card 
Mr R had used. 
However the same principles referred  to above  that authority under the PSRs would have 
existed by virtue of the LPA  would  apply here.  A court had granted a Deputy authority to 
conduct Mrs Ds property  and affairs. Therefore  transactions after that date were authorised 
in terms of the PSRs.  I have already  confirmed  to Ms D that this would be the case for 
transactions completed after a Deputy was appointed.
I know she has concerns about transactions made to pay car insurance whilst she doubts 
Mr R was using his car to transport Mrs S. But Ive confirmed shell need to raise  her 
concerns with the appointed Deputy.
the disputed transactions
Ms D supplied Lloyds  with a three-page  breakdown  of transactions she was querying on her 
mothers accounts. This included a number of cheques, debit card payments and direct 
debits. As our investigator  confirmed to Ms D there  would be no reason to ask Lloyds to 
refund direct  debits  and standing orders that were  initiated in 2012 before Mrs Ds stroke. 
Ref: DRN51579687Although some of these  direct debits may have continued to run and pay for services  after 
Mrs D no longer required them, this doesnt  mean they werent initially  set up and authorised 
by her.
Ive been in contact with Ms D. Shes  confirmed  that all transactions  between April 2013 and 
2016 have been disputed. The three-page  breakdown was just a snapshot of the disputed 
transactions.
Ive noted that when  the Court of Protection sat, the LPA was declared void.  This means that 
no formal authority existed for the transactions  Mr R made from 11 April 2013 onwards.  But 
just because transactions werent authorised by Mrs D doesnt, in itself,  mean  they should all 
be refunded to the estate.
I also need to consider  whether if Mrs D had been in a position to authorise  these, she would 
have. I also need  to take account of what would normally have been spent on her living 
expenses. To help me assess this Ive reviewed Mrs Ds normal  expenditure in 2012 before 
she fell ill. Ive also looked at the expenditure that took place  once the Deputy took control  of 
Mrs Ds accounts.
Firstly I note the Court of Protection did not demur from the evidence presented by the OPG. 
The judgement stated:
investigated the decisions  of [Mr R] acting  as attorney and having found none to be to be 
(sic) contrary to the best interests  of [Mrs D]
I appreciate this doesnt differentiate between  health, welfare or financial issues.  I also 
appreciate the strength of feeling Ms D has on this issue.  Im aware  Mrs Ds property was 
sold and Ms D doesnt believe this should have taken place. But I find it hard to ignore the 
decision of a court when  considering whether any transactions were inappropriate. I am 
satisfied that the transactions made after April 2013  were stated by a Court  to have been 
made in Mrs Ds interests and therefore  it would not be fair and reasonable to ask Lloyds to 
refund them.
Ms D also mentioned there was expenditure of nearly £105,000 over a six month period at 
the beginning of 2016. She felt this should have caused alarm bells to ring with Lloyds. A 
year earlier I can see there was a payment from solicitors into Mrs Ds account of nearly 
£175,000 which also didnt cause Lloyds to be alerted. But quite a lot of the transfers that 
concerned Ms D were  either from or to one of Mrs Ds savings accounts also held with 
Lloyds. I dont think ld have expected Lloyds to have identified  any unusual patterns  here.
Its certainly true that money  was moved from Mrs Ds account  at a faster rate than had been  
the case. I can also see from Lloyds notes they had discussions with Mr R, as the attorney, 
during this period. He talked to them about the costs for Mrs Ds personal care on a few 
occasions. Mrs Ds statements show there were rising care costs  during this time. So I dont 
think its the case Lloyds  didnt take action  to assess what was going on with Mrs Ds 
accounts. And based on what they discovered, I believe they took steps  to check  how 
Mrs Ds account was being used.
funeral costs
Ms D has complained Lloyds allowed money  to be paid out of her mothers  account  to pay 
for her funeral expenses.  But I dont think Lloyds did anything wrong here.  They had a copy  
Ref: DRN51579688of the will which showed Mrs D1 to be one of the beneficiaries and they also had a copy of 
the funeral bill. I believe they also took the extra  step to verify  this invoice with the funeral 
directors as they were already aware of the potential for a familial dispute. Overall  I believe 
they did what was fair and reasonable to allow Mrs Ds funeral costs to be paid.
Ms D has mentioned a few times  that Mrs Ds will didnt say she wished to be buried so why 
should Lloyds  pay out costs which included  those for a burial. I dont think theres any 
requirement on Lloyds  to question whether the wishes of a will are being followed or not on 
this issue. I dont believe they did anything wrong here.
I know Ms D will be bitterly disappointed by my conclusion but overall  I dont think  it would be 
fair and reasonable to ask Lloyds  to refund any transactions the estate disputes. I dont 
believe at the time they were undertaken they were unauthorised. Although  subsequently  the 
LPA may have been shown to be invalid, Ive not seen sufficient evidence that makes me 
believe I should challenge the view of the Court of Protection that transactions  made during 
that time were not in Mrs Ds best interests.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is not to uphold the estate of Mrs Ds complaint 
against Lloyds  Bank  plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask the estate of Mrs D 
to accept or reject my decision before 20 June 2021.
Sandra Quinn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5157968