K820x#14complaint
Miss A complains  that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) declined  a claim she made  
under her contents  insurance policy.
background
Miss A lives in a flat. Her neighbours flat was in a very unhygienic state, and the smell got 
into Miss As property and into her furniture, carpets  and clothes.  She claimed under her 
RSA contents policy  for the cost of repairing and cleaning the things in her flat.
RSA wrote to her to say the damage wasnt covered under her policy,  so it wasnt  going  to 
pay her anything. Miss A complained.
One of our investigators  looked into the matter. She didnt think RSA was wrong to have 
declined the claim, because  this kind of circumstance wasnt covered  by her contents policy.  
Miss A disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I know  this will come  as a disappointment 
to Miss A, but I dont think RSA treated her unfairly by declining to pay her claim. Ill explain 
why.
Miss A had a home insurance policy underwritten by RSA.  This policy doesnt cover Miss A 
for any eventuality or any damage to her possessions. It simply says RSA will pay for certain 
things listed in the policy terms and conditions. The sections of her policy terms for which 
shes covered are listed on her policy schedule.
Miss A had contents  cover.  The policy  terms say this means RSA will pay for loss or damage 
to her things  if thats as a result of a number of specific incidents including fire, vandalism, 
escape of water, theft and storms. None  of the covered incidents involve damage caused  by 
a smell from a neighbours  flat. So I think it was fair for RSA to say her policy didnt cover the 
damage Miss As claimed for.
Her policy terms also contain broader cover  for accidental damage as a result of any other 
cause. But this section  was an optional extra, for which Miss A would have had to pay an 
additional premium.  Miss A didnt take this extra cover out when she entered  into the policy.  
So whether  or not the damage to her things would have been covered under this section 
(and I make no finding on that point)  I dont think it would be fair to make RSA pay her claim 
because she hadnt taken out that cover.
I understand this situation has been  distressing for Miss A, and the damage to her things 
was through no fault of her own. But Im satisfied RSA has fairly  applied the terms of her 
insurance policy, and its simply  the case that she isnt covered  for what  happened. Taking  
everything to account I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to require RSA to pay 
Miss As claim.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given I dont uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN57141372Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 April 2019.
Luke Gordon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5714137