K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains about the quality of the works  and the goods  supplied under a contract  
funded by a point of sale loan provided  by Clydesdale Financial Services  Limited trading as 
Barclays Partner Finance.
Mr P is also unhappy with the level of customer service he received  when  BPF was 
assessing his claim  and dealing with his complaint.  He has been offered £200 in total for 
this. However, he does not think this goes far enough, plus he wants an explanation of how 
BPF came to this figure.
Mr P is represented in his complaint by his wife. However, to help make my decision easier  
to read I refer only to Mr P throughout even if a submission was made  on his behalf by his 
wife.
background
In July 2016 Mr P entered into a contract for the supply  and fit of a kitchen for his family 
home. The contract was made with a third party I will call W. Mr P is apparently  very 
dissatisfied with the behaviour of W, but he understands that W is not a party  to this 
complaint. He further understands that as a result this service  has no power  to make any 
award against W.
Regrettably the kitchen  renovation did not go smoothly. In summary, Mr P didnt consider 
that the work  had been done to a professional standard. In addition,  some of the fittings were 
damaged, and had to be reordered and still were  not satisfactory from Mr Ps perspective. In 
addition to all of this, remedial works  had to be repeated. 
Mr P tried to sort things out with W, but they were at odds. He then turned to BPF for help 
when W continued to disappoint him. But, as far as he was concerned instead of providing 
assistance BPF acted  more like a middle man than anything  else. 
Finally, in March 2019 Mr P settled matters with W - in short  he agreed to keep the kitchen 
and W agreed to refund  him 50% of the price paid for the kitchen (it appears that the refund 
totalled £4,200). However, Mr P suggested he agreed this settlement with W with great  
reluctance he described himself as acting under duress. 
Despite his agreement  with W to bring the whole episode to a close  Mr P remains 
dissatisfied with BPF.  In particular, he wants to know why BPF paid him £150 without 
warning, and why it thinks this is enough, as Ive already mentioned.  Mr P thinks  BPF didnt 
take into account the level of distress and inconvenience both he and his wife experienced. 
He also wants answers about  why BPF stopped looking  at his claim even though he had not 
resolved anything with W when it did this. Mr P thinks  BPF ought not to have handed over 
any cash to W when it did, because he had not signed anything  to say he was satisfied with 
the work  at that point. Mr P thinks that BPF probably  did not take enough action, so he wants  
to know exactly what actions it took.
BPF sent Mr P a final response in September 2018. In that letter, BPF indicated it had done 
all it could to sort out the disagreement between Mr P and W. However,  it said,  Mr P had told 
it he wanted to reject the kitchen. On that basis W wanted to call in the Furniture 
Ombudsman to inspect the work.  BPF thought this was fair enough in the circumstances. 
But it thought that Mr P had declined the offer of an inspection  from the Furniture 
Ref: DRN51225192Ombudsman. BPF suggested it had heard nothing further from Mr P, so it closed the claim. It 
also pointed out it had no proper basis to withhold the money  for the kitchen from W. It 
encouraged Mr P to contact W to get the inspection sorted.
That said,  BPF recognised that Mr P had most  likely experienced a degree of distress and 
inconvenience and at first it offered him £150 as a goodwill gesture to put this right. Later  on, 
in a second final response letter, it offered a further  £50 as a goodwill gesture. Both 
payments have now been made  to Mr P.
Dissatisfied, Mr P came to our service. Mr P took the opportunity to explain why hed not 
taken the option to have  the Furniture  Ombudsman inspect his kitchen. 
Our investigator looked into Mr Ps complaint. In summary, our investigator didnt conclude 
that he had any proper basis for asking BPF to take any further action.
BPF accepted our investigators conclusion, Mr P did not. In short, Mr P remained unhappy  
with BPFs handling of his claim and his complaint about that claim.  He told us more about 
why the Furniture  Ombudsman had not come to inspect his kitchen. He pointed out hed not 
realised that if he didnt allow the inspection  BPF would close  the claim and it had not made 
this clear. Mr P also told us about feeling  misled by W who had promised him a dream  
kitchen but that wasnt  want  hed got.
We could go no further with Mr Ps complaint at this stage.  On that basis  I was asked to take 
a fresh  look at his complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail  than the parties 
and Ive done so using  my own words. Im not going  to respond to every  single  point made 
by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what 
I think are the key issues here. 
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal  nature  of our service  as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres  something Ive not mentioned,  it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every  individual  argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome.
Where the evidence is incomplete,  inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider  is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Mr P brings his complaint to us relying  the rights he has under Section 75 of the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974. He has these rights because of the type of finance  that he used to pay for 
the kitchen. That is, he used a point of sale loan. And we can look at a complaint  by him 
about this agreement because BPF is a regulated lender and the agreement  is a regulated 
agreement.
The general effect of Section 75 is that if Mr P has a claim for misrepresentation or breach of 
contract against the supplier, here W, he can also bring that claim against BPF provided  
certain conditions  are met.
Ref: DRN51225193I think its important to set out my role here. In considering a complaint about a financial 
services provider, Im not determining the outcome of a claim that a party  might  have under 
Section 75. Rather, in deciding whats a fair way to resolve Mr Ps complaint, I have to take 
account of relevant law, amongst other  things.  Section 75 is relevant law. Therefore, Ive 
taken it into account.  But that doesnt mean  Im obliged to reach the same outcome as, for 
example, a court might reach if Mr P pursued a claim  for misrepresentation or breach of 
contract. Our service is an informal alternative  to the courts.
I need to run through some  preliminary  points before I deal with the substance of Mr Ps 
complaint
Before I look further at what happened  here I need  to clear up some  initial  points. 
I recognise that Mr P is disgruntled with the customer service he received from W. He may 
well feel he has good cause to feel like that, but Im not making any finding about  Ws 
customer service.  Nothing in the relevant  law makes BPF responsible equally with W for the 
level of customer service  provided by W. So, I have no fair and reasonable basis  to try to 
hold BPF to account  for this. Rather, I can only fairly and reasonable look at whether what  
has happened constitutes either  a misrepresentation or a breach of contract.
Here a misrepresentation means a false statement of fact that Mr P relied  on to his detriment  
and which  induced him to enter into the contract.  That brings me to my next point.  Mr P talks 
about how W promised  him his dream kitchen. I think  it is in the nature of these types of 
transactions that the suppliers marketing  may well have contained messaging and images 
about dream kitchens.  After all, to an extent,  advertising and marketing are there to tap into 
customers aspirations. But I dont  agree that just because Mr P didnt  get his dream kitchen 
it was misrepresented to him. I think what W said about this was advertising puff as 
opposed to a factual promise that was capable of being broken. However, I dont 
underestimate Mr Ps sense of dejection and vexation at not getting his dream kitchen. All I 
am saying  is I cant fairly and reasonably  hold BPF responsible for this. And further I dont 
think there is anything else that Mr P has told me about which constitutes a 
misrepresentation.
That being  said I think the parties  agree that for months on end Mr Ps kitchen had problems. 
I can well imagine how galling and inconvenient this was for Mr P his wife and his kids. For 
some families, the kitchen  is the heart of the home, that seems  to be the case here.  Given 
that I can well understand  that being  prevented from using the kitchen  in the way they 
wanted to use it for so long may well have been tiresome, to say the least. I do need  to point 
out that even though I appreciate Mr P and his family both went through  all this, only Mr P is 
an eligible complainant here. So, I would only be able to make an award for Mr Ps distress 
and inconvenience  not his familys too. I realise  Mr P might find this especially unfair  
because his wife was pregnant during some of this time.  But those are the rules I have to 
follow and Ive no discretion about  that.
has Mr P received a fair resolution for what went wrong with the kitchen works?
I have dealt with why I dont think there has been  a misrepresentation.  So, I will focus on 
whether there was a breach of contract. Mr P and W did not just contract  on the basis  of the 
terms and conditions that are in the written contract.  Mr P is a consumer for the purposes of 
relevant consumer law and W acted in the course  of its business, so Mr P has the protection  
of the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (the CRA). The CRA implies  certain  terms into this type of 
Ref: DRN51225194contract. The most relevant  implied  term here is that the law requires that W, the supplier, 
had to do the installation using reasonable skill and care. If the work wasnt  done to this 
standard then this would  have been a breach of contract and Mr P might fairly and 
reasonably be able to rely on the remedies  under  that act.
W dont seem to have agreed  there was in breach of contract, it made its offer to settle  it 
seems without as far as I am aware conceding there was a breach of contract. BPF 
appeared to have reserved its position  on this pending receiving a report from an 
independent expert.
I dont think I have  to make a finding  on this point because Mr P has already got redress, 
and that redress  is one of the options  he would have  been entitled to if there  had been a 
breach of contract - that is a price reduction. The question for me is does this go far enough?
Mr P describes BPF as acting like a middle  man, as opposed to someone who had 
responsibilities to him just like W. I can see where he is coming  from to a point. It does seem 
like BPF made a decision to let W take the lead here. But Mr P appears to think  that if BPF 
had stepped up as he wanted it to do he might have got to reject the kitchen on the terms he 
wanted. I dont  see it like that. I think BPFs letter of September  2018 made it clear  it would 
not have accepted rejection of the kitchen without  an independent  experts opinion.  And in 
the circumstances, I dont think that approach  was unreasonable. BPF was entitled to ask for 
independent evidence to show what was wrong  with the kitchen and what could be done  
about it. Neither do I think BPF was unclear about this being its stance. In other  words,  I 
think Mr P ought to have  known that if he didnt agree to the inspection BPF would not 
progress his complaint.  From what I have seen I think is unlikely Mr P would have  agreed  to 
an inspection from the Furniture Ombudsman.
Mr P has given  his reasons for having misgivings about the Furniture Ombudsman. That was 
his choice to make. But nothing he has said about this makes  me think that the Furniture 
Ombudsman is anything  other than an impartial expert. There may be forums  and postings  
where customers speculate about its independence. And its funding model may have led Mr 
P to give credence to this. But Im not persuaded. 
Further, in any event  W did offer to allow Mr P to reject the kitchen. From what I have seen 
W gave Mr P three different options.  But he chose the option to keep the kitchen with a price 
reduction. Nothing I have seen suggests  that BPF might have been able to get Mr P any 
better offer than the one he got in relation to the rejection and removal  of the kitchen.
Mr P has mentioned duress.  In that he suggests  he felt compelled  to accept Ws offer for a 
number of reasons  even  though he was unhappy  about it.
But duress does  not mean being in a weak bargaining position or facing  a potential loss or 
having a desire  to get back to normal living with a young family  to look after. Nor does it 
mean having to choose between two or more unattractive options.  Duress means being 
forced  typically by physical threats  or blackmail  or some other form of undue pressure - to 
agree to something against ones will. Nothing W did equated to this, as far as I can tell.
Mr P has ended up in a position  where he both has kept the kitchen and got a refund of 
thousands of pounds.  Whilst I can well understand that Mr P does not see it like this, I think 
he has got a fair and reasonable settlement. It follows  I have no proper grounds for saying 
BPF ought  to do more  here in relation to this complaint point.
Ref: DRN51225195Mr P took out the loan on a buy now pay later basis. I take on board that Mr P was told by 
BPF it would  not increase the interest  free period on his loan when he asked it to extend  it 
for a further year. But BPF wasnt obliged to increase this interest free period just because 
Mr P had raised a claim under Section 75.
I also take on board that Mr P thinks BPF was in the wrong  to pay W before he signed  
anything to say he was satisfied with the work. But the terms of the loan contract, which Mr P 
entered into freely and accepted when  he took out the loan, dont require BPF to hold off 
paying W in these  circumstances. I dont see why BPF should not be able to rely on those 
terms and conditions. It follows, I dont  agree it did anything  wrong.  Further if BPF had not 
paid W, Mr P might  have found himself  in the situation where W was pursuing him for the 
money. Just because he was in dispute with W does not mean  that he did not have to pay 
them. This might have made matters even worse  for Mr P.
BPF explained in its letters why it was offering Mr P goodwill gestures of £150 and £50. I 
dont think any further explanation is necessary. He may not think  that it took the right factors  
into account, but he he has been  told what its reasoning was. I know  Mr P didnt  think  this 
sum was sufficient. But the £200 is not the only redress he has got. He got this and the 
redress from W. And I have already  said I think the resolution Mr P already got from W in 
relation to this was fair and reasonable.
Id expect a business to pay a goodwill gesture  promptly. I cant  see what detriment Mr P 
experienced because BPF made  the payment to him without telling  him first. I also think  the 
letter of September  2018  was clear, BPF was not going to continue  acting if Mr P did not 
allow an independent inspection. And I have  also already said I thought  BPF acted  
reasonably in making this stipulation.
It is unfortunate that Mr P had such a long drawn out disagreement  with W and BPF. But for 
the reasons I have  gone through above  I am not going to ask BPF to take any further action 
as I think I have no fair and reasonable basis to do so.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ps complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 October  2020.
Joyce Gordon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5122519