K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains that he gave HSBC UK Bank  PLC notice that he had wanted to sell an 
overseas shareholding but the shares  were  not transferred to HSBC UK Bank PLC in a 
timely manner. There was a further sale delay due to an HSBC  error, during which  time the 
shares declined  in value.
background
According to HSBC, Mr D met one of its advisors in March  2018 to discuss  an investment 
bond; the subsequent  report  noted that Mr D held these shares and wished to keep them  
until the price recovered and did not want advice about them.  In May and June Mr D 
indicated he might want to sell the shares  and it obtained information  about this process 
from the relevant  third party.  In November Mr D asked for access  to the platform app where  
these shares could be sold. This, HSBC said, demonstrated that Mr D was not under the 
impression that he had instructed it to sell the shares before this date or that he had wanted 
to do so. 
HSBC admitted it was responsible for the delay  from the point the shares  went  into its 
custody and Mr D had given it a clear instruction to sell them; and offered compensation on 
that basis. It also offered  £3,000 in lieu of the trouble and upset caused  by this. Mr D did not 
accept this offer.
An investigator at this service did not feel the complaint  should  be upheld.  He said:
HSBC were only responsible for the share price fall from the date when they were  in 
its custody and after Mr D had given  it a clear instruction  to sell them
His previous communications with HSBC, in particular  his email of 14 November 
2018, indicated  he had not definitely decided to sell them previously
At no stage prior to 30 November 2018 did Mr D give a clear sale instruction; in any 
case, the shares were not in HSBCs  custody  before  then
Mr D had discussed what  to do with the shares, including the possibility of 
transferring them  to HSBCs custody or to other  brokers so that a sale could be 
made. HSBC informed him of the available  options, but nothing was agreed  or 
finalised 
The £3,000  offer far exceeded  the level of award that this service would normally 
recommend for a similar administration error
Mr D disagreed, reiterating his earlier points, and adding:
The investigator had not referenced a number of emails  which  raised questions about  
HSBCs advice, its handling of the share transfer  process and his intention  to sell the 
shares
These 44 emails demonstrated  that HSBC knew he wanted  to transfer the shares  
into its custody and it should have done  this much  more  quickly. It should  also have 
interpreted these  emails  as an instruction to sell the shares so it was responsible for 
the price decline  since  April 2018
The investigator replied,  saying:
Mr Ds email of 14 November  2018 indicated he had no intention  of selling the shares  
prior to that date as he was holding the position for an oil price recovery
Ref: DRN54058302The 18 May 2018 email gave no indication  of a custody transfer instruction to HSBC  
or of a sale instruction
The 7 June 2018 email merely indicated that Mr D was interested  in selling his shares 
and enquired as to what documentation was required  to undertake  the account 
transfer process
Mr Ds complaint had been solely about  when HSBC should have sold these  shares, 
and not about other  HSBC advice or fund performance issues; HSBC had not 
considered these broader issues so Mr D would  need to raise a fresh  complaint 
about these if he wished to pursue them
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this case I agree with the investigator  and for the same reasons. As such, I do not intend 
to repeat all the detailed  points he made  about the various emails, correspondence and 
other documentation and what they indicated or implied.
If Mr D has concerns about HSBCs broader advice/communications such as the growth 
graphs on a recommended fund, he needs to make a fresh complaint about these issues. I 
have therefore  not considered these points or whether they demonstrate a broader  lack of 
professionalism by HSBC,  as Mr D alleges.
I dont share  Mr Ds view that his 3 April 2018  email was, in effect, a request to start the 
process of selling these  shares or that he had decided to sell the shares  by this point. In fact, 
Mr D simply says: Does HSBC offer a stockbroker  service  to cash these shares in at some 
point in the future? Nor do I agree that subsequent emails prior to November  2018  represent 
a sale instruction.
My role is to assess all the evidence and submissions before reaching my decision, and to 
summarise the main reasons for my findings. I am not required to address every single point 
made by a business or complainant, nor to reach  a judgment  on each individual  piece of 
disputed evidence. In this case I am satisfied that the investigator fully explained why he did 
not agree  with many of Mr Ds points or his interpretation of key emails.  
I agree  with his assessment about the most important of these issues,  and of his two key 
conclusions: that HSBCs  compensation  offer, based on a potential sale date of 30 
November, was fair and reasonable,  and that its offer of an additional £3,000 was far in 
excess of what this service would have offered in this case.
I therefore do not uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN54058303my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 January 2020.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5405830