K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that First Central Insurance Management Limited  didnt give him the 
expected refund when he cancelled his motor insurance policy.  He wants  a refund of two 
months premiums. 
background
Mr M cancelled his policy after 10 months  but hed paid for a year.  He then expected a 
refund for two months of the unused policy. But First Central said there  was an outstanding 
balance of £6.03 due as it had applied a £50 early  cancellation fee. It later waived the 
outstanding balance, but Mr M remained  unhappy.  
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought  the early 
cancellation fee had reasonably been  brought to Mr Ms attention  when he took out the 
policy. And he thought  First Central  was entitled  to apply  it. He thought it had reasonably 
waived the £6.03 balance  outstanding. 
Mr M replied that he didnt think First Centrals  terms and conditions  were fair. He asked for 
his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman, so its come to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mr M feels frustrated that it actually  cost him more  to cancel his policy 
than if he had let it run to full term. He said he thought First Centrals terms and conditions 
were unfair and he questioned whether they had been fairly applied.
Our approach in cases like this is to consider whether the brokers acted in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy and fairly and reasonably.
First Central said it had applied a £50 charge for early cancellation. I think  this is a common 
policy term and not unusual. Our approach  is that businesses can charge reasonable fees 
for the extra administration costs incurred in the case of such  things as policy  amendment  
and early cancellation. And I think £50 is a reasonable  amount  as its in keeping  with other 
cancellation charges Ive seen.
But we think  charges such as this should be clearly brought  to the consumers attention 
when they buy the policy. From  what I can see, Mr M would have had to agree  that hed read 
the policy terms and conditions when he bought his policy. 
I can see that the policy fees are set out on page 10 of the policy  booklet. I think  the 
cancellation fees are clearly set out and that the consumer  should expect to pay £50 if the 
policy is cancelled more  than 14 days after it started. So I think  the cancellation charge was 
reasonably brought to Mr Ms attention and First Central was entitled to apply it. 
Mr M said he was being treated differently  because if he had paid his premium  in monthly 
instalments then he didnt think First Central would have pursued him for the outstanding 
amount. But I dont have any evidence to say whether it would have or not. So I cant say 
that Mr M was treated differently because he paid his premium annually.  
Ref: DRN59153782First Central said it waived  the outstanding £6.03 due for the policy  because  it saw that the 
cancellation fee exceeded the refund due for two months. I think  that was fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. I dont require it to do anything further.
 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 March  2020.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5915378