K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S have  complained that Bank of Scotland plc (BoS)  mis-sold them a mortgage 
payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
Mr and Mrs S took out the PPI in March 1997. The sale happened in a meeting in branch  at 
the same  time as they were arranging the mortgage. The policy  was set up to provide cover 
for both Mr and Mrs S for accident, sickness and unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs S disagree with the adjudicators  
opinion and so the complaint has been  passed  to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Ss complaint and Ill explain why.
Bank of Scotland doesnt have any documentation  for the sale of the PPI, which isnt 
surprising given how long ago it took place.  But this does  make the complaint more difficult  
to decide. So in reaching my decision I have considered the evidence that we do have, as 
well as what I think is most likely  to have happened.
Mr and Mrs S say that they honestly  cant remember any details of the sale.  They accept 
that they may have agreed to have the PPI. From what we know  of BoSs  sales  processes at 
the time,  PPI was presented  as optional. I havent  seen any evidence that the adviser  
deviated from the usual process,  and Mr and Mrs S themselves are not saying that they 
didnt know they had the policy.  So, on balance, I think its likely that Mr and Mrs S decided  
to buy the policy,  knowing that they didnt have to, even if they no longer remember  doing 
so.
BoS has said that it advised Mr and Mrs S to buy the policy. That means  that in 
recommending it to them, it needed  to ensure that it met their needs. Mr and Mrs S say they 
have been told by their representative that the policy was probably not suitable  for them  as 
they would  have been excluded from claiming on it due to having sufficient alternative 
means to make their repayments. However  I havent seen anything about  Mr and Mrs Ss 
circumstances at the time to suggest that they wouldnt  have been able to make a successful 
claim.
Mr and Mrs S would each have received six months full pay, followed by six months half 
pay, if they were  off sick from work.  But the policy would have paid out in addition to any sick 
pay and potentially for longer than they would have received full pay for. The couple had 
some savings, but having the policy would have allowed  them to retain these or use them  to 
cover other outgoings at what  would have been  a difficult  time. 
Ref: DRN55229342A mortgage is a significant financial commitment and the consequences of defaulting on a 
mortgage can be very serious. So its not surprising if Mr and Mrs S had an interest in 
protecting their repayments.
BoS also needed to provide Mr and Mrs S with enough information for them to make  an 
informed choice about whether the policy was right for them. I think that Mr and Mrs S would 
have been told something about the policy (that it would cover their mortgage payments if 
they were unable to work) because I dont think they would have agreed to buy the policy 
without knowing anything  at all about it.
Its possible that BoS could have provided  more information about the PPI, particularly about  
the things it didnt cover. But Mr and Mrs S werent  affected by any of those things. As I think 
that Mr and Mrs S had an interest in the PPI and decided to buy it, I dont think  that furher  
information would have caused  them to change their minds. So they havent lost out as a 
result of anything BoS may have done wrong. So theres nothing  that BoS needs to do to put 
things right.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  Mr and Mrs Ss complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  13 April 2019.
Carole Clark
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5522934