K820x#14complaint
Miss K is unhappy with the quality of a vehicle she has on finance with FirstRand  Bank 
Limited, trading  as Motonovo.  
background
In February 2018  Miss K took receipt of a used vehicle. The car had covered over 141,000 
miles at the point of supply and was nearly eight years old. She funded  the deal through  a 
hire purchase agreement with Motonovo.
But soon after delivery Miss K noted there were windscreen chips;   a problem with the petrol 
cap and she wasnt happy with a repair that had been completed to a scratch. And in July, 
when she took it to a garage because the brake  fluid lamp  had illuminated, they told her the 
car needed brake pads and discs and three  new tyres. Later in 2018 Miss K experienced 
problems with the gearbox. So she complained to Motonovo and explained that the car was 
clearly not of satisfactory quality.
They arranged for an independent engineer to take a look at Miss Ks car. The engineer said 
that the gearbox fault wouldnt have been  present at the point of supply and Motonovo  
therefore wrote to Miss K and explained  that they couldnt be held responsible.
Miss K therefore referred her complaint to this service and our adjudicator  provided an 
opinion. She didnt think there was sufficient evidence to suggest  there  were  faults  at the 
point of supply.  She thought it reasonable that a vehicle of this age and mileage would have 
some defects and she noted the dealership had explained this in the sales documentation. 
She thought  the scratch was a cosmetic  issue that Miss K could have expected  on a vehicle 
of this age. 
She noted that the petrol cap had been repaired and she therefore didnt think it would be 
fair to ask Motonovo  to take any action about this. She went  on to consider the visual health 
check completed before the vehicle was released to Miss K. This health check didnt identify 
any chips to the windscreen so she didnt think it would  be fair to hold Motonovo  responsible 
as the adjudicator thought  it was most  likely these had happened after the point of supply. 
She looked at the MOT  that the car had passed  a couple of months earlier and she thought, 
if the chips were present  then, it would have mentioned them  but it didnt.
She accepted that the visual health  check had identified wear  to the tyres and brakes but 
she thought the standard was roadworthy and the checks were therefore  only advisory.
She considered the gearbox  fault. But she noted  that the independent  engineer had said the 
fault wasnt there when  the vehicle was supplied and regardless, she didnt think  Miss K 
wouldve been able to drive almost  5,000  miles in the car if there  had been  a gearbox 
problem when shed  entered into the deal with Motonovo.
So overall, the adjudicator didnt think it would be reasonable to ask Motonovo  to take any 
further action. 
But Miss K was still dissatisfied. She said that despite the age and mileage of the car she 
didnt expect to have all of the issues shed  experienced within  the first six months  of 
ownership. She said shed been  advised that, as the gearbox issue  had arisen in the first six 
Ref: DRN50640182months of ownership, it was Motonovos responsibility to resolve the issue and she asked for 
a final decision by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicators view and for similar reasons. Please let me explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
was the car faulty at the point of supply?
Miss K acquired her car under a hire purchase agreement. The relevant law says that the 
car should have  been of satisfactory  quality when supplied. If it wasnt  then Motonovo  is 
responsible and Id think  it fair and reasonable to ask them to put this right. 
But Motonovos responsibility for the car is not unlimited. Whilst they are responsible for its 
condition at the point of supply they are not responsible for faults that develop afterwards.  
I think the faults with the gearbox, brakes and tyres  are not problems that were likely to have 
been present  at the point  of supply. Ill consider the scratched  panel  and the filler cap 
problem, later.
gearbox
We would  often consider  that if faults  arise  in the first six months  they were most  likely to 
have been there at the point of supply and would therefore be the responsibility  of the 
finance company  to put right. 
But here we have been provided very clear evidence, from an independent expert, that the 
gearbox fault was unlikely  to have been present at the point of supply. The engineer  has 
explained it was not possible to select reverse gear and he didnt consider the fault was 
developing at policy inception  when considering  the mileage the vehicle had covered and the 
time the vehicle had been in service.
So regardless of how long Miss K had the car it would be unreasonable,  in light of the 
experts comments, to suggest this was an issue Motonovo should  take responsibility  for.
brakes, tyres  and pads
The pre-sale 128 point  inspection didnt highlight any issues  with the brakes or tyres 
although it didnt  include an inspection of the brake  surfaces.
Ref: DRN50640183The dealership also conducted a pre-sale  health check and I can see that some tyres  were 
approaching the minimum tread depth. The health  check also identified that brake  pads were  
getting a bit worn.
But none  of these issues had reached  an unacceptable  standard.  The car was roadworthy 
and the dealership had honestly appraised the amount of wear  present. I dont  think  its 
reasonable to expect  the dealership to have renewed the tyres or the brakes. This was a car 
that had already completed a considerable mileage  and some wear  was to be expected. 
Tyres and brakes are an item subject to wear  and tear and I think  its fair to suggest the 
additional wear,  experienced between this inspection and the inspection Miss K had done in 
July, was a result of the mileage shed completed. So I dont think  it would be reasonable to 
ask Motonovo  to take any action on this issue.
the petrol cap and windscreen chips
Miss K accepted  a repair to the petrol  cap and I think that sounds like a reasonable and 
proportionate resolution to the matter.
The windscreen chips were not identified in the MOT that was completed a couple of months 
before the supply  of the car. They werent noticed  during the pre-sale health  check or the 
128 point inspection  either. I think its reasonable to suggest, if they were present at the point 
of supply, they would have been noticed  during some, or all, of these inspections. So Im not 
persuaded they are Motonovos  responsibility  either.
the scratched  panel
Its fair to say that there will be some damage on a vehicle of this age and mileage.  The 
scratch was noted  in the pre-sale inspection and I see that Miss K disputes that she 
accepted the quality  of the repair completed to it. I dont think  a scratch  of this nature  would  
demonstrate a vehicle of this age and mileage was of unacceptable quality at the point of 
supply so I dont  think it would be reasonable to hold Motonovo  responsible.
So overall, Im afraid I dont agree with Miss K that theres evidence this car was not of a 
satisfactory standard when she took receipt of it and Im not asking Motonovo  to take action.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 June  2019. 
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5064018