K821x#15complaint
Mr S complains about the valuation that Covea  Insurance plc offered for his car under his 
motor insurance policy  after it was deemed  to be beyond  economical repair.  Hes also 
unhappy that his car was further damaged  by Coveas approved repairer  and with his loss of 
earnings due to issues with his hire car.
background
Mr Ss car was vandalised  and he made  a claim.  Covea had its garage inspect the car and 
said it was beyond economical repair. This took into account the cars  higher than average 
mileage and below average condition. Covea  offered Mr S £3,500 in settlement of his claim. 
But Mr S thought his car was worth  around  £6,000. 
Mr S thought  the car had been returned with new damage to the door handle. He was also 
unhappy that he was charged  for a weeks car hire as he said he wasnt  contacted  to return  
the hire car. He said he lost work as Covea didnt provide  him with a hire car at the start of 
the claim and took the car back  early.  Covea paid Mr S £25 compensation for its initial  delay. 
Covea agreed  to cover the hire charges up to the point when Mr S was texted  to ask him to 
return it. 
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld  in part. She thought 
Coveas settlement offer should be increased  by £350. But she couldnt see evidence that 
the repairing  garage had further  damaged Mr Ss car. And the investigator didnt have 
evidence of Mr Ss loss of earnings.  
Mr S replied  that the valuation didnt take into account the cars add-ons.  Covea said its 
valuation took into account the cars  below average condition. 
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S was unhappy with Coveas valuation of his car. We dont  provide  valuations for cars but 
look to whether the insurers offer is reasonable.
In assessing whether  a reasonable offer has been  made, we obtain  valuations from motor-
trade guides. These are used for valuing second  hand vehicles. We find these guides to be 
particularly persuasive,  largely because their valuations are based  on nationwide research 
and likely sales figures. The guides also take into account regional variations. We also take 
all other available  evidence into account,  for example, engineers  reports.
Our investigator recommended that Covea should increase its settlement offer by a further 
£350. So Ive reviewed how she came to this recommendation. I can see that the 
investigator looked for cars of the same make, model, age, condition  and mileage as Mr Ss 
in the motor trade guides we use. 
Mr S said his car had add-ons, but I cant see that they increased  its valuation. Covea said 
its valuation took into account the cars  below average condition. I can see that Coveas 
engineer deducted £500 for the cars  pre-accident  condition.  
Ref: DRN53800332But I think some  wear  and tear is to be expected on a nine-year-old  car. Ive also noted that 
the repairing  garages report described the cars pre-accident condition  as good. And so I 
dont think this deduction was fair.  
Our investigator found valuations for Mr Ss car in three of the guides  we use. She 
discounted one valuation as it was out of step with the others.  I think  thats fair and 
reasonable as its in keeping with our approach. The other two valuations were  about the 
same. But she thought  Covea should  increase its offer by £350  to match the lowest  of the 
valuations provided  by the guides. I think thats  fair and reasonable as I can see that the 
valuation was made correctly in keeping with our approach.
Mr S thought  Coveas  garage had further damaged  his car, specifically the door handle. I 
can see that Mr S said this couldnt  have been caused by the incident.  Were  not engineers. 
We dont assess whether or how damage  to a vehicle would be caused  as this is a matter for 
the experts in these  situations, the insurance companies and engineers. Our role in these  
complaints is to determine whether  an insurance  company has considered all the available  
evidence and whether it can justify its decision  to not pay for additional repairs.
I can see that Covea  considered  its engineers  view about how the damage had occurred. It 
considered the delivery note that Mr S signed when he accepted the car back.  This didnt 
note any further  damage.  I cant see any further expert evidence that Covea should have 
considered. And so I think it justified its decision not to take responsibility for this repair. 
Mr S said he incurred  £106 charges from the hire company as he said the hire ended too 
soon. Ive seen  the invoice  the hire company sent Mr S. This was for £126 including  VAT. 
From what  I can see, Mr S had paid a £20 deposit  and so he was charged a further £106. 
The hire period was 19 May 2019  to 28 May 2019.
Covea said it would  cover  the charges up to and including  the date when Mr S was texted 
that he needed to return the car, 24 May 2019. I think thats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. And I can see that Covea  has agreed to honour  this offer.  So I think it should  
calculate what it needs to pay Mr S for his last four days  hire and pay this to him. 
Mr S said he lost work due to Covea being late to provide a hire car and then taking it away  
too early.  Loss of earnings isnt covered by Mr Ss policy  and so I think  Covea only needs  to 
consider compensation for it where its directly related  to its errors. 
Covea agreed  that it was late providing a hire car, but this was over a holiday period. Also, I 
havent seen evidence from Mr S that he lost work at this time. I think Covea  provided  a hire 
car for longer than Mr Ss entitlement  under the policy. It extended it when he said he hadnt 
been told to return  it. So I dont think Covea was responsible  for Mr Ss loss of earnings at 
the end of the hire period.   
Also, we expect a consumer to reasonably mitigate their losses and so I think Mr S could 
have looked for other means  of transport if Covea hadnt provided a hire car. So I dont think  
Covea needs  to cover Mr Ss loss of earnings.  
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
require Covea Insurance plc to do the following:
Ref: DRN538003331.Increase its settlement offer for the loss of Mr Ss car by a further £350.
2.Reimburse Mr S for his hire costs for the period 19 May 2019 to 24 May 2019 inclusive, 
as its already agreed to do. 
3.Mr S has been without his money  for some time, so I think Covea should reasonably add 
interest to these amounts at the rate of 8% simple per annum from 24 May 2019 to the 
date of settlement. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Covea to take off tax from this interest. Covea must give 
Mr S a certificate  showing  how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 January 2021.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5380033