K820x#14complaint
Mrs P complains that HDI Global Speciality SE have turned down a claim made under her 
home insurance policy for a robbery.
background
Mrs P made a claim under her home  insurance policy after her house was broken into and 
items were stolen. HDI turned down the claim saying the policy  terms had been breached.
The policy says all accessible upper floor windows must be locked when  the property is 
unattended. HDI said thieves used minimum effort to access  a first floor balcony. Because  a 
window on the balcony was used  to access the property HDI said the window was 
considered accessible. They said the failure  of Mrs Ps daughter  to lock this accessible 
window while the property was unattended was a breach of the security terms in the policy.
Mrs P complained but HDI maintained  the claim wasnt covered, so she brought  her 
complaint to our service where one of our investigators looked into what  happened.  He 
thought HDI applied the terms and conditions fairly  when turning down the claim saying it 
was reasonable  to conclude that the window was accessible. Mrs P disagreed, so the 
complaint has come  to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I find myself coming to 
the same  conclusion as our investigator  for broadly the same  reasons.
I think its important to tell Mrs P Ive no doubt a robbery took place, and this has clearly 
caused a great deal of upset and financial loss. But its also important to say that my role is 
not to re-underwrite  the claim, but to decide  whether HDI acted  fairly  when applying  the 
policy terms to the claim.
Insurance policies  cant  and dont  cover every eventuality. Insurers  are free to decide what 
events they wish to provide  cover for under  a policy. They  are also free to include exclusions 
in policies for events  they dont want to cover. Here  the policy says that all accessible 
windows must be locked when the property is unattended.  HDI has relied on this policy  term 
when deciding not to pay the claim saying that the unlocked first floor window  used to gain 
entry is accessible.
All parties  agree the property was unattended at the time of the robbery, and that the window 
was unlocked, so theres  no need  for me to make  a decision on those  issues.  The matter for 
me to decide  is whether HDI have acted  reasonably  when considering the evidence and 
applying the policy terms by saying the window used to gain entry  was accessible.
As part of the claims process HDI instructed two reports. The first report  confirms the thieves 
gained entry by climbing up to a terrace on the first floor at the rear of the house. It says the 
thieves used force to open the window, then went into the house, and left the same  way. The 
second report said it was possible  to access the balcony from an adjacent  fence.  HDI relied 
on these reports when  assessing the claim. 
Ref: DRN50182502We can never know for sure for how the thieves accessed the balcony and then the window. 
It mayve been by climbing  on the adjacent fence,  it couldve been  up the drainpipe,  or some 
other method. Its also not essential  we know how they did this, but what  we do know is they 
were able to do so. 
The balcony  was accessed with relative  ease, and the thieves seemingly left the house in 
the same  way with the items they stole. There appears to be no damage  to the house from 
gaining access to the balcony.  Theres also no sign of other  methods  such as a ladder, or 
the movement  of things like garbage bins, in order to help climb to the first floor.
Having reviewed the information from Mrs P as well as the reports  and the photographs,  Im 
satisfied HDI acted  fairly and reasonably when applying the policy  terms and saying the 
window is accessible.
Although there is no doubt the window  was left unlocked, Ive considered if this was material 
to the loss. In my view, its likely that if the window had been  locked this wouldve presented 
a deterrent to the thieves, as well as being a significant barrier  when attempting to access 
the property. So, I think leaving  the window unlocked was material to what happened.
Ive read the reports, looked at the photos, and considered all the information provided by 
both Mrs P and HDI. Having done  so, Im satisfied HDI applied the policy  terms in a fair and 
reasonable way when  turning down  Mrs Ps claim. Im satisfied the window is considered  
accessible, and that it was left unlocked. This is a breach of the security requirements in the 
policy. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 January 2020.
Warren Wilson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5018250