K822xcomplaint
Mr M complains that a delay by St Jamess  Place  UK plc (SJP) in processing a payment 
from his drawdown plan meant he couldnt make a withdrawal  in the following policy  year.
background 
I issued a provisional decision for this complaint on 26 August 2020.  A copy  is attached at 
Appendix A and forms part of this final decision.
Mr M responded to say, in summary,  that:
he didnt consider the suggested compensation properly reflected what SJPs  error 
had cost him in terms of stress  and time.
hed had to arrange additional borrowing  to cover the shortfall  in his finances, for 
which hed incurred  further costs.
his money had remained invested  by default, because of SJPs mistake.  So he didnt 
consider compensation should  be offset  by any increase in value to his pension 
investments.
the suggested compensation of £500 wasnt enough in light of the trouble and upset 
caused by SJPs mistake. 
SJP said it agreed with my provisional  findings. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive noted everything  Mr M has said in response to my provisional decision.  Hes told me that 
the annual interest  rate on the loan amount he used to cover  his living expenses (around 
£25,000) was 2.99%. So the cost to him was £747.50.
Mr M has also provided evidence of another loan he took out in February 2020. He says he 
had to arrange this borrowing to cover  the shortfall in his finances caused by SJPs mistake. 
Mr M tells me his previous lender wasnt willing to extend his original  borrowing,  so he also 
had to pay an early repayment charge to exit that loan.
Ive noted the evidence  Mr M has provided. I understand the loan he arranged in 2020 
replaced the borrowing hed taken out in 2016  which was primarily in connection with 
property, but which  Mr M eventually had to use in part to cover the shortfall in his living  costs 
caused by SJPs mistake. 
It seems  the loan Mr M arranged  in 2020  was for a much larger  amount than he borrowed in 
2016. So  I dont   think I can safely say that the only reason for the new loan was the 
shortfall in living  costs caused by SJPs mistake. As such, Im not persuaded it would be fair 
or reasonable to ask SJP to cover the additional  borrowing costs Mr M has referred to.
Ref: DRN55816992I take Mr Ms point that he didnt  have a choice about keeping the money  in his pension  fund 
while he was unable  to access  it. But our approach to redress  requires us to put the customer  
into the position they wouldve been  in if the mistake by the business hadnt  been made.
In this case, if Mr M had been able to withdraw the money,  he wouldnt have had to use loan 
money to cover his living expenses. So its appropriate that SJP should  cover the cost of that 
borrowing for the period in question. 
But in the same circumstances, the money  would  no longer have been in Mr Ms pension 
fund. Which is why we need  to take account  of any increase in value on the amount in 
question, and offset this against Mr Ms costs.
I fully understand  the distress SJPs mistake  caused  for Mr M, and I dont doubt the time and 
effort hes had to put into pursuing his complaint. So I can see why he might consider the 
compensation Ive suggested isnt enough.  
But when I take account of awards  by this service in complaints of a similar nature, Im 
satisfied that £500  is appropriate  on this occasion.
I realise my decision is likely to be disappointing to Mr M, but overall Im not persuaded to 
depart from the position set out in my provisional  decision.
putting things right
SJP should pay the difference (if any) between the loan interest  Mr M paid on £25,000 for 
the period 15 November  2018 to 14 November 2019  (£747.50),  and investment growth on 
the same  amount of money in Mr Ms pension plan during  the same period.
If Mr M has suffered a loss, SJP should  pay annual interest at 8% simple on what  it owes 
Mr M, from 14 November  2019 to the date of settlement of the complaint.     
 
SJP should also pay £500 to Mr M for the trouble and upset  caused.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. I direct St Jamess Place UK plc to pay 
compensation to Mr M in line with the instructions above.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
APPENDIX A
Copy of Provisional Decision
complaint
Mr M complains that a delay by St Jamess Place UK plc (SJP)  in processing  a payment from his 
drawdown plan meant he couldnt make a withdrawal in the following policy year.
Ref: DRN55816993background
Mr M has a drawdown plan with SJP. In September 2017 he requested  a withdrawal from the plan, 
which had to be completed before the end of the policy year on 15 November. The payment was paid 
by BACS on 13 November, but it didnt  reach Mr Ms account until 16 November.
Mr M requested another withdrawal in time for the policy year ending 15 November 2018. But he was 
told this wasnt possible  because the payment hed received on 16 November 2017  was the maximum  
he could receive for that year.
Mr M complained to SJP. It said he could take the money by converting to a flexi-drawdown 
arrangement, but it couldnt advise him about doing this. Mr M said SJP had advised him years ago 
that his current drawdown arrangement was the most suitable for his pension needs. So he wasnt 
willing to make the switch.
The first investigator  accepted there had been mistakes by SJP in connection with the 2016/17 
drawdown. But she concluded  Mr M hadnt suffered any financial loss because  the money had 
remained in the drawdown plan. So she didnt consider SJP had to reimburse  Mr M for the drawdown 
hed wanted to make  in 2018. 
The investigator said SJP should pay £250 for the trouble  and upset  caused, but she didnt award any 
more compensation.
Mr M didnt agree with the first investigators conclusions. A second investigator reviewed  the 
complaint and said SJP should pay any additional tax Mr M had to pay if he took the second  
drawdown from the plan (in addition to the £250 recommended by the first investigator).
Mr M said that HMRC rules meant it wasnt possible  to make a further withdrawal for the 2017/18 
policy year. So there wouldnt be any additional  tax to pay. He asked for his complaint to be reviewed  
by an ombudsman.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
Mr M made  his drawdown request to SJP on 13 October 2017. It seems he chased SJP on 24 
October to find out what was happening. He said:
Having notified  SJP 13 October of my wish to draw, I had not imagined  a months  notice could fail to 
be sufficient  time for SJP to process the request. In future I will try to give the required  advance notice 
if SJP will let me know how much that is.
Mr M chased SJP again  on 13 November, because there were  only two days left until the end of the 
policy year. SJP told him:
The transfer  to your bank account is due to happen on 16/11/17. However, even  though that is after the 
15/11/17, it is still treated as part of the 2016/17 policy  year as the request was received in October.
It went on to say:
Your request  was signed  18/10/17  and the funds should be with you on 16/11/17
SJPs internal records suggest it recognised  its delays had caused Mr Ms drawdown to be paid after 
the 2016/17 policy year had ended. It had also given  Mr M incorrect information about how the money  
received on 16 November 2017 would be treated.
Ref: DRN55816994SJP shouldve processed Mr Ms drawdown  request sooner than it did. Had it done so, Im satisfied 
that Mr M wouldve received the payment on or before 15 November 2017.  If that had been the case, 
Mr M wouldve then been able to make a similar withdrawal on or before 15 November 2018.
But the payment received on 16 November  2017 meant it wasnt possible for Mr M to make a 
withdrawal in November 2018  because hed already withdrawn the maximum amount for that year.
So Im satisfied that SJPs  delay meant he was denied access to the withdrawal amount he wanted to 
take in November 2018.  
SJP has said Mr M could access the money by converting  to a flexi-drawdown plan. But I dont 
consider its reasonable to expect Mr M to alter his pension arrangements because  of an issue 
created by SJPs mistake.
Im mindful that the money has remained within Mr Ms drawdown plan, and that it may have earned 
investment growth. So any redress  should take account of investment growth  earned while the money 
remained within the plan.  
Mr M has said that the drawdown plan is his main  source of income. Hes said that during the year 
when he couldnt  access the drawdown money, he replaced his lost income with loan monies hed 
taken out against a property.  Mr M has provided evidence of the loan in question. I understand the 
amount Mr M had to use was around £25,000.  
I think  SJP should put Mr M into the position  he wouldve  been in if the 2018 drawdown payment had 
been paid as planned. In those circumstances  Mr M wouldnt have had to use his loan money to 
supplement his income. So SJP should pay the difference (if any) between the loan interest Mr M paid 
on £25,000 for the period  15 November  2018 to 14 November 2019, and investment growth  on the 
same amount of money in Mr Ms pension  plan during the same period.
Mr M will need to provide SJP with details of the interest rate payable on that amount.
If Mr M has suffered a loss, SJP should pay annual  interest at 8% simple on what it owes Mr M, from 
14 November 2019 to the date of settlement of the complaint.     
 
I dont underestimate the considerable stress Mr M will have experienced when  he discovered he 
couldnt take a payment in November 2018. In the circumstances I also consider it reasonable for SJP 
to pay £500 to Mr M for the trouble and upset caused.
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that I intend to uphold this complaint. I intend to direct St Jamess  Place  UK 
plc to pay any compensation  due to Mr M in line with the instructions above.
St Jamess Place UK plc should pay the compensation  within 28 days  of the date on which  Mr M 
accepts my final decision. Annual interest at 8% simple from the date of any final decision to the date 
of settlement will then apply  up to that date.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5581699