K820x#14Complaint
Mr R says HSBC Bank Plc (HSBC) mis-sold him a payment protection insurance  (PPI) 
policy because it wasnt explained  to him.
Background
Mr R says he was sold a single premium PPI policy during a meeting with HSBC when he 
took out a personal loan in 1999.  The loan was for £8,000 which was to be repaid over a 
term of 48 months. The PPI cost around £1197 and was the type that had to be paid for up 
front in one single payment. Like the loan, the PPI attracted interest and also covered a 48 
month term.
Our adjudicator who looked at this complaint said it shouldnt be upheld. But Mr R disagreed 
and asked for the case to go for an ombudsmans  final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Rs case. 
Having done this Im not upholding Mr Rs complaint.
This sale was some  20 years ago and so its not unusual  that neither party is able to send 
me any of the original  paperwork. However,  weve seen a few similar cases to this and we 
now know that during  this time period, HSBC generally discussed PPI with consumers first 
and then produced some  documents for them to read and sign,  based  on that discussion. 
We know consumers whod agreed  to have PPI with their loan were then usually given a 
credit agreement and a separate creditor protection declaration which would  have shown 
that they a choice and that they had elected to take PPI. They  would also have had to sign 
separately to agree  to their loan and also the PPI.
HSBC provided us with the sample documents it said were used in this sale and having 
looked closely over these, I think they correspond with our understanding of HSBCs selling 
procedures back in 1999. 
So it seems  to me that Mr R agreed to have  PPI and would have been  able to know it wasnt  
something he needed to buy with his loan if he didnt want  it.
I think its quite likely  HSBC recommended the cover  to Mr R so it had a duty to ensure it 
was suitable for him. After  such a long time this can be difficult  to judge because it can often 
depend on the applicants individual circumstances and their attitude to risk. 
But having  looked carefully at his overall  situation,  I think Mr R was eligible for the cover and 
not caught by any of the major exclusions we sometimes see in these policies. I see Mr R 
had only moderate  protection against  sickness with his job. The PPI would have covered his 
loan repayments  for up to 12 months  for unemployment and longer for sickness which was 
better than the cover  he enjoyed though his work.  So whilst I cant  say for sure why he chose 
to take out the policy, I can see it was useful in his circumstances. 
Ref: DRN58179282Overall, I think the PPI policy was suitable for him.
HSBC also had a responsibility to provide information that was clear,  fair and not misleading  
so Mr R could make an informed decision about buying this cover.  I cant  say what was 
actually discussed  between the parties or whether  Mr R was given all the information he 
should have been given.  And I can certainly see how HSBC  could have  made some of its 
forms clearer, including setting out what Mr R might expect to be refunded  if hed cashed  in 
his single premium  policy  early. 
But I dont think this would have made  any difference to whether or not hed have still bought 
the policy. I say this because I dont think it was suspected or likely that Mr R intended to 
cash in his loan or PPI early. I also think the cost of both the loan and the PPI part of the 
loan were set out on the credit agreement he signed. So he would have been able to 
understand the costs he was facing. 
These things - and what Ive said above about him agreeing to the cover - lead me to think 
its more likely this policy wasnt mis-sold.
Finally, I see Mr R cant understand why he was compensated for a similar loan sold a few 
years before this one. I accept this can feel odd, but we know  the sales processes were 
slightly different and HSBC clearly  made  a decision based on that particular case.
My final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint or direct  HSBC UK Bank Plc 
to pay any compensation.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 September  2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5817928