K820x#14complaint
Mr B has complained that Right Choice Insurance Brokers Ltd. (RCIB)  gave him poor advice 
leading to him paying too much for his motor  insurance policy.
background
Mr B was looking  to insure  his car. Hed looked  online and received a quote before he rang 
RCIB in order to buy the policy. Mr B told RCIB he'd had a driving incident that led to a 
prison sentence.  RCIB said that he needed to declare that as a non-motoring  conviction. 
And, as a result, some insurers wouldn't insure Mr B and that it couldn't  offer the premium  for 
the quote hed received online.  It offered  him a different premium with another  insurer that 
was more expensive.  Mr B didn't think he needed to declare his conviction as a 
non-motoring conviction.
Mr B brought his complaint about RCIB to us. Our adjudicator didn't think  RCIB had done  
anything wrong. Mr B didn't agree and asked for an ombudsmans review; so the complaints 
been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not going to uphold 
it. 
In bringing this complaint Mr B has made a number of detailed points. And hes raised some 
further complaint  points  after RCIB had replied  to his original complaint. But in this decision I 
will focus on what I see as being  the key issues and those which RCIB had previously 
responded to.
RCIB is a broker which means  that it arranges  insurance policies  and may help with their 
administration, but its not the actual insurer. That means it doesn't  underwrite the policies,  a 
separate business, the insurer, actually provides the cover.
I've listed  to the call in which  RCIB  sold Mr B his policy.  Mr B ran through  his details  and told 
RCIB about the driving incident which led to his criminal conviction and prison sentence. 
RCIB then spoke with the insurer that underwrites the policy for which  Mr B had received an 
online quote. That insurer  told RCIB that because  Mr B had received a prison sentence it 
didn't wish to insure him. So it withdrew the quote.
RCIB explained to Mr B that, essentially, as hed received  a prison sentence  he would have 
to declare his conviction as a non-driving conviction  so that any insurers who didn't wish to 
insure individuals who had a prison  sentence  would  be made  aware of that.
I can completely understand why Mr B doesn't think thats reasonable. Thats because he 
hasn't ever had a non-driving conviction.  Mr B was convicted of offence under the provisions 
of the Road Traffic Act 1988 (RTA), which happened while  he was driving a car. I dont  think 
its reasonable to say that conviction  is both a motoring conviction and a non-motoring 
conviction at the same  time. Logically it can only be one or the other. 
So the fact Mr B received a prison  sentence doesnt  mean that the offence he committed 
stopped being a motoring  offence. It remains a motoring offence although its unlike most 
Ref: DRN55181792other motoring offences which arent considered to be criminal convictions. But the fact that 
its of sufficient seriousness that it merits being  classified as criminal conviction doesnt stop 
it from being a motoring offence. So I can understand Mr Bs confusion when RCIB told him 
that insurers where looking at it as though  it were  a non-motoring conviction.
But that doesnt mean RCIB did anything wrong in this instance. It asked Mr B relevant 
questions which were  clear and which Mr B answered honestly and thoroughly. RCIB then 
spoke with the insurer concerned - which is a separate business   and it decided that it 
didnt wish to offer Mr B cover. That wasnt RCIBs  decision it was the insurers.  So RCIB 
isnt responsible for that insurers decision not to offer him cover. And I dont  think that 
situation happened because of anything RCIB  did or didnt do.
RCIB went on to find another insurer that would  offer Mr B cover. It then managed to 
negotiate a significant discount  for him. It also sold him an excess  protection insurance 
policy for £55 in order to reduce his excess in the event that he had to make  a claim. So I 
dont think Mr B had to pay a higher premium because of anything RCIB told him. It was 
clearly the insurer which  told RCIB  it needed  to treat Mr Bs motoring conviction the same  as 
it would  a non-motoring  conviction in order to capture  the information about  Mr B having 
received a prison sentence. But I dont  think that was RCIBs fault.
As Ive said above,  I can understand why Mr B isnt happy that RCIB  essentially told him that 
he had to treat a single  incident as both a motoring an non-motoring  conviction  at the same 
time. But I think that RCIB only did that to try and ensure that Mr B didnt  mistakenly not 
declare something  an insurer  might  wish to know. And I think that was for Mr Bs benefit. 
Thats because,  if an insurer later finds out about an incident or event, such  as a prison 
sentence, which wasnt declared then the insurer could cancel the policy  as if it never 
existed. And that can have a very significant  effect  on a policyholders ability  to buy 
insurance in the future and the premiums payable for those  policies. 
I understand that Mr B was also unhappy because RCIB asked one question about whether 
or not he had any motoring or non-motoring convictions, rather than two distinct questions 
separating motor convictions from non-motor  convictions. But I think  RCIBs question is 
clear. And that question  would ensure that potential policyholders like Mr B provide the 
correct information  so that they could be offered policies from insurers who are happy to 
offer cover. So I dont think theres  anything wrong with RCIBs question. And I dont think its 
actions mean that Mr B ended up paying  more  than necessary for his premium.  
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 September 2019.
Joe Scott
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN5518179