K820x#14complaint
Mrs B says Nationwide Building Society  (Nationwide) mis-sold her a mortgage payment 
protection insurance (MPPI) policy.
background
The MPPI policy was sold when Mrs B was completing a transfer of equity in 1999. The 
policy provided unemployment cover only.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs B disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has come to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of MPPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Bs case.
At this point, I think that it may be useful  for me to highlight that where evidence is 
incomplete or matters  are in dispute  as they are here  I look at what is more likely  than 
not to have happened given the evidence that is available and the wider circumstances at 
the time.  With this in mind and having thought  about everything Ive seen here,  Im not 
upholding Mrs Bs complaint. Id like to explain  why in a little more  detail.
The documentation  Ive seen from the time of Mrs Bs transfer of equity shows that Mrs B 
ticked a box on the application to confirm  that she wanted MPPI. Mrs B also signed a 
separate MPPI  application  form confirming that she wanted unemployment cover only with a 
12 month claim period.  The fact that these options were selected,  rather than others, 
suggests its more  likely  than not Mrs B was given a choice on taking the cover.  So overall 
and having carefully thought about everything,  I think  that its more  likely than not Mrs B 
chose to take the MPPI knowing that she didnt have to have it if she didnt want  to. 
I dont think that Nationwide recommended the MPPI to Mrs B. So I dont think  it had to 
check if it was right for her. But it did have to make sure Mrs B got the information she 
needed to decide this for herself.  
Ive thought about whether Mrs B was given all the information she shouldve  been.  And Im 
open to the possibility that she wasnt. But the MPPI only provided unemployment cover. So 
I dont think that Mrs Bs medical  conditions or any sick pay she mightve  been  entitled to 
wouldve made a difference  here.  And while Ive seen whats been  said about Mrs Bs 
transfer of equity application form suggesting  that she had three  jobs, Im satisfied that she, 
at best, only had two as one of the entries on the form was about the overtime  she earned 
on her main  job. 
Equally while Mrs B may have on occasion  helped  out in her fathers shop, the amount  its 
suggested she earned from this (based on what was recorded  on the transfer of equity form) 
and the hours Ive been told any employment  wouldve  covered, means that I dont think that 
this wouldve  prevented her from being  able to claim the unemployment  benefit.  So I dont 
think that Mrs B wouldve found  it more  difficult to make a claim on the policy.
Ref: DRN56072222I also think its likely that Mrs B couldve  and probably shouldve been  given  clearer  
information on things  such as the cost of the policy.  But Ive not seen anything to suggest 
that Mrs B couldnt afford the premiums. And Ive not seen anything  to suggest that Mrs B 
wouldve been affected by the main limitations   she was eligible for the policy  and as Ive 
explained she was working. 
Overall I think  its more  likely than not that if Nationwide had given Mrs B clearer or better 
information, it wouldnt have made  a difference  to her decision to take out MPPI. I think  
better information wouldve simply shown Mrs B that the MPPI was right for her  especially 
as the MPPI was protecting the payments to her mortgage. So I think that Mrs B wouldve 
still taken out the MPPI even if she had been provided with all the information she shouldve  
been.
Id like to reassure Mrs B that Ive thought  about  everything she has told us. But overall I 
dont think the MPPI  was mis-sold to her. So Im not upholding her complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding Mrs Bs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs B to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 March 2019.
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN5607222