K822xcomplaint
Mr L and his daughter  Miss L complain about their interest only mortgage with Barclays  
Bank UK PLC. Theyve reached the end of the term and say Barclays originally told them 
they would  be able to extend  it  as it wont now agree, they say the mortgage  was mis-sold. 
background 
Mr L and Miss L took out their interest  only mortgage with Barclays  in 2006, borrowing 
£910,000 over a 12-year  term.  In 2017,  and Mr L asked Barclays  about a term extension. He 
says that he was told that Barclays wouldnt  discuss an extension with him until the term had 
ended. 
In 2018, the term ended and Barclays asked Mr L and Miss L to repay the mortgage. Mr L 
explained that he had a serious life-limiting medical  condition and gave  Barclays medical 
evidence. Barclays agreed to reconsider matters. But again  it didnt agree a term extension. 
In 2019, Barclays  again refused a term extension and threatened legal action to recover the 
mortgage. Mr L and Miss L complained. Mr L said that when he took the mortgage out, he 
was told not to worry about  the term because Barclays would agree to a replacement. But 
once the term ended,  Barclays was unwilling to assist, so was going back  on what had been  
agreed. And he said that Barclays insisted on dealing with him by phone, but its staff didnt 
know the history of the account and were  aggressive and insensitive in dealing with them.  
Mr L wanted a term extension until he reached  the age of 85  in around ten years  time  as 
he understood that was Barclays maximum age for mortgage lending.
Barclays didnt uphold  the complaint. It said there  was no evidence that Mr L and Miss L 
were promised they would be able to extend the term when the mortgage  was originally 
taken out. It said Mr L and Miss L didnt qualify for an interest  only mortgage and it didnt 
offer interest only term extensions, and a repayment mortgage wouldnt be affordable.  It said 
Mr L and Miss L had other assets  which could be used to repay  the mortgage. 
Our investigator discussed  Mr L and Miss Ls situation with them. He found  that Mr L and 
Miss L owned two other properties, both with mortgages but also with substantial equity. 
Mr L had made adaptations to this property in anticipation  of his health  getting worse. He 
was being advised to shield because of the coronavirus pandemic.
Our investigator recommended that Barclays  agree a term extension of two years,  which 
would give Mr L and Miss L time to explore their options and put a plan in place to repay the 
mortgage, hopefully  after coronavirus  restrictions would be lifted. 
Barclays said it would be minded to accept that, but subject to a detailed assessment of Mr L 
and Miss Ls income and expenditure  and other assets, and on the basis that they 
contributed to the capital as well as paying the interest. 
Mr L said he had given  Barclays  details  of his income many times before. He considered  his 
personal finances to be private and didnt see that it was relevant  for Barclays  to know,  as 
long as he was able to maintain the mortgage  payments. And he said that he thought  five 
years would be more  appropriate than two.
As no agreement could be reached, the case comes to me for a final decision to be made.
Ref: DRN52870372my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Other than Mr Ls recollection,  theres  no surviving  evidence of what was discussed  when  
the mortgage was taken  out in 2006.  The mortgage  application form survives,  but Mr L says 
its not in his handwriting. The form says that there  is plenty of equity in the property, and 
that if necessary  Mr L and Miss L had other assets that could be used to repay  the 
mortgage.
I think its quite possible that there  was a discussion about the mortgage term, and what  
would happen  at the end of it. Thats something that, as a responsible lender, I would expect 
Barclays to have done. And  given that interest  only lending was much more common, and 
lending standards lower,  in 2006  again,  its quite possible  that there was a discussion 
about the term being extendable once the end was reached.
But in my view its unlikely  Mr L and Miss L were  given a guarantee that they would definitely 
be able to get a term extension   I think its more likely they were  given an indication  that 
they might  well be able to extend  the term, but a Barclays mortgage adviser wouldnt have 
been able to give a guarantee of what  would happen in 12 years time. And in any case the 
mortgage regulations and the regulators guidance  have changed in that time, and its not 
unreasonable for Barclays to want to review Mr L and Miss Ls situation before agreeing to 
anything.
I do think Barclays should have  been more open  to a discussion in 2017, rather than telling 
Mr L and Miss L to come back  once  the term had expired. By trying to resolve  matters  before 
the term end, they were  doing the responsible  thing  and Barclays  should have engaged with 
them.
Ive reviewed the notes  and records  of Barclays contact with Mr L and Miss L in 2018, as 
well as its internal notes. These show that Barclays was unwilling to consider a term 
extension. That was in part because it believed Mr L and Miss L had other assets they could 
use to repay,  but also because its policy  was not to allow interest  only term extensions.
Later that year, Mr L told Barclays about  his health conditions and then provided medical 
evidence. I think at that point Barclays should  have been willing  to consider matters again, 
bearing in mind the medical evidence. But by that stage it had reached a position and wasnt  
willing to reconsider.
The medical evidence  shows that Mr L has a very serious and life-limiting  medical condition. 
And thats become particularly relevant now that the coronavirus  pandemic has hit. 
The term of the mortgage has ended, and Mr L and Miss L do have  to pay the mortgage 
back. That is  notwithstanding their discussion with Barclays in 2006  what  they agreed  to 
do when they borrowed the money.  And its fair to expect them  to do so.
But its also fair for Barclays to give individual consideration to their circumstances and work 
with them  to find a way for the mortgage  to be repaid in an orderly  way, bearing  in mind that 
repossession is a last resort  and bearing in mind that the regulators rules  on the need for 
affordability assessments and on interest  only lending can be set aside, if it is in Mr L and 
Miss Ls best interests to grant an extension.
Ref: DRN52870373Ive said that I think Barclays could have done  more in 2017,  and again in 2018, to look at 
their circumstances fairly. But I must also bear in mind the current situation,  and ultimately 
my remit  is to do what I consider fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.
Mr L is an elderly and vulnerable man.  He has a very serious  medical condition.  That,  and 
the fact that he is on immune-suppressant medication, make him particularly  susceptible  to 
the coronavirus. He has been shielding for much  of the past year.  And his medical  advice is 
to avoid stress that could worsen his condition.
Ive said that Mr L and Miss L do need  to repay this mortgage. And they have  assets that 
would enable them  to do so.
This property is worth  around  £2.3million, on Barclays estimate. As the mortgage balance is 
just over £900,000,  Mr L and Miss L have substantial equity and could sell this property to 
repay the mortgage with enough left over to buy somewhere else to live.
And they have rental property too. There is enough equity in the rental property to repay the 
mortgage, but the rent is their main income.
Barclays is therefore right that Mr L and Miss L have options, and could repay the mortgage.
But there are practical difficulties in them doing  so. Mr Ls health condition and vulnerability  
make selling this property difficult. Its been  adapted  for needs  Mr L anticipates he will soon 
have. As a clinically vulnerable person he has been shielding and has understandable 
concerns about  having strangers view his property at the moment.
And the other  properties are tenanted. The tenants  would need  to be removed  in order  for 
the properties to be sold. But there are at present legal restrictions on the eviction of tenants  
from rental property, again because of the pandemic. Its currently  thought that those 
restrictions will be lifted soon, but even if they are the process  of removing tenants and 
marketing a property  takes time.
So while its fair to expect Mr L and Miss L to repay the mortgage,  I do think those practical  
difficulties, combined  with Mr Ls particular vulnerability, mean  its difficult  to do so at 
present.  
In the very specific circumstances  of this case, I agree that the investigators proposal of a 
two year term extension strikes  a fair balance between  Barclays right to repayment, and the 
particular difficulties Mr L and Miss L have in doing  so at the moment. I therefore think  it 
would be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  for Barclays to grant  the two year term 
extension the investigator proposed  taking  the term up to January 2023. Mr L has said he 
thinks five years would  be fairer. But while I recognise he wants as long as possible to 
resolve the situation, I have to strike a balance and determine whats  fair to both parties. And 
I think two years is enough to give Mr L and Miss L time to put arrangements in place that fit 
with Mr Ls health  and any ongoing coronavirus-related restrictions. 
I dont make the term extension conditional on a full income and expenditure and assets 
assessment, or on Mr L and Miss L reducing the capital, as Barclays  proposed.  Its clear that 
Mr L and Miss L have been affording, and will continue to be able to afford, the monthly  
interest payments.  And what I propose is a particular form of forbearance to allow  them to 
Ref: DRN52870374continue to do that while they make  arrangements to repay  the mortgage in an orderly 
fashion.
Finally, Ive said that Barclays could have done  more in 2017  and 2018.  And while a large 
part of the outcome Ive reached  is because  of the changed circumstances now, rather  than 
because of what happened then, I do think compensation of £200 is fair to recognise the 
frustration this caused Mr L and Miss L. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that its fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances for Barclays Bank  UK PLC to extend  the term of this mortgage, on the 
existing interest only arrangement, until 31 January  2023.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L and Miss L to 
accept or reject my decision  before  27 June  2021.
Simon Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5287037