K820x#14complaint
Mrs B is unhappy that Legal and General Assurance Society Limited  has declined a claim 
she made on her employers group income protection  policy.  
background
Mrs B stopped work in March 2018  and made a claim  on her employers group income 
protection scheme. When she completed  the claim form in June 2018  she said she had 
lower back pain, extreme fatigue and bowel problems. 
Mrs B explained that she had experienced back pain for about  five years and it was 
gradually getting worse.  She said that she had difficulty  sitting,  standing  and lying in one 
position for long and that this had affected  her concentration. Finally, she explained  that she 
had problems with loose bowels that can cause her to go to the toilet  frequently. Mrs B has 
diagnoses of spondylosis in her back (which  is degeneration  in her spine) and lymphocytic 
colitis (which is an inflammation of the bowel). 
Mrs B has been referred to a number of medical professionals in relation to her conditions 
including a neurologist, gastrologist  and pain specialist. In addition, she says she has tried to 
manage her symptoms by exercising, having  acupuncture  and using  a TENS machine. 
In December 2018 Legal and General  declined  her claim saying that she didnt meet  the 
definition of incapacity  as set out in the policy. They said, in summary,  that she could return 
to work with adjustments. Mrs B appealed  in February 2019,  as she thought  Legal and 
General had focused on her back problems and overlooked a number of aspects  of her 
case. The appeal  was unsuccessful and Mrs Bs employer has since terminated her 
employment. Mrs B made a complaint to our service because  she was unhappy  with the 
decision Legal and General made to decline the claim and with the length of time it took. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened and didnt uphold Mrs Bs complaint. Having 
reviewed all the evidence  he didnt think it was unfair for Legal  and General  to reject the 
claim. He said, in summary,  that the medical evidence said that Mrs B could complete a 
phased return to work and so it wasnt unreasonable  for Legal and General to rely on it. 
Mrs B didnt agree for a number of reasons. In summary, the key points she raised  are: 
The functional capability examination (FCE) wasnt  relevant to someone doing  a desk 
based job and the assessor acknowledged  this during the session
A telephone assessment completed  in July 2018  was rushed and unprofessional 
Legal and General  relied on information which  was out of date and ignored evidence 
from the medical professionals who were treating her 
Shed  had a work station assessment completed  by her employer but it hadnt made 
any difference 
Legal and General  ignored her bowel  condition and the issues with fatigue 
The claim hadnt been handled promptly at all. 
Ref: DRN55702152So I need to make a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant  rules and industry guidelines say that Legal and General has a responsibility to 
handle claims promptly and fairly. And they shouldnt reject a claim  unreasonably.  Its for Mrs 
B to demonstrate that she fulfils the definition of incapacity set out in the policy. It isnt for 
Legal and General to demonstrate that Mrs B doesnt meet the definition.   
The policy terms and conditions say that Mrs B has an own occupation policy  which means:  
The insured  member is incapacitated by illness or injury  that prevents him from 
performing the essential duties of his occupation  immediately before the start of the 
deferred period.  
The insured  members capacity to perform the essential duties  of his own occupation 
will be determined  whether or not that occupation remains  available  to him. 
was it unfair  or unreasonable for Legal and General to decline the claim?  
I dont think Legal  and General has acted unfairly  by declining the claim because: 
I think they did take into account  all the conditions  she mentioned on the claim form, 
including her bowel problems and fatique.  These  conditions  were mentioned 
throughout the claim file and Im satisifed that Legal and General took them into 
account when  reaching their decision. So I dont think they were ignored or 
overlooked
Mrs B says that Legal and General didnt get a report  from the consultant she saw in 
relation to her bowel problems. But I dont think that was unreasonable  in the 
circumstances of this case.  Legal  and General had confirmation of the diagnosis from 
Mrs Bs doctor and copies  of letters from the consultant. A letter  from the consultant, 
dated December  2018, referred to using anti-diarrheals with painkillers to improve  the 
symptoms. Mrs Bs symptoms were described as not too bad and manageable 
which was attributed  to her use of painkillers. No routine review  was organised and 
Mrs B was described  as quite  happy with symptoms  at the moment. So Im satisfied 
Legal and General  did have  information about Mrs Bs bowel condition when 
considering her claim
There is also reference  within the wider evidence on the file in relation to how her 
bowel condition and fatigue could be managed with adjustments in the workplace,  for 
example with regular comfort breaks.  I appreciate Mrs B didnt feel this was an 
option, given the symptoms she experienced and her particular role, but I think  Legal  
and General had adequate medical  evidence to rely on in the circumstances of this 
case
Mrs B says that the report in July 2018 was rushed and unprofessional. But this 
wasnt the only evidence used by Legal  and General to decline the claim. They 
gathered a lot of information from her medical practitioners, the FCE report, regular 
Ref: DRN55702153review reports  completed by a nurse, a face to face report carried out by a different 
rehabilitation specialist and occupational health reports. So, even if this was the 
case, I dont think  it means Legal and General acted unfairly by declining  the claim as 
I think they made their decision  based  on the overall  evidence which  was available to 
them. I dont think this particular report alone was the deciding  factor
Mrs B feels that the FCE assessment was flawed because  it wasnt  suitable for 
someone working in a desk  based  environment. She says that she ought to have 
been referred to an occupational consultant or tested for her ability to sit down for 
several hours. I dont  think it was unreasonable for Legal and General to obtain  a 
functional capability report. The purpose was to assess Mrs Bs capability and obtain 
expert evidence about  how it would impact  her ability to do her role. Mrs B saw a 
chartered physiotherapist who was a member of the Association of Chartered 
Physiotherapists in Occupational Health and Ergonomics. The assessor specialised 
in musculoskeletal physiotherapy and has provided  functional assessments and 
workplace  assessments since 2011.  So Im satisfied Mrs B was referred to an 
appropriately qualified  practitioner  to complete the report. I also note that the FCE 
report didnt recommend any referral to a different medical professional,  which is 
what Id expect to see if the examiner felt a different assessment was needed
Ive taken into account Mrs Bs comments in relation to the workplace assessment 
recommended by the FCE.  She says she had already had this done, and shed had a 
special chair provided. This made  no difference. But I note that this assessment had 
been done before Mrs Bs absence. So there  was a gap of several months between 
the workplace assessment and Mrs B completing the FCE. During that time shed 
had a lot of medical appointments  and intervention, including  ongoing  contact with 
her pain management specialist. So, whilst Mrs B might  have felt that this wasnt 
worth doing, I dont think it was an unreasonable recommendation  for Legal and 
General to act on
I dont think Legal and General have been selective in the information theyve relied 
on. Based  on the evidence Ive seen  theyve taken  reasonable steps to gather 
information. And they asked for input  from Mrs Bs GP following her appeal. The GP 
didnt feel he could  answer the questions  and referred Legal  and General  to 
Occupational Health.  However, as Legal and General already had a recent expert 
report I dont think it was unreasonable  not to ask for another  one at the time.  
was the claim handled  promptly?  
Ive considered Mrs Bs comments  in relation  to how promptly  her claim was handled. Im not 
upholding this part of her complaint because:  
Ref: DRN55702154The deferred period in the policy is 28 weeks. Mrs B was absent from work from 
March 2018 so the deferred period ended in September 2018,  once  the 28 weeks  
had passed. Although  Mrs B sent in her claim form in June 2018 she wasnt entitled  
to any benefits  under the policy until 28 weeks from the start of her absence.  Its not 
uncommon for insurers to take an active role during  the deferred  period to ensure 
that they gather information during the absence to ensure they have enough 
information to make a decision  on the claim once  the deferred period  has passed. I 
think thats what happened in Mrs Bs case  as I can see that Legal and General 
began liaising with Mrs B during  the deferred  period in order to get a full 
understanding of her circumstances and the relevant medical evidence
I can see that in October 2018 Mrs B had a face to face visit from a rehabilitation 
specialist, which was arranged based  on the information that had been gathered  
during the deferred  period. And, following this appointment,  they decided the FCE 
report ought to obtained before reaching a decision. This assessment was completed  
in November 2018 and the claims decision was given once the report had been  
reviewed in conjunction with the other  evidence Legal and General  had gathered. I 
think those actions  were reasonable, and taken to ensure  Mrs B was treated fairly. 
So I dont think this caused an unreasonable delay  in the circumstances  of this case
Mrs B appealed the decision in February 2019. She provided a detailed  response of 
around 12 pages and further  medical  evidence. I can see that in March 2019  Legal 
and General wrote to Mrs Bs General Practitioner (GP) asking for more  information. 
Given the depth and breadth of Mrs Bs appeal points I dont think  that was an 
unreasonable timescale to review the claim and decide on next steps in the 
circumstances of this case
At the end of March 2019 the GP responded saying  that he didnt feel comfortable in 
answering the questions Legal  and General had asked him and suggested that they 
go to occupational health. The appeal was declined on the 12 April 2019 and Legal 
and General wrote to the policyholder, Mrs Bs employer, on that date. So I dont 
think there were any unreasonable delays in dealing  with Mrs Bs appeal.  
my final decision
Im not upholding this complaint. Under  the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mrs B to accept or reject my decision before 15 February  2020.
Anna Wilshaw 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5570215