K820x#14complaint
Mr C and Mrs C are unhappy  with the increases in premiums of their home insurance with St 
Andrews Insurance  plc.
background
Mr C and Mrs Cs insurance policy with St Andrews started in 2002,  when it took over the 
underwriting of the policy from another insurer. It initially  cost £716 for the year. The next 
year, 2003,  it cost £808. 
In 2018, the renewal quote was for £1,254. At this time, Mr C and Mrs C spoke with friends  
and realised their friends were paying  much  less than they were for home insurance. Mr C 
and Mrs C contacted  St Andrews to complain that theyd been taken advantage of due to 
their loyalty  and arranged  insurance elsewhere.
St Andrews  said the premiums had been calculated  correctly,  but paid Mr C and Mrs C £50 
compensation in recognition of an administration error,  which meant the documents for their 
next renewal were sent to them early after they complained.
Our investigator didnt  think the complaint should be upheld. Mr C and Mrs C disagreed, so 
Ive been asked to make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont have the power to tell an insurer how to price  risk and what  an insurance policy 
should have cost. I would be, in effect, determining or telling a business how it should 
operate  and thats not my role. But I can look at whether St Andrews has treated Mr C and 
Mrs C fairly  throughout  the period they held its insurance policy.
If I find that St Andrews  hasnt treated Mr C and Mrs C fairly,  I will look to see what  
compensation would be fair and, in this case, whether I think what St Andrews has offered is 
fair.
An insurer  hasnt necessarily done anything wrong by changing  the premium at renewal  
and there  are often  risk related reasons  for an insurer doing so. But where an insurer  knew,  
or ought reasonably to have known,  the consumer wasnt  engaging  with the renewals  
process, they should have taken care to make sure they treated these consumers fairly   
and that they didnt  take advantage of the consumers behaviour by increasing their 
premiums just because  they didnt engage  with the cost.
In this case Mr C and Mrs C say they contacted St Andrews on a number of occasions  over 
the years  to request a reduction in price. So, it isnt clear in this case that they were not 
engaging with the price of the policy.
Insurers will typically, over the years, revisit and reassess the risk  using more up to date 
and refined models. If an insurer  thinks theres a greater risk than before, the premium will 
increase accordingly   theres nothing wrong  with this. Mr C and Mrs Cs premiums  
increased in most years but reduced in a few. And I can see that claims were recorded on 
Ref: DRN52750542the policy in 2003, 2004, 2011 and 2012,  which will have affected the price. So, Im satisfied 
that the changes in price were to reflect St Andrews view of the risk and the costs involved 
in providing Mr C and Mrs Cs specific policy.
Mr C and Mrs C were paying more than their friends and found insurance elsewhere  for less. 
So, I can understand why they think this means  they were  treated unfairly. But insurers  often  
include discounts in order to obtain new customers. That means  that a new customer  will 
often be paying  less than the true cost of providing the insurance policy.  And insurance  
policies are not all the same  they have  different  levels of cover, excesses and differing  
terms and conditions that can affect  the price charged. Each  insurers costs may vary 
depending on many  things. So, just because the policy with St Andrews cost a lot more  than 
their new policy  that doesnt  mean  the amount  charged was unfair.
There are now rules  (that were introduced in 2017) that say insurers  should,  in the renewal 
invitation, encourage their customers to shop around if theyve  had their policy  for a number 
of years.  These didnt exist when Mr C and Mrs Cs policy  with St Andrews started. And 
even if they had, the rules dont go as far as to say insurers need to tell their customers 
about alternative products. So, I dont think St Andrews  needed  to tell them in the renewal 
invitations when  a newer product was introduced.  
Overall, Im not persuaded that St Andrews treated Mr and Mrs C unfairly when  it set the 
price of their home insurance. And I think the payment of £50 is sufficient in recognition of 
the administration error  that occurred. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr C and Mrs Cs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  6 November 2020.
Phillip Lai-Fang
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5275054