K820x#14complaint
Miss D complains that Ageas Insurance Limited  (Ageas) wont pay her claim she made 
under her contents  insurance to replace  her laptop, which  was damaged  when it was 
accidentally dropped. She also says the insurer returned her laptop  in a poor state and isnt 
happy with the customer service  she received,  including delays in corresponding  and her 
truthfulness being questioned.
background
Miss D says she accidentally dropped her laptop  on a hard floor,  causing  damage to the 
casing. She says she is no longer able to turn the laptop on. Miss D took the laptop to be 
repaired at her own cost rather than claiming  through her contents insurance. Miss D says 
that following  an inspection, the engineer informed her that the laptop was unrepairable. 
Miss D then made a claim under  her home  contents insurance for the laptop.
She says that despite providing  the engineers report of how the damage occurred to the 
laptop, Ageas has refused her claim.
Ageas say that it had the laptop looked  at by one of its contractors (Ill call them C), which  
specialises in this type of work. C said it inspected the laptop and thought it had already 
been inspected  and showed signs of an attempted repair. C didnt think  the level of damage 
suggested by the previous inspection to be reasonable  or consistent  with the laptop being 
dropped. It says these  findings were further supported by the manufacturers warranty  label 
being tampered with. Ageas says C was unable to inspect the laptop in its original condition 
following the incident, and it couldnt validate  or pay the claim.
Miss D was unhappy with Ageas decision and brought her complaint to this service. She 
also said that Ageas had delayed in responding to her communication, called her a liar and 
returned her laptop  in a poor condition.   
Our investigator initially thought that Ageas should  pay the claim. But following additional  
evidence from Ageas changed  his opinion and decided that it had acted reasonably  in 
refusing Miss Ds claim.
Miss D didnt agree and provided additional  evidence from the engineer  and says this shows 
the laptop was damaged when it fell onto the floor. She asked for an ombudsman to make  a 
decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is inconclusive,  
contradictory or disputed, as some of it is here,  I reach my decision on the balance of 
probabilities, or in other words what I think most  likely happened given the information  and 
wider circumstances.
For Miss D to make a successful  claim, she needs  to show  Ageas two things. The first is that 
an incident she was insured for most likely  caused  the damage  to her laptop. Miss D says 
Ref: DRN56964412the laptop accidentally fell on the floor. She has accidental damage cover  on her policy, so 
Im satisfied she was insured.
The second  part of making a successful  claim is clearly linking the damage to the accident. 
That means showing that the damage was most probably caused because the laptop was 
dropped.
I dont think Miss D has done this.
If Miss D had contacted  Ageas immediately the after shed  dropped her laptop,  then I expect  
Ageas would have  asked  that it be looked  at by one of its own contractors to check the 
damage was linked to the accident. Thats what Ageas did when  Miss D did eventually 
contact it, so I dont see any reason to think it would have done otherwise if shed called 
earlier than she did.
Instead Miss D chose to take the laptop to an independent engineer  who took the laptop 
apart, found some evidence of damage  and said the laptop  wasnt repairable  because some 
of the required  parts arent available.
It was only at this point that Miss D approached Ageas. 
Since then there has been a lot of communication between Miss D, Ageas and the two 
companies that looked at the laptop.  And there are lots of discrepancies  and contradictions.  
But in summary:
Miss Ds engineer says the damage could  have been caused by dropping the laptop. 
He says its beyond  economic  repair   largely because parts arent available.
C thinks the internal  damage is too extensive  for the accident  described and that 
some type of repair has been  attempted. 
C returned the laptop to Miss D and her engineer says its been returned in a poor 
state. Im not sure thats relevant  given it had already been  declared beyond 
economic repair.
Miss D also says the photos  she was sent by C arent of her laptop. Ive looked at 
this point for her. I agree they arent of her laptop   C said it sent a stock photo  of 
the make  and model she has to show how a particular cable should  have  been  
protected and wasnt. But Miss Ds engineer  has agreed he replaced a wrapping 
which explains the discrepancy. Miss Ds engineer also says the cable  in question 
wasnt damaged  in the way C has photographed it. That remains unexplained, but I 
see no reason to think either Miss Ds engineer or C have reason to lie about this. 
Ive also been  able to listen to a couple of telephone calls between Miss D and Ageas and 
Miss D and C.
When Miss D initially  called  Ageas she said shed left the laptop on a chair whilst  cleaning  
and accidentally knocked it from there  onto the floor. She told Ageas shed taken  it to an 
engineer and hed said the damage was likely  from a power  surge as a chip had popped.  
The member  of staff checked that with Miss D and asked  if she had a report  that confirmed  
this  Miss D said she had. That conversation is at some odds with the rest of the 
Ref: DRN56964413information received  from the engineer, which is all about possible damage caused by the 
drop.
The other call I listened to was between Miss D and C. C says she hadnt  mentioned  that the 
laptop had been examined  before it was sent to C. Miss D doesnt challenge that statement, 
although she now says she had told C about  this. But I dont think this discrepancy affects 
my decision.
In the same  call C goes on to explain how it cant say the damage was caused by the laptop  
hitting the floor, and thats largely  because the inside  of the laptop has been  tampered with  
presumably whilst it was being examined (quite  legitimately) by the first engineer.  Miss D 
acknowledges that she should have gone  straight  to Ageas rather than try to get the laptop 
fixed herself, but intends to challenge  the decision to not meet her claim.
Miss Ds engineer has since explained  that he unwrapped a particular cable inside the laptop  
and then re-wrapped it, which is why it doesnt have the manufacturers  wrapping any longer. 
But he also said there was no damage to it despite  there being some  crimping by the 
hinge. He doesnt know how the additional  damage  C reports to the cable was caused. 
I dont think the unexplained additional damage  stops me from reaching  a decision. I think  
that Miss D prevented  Ageas  from assessing  the source of the damage properly when she 
got her own technician to take the laptop apart.  It remains  possible that some if not all of the 
damage was from wear and tear or an effort to inspect or repair the laptop.  Neither  of those 
things is covered by Miss Ds policy.
On balance I think Ageas was reasonable when it said it wouldnt meet Miss Ds claim.
Miss D says shed been called  a liar during her claim. I havent seen or heard anything that 
suggests that was the case, although  I can see Ageas has questioned some  of the 
information its received.  But I dont think thats unreasonable  where  there are discrepancies  
as there  are here.
Ive also looked  at the time it took for Ageas to deal with this claim.  I dont  think this was 
particularly long, in that I dont think Ageas delayed matters unnecessarily.  Miss D reported 
the damage in mid August, and she was told the claim wouldnt be met in early September.  I 
accept that she then appealed this, and it took some time to finalise matters, but that did 
require further  correspondence between all parties. Overall  I dont  think the time taken was 
excessive.
Ive also seen that Miss D thinks Ageas has decided not to insure her going forwards  without 
any explanation.  I havent seen all the detail of this, so I dont know exactly  why Ageas took 
that decision. However, I can see a note on Ageas files from November 2018, where Miss D 
has asked that her insurance  be cancelled. Shes  told she can sort that out with her broker.  It 
seems that not being insured by Ageas is something Miss D wanted  and the later letter to 
Miss D might  simply  be acknowledging that. I havent looked at this point further because it 
doesnt appear Miss D has raised  that as a complaint with Ageas,  and its only fair that 
Ageas has a chance to resolve  this issue before  Miss D asks us to look at it.
Ref: DRN56964414my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 August 2019.
Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5696441