K821x#15complaint
Mrs M complains that MotoNovo Finance a Division of FirstRand Bank Limited  wont  let her 
end a finance agreement 
background
Mrs M says she took out a Hire Purchase  Agreement with MotoNovo to buy a car on 
22 April 2018. She says she cancelled this agreement as the car was faulty. But instead of 
the agreement  being unwound it was settled. And a new agreement taken out. 
She says she signed the second agreement on 5 May 2018.  But that car was also faulty so 
on 29 May 2018 asked  to reject that car and cancel her agreement.
She also says she has a learning disability and didnt realise the level of payments she 
would be making.  She says she asked that payments  be no more  than £200 per month but 
they were nearer £400 per month.  
She says she has found this situation very stressful and now has financial difficulties and is 
unable to make the repayments.
MotoNovo said it didnt feel there were grounds  to reject the car. And if it did unwind the 
agreement Mrs M would have to pay the outstanding personal  loan element of the 
agreement with interest- a total of £4,420.20.
my provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision in which I found:-
-There were  four issues for me to consider. Was Mrs Ms first car faulty? If so should  
she have been allowed to reject it? Secondly was Mrs Ms second car faulty? If so 
should she be allowed  to reject  it?  Thirdly if there were  grounds for rejection what, if 
any, outstanding finance was she liable for. And finally  the question of financial 
hardship
-There was no evidence that the first car was faulty. So there were no grounds  for 
Mrs M to have  rejected her first car and cancelled  that agreement
-Mrs M part exchanged  the first car she didnt want for the second car. Motonovo  
wasnt at fault in setting up a new finance  agreement
-It was likely that with the second  agreement Mrs M confused between  the time she 
had to return the car  and the 14 day cooling off period to cancel the Hire Purchase 
Agreement
-If Mrs M had cancelled the Hire Purchase  Agreement within 14 days she would have 
had to pay back the money  that Motonovo had advanced to pay for her second car.
-The second car was faulty  the man issue was the handbrake which required 
immediate attention as evidenced  by an independent report. 
Ref: DRN59212512-The problem with the handbrake came to light within  the first 30 days  Mrs M had the 
car. Mrs M raised the problem within the first 30 days saying she wanted  to reject the 
car. Under the Consumer Rights Act she was entitled to do so.
-Mrs M should  be allowed to reject the car. And the finance  agreement for that car 
should be cancelled.
-Unfortunately Mrs Ms second  finance  agreement included a personal loan element 
linked to her previous  car. It wasnt reasonable to allow  Mrs M to write off the 
negative equity element carried into the second  loan. This left an outstanding  debt of 
£4,420.20 Mrs M needed to pay.
-Although our adjudicator recommended Mrs Ms loan repayments  be refunded I 
found Mrs M hadnt made  any loan repayments  so there  was nothing to refund.
-Mrs M had very little use of the car and the problem with the handbrake may have 
reduced her enjoyment of the car. I felt a 60% reduction in the back payments Mrs M 
owed would be fair.
-In terms of financial hardship Mrs M told us she only wanted  to pay £200  per month. 
She paid £301.30  per month for the first agreement  and £390.56 for the second one. 
The repayment figures were clearly  noted  on the finance  agreements so I felt she 
would have been aware of those.
-Mrs M told us she had a learning  disability  and usually had things read out to her. So 
I found it surprising,  given the sums of money involved, that she didnt  do this when 
she took out these  agreements.
-There was nothing  wrong with the finance  agreements that Motonovo  offered and 
Mrs M accepted.
-Motonovo had agreed not to take any action on the outstanding arrears  whilst we 
looked into her complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all of the available  evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Motonovo hasnt  come  back with any comments for me to consider.
Mrs M made  a number of points in relation to my provisional decision which  I have carefully 
considered. 
Firstly in terms of the first agreement she says she doesnt understand why she is liable to 
pay anything from that agreement as she feels the two cars and two agreements were  
separate.
Unfortunately that is not the case.  Mrs Ms first car wasnt rejected   I found and still find 
Motonovo did not agree to the first car being rejected  there  were  no grounds to do so as 
there were no faults. Mrs M part exchanged her first car for her second  one. From the email 
Mrs M sent us it seems  she doesnt  understand this. But I didnt, and dont, find any fault with 
Ref: DRN59212513the information Motonovo gave Mrs M at the time. So I cant  reasonably now conclude  that 
Motonovo should write off the whole of Mrs Ms outstanding debt.
Secondly Mrs M has queried what happened to the deposit she paid.  She says she paid a 
total deposit of £560. I can confirm that payment  is correctly noted as deposit/part exchange 
on her statement of account dated 22 April 2018  to 20 May 2018. So I do believe this has 
been correctly  accounted for. If Mrs M doesnt  have  this document our adjudicator can send 
her a copy.
Thirdly Mrs M isnt happy with the time its taken for us to deal with her complaint. She feels  
she wouldnt  have the outstanding debt of £4,420.20 if her complaint had been dealt with 
instantly. 
Unfortunately it can take some time to investigate complaints. We have to consider  
information from both parties and sometimes,  as was the case  here, we need  to go back to 
the consumer,  business  or both for further information.  We would never be able to make  an 
instant decision on any complaint  it wouldnt be fair on either  party to do so.
The personal loan element of Mrs Ms agreement hasnt increased due to the time taken to 
deal with her complaint.  She will have accrued more outstanding monthly  repayments  on the 
loan for the car I have  however significantly reduced these as a result of her limited use and 
lack of enjoyment of the car due to the handbrake  issue.
I think Mrs M has misunderstood my suggested redress. In my provisional  decision I said 
Motonovo should reduce  her outstanding  back payments by 60%. That means Mrs M will 
only owe 40% of the back payments on the part of her finance agreement  that relates to the 
second car not 60% of the back payments.
With Mrs Ms agreement  a representative on her behalf pointed  out Mrs Ms learning 
disability meant she wasnt fully aware  of what she was agreeing to at the time. I considered  
this in my provisional view and dont  feel I have been given any further information to change  
the conclusion  I came to then. I was, and am, surprised that as Mrs M said normally she 
would have had something, such as an agreement; read out to her that she didnt  do this on 
this occasion.  I also felt the finance  agreements were clear  in the amounts to be repaid.
Finally Mrs M has asked  if she can repay  just half of the outstanding personal loan. I dont 
think I can reasonably ask Motonovo to accept  that since I havent found Motonovo  to be at 
fault. Mrs M can of course try to reach her own agreement for paying off her outstanding 
debt with Motonovo. 
Mrs M has also asked  if she can have a refund of some of the payments  she has made  for 
example insurance  for the car. I accept Mrs M has had limited use of the car  I have  
reflected that in the reduction of her outstanding payments but I dont feel I can agree to 
refund payments such as insurance.  She has used the car and she would have  needed to 
insure it during  this time.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
In full and final settlement  FirstRand  Bank  Limited should:-
Ref: DRN59212514-Cancel the part of the finance agreement paying for the second car but not the 
personal loan element
-Reduce Mrs M outstanding back payments  on the car (not on the personal loan) by 
60%
-Collect the car at no cost to Mrs M.
-Remove the non-personal loan element from her credit file
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 April 2019.
Bridget Makins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5921251