K822xcomplaint
Miss H complained that she was mis-sold a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy by Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax  (BoS).
background
Miss H took out the PPI in October  2002  when she applied  for a credit card. BoS and Miss H 
agreed that the sale took place during a meeting and that Miss H was advised to take the 
cover. Miss H raised a number of points in her complaint,  but in summary  she said she 
wasnt given a choice  about taking the PPI, she wasnt given information about it and it 
wasnt suitable for her.
The policy cost 78p per £100.00 owed. If Miss H had successfully claimed on the policy  for 
accident, sickness or unemployment, each month  it wouldve  paid out 10% of the balance 
outstanding when she stopped work.  This wouldve carried on for up to 12 months per claim. 
The policy also provided life and critical illness cover.
Our adjudicator didnt  think there  was enough evidence to say that BoS mis-sold the policy, 
and therefore  didnt uphold the complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Miss Hs case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Miss Hs complaint. Ill explain why.
BoS sent in a copy of Miss Hs credit  card agreement. This shows  a cross in a box to say 
that she wanted PPI (but no cross in a second box relating to another  insurance product). 
The cross was pre-printed  but so was all of the information on the form, including Miss Hs 
income and employment details.  So I think its likely that the form was printed out after a 
discussion with the adviser  and that the PPI formed part of that discussion. I consider it 
reasonable to think that Miss H would have  looked  over the form she signed, even if only 
briefly. So, on balance,  I think  Miss H was aware of the PPI and was given a choice about 
whether to take it - and that she agreed  to it. I think she probably just doesnt  remember 
doing so after all this time.
Im satisfied BoS advised Miss H to take out the PPI. So it had to make  sure that it was 
suitable for her. I think it was. 
As the sale took place in a meeting I cant know how the adviser explained the PPI, or the 
things not covered by the policy.  But I cant see that Miss H wouldve been  affected by any of 
these. 
Weve had inconsistent  information about what sick pay Miss H wouldve been entitled  to 
from her employer, and what other  means she wouldve had of meeting the monthly  
repayments on the credit card if she couldnt work. But even if I take the maximum level 
stated  that is, six months  full sick pay, some  redundancy pay and the equivalent of about  
a months pay in savings  - my decision is unchanged. I think Miss H could have found it 
Ref: DRN57546852difficult to make the payments once her sick pay ended or if shed lost her job. And Ive kept 
in mind that the policy couldve paid out for up to 12 months per claim. So I dont think  there 
was anything wrong with BoS recommending the PPI. 
Ive also considered the information that BoS mightve given Miss H. As Ive said, I cant  
know how the adviser explained  the policy, or when Miss H mightve been given a policy  
summary or full policy document.  So its possible the information about  the cost and benefits 
may not have been as clear as it shouldve been. 
However, given Miss Hs circumstances, I dont  think more detailed  information  about the 
cost and benefits wouldve changed  her decision to take the policy. It couldve provided 
useful protection  if shed  been unable to work. 
Overall, I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So BoS doesnt need to refund everything Miss H 
paid for it. But BoS has already offered to give Miss H back  some  of the cost of the PPI. I 
dont think it needs  to do anything more. 
I understand BoS will make arrangements to pay Miss H now Ive issued my final decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Ive decided not to uphold Miss Hs complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 February  2019.
Jan Ferrari
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5754685