K820x#14complaint
Mrs H complains that National  Westminster  Bank  Plc (NatWest)  has refused to refund a 
payment she made using  her debit card for a service which  she says she now realises was 
misrepresented and mis-sold to her.
background
I only intend to set out a brief summary of the background and circumstances leading up to 
this complaint  the adjudicator set things out in detail and theyve not been disputed.
In 2012 Mrs H signed up to and made payment for membership to a leisure company. She 
used her NatWest debit card to make part of the payment and made a bank transfer for the 
remainder.
In 2018 Mrs H complained to NatWest and asked it to seek  a refund for her payments to the 
leisure company  under  the Chargeback scheme because she says it was apparent  over the 
intervening years that shed been misled  by the company  and hadnt  received the services  it 
said it would  provide.
NatWest replied and said because Mrs H hadnt used a form of credit to make  payment to 
the company,  Section 75 of the Consumer Credit  Act (S.75)  didnt apply and so no refund 
was due.
The adjudicator looked at things and didnt recommend the complaint should  be upheld.  
They said that NatWest  was wrong  to refer to S.75  thats not what Mrs H had asked it to 
do. But they said theyd asked NatWest  why it hadnt made a chargeback request and it said 
it was because it was out of time.  The adjudicator said theyd looked at the relevant 
chargeback rules and specifically the time limits and said that NatWest hadnt acted unfairly 
in not making  a chargeback request  the chargeback request was out of time.
Mrs H disagrees.  She says shes described  the situation in detail and shown shes  been  the 
victim of a scam, yet she doesnt understand why this has not been acknowledged and no 
action is being  taken.
Because the complaint  couldnt be resolved informally, it comes to me for a decision. 
my findings
While Ive only included a summary above,  I have  read and considered  all the available 
evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint.
Having done so  and while Im sorry to disappoint  Mrs H - Ive decided  not to uphold this 
complaint. I think the adjudicator has reached  the right outcome here and theres not much I 
feel I can usefully add to what  Mrs H has already been told  I think the adjudicator has 
explained things  clearly. I have nevertheless set out my reasons below.
Firstly I want to highlight to Mrs H that I dont doubt shes been  misled or been the victim of a 
scam as she says. 
Ref: DRN54738672But Im not considering or deciding the merits of the dispute between  Mrs H and the 
company involved  in providing the services she says she didnt receive as described. What  
Im deciding here is whether NatWest has acted fairly in deciding  not to process Mrs Hs 
chargeback request.
As the adjudicator explained  to Mrs H, chargeback is the name  given to the process by 
which settlement disputes involving a card payment are resolved between  card issuers and 
merchants under the relevant card scheme  in this case Visa. As Mrs H was told, this 
scheme does not apply  to the payment she made by bank transfer, so I wont  be considering 
this here.
The card scheme rules set out amongst other  things, the time limits  which apply to 
submitting a chargeback by a card issuer. Ive looked at the relevant scheme rules and these 
say that within the payment type category which  is relevant here, generally there  is a time 
limit of 120 days from the date of the transaction.  But in the situation  where  the service being  
purchased is meant to be provided after the transaction date, the 120 day limit starts from 
when the cardholder expected to receive the service, or when they first became  aware  that 
the service wouldnt  be provided  subject to an overall time limit of 540 days  from the 
transaction date.
In Mrs Hs case she made the payment in May 2012  but didnt ask NatWest  to make a 
chargeback until 2018.  Because this is beyond the overall 540 day limit, it wasnt wrong for 
NatWest to decide not to make the chargeback   it is out of time.
Like the adjudicator,  I agree NatWest didnt  respond  to Mrs Hs complaint in the most helpful 
way by referring to S.75. But its actions  havent  caused Mrs H loss or created additional 
difficulty for her.
So overall I find that NatWest has acted fairly  and reasonably and in accordance with the 
Visa chargeback scheme rules. And while as I said above, this isnt the answer Mrs H 
wanted, NatWest does not have to do anything to put things  right.
my final decision
For the reasons  above, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and I make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 January 2020.
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN5473867