K820x#14complaint
Mr P has complained that Tesco  Underwriting  Limited unfairly increased his motor  insurance 
premium.
Reference to Tesco  includes its agents.
background
Mr P complained to Tesco after his motor insurance premium increased. He brought  his 
complaint about  that to us. 
I issued a provisional decision on 2 January 2019. For ease Ive copied my provisional 
findings below:
I said:
I can see that between 2015 and 2016  Mr Ps premium  increased by roughly £107. About  
£23 of that was because  of additional key cover  Mr P had added  to his policy,  but that still 
meant that his premium  had increased  by around £84, which  Mr P didn't think  was fair.
While I have some sympathy for Mr Ps position  that doesn't mean that Tesco  has treated 
him unfairly.  It might  help if I explain that were  not the insurance industry regulator, the 
Financial Conduct  Authority is. And its not my role to tell an insurer  what price it should 
charge for the risks it covers,  nor do I decide  what factors  it should  take into account when 
assessing those  risks. 
Insurers consider many  factors when setting premiums.  When  deciding  how much to charge 
for their policies insurers will make an assessment of how likely it is that their policyholders  
will make a claim and how much  they might have  to pay out for those, as well as accounting  
for other costs for administration and a profit requirement. And each  insurer will go about  
that in its own way.
Tesco has provided  us with some details of its considerations  when calculating  Mr Ps 
premiums. Those details are commercially  sensitive, so I can't share them with him. I can 
understand if he doesn't think thats fair. But generally insurers  won't  usually set out how 
theyve worked out a premium to their customers.  Thats because that information could give 
a commercial advantage to their competitors. So we don't expect insurers  to make  that 
information publicly  available. It follows that we don't  expect them to be transparent  about 
their pricing policies.
But I can see that Tesco told Mr P, when it responded to his complaint, that the motor  
insurance industry has essentially been operating at a loss, paying  out more  in claims each 
year than it receives in premiums. And that has led to higher  premiums for customers. It 
added that other factors  such as insurance  premium tax have increased, and so thats  
affected premiums.
Ive noted that our adjudicator pointed  to some changes in Mr Ps policy coverage including  
change of use and mileage, and he said that those things were factors  that could affect a 
premium. While thats correct, in this instance,  having looked at the information  Tesco's 
given us I dont  think those factors were key to the increase in Mr Ps premiums. But I also 
Ref: DRN58710772understand that before offering to renew Mr Ps policy in 2016, Tesco  introduced a new 
method of calculating risk and for some of its customers that resulted in higher premiums.  
It might help if I explain that its common for insurers to revisit how they rate risks and the 
amounts they charge to cover those risks on a regular basis.  So the premiums insurers  offer 
at renewal will be based on their assessment of risk around that date. And in this case thats  
resulted in an increase in premium for Mr P. And Tesco reviewed the risk again  in 2017. But 
thats something an insurer is allowed to do and it can decide  what to charge  for the risks it 
covers as part of its wider commercial requirements  and its desire to be competitive and 
retain a customers business. And we generally take the view that insurers  are entitled  to 
charge what they feel they need to in order to cover a risk. So simply  because  a premium  
has a steep rise doesn't mean the insurer us being unfair.
As Ive said above  I can understand that Mr P isn't happy with the increases in premiums. 
But I've also noted that Mr P said that hes had to stay with Tesco, as other insurers couldn't  
match Tescos premium.  In fact hes said that the next nearest premium  was more than 
£1,600 more costly. So, its clear that, although its increased his premiums  Tesco  has still 
offered Mr P the most competitively priced  cover he can find. So I think  its dealt with him 
reasonably.
developments
Mr P replied  to my provisional decision.  Amongst  other things he said that he didn't think Id 
seen his letter of 22 August 2018 referring  to an increase in his premium  in 2017. He said he 
hadn't had an explanation for that increase.
Mr P added that he hadn't said he had to stay with Tesco  because  other insurers couldn't  
match its premium. But instead  had stayed with it because other insurers didn't  include 
premium protection.
Tesco didn't comment  on my provisional  decision.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not going to uphold 
it. 
I can assure Mr P that I had seen and considered his letter to us of 22 August 2018 prior to 
drafting my provisional  decision. Indeed I referred  to Tesco reconsidering  the risk in 2017.  It 
might help if I repeat that all the insurers Im aware of will regularly reassess the risks they 
cover. And that reassessment can result  in insurers increasing or reducing  their premiums. 
I will also repeat  that I said that I didn't think that a previous change  to Mr Ps personal 
circumstances had been the key driver  in the increase to Mr Ps premiums. Instead 
I explained that I thought  it was Tesco's reassessment  of risk that had largely caused his 
premium to rise. And I said that Tesco reviewed  the risk again in 2017.  It was that 
reassessment which led to the increase in his premium.  
I understand that Mr P might not think its fair that Tesco will make  such reassessments 
when the risk he presents hasn't changed significantly. But, thats  something  insurers  are 
allowed to do in order to meet  their business  requirements, regardless that a policyholders  
Ref: DRN58710773personal circumstances might not have changed. So I don't think  the fact that Tescos 
reassessment of risk resulted in an increased  premium for Mr P was unfair.
Mr Ps also commented that he didn't say that other insurers couldn't match  Tescos  
premium. I took that comment  from a note on Tescos file which  reported  that Mr P had said 
that Tescos online price was £2,000. That sum was over £1,600 more than his renewal 
quote. The same  note reports that Mr P said other  insurers were more  expensive. 
I apologise if thats not accurate. But I note that Mr P clarified that hed remained with Tesco 
because it offered him premium protection when other insurers didn't. In other  words  he 
stayed with Tesco because, at that time, it offered  him the policy  and premium that was best 
suited to him. And, as Mr P is aware, he was under no obligation to renew  his policy  with 
Tesco if he didn't  want to. So I don't think it dealt with him unfairly.
I understand that my decision will disappoint Mr P, particularly as its taken us far longer than 
we would like to deal with his complaint. But I hope  I have clearly  explained  why I think 
Tesco dealt  with him reasonably.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above and in my provisional  decision  I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 February  2019.
Joe Scott
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN5871077