K822xcomplaint
Mr K has complained about how HSBC UK Bank Plc (the bank or HSBC) handled  his 
request for a transfer of money to an account  of his at a foreign bank abroad. 
background 
The bank has accepted it made  certain mistakes and has paid or offered to pay Mr K a total 
of £300 compensation. 
Mr K says this is or may be too little compensation for the banks admitted errors.  He also 
says the bank did more things wrong  than it has admitted to.
Two adjudicators have  considered Mr Ks complaint. Both concluded the bank had paid or 
offered to pay adequate compensation for its errors.  
In brief summary, Mr K gave instructions for the money transfer but the bank held up the 
transaction twice  for security reasons. On the third occasion the money reached the foreign  
bank. There was then a delay as the foreign bank raised queries with HSBC  which  HSBC 
replied to satisfactorily. The money then reached  the intended account. 
Mr K has complained about the pains he was put to and the lengths  he was made  to go to by 
the bank in order that the transfer  could succeed. Hes also complained  about how the bank 
handled the question of what currency exchange rate should apply to the transaction.  
Mr K has queried what legal right HSBC  had to disclose certain information about him to the 
foreign bank.
In terms of the ombudsman service,  Mr K has asked what  criteria, in particular what legal 
criteria, the service uses to decide  how much compensation  should  be payable.  Regarding  
the distress and inconvenience  he suffered, Mr K has referred to his poor health  and the 
egg shell skull rule and asks if the ombudsman service has taken that into account  when  
assessing the compensation due to him. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  This decision deals solely  with Mr Ks 
complaint about  HSBC.  Im sorry to disappoint  Mr K but I too have concluded the bank need  
do no more in this case. 
The questions Ive asked  are (a) what did the bank  do wrong  (b) what  harm did this cause to 
Mr K that was reasonably foreseeable in the case of someone  like Mr K and (c) what is the 
fair and reasonable compensation for that harm?
My conclusions are similar to those of the adjudicators. I think the bank  was within  its rights  
to delay the transfer on the first two occasions  while it sought further information under its 
security procedures. I also see nothing  wrong in the bank answering the foreign banks 
queries which  the latter  required to be answered with regard to the transaction. HSBC 
notified Mr K of those  queries, and I think Mr Ks consent to HSBC  answering those queries 
can be fairly inferred from the circumstances.
Ref: DRN54929652I also think the bank  wasnt obliged to offer compensation  for exchange  rate changes. The 
banks errors  didnt cause any exchange rate loss. If the errors hadnt happened, Mr K would  
still have been  subject to the exchange rate originally agreed.  The usual principle applies: 
where a wrong  occurs, the parties are to be treated as if the wrong hadnt occurred, not as if 
the wrong had changed  the parties  legal rights. 
Where the bank can be criticised is that it didnt offer Mr K the chance to reset  the transfer 
over the phone after the first time it was delayed; instead Mr K had to make his way to the 
banks premises. Its also unclear if the bank tried to phone Mr K correctly (ie using the right 
number) when the transfer was held up the second time. I think  the bank has paid Mr K 
adequate compensation  for the avoidable aggravation and upset (£250)  caused  by this. (Im 
aware part of the banks  compensation was offered in relation to the exchange rate, where  I 
think there was no need.)  
Mr K has queried what criteria the ombudsman service uses  for calculating  or assessing 
compensation for distress and inconvenience.  Its important  not to over-complicate the issue. 
An individual adjudicator or ombudsman  will settle  on a sum that they think suffices to 
compensate the wronged customer for the distress and inconvenience  the customer has 
suffered. Thats a question of individual judgement,  but Id like to think  adjudicators and 
ombudsmen wouldnt differ greatly  when dealing with the same or similar  facts.
Mr K has referred to his poor health  and to the fact of having  to go to the branch in poor 
weather, instead  of doing things over the phone as may have been possible. Hes asked if 
this entitles him to more  compensation. 
I dont doubt what  Mr K says about his health,  but this wasnt  something  he originally raised 
when making his complaint, even though hes clearly aware of the potential  significance of it. 
On the whole, and taking  everything into account, Ive decided  a total of £300 compensation, 
including in respect of the issue regarding printers, is adequate to cover the distress and 
inconvenience that I think Mr K suffered as a reasonably foreseeable result of the banks 
errors. 
my final decision
I require HSBC UK Bank Plc to pay Mr K a further £50. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 February  2020.
Roger Yeomans
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5492965