K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that U K Insurance Limited  (UKI) wont pay him a fair amount for a claim he 
made under his home  insurance policy.
background
In May 2018  Mr B realised he had a leak in his bathroom. He contacted UKI, wanting UKI to 
arrange a repair.  UKI said he should  get some  estimates for the work,  as it usually only 
appointed an in-house contractor for large  jobs. UKI explained it wouldnt pay to fix the 
actual leak, but it would  pay for any damage  caused  by the water and any that might  be 
caused when  finding the source of the leak.
Mr B agreed to get quotes.  He sent these through and they were  challenged as being too 
high  and including additional  work. Mr B got the quotes revised but UKI says they are still 
much higher  than it would expect. Its offered to send someone  to assess the damage. 
Mr B says its too late for that  hes already  been  very inconvenienced  by having to get 
quotes and UKI should pay the latest  quote. UKI says it wont do that as theres a 
discrepancy of about £7,500 between what it thinks the work should cost and Mr Bs quote.
Mr B complained but UKI didnt change its stance. It did however, acknowledge that it gave 
Mr B incorrect information when he first registered his complaint  and that it could have sent 
someone to look at the damage,  at the very least.  It offered Mr B £200 for the inconvenience 
of having to get quotes.
Mr B hasnt accepted  this and brought his complaint to us.
Our investigator thought that, although  UKI hadnt handled the claim very well, the £200 
compensation was about right. And she couldnt  make UKI pay Mr Bs quote  when it was so 
far away from UKIs estimate. She thought its offer to send a contractor to look at the 
damage was a fair way to resolve  the impasse.
Mr B doesnt  think our investigator has got this right,  so Ive been asked to decide this 
complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not going  to uphold this complaint. I know this will disappoint Mr B so Ill explain why.
UKI has acknowledged that it gave Mr B the wrong information when he first registered  his 
claim. And it accepts this has caused Mr B the inconvenience of getting quotes.  Its offered 
£200 to make up for this. I think thats a fair offer. Its not meant to compensate Mr B for the 
inconvenience of having a leak and making  a claim  its for the extra trouble UKI caused by 
asking him to provide quotes when  it could have been more pro-active.
Mr Bs policy  says UKI need only either  carry out the repair  work   or pay Mr B what  it would 
have it to do that. And it also says Mr B has to allow  it to assess the damage if thats what  it 
wants to do. 
Ref: DRN56757362Ive thought about whether UKI should pay Mr Bs quote  because it didnt offer to do the 
work itself in the first instance.  Sometimes  thats a fair outcome for both parties. But in Mr 
Bs case I think  its reasonable for UKI to want to check  the original damage and the scope 
of the work being done, now its seen  the figure Mr B has quoted. I dont  doubt  Mr Bs 
description of how much  damage  was caused  when  finding the leak. But his quote is many 
thousands of pounds above what UKI says damage caused by leaks  like this normally cost.  I 
accept Mr Bs view that such work  is expensive  in his home area  but his quote  is about 
seven times  UKIs estimate. Thats a very large discrepancy, and I think  its fair that UKI gets 
a chance to assess the damage first hand.  That will allow  it to assess  what is repair  work 
and what might be something Mr B chooses  to have done that isnt covered by his 
insurance.
I do understand Mr Bs frustration with how things have gone so far. But he does have  a way 
to resolve the issue by letting UKI send  a representative to look at the damage.  Unless he 
does that I cant order  UKI to pay him any more than its desk  based assessment of costs  
which is about £1,011 less his excess of £350   so about £800  or thereabouts.
UKI says the £200 offer for the inconvenience  Mr B has had is still available, so Ill leave it 
with him to decide  what to do about that.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint, in that Im not asking U K Insurance 
Limited to do more than it already has.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 September 2019.
Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5675736