K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain  that British Gas Insurance  Limited is responsible for poor service 
under a home emergency insurance  policy.
background
Mr and Mrs M have  a flat. They had British Gas HomeCare  Two cover for its central heating 
boiler and central  heating  system including a hot water cylinder.  
British Gas was responsible for dealing with claims. Where I refer to British Gas I refer to the 
insurance company  of that name and I include its associated plumbing  and drainage  
company, its engineers  and others  for whose actions I hold that insurance company 
responsible.
Mr M called British Gas for help when he had problems with hot water. He complained about 
delay and poor service.
In a final response letter, British Gas apologised  for delay in obtaining a part. It said it was 
sending a cheque  for £80.00.
When he brought his complaint to us, Mr M complained that British  Gas had repeatedly got 
the hot water working only for it to fail again. He complained that British Gas hadnt told him 
that his hot water cylinder was leaking and damaging his floor.
our investigators opinion
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld.  He thought that British  
Gas engineers not noticing the boiler  was leaking had caused extensive damage  to the 
floor. He recommended that British Gas should pay Mr and Mrs M:
1.£6,100.00,  to cover the cost of the contractors who repaired the floor. 
2.reasonable costs  in buying materials for the repairs.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr and 
Mrs M and to British Gas on 14 August 2019. I summarise my findings:
I found it unlikely  that a leak would  cause a floor to cave in within a few weeks.  I 
found it much more likely  that there had been  invisible leaks from both the cylinder  
and the pipes under the floor for many  months. Therefore I didnt find it fair and 
reasonable to direct  British Gas to pay compensation  to Mr and Mrs M for the costs  
they incurred with their contractor or for the cost of materials.
British Gas couldve communicated with Mr and Mrs M better.  But its final response  
said it was sending a cheque for £80.00 and I found that fair and reasonable 
compensation for the distress  and inconvenience  caused by the shortcomings in its 
communication.
Ref: DRN52166992Subject to any further information from Mr and Mrs M or from British Gas,  my provisional 
decision was that I wasnt minded to uphold this complaint. I didnt intend to direct  British 
Gas Insurance  Limited to do anything further  in response to this complaint.
Mr M says he has nothing  to add in response to the provisional decision.
British Gas hasnt  responded to the provisional decision.
Therefore I see no reason  to change my provisional decision.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The British  Gas policy covered repair or replacement of parts of the central heating and hot 
water system. It included making  access through a floor to do a repair. It included making 
the floor safe and level afterwards. 
The policy didnt include repairing damage  caused  by leaks.  And it didnt cover restoring 
surface finishes (for example re-tiling or redecoration).
Mr M is complaining that British Gas is responsible for failing to prevent leaks.
I think the relevant  British  Gas policy terms were those dated September 2017  as Mr and 
Mrs M renewed  their policy from 9 March 2018  and reported problems in early 2019.  The 
policy terms included the following:
Reasonable timescales
Well carry out any repairs or visits youre entitled  to within  a reasonable time, unless 
something beyond  our control  makes that impossible   in which case well let you 
know as soon as possible and give you another time when we can visit.
Mr and Mrs M havent provided the dates or any records  of visits by British Gas.  But British  
Gas has provided its work history.
I havent seen  any evidence of a visit in September 2018. But Ive seen that British  Gas did 
visit on 22 October 2018. I dont think that was in response to a reported problem. I think it 
was a routine  annual  service visit.
For 6 January 2019 the work history includes the following:
adv to keep hw on for longer as thermal fitted and needs  time to heat up
From that, I think that British Gas had advised  Mr and Mrs M that  as they had a thermal  
store  they should allow more time for the hot water to heat up. I think this mustve been in 
response to a report of poor hot water. 
With hindsight I think the hot water  cylinder  was failing on 6 January 2019.  But  it was in a 
cupboard and I cant say that British Gas shouldve  seen corrosion to the bottom of the 
cylinder.
Ref: DRN52166993Mr M has said that British Gas told him that the dampness on the floor around the cylinder 
was a result  of condensation. He hasnt  said when this was. But I find it likely  that it was on 6 
January 2019.
For 12 January 2019 (which I think was a Saturday) the work history  includes the following:
New thermal store req will call [manufacturer] on Monday  to order new one
From that I find that British Gas had agreed  to supply and fit a replacement  thermal store of 
a particular make. I think that British Gas had to wait for the manufacturer to supply one.
For 17 January 2019 the work  history  includes the following:
Job booked in wrong by office should be for 28th of Jan when new cylinder is being 
delivered
From that, I find that the engineer knew that the manufacturer wasnt  going to delver  the new 
cylinder until 28 January.  I also find it likely that British Gas had failed to keep  Mr M informed 
about that. I find it likely that this caused Mr and Mrs M some extra distress and 
inconvenience at an already difficult time for them. 
For 22 January 2019 the work  history  includes the following:
Pipework under bathroom floor leaking pipework to be altered and rerun 
From that I find that British Gas had found  that pipework under bathroom  floor was leaking 
and needed to be changed.  
For 28 January 2019 the work  history  includes the following:
Removed cylinder as leaking new one ordered
And for 1 February 2019 the work history includes the following:
Fitted  new cylinder  and replaced  leaking  pipework
From that I think that it had taken about three weeks to obtain  and fit the replacement  
cylinder. And in the meantime Mr and Mrs M were  without  reliable  hot water  and heating. But 
I keep in mind the policy term quoted above.  And I cant say that there was anything  more  
that British Gas couldve done to obtain  and fit the new cylinder  sooner.
Ive seen a report  from contractors who did some work in the flat from about 12 January 
2019. It doesnt say what  that work  was. But Ive seen photographs  of a section  of floor 
removed to reveal old pipes. And I have no reason to doubt Mr Ms description that part of 
the floor had caved  in due to water damage. Ive also seen receipts  for materials including 
damp proofing, tiles and paint.
As the policy didnt  cover  such work,  I would only find it fair to direct British  Gas to pay for it if 
Mr M had shown that British Gas had caused or failed to prevent a leak.  Mr M says that was 
the case. But his contractors report doesnt say that British  Gas had done anything wrong. 
Ref: DRN52166994I find it unlikely that a leak would cause a floor to cave in within  a few weeks. I find it much 
more likely that there had been invisible leaks from both the cylinder and the pipes under the 
floor for many months. Therefore I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct  British Gas to 
pay compensation to Mr and Mrs M for the costs they incurred with their contractor or for the 
cost of materials.
British Gas couldve communicated with Mr and Mrs M better.  But its final response  said it 
was sending a cheque for £80.00  and I find that fair and reasonable compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience caused by the shortcomings in its communication.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct British Gas Insurance Limited to do anything further in response to this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  5 October  2019.
Christopher Gilbert
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5216699