K820x#14Complaint
Mr D says Lloyds Bank  PLC mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy for a 
mortgage.
Background
I sent my provisional decision on 9 July 2019.  A copy of my provisional decision is 
attached and forms part of this final decision.
My provisional decision sets out the background of this complaint. It explains why I thought 
this policy  had not been mis-sold. I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted  to send 
me  so long as I received it by 23 July 2019. But neither  side had anything new to add.
My findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party has added any new evidence or arguments. So having reconsidered the case, 
Ive come to the same  conclusion as before  that I dont think  this PPI policy was mis-sold.
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold Mr Ds 
complaint about  Lloyds  Bank PLC.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 31 August 2019.
Adam Charles
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN59868182COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
Complaint
Mr D says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy  for a mortgage.
Background
Mr D took out a PPI policy with a mortgage in 1996. Mr D paid for the PPI with a regular  monthly  
premium, which didnt  attract  interest. It covered his mortgage payments  in case he was off work  sick 
or lost his job.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr D disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, so the 
complaint has been passed  to me to decide.
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken  
this into account in deciding  Mr Ds case.  
Based on what Ive seen so far, I dont  think this PPI policy was mis-sold  Ill explain why.
Mr Ds mortgage application  offered him the choice to take or turn down PPI. It looks like the box to 
buy PPI was ticked and Mr D confirmed  he was eligible for it. And he signed  the application  to confirm  
his choices.  Mr Ds mortgage offer set out the details of the policy hed chosen, and displayed its cost 
as a separate one to the cost of the mortgage itself. Mr D then agreed to the offer on the terms it set 
out. So I think  its most likely that Lloyds  made Mr D aware he had a choice about buying the PPI, and 
that he chose to take it at the time  though I can understand if he no longer remembers doing so 
after so long.
Its not clear whether Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr D, or not. The requirements  were stricter on 
Lloyds if they did recommend it, so to be fair to Mr D, Ive assumed they did. That means Lloyds  had 
to check  the policy was right for him  and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time,  
I think  it was. For example, it looks like Mr D was eligible for the cover and wasnt affected by any of 
its main exclusions or limitations.
While Mr D said he had good benefits through work, the PPI wouldve paid out on top of those and 
offered him more comprehensive  cover  especially when his work benefits reduced to just half pay, 
for instance. While Mr D had some  other insurances, it looks like these covered  different things to 
what the PPI did and werent relevant  here.  Its worth  bearing in mind  that this mortgage was Mr Ds 
sole responsibility, and if he fell behind  on the payments  he couldve lost his home. So it looks like the 
PPI couldve been useful for him in protecting his home and giving  some peace of mind.
Mr D mentioned he might have had another insurance policy covering accident, sickness, and 
redundancy, in addition to the PPI. But at other points Mr D has also said he would never have taken 
such insurance. Further,  theres no record of this other accident sickness and redundancy  insurance 
in the documents from the time, nor has Mr D provided any evidence  of it. So it doesnt sound  like this 
was relevant either. Of course, if Mr D provides evidence  of this policy in response to the provisional 
decision then I can reconsider this.
Ref: DRN59868183Its possible that the information Lloyds  gave Mr D about PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve been. The 
question, then,  is whether I think better information was likely to have changed his mind.  Here, it looks 
like Mr D chose to take out PPI, which indicates he wanted  this type of cover.  As I explained above,  
Mr D wasnt  affected by any of the main things the policy  didnt cover,  and it couldve been useful for 
him in case  something went wrong. The policy was competitively priced given  how much it would  pay 
out in a claim, and Ive not seen any indication it was unaffordable. And the PPI was paid on a rolling 
monthly basis, so Mr D could cancel  it at any time without a penalty.  Overall, I dont think  that better  
information was likely to have put him off taking  out the cover.
My provisional decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont plan to uphold Mr Ds complaint.
Please could  Mr D and Lloyds send me any more information or comments  to look at by 23 July 2019. 
After that, Ill reconsider the case.
Adam Charles
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN5986818