K821x#15complaint
Miss D has complained about Lloyds Bank  General Insurance  Limiteds (Lloyds) decision 
to reject a claim and cancel her home  insurance policy.
background
Miss D held a home insurance policy with Lloyds. In May 2018,  Miss D made a claim against  
her policy.  This claim related to damage  to her laptop.
A couple of weeks later,  Miss D made  an unrelated claim  against  her policy for flood damage 
to her home. 
Lloyds asked an engineer, who Ill refer to as V, to inspect  Miss Ds laptop.  V completed 
their inspection of Miss Ds laptop in June 2018.  They found  that the damage to it was not 
consistent with the account provided by Miss D when she made her claim.  When Vs findings  
were communicated to Miss D, Lloyds says her account about how her laptop became 
damaged changed. Lloyds provided  Miss Ds new account to V for their consideration. But V 
still didnt think the damage was consistent with Miss Ds explanation of how it happened.
As a result, Lloyds concluded Miss Ds claim was fraudulent. So, it rejected the claim and 
cancelled her policy. Because  Miss Ds policy had been cancelled  from the date of the first 
claim, Lloyds  didnt consider the flood  claim any further.
Miss D referred her complaint to our service. She said shed given an accurate  account of 
how the damage had occurred.  She wanted Lloyds to cover  both claims.
One of our investigators  considered Miss Ds complaint and upheld it. He wasnt  persuaded 
that Miss D had made a fraudulent claim.  He said that if Lloyds was of the view that Miss Ds 
account was not consistent with the damage to her laptop, then it should reject Miss Ds 
claim. But, he said it was unfair of Lloyds to terminate Miss Ds policy all together,  as he 
didnt believe there was enough evidence  to show the claim was most likely  fraudulent.
So, the investigator recommended Lloyds reinstate Miss Ds policy  and reconsider the flood 
claim, as well as the costs  Miss D had incurred repairing the flood  damage.  He also 
recommended Lloyds should pay Miss N £200  for the trouble and upset caused by Lloyds 
refusing to deal with the flood claim.
Lloyds didnt agree  with the investigators findings,  so it asked for an ombudsman  to 
consider the case. It said it was reasonable for it to say a fraudulent  claim had been made. 
This was because Miss D had changed  her account about how her laptop incurred damage  
and because V didnt think the accident she described couldve caused the damage. So, 
Lloyds thought it was reasonable to assume the damage had been caused deliberately.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im upholding the 
complaint. Ill explain  why.
Lloyds has referred to the following policy terms to support the decision it made:
Ref: DRN57671662The contract between you and us is based  on mutual trust and we rely on the honesty of our 
policyholders. If you or anyone acting for you knowingly  or recklessly:
provides information  to us that is not true in order to obtain  cover or cover at a lower  
premium or on better terms;
or provides information or documentation to us that is false,  misleading  or dishonestly 
exaggerated in relation to a claim; or
otherwise acts or behaves dishonestly in relation to your policy;  
Then we:
will cancel  your policy from the date of the fraudulent act
will not pay any part of a fraudulent claim or any claims arising after the date of the 
fraudulent act
will retain any premium you have paid
The key issue for me to decide is whether Miss D knowingly  or recklessly provided false or 
misleading information, which as per the above  terms, would qualify as a fraudulent act.
Lloyds says that Miss D initially  phoned to make her claim on 9 May 2018. It says Miss D 
didnt provide much detail,  but when asked  whether  shed dropped  it recently, Miss D said, 
no, it didnt drop down, it just opened and heard a noise. Lloyds says following  this a digital 
link was sent to her so she could  provide  more  information. Ive seen what  Miss D entered 
into the digital link. She said:
The damage happened  on the 9th of May 2018  at home. I was about to do some  research 
on the internet  and when I took my laptop, at the moment I just open to start it, it just 
cracked. The top of the laptop  is broken and there is no more support. I do not know  what  
caused the damage like I said I wanted to use it as usual and as soon  as I open the laptop it 
cracked, I was shocked myself because I cant explain what  happened.
When V inspected Miss Ds laptop they concluded  as follows:
Heavy  impact damage to the LCD lid on both bottom corners. LCD bezel is cracked in the 
corner. Left and right hand  hinge brackets  are snapped. Wifi cables are damaged.  Base 
case is fractured left hand side by audio socket.damage is consistent with heavy impact 
damage.
I can see that a telephone  call took place between Miss D and a Lloyds  advisor on 
8 June 2018. In this call, Miss D confirmed her initial account of what  happened. The advisor 
then put Vs findings to Miss D and asked her to explain  how the damage set out in Vs 
findings occurred.  Miss D then explained  that she had dropped  the laptop about  two or three 
months ago. The advisor  then asked Miss D why she had initially  said that her laptop  hadnt 
sustained any previous damage. Miss D said this was because her laptop  was still working 
at the time after it dropped.
On 25 June 2018, a follow up call took place  between  Miss D and another advisor  at Lloyds. 
In this call, Miss D was asked to go into more detail about how the laptop  was dropped. 
Having viewed the call note, I can see the following was recorded  
Ref: DRN57671663she  [Miss  D] advised she was sat on sofa using the laptop and it slipped off her lap onto 
the floor. This caused a crack  in the top of it (case) but it was working fine no other  issues,  
she did say the USB port was playing up but would work.
The advisor also asked  about any damage  to the hinges of the laptop or anywhere else.  
Miss D responded  by saying that there wasnt any other damage other than the crack in the 
top corner of the case. The advisor  explained that they would provide this new information  to 
V and await  their response.
On 2 July 2018,  V responded to Lloyds saying,  Based on new information [provided by Miss 
D] we still do not believe  the impact  damage would have caused the damage to the laptop.
I appreciate Lloyds feels that Miss D changing  her story is enough to say she misled them or 
that she provided false information.  But I dont  agree. Im mindful  that English isnt her first 
language and that she said she didnt  feel it was necessary to tell Lloyds about the minor 
damage as it hadnt affected her use of the laptop  and she considered  it to be unrelated. 
I find that account to be more plausible than Lloyds belief that she fabricated the story to 
explain the damage. I say this because even when Miss D provided her second account, 
knowing that the engineer  had determined the damage was caused by heavy impact, she 
didnt provide an explanation that wouldve accounted for the damage sustained. Instead, 
she offered that a few months  previously she had dropped the laptop,  resulting in minor 
damage to a different area. Had it been  a lie, I wouldve expected her to have  said 
something that would  explain how such significant damage to the case couldve happened.
Based on the way Miss D initially described  the damage, it seems  to me she went to use the 
laptop and found it broken. I think this is supported by the fact she said from the outset that 
she didnt know how it couldve happened. I dont think  Miss D was saying  that the act of 
opening the laptop caused all of the damage  that V describes, rather that by opening it, she 
discovered the damage/exacerbated damage  (snapped the hinges) that had been caused by 
some other heavy impact.
On balance, I think something else happened  to the laptop that Miss D doesnt know  about. 
I say this because  Miss D doesnt live alone,  she shares her property with her young 
children. So I think  its possible someone  else couldve caused the damage to the laptop.  
I think this is far more likely than Miss D deliberately causing damage to the laptop  herself.  
I cant see how she would gain from this as she had a functioning laptop that was around  
two years old. Lloyds says the laptop  model was from 2011 and it could have  had faults. But 
there isnt any evidence to substantiate this, and Miss D has always said the laptop  was 
working. Indeed,  as per Vs report, the laptop still functioned following the significant damage 
reported.
I dont think Miss D could have known the laptop was beyond  economic repair  when she 
made her claim as the damage  was limited to the case. She was only seeking  a repair so I 
dont think she had anything to gain from deliberately causing the damage. Instead she 
would be inconvenienced by not having  access to her laptop for several weeks whilst  a 
repair was carried out.
As I think  something else most likely  happened to the laptop, I dont think  its unreasonable 
for Lloyds  to refuse  this claim as there isnt sufficient evidence to show  the damage was 
accidental. But I also dont think its fair to assume that Miss D has provided false  or 
misleading information. Overall, Im persuaded she gave truthful accounts of what  she knew  
about the laptop. The fact this doesnt explain the damage to the laptop is a separate  issue.
Ref: DRN57671664Overall, I dont  think its fair or reasonable for Lloyds to apply the fraud terms above. For this 
reason, I think Lloyds should  reinstate  Miss Ds policy, and reassess the flood claim.  
Miss D says that because  Lloyds  refused  to accept the flood claim, shes slowly been trying  
to repair  the damage  herself, which has left her out of pocket. With this in mind, I think 
Lloyds should  reimburse these costs  if they wouldve otherwise been covered under the 
policy terms (or could have been  avoided had the claim been settled appropriately). I also 
think it would  also be fair for Lloyds  to pay Miss D £200 for the trouble and upset  it caused  
her by cancelling the policy and not dealing with the flood claim.
Miss D also raised concerns that when Lloyds  returned the laptop to her, it was in pieces  
and couldnt be used at all. She said this wasnt the condition  the laptop  was in when it was 
collected. This issue was raised during the investigation of her complaint at this service.  So, 
it doesnt appear Lloyds has addressed this issue. For this reason, I wont  be considering  
this part of her complaint.  If Miss D is still unhappy  about this, she should  refer her concerns 
to Lloyds so that it can provide a response. If this doesnt resolve the matter for Miss D, she 
has the right to refer this issue to our service  as a new complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold this complaint.
My decision  is that Lloyds Bank General  Insurance  Limited should  reinstate Miss Ds policy  
and reassess the flood  claim. It should  reimburse  the costs Miss D has incurred repairing 
damage caused by the flood if they wouldve  otherwise  been  covered under the policy  terms.
Lloyds Bank  General Insurance Limited should pay Miss D £200  for the trouble and upset  
caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 February  2019.
Hannah Wise
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5767166