K822xcomplaint
Mr S complains about what happened  when he told HSBC UK Bank Plc he was having 
problems paying  his loan.
background
Mr S told us that he went through a very difficult time, with ill health and a bereavement in 
the first half of 2018. He said that he had contacted  HSBC around that time to say that he 
was having difficulty  making payments onto his loan. 
Mr S said hed spoken to HSBC again  in September 2018,  when  he received an arrears 
letter from it. He was told then that a direct  debit which was paying his loan shouldve  been 
reinstated, and it hadnt been. Mr S said HSBC told him hed need to make extra payments 
to make up the shortfall, but he wasnt able to pay those amounts at the time, and wanted  to 
think about it. 
Mr S then received a final demand in October.  He said that HSBC eventually  responded to 
his complaint by saying  that he shouldve been  told that he had to put a direct debit back on 
to his account to pay his loan. But he said that HSBC had told him it was his fault arrears 
had built up, and his credit  file would be affected by this. 
Mr S wanted  HSBC to accept it was responsible for what  had gone  wrong.  He wanted it to 
remove the arrears sum and allow the loan to restart with a delayed  final payment date, and 
with no impact on his credit file. 
HSBC said it had agreed over the phone that Mr S could make reduced payments  for two 
months. It hadnt told him, during that call, that he would need to reinstate his direct debit 
after this. But it had written to him to tell him he needed to do that. And when the payment 
plan ended, and his payments didnt restart,  then HSBC wrote  to him to tell him about the 
arrears. It sent him arrears notices, a default notice and a final demand. 
HSBC had also spoken to Mr S a number of times from June 2018 on. Because the arrears 
werent cleared,  the account was closed and passed to HSBCs debt recoveries team.  
HSBC said ultimately it was Mr Ss responsibility to make sure that his payments were  
made. They werent, and he hadnt  taken any steps to make manual  payments in the 
meantime. HSBC had also told Mr S that he could apply for a repayment plan when it 
responded to his complaint on 29 October  2018. It had asked him then to contact its financial 
guidance team to run through what it could do. But he hadnt, and it was too late for this now.
Our investigator didnt  uphold this complaint. She said that HSBC had written  to Mr S a 
number of times after the payment plan was agreed, to let him know  the position on his loan. 
So she thought he was aware  that payments werent being made. She said HSBC had told 
Mr S he would need to get back in touch when  the plan ended. She also said HSBC  had 
recorded a default on Mr Ss credit file, because he was in breach of the agreement with it. 
Our investigator wouldnt ask HSBC  to do anything further. 
Mr S didnt agree. He said that the adviser he spoke  to in March, when the plan was put onto 
his loan, made no mention of catching up in the next two months, and he didnt remember 
getting a letter that said that in March.
Ref: DRN54326272Mr S also said hed had a hospital  admission  in March, a close  family member had died, and 
then at the end of May hed had a serious  operation and been off work  for weeks.  Mr S said 
that he hadnt noticed that the direct debits werent paying his loan. 
Mr S said that he had discussed  possible  payment arrangements with HSBC in early 
September. But HSBC  was then insisting, despite its mistake in not informing him about  the 
need to reinstate the direct debit,  that he would have  to increase his payments  to cover the 
arrears. And he said that he got in touch again  when HSBC  was going to default the loan. 
HSBC was then supposed to contact  him, but failed repeatedly to do so. 
Our investigator didnt  change her mind. She still thought that HSBC  hadnt acted 
unreasonably. So the case came to me for a final decision.
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I proposed  to uphold it in 
part. This is what I said then: 
-I do think HSBC has provided Mr S with poor service overall, and I think it should  pay 
him a little more  compensation  because  of that. But I dont think its solely,  or primarily, 
HSBCs fault that this loan defaulted.  So I wont ask HSBC to remove the default. 
-Ill explain why I think that. And this decision  will be provisional, to allow  either side to 
comment further before  the decision is finalised.
-Mr S told HSBC  on 5 March 2018 that he was struggling to make  his payments. HSBC  
agreed to reduce  his payments for the next two months, and stopped  his direct debit. 
Mr S made payments in March and April, which were both smaller  than the payment 
amount of £453.75 due. After that no payment  was made until 20 November, when he 
paid only £150.
-HSBC accepts that it didnt tell Mr S on the phone that hed need  to renew his direct debt 
himself. A letter issued 8 March said Mr S had to get back in touch with HSBC  to discuss  
a new plan before this one came to an end. That seems  a little different to telling Mr S 
that his payments would stop when  the plan ended. And there  are notes on HSBCs files 
which suggest that the payments  werent intended to stop. So I think  that the cancellation 
of the direct debit  may have been  a mistake by HSBC. I think thats  an example of poor 
service by HSBC, and I think its a little worse than HSBC  has so far accepted.
-HSBC wrote to Mr S on 7 June, to say he was behind  on payments and ask him to 
contact HSBC immediately to discuss the account. That letter  showed reduced  payments 
for March and April and also shows no payment had been made for May or June.  
Another letter issued  2 August, asked Mr S to get in touch to tell it how much  he could 
afford to repay. Then a default notice was issued  on 30 August.
-Mr S contacted HSBC  in early September, and HSBC said then that Mr S could repay 
the arrears over the next three months,  or it offered him a new plan which would also 
involve payments a little over what hed previously  been  paying per month. Once he was 
on that new plan,  HSBC would rectify his credit file, and it said that he wouldnt need to 
worry about the default. 
Ref: DRN54326273-I havent seen  any complaint  letter  dated  early September 2018  from HSBC. That may 
be because HSBC  thought it had resolved Mr Ss complaint over the phone.  I can see a 
compensation payment made  into Mr Ss account,  dated  3 September which is the same 
day he spoke to HSBC.  That payment  was for £50.
-It appears, from the notes Ive seen, as if HSBC was expecting  Mr S to restart his 
payments at this time. But Mr S told us he couldnt afford to pay off the arrears. He 
wanted HSBC  to just add the arrears on to the end of his loan.  So Mr S didnt pay the 
increased amount.  Importantly, he also didnt restart the payments he had previously 
been making. He continued to make no payment to his loan.
-A final demand was then issued on 1 October. Mr S responded to say that hed never 
refused to pay and this was all down to a mistake  internally at HSBC. He said HSBC  had 
apologised for this mistake, told him to ignore its default notice and paid him £350.  (I 
think Mr S may have made a mistake over this amount.) Then it sent him a final demand. 
-HSBC responded  to this complaint on 29 October. It paid him £150 to say sorry for not 
having initially made clear, back in March, that he would  need  to reinstate his direct  
debit. (As Ive said, I think HSBC had probably cancelled the direct debit by mistake.)  
-I think at this point, HSBC was quite clear that Mr Ss account was heading for default. It 
had discussed  with him a way to avoid  that default. Because Mr S still didnt make any 
payments at all, I dont  think  HSBC was wrong  to continue with its enforcement  action 
against Mr S.
-An arrears notice  was issued on 7 November. One payment of £150 was then made  
from Mr Ss current account on 20 November, which is the same amount as the 
compensation payment that HSBC  had paid into his current  account  on 29 October. Its 
worth recalling  that his previous  repayments  had been  £453.75 per month. 
-I do recognise that Mr S had made  some  attempts to contact HSBC  at the same time as 
this payment was made, and shortly  after.  I think  HSBC did provide poor service  again at 
this point, because  it missed a call back just before  the default happened. But I dont  
think its entirely HSBCs fault that those  conversations didnt happen, as Mr S did 
receive a call back on 22 November.  He wasnt able to take that call. And he wasnt  able 
to wait for a representative on a call on 27 November. HSBC has paid him £50 to make  
up for missing a further call back. 
-We cant ever be sure what wouldve happened  if Mr S and HSBC  had spoken  at this 
point. But the payment  of only a modest fraction of Mr Ss previous monthly amount in 
November suggests to me that Mr S wasnt  then in a position  to resume his previous 
contractual payments. So I dont think that HSBC shouldve deferred the default on 
Mr Ss account, because of this payment,  or because of his calls to it.
-Mr S hadnt made any payments at all between 28 April and 20 November. HSBC  has 
said that for some of these months,  Mr S didnt have enough money in his current  
account to make  his monthly loan payments. By 30 November,  full repayments hadnt 
restarted. Mr Ss loan was then closed  and defaulted. 
-I do think that HSBC couldve provided  Mr S with better  service.  Its paid him a total of 
£250 to make up for that. I dont  think  thats  quite the right amount  to provide a fair and 
Ref: DRN54326274reasonable outcome to this complaint, so I think that HSBC  should pay Mr S an 
additional £100 now.
-But I dont think that this default  is solely, or even mainly, HSBCs fault. I think  that the 
main reason this loan defaulted is because Mr S didnt  make any payments at all, 
between 28 April and 20 November. And when he did make a payment, on 20 
November, it was for less than a third of his previously agreed monthly amount. So I 
dont think that HSBC has to remove this default  from Mr Ss credit  record,  or reinstate 
his loan, now. 
-I know that Mr S will be disappointed,  but I dont think  HSBC has to do more than this.
I invited the parties  to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
HSBC said it accepted my decision and would  pay the £100  I suggested.  Mr S sent a 
detailed reply, to object.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I havent changed my mind.
Mr S has objected  to a number of the points I made in my provisional decision.  Ill set out 
these objections and deal with each in turn.
Mr S said it was incorrect to say that hed been offered any payment plan in HSBCs letter  of 
29 October 2018. He said he had specifically  asked for the arrears  to be put to the end of the 
loan period, and HSBC  had refused. It wanted  him to increase his monthly payments to 
reduce the arrears as quickly as possible.
HSBCs letter of 29 October  refers  to a conversation Mr S had with HSBC on 3 September. 
The letter says You were  advised  about arrangements  that we can potentially agree  on your 
account. HSBCs notes of the phone conversation set out that Mr S had been offered a 
repayment plan.  Thats what I was referring  to in my provisional decision. I understand that 
HSBC hadnt offered  to add the arrears onto the end of the loan. 
Mr S said that where Id suggested that HSBC may have made a mistake, that it definitely  
had. He said it had confirmed that it shouldve  told him he would need to consent  to put the 
direct debit back on. I do think HSBC made a mistake here. Its not entirely  clear  what  HSBC  
had intended to do when it first set up this arrangement for two smaller payments with Mr S, 
but I noted later in my provisional  decision  that I thought HSBC  had probably  cancelled the 
direct debit by mistake.  Ive also said this was poor service to Mr S. 
Mr S disputed that he had been  offered, in early September, a repayment amount  of a little 
over the previous payments . I understand from HSBCs contemporaneous notes that Mr S 
was offered repayments of an additional  £167.50 per month on top of his previous 
payments. Those had been £453.75  per month.  But HSBC  also notes the offer of a different 
payment plan, which isnt explained in detail in those  notes, if he made  a payment of 
£509.28. 
Mr S commented on my summary  of HSBCs attempts to contact him, and his to contact 
HSBC. He said HSBCs attempts to call him were infrequent and half-hearted. He said he 
works full time, and isnt free any time it suited HSBC.  And even when he was free HSBC  
Ref: DRN54326275had failed to call him as agreed on a number of occasions. Then it would call without 
agreeing a revised time.  
I noted in my provisional decision  that I thought HSBC had provided  a poor service again at 
this point. But I didnt  think it was entirely  HSBCs fault that those conversations didnt 
happen. Ill explain why I think  that. 
I have to bear in mind  that HSBC was writing to Mr S, to tell him what  was going  to happen 
on his account.  In those letters it gave him the option first to clear  his arrears, then to clear  
the debt in full, if he wanted to avoid a default. If Mr S wanted to avoid a default, but wasnt 
in a position to take the options set out in HSBCs letters to him, then he would have to 
contact HSBC to agree  a different way forward. And although I do think that HSBC  couldve 
done a better job at getting back in touch  with Mr S, I dont think  that HSBCs service at this 
stage was so poor, that it was entirely its fault that this discussion on avoiding a default  didnt  
happen.
Mr S noted  that Id said a payment of £150  was made onto his loan. He said that payment 
was a mistake, and he hadnt intended to make any payment at all until HSBC had started to 
act reasonably, which it was not. 
Mr S said that HSBC had taken no account of the circumstances that he was in during this 
time, which he summarised for us. I would expect  HSBC  to seek to support Mr S, if he was 
having financial difficulties. But I dont think that means that HSBC  has to keep  deferring  
repayment of Mr Ss debt,  or that it has to agree to add arrears  onto the end of his loan, 
instead of recovering  those in a shorter timescale.  Ive considered  the evidence  carefully,  
including the letters sent to Mr S and the notes that HSBC took of its conversations with him 
at the time. I know that Mr S wont agree with me on this, but I think  that HSBCs approach to 
rectifying the problem  of arrears on Mr Ss loan was fair and reasonable. 
Although I know that Mr S will be disappointed, for the reasons Ive set out I still think  that 
the award I originally proposed remains the right outcome to this complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that HSBC must pay Mr S a further £100 in compensation, in addition to 
what it has already paid. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 November  2019.
Esther Absalom-Gough
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5432627