K822xcomplaint
Mr E complains that MYJAR  Limited  (trading  as MYJAR)  irresponsibly lent to him.
background
The background to this complaint was set out in the two provisional  decisions I issued  on 
13th February 2020 and 21st May 2020. An extract from these two decisions are attached  
and both form part of this final decision, so I wont repeat that information here.
In my second provisional decision  I set out why I thought the complaint should be partially 
upheld and what MYJAR needed to do to put things  right. I invited both parties to let me 
have any further  comments  and evidence. 
Mr E responded on 23 May 2020  and accepts the findings in my provisional decision.  He 
had no further  comments to make relating to his complaint. 
MYJAR responded  on 22 May 2020  to say it had received my decision and agrees with my 
findings. It says it agrees  to settle the complaint in line with how I had asked it to put things 
right. It then calculated how it would  do this.
my findings
Ive once more  considered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties  have nothing  further to add and I have no new evidence  to consider.
So having  considered everything  Ive received in relation to this complaint, both before and 
after issuing my provisional decisions, I am not persuaded to change the conclusions  given  
in my second provisional decision. MYJAR now needs to put things right with regards to 
loans 4 and 5. 
putting things right
I concluded in my second provisional decision that MYJAR should  put things right with 
regards to loans  4 and 5. So it should:
Ref: DRN57627312Refund all interest  and charges Mr E paid on loan 4 and 5;
Pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement;
Remove any negative  information with regards  to loan 4 and 5.
Mr E still owes MYJAR some of the principal balance he borrowed on loan 5. MYJAR may 
deduct this from the compensation  that is due to him. But, to be clear, that outstanding 
balance should  be recalculated to remove any interest and charges, whilst taking account of 
any repayments Mr E has made  on that loan as though they were applied against  the 
principal sum borrowed.
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires MYJAR to take off tax from this interest. MYJAR must give Mr E a 
certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Es complaint and direct  MYJAR Limited to put things 
right as detailed above.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 July 2020.
Mark Richardson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN57627313EXTRACT FROM 2ND PROVISIONAL DECISION  (21 May 2020)
Complaint
Mr E has complained about two loans  he took out with MYJAR Limited  (MYJAR).  He says the loans  
were unaffordable.
Background
Mr E took five loans from MYJAR between March 2017  and July 2018.  A summary of Mr Es 
borrowing is shown below: 
LoanDate  TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments Amount Repayment
1 30/03/2017 23/04/2017 6 700 209.92
2 23/04/2017 06/05/2017 6 1000 313.23
3 20/07/2017 29/07/2017 6 600 192.94
4 29/07/2017 28/06/2018 12 1200 182.84
5 05/07/2018 outstanding 12 1100 164.95
Mr E has an amount left to pay on loan 5. 
Our adjudicator upheld Mr Es complaint in part and thought loans 2-5 shouldnt have been given. He 
concluded that from loan 2 the amount MYJAR was asking Mr E to repay  was a significant part of his 
income. So he felt it shouldnt  have given  this loan or any subsequent loan to him as the loan 
repayments were not sustainable.
MYJAR didnt  agree with the adjudicators findings. So I issued  a provisional decision  on 13 February 
2020. An extract of that decision is given at the end of this, a second provisional decision.
In that decision, I did not uphold Mr Es complaint. I concluded that MYJAR wasnt  wrong to give the 
loans to Mr E and invited comments  back from both parties. 
MYJAR responded on 14th February  to say it accepts the decision and didnt have anything more to 
add. Mr E responded shortly after and made the following  comments:
That the wrong information had been assessed within my provisional decision.  In particular 
loan 4 was not taken 12 months after loan 3 but was on the same day.
He had gambling  issues  during this period and had a multiple  of other loans including  short  
term loans to pay MYJAR and other lenders back. 
Mr E also provided our service at this point  with bank statements covering the period of time that he 
lent from MYJAR. 
Mr E has provided  further  evidence, in that he has provided bank statements and given additional  
reasons why he shouldnt have been given the loans. So I have looked  into this. In addition  to this Mr 
E has said in his reply that the wrong  information had been  assessed. I can see that loan 4 was taken  
out on 29 July 2017 and not 29 July 2018, as I had assessed in my first provisional decision.  I have 
also taken this into consideration when  I have looked again  at Mr Es complaint.
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to provisionally decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having  done so, Im thinking about reaching  the 
Ref: DRN57627314same outcome as the adjudicator  but wanted to explain  how the business  should  put things right in 
more detail.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  lending - including all of the 
relevant rules, guidance  and good  industry practice - on our website.
The Financial Conduct  Authority (FCA)  was the regulator when MYJAR lent to 
Mr E. The FCAs  Consumer  Credit sourcebook (CONC) is the specialist sourcebook  for credit related  
regulated activities.  It sets out the rules and guidance specific to consumer credit providers, such  as 
MYJAR.
It is important to note that the FCA didnt, and doesnt, specify exactly  how an assessment of 
affordability is to be carried out but the extent and scope and the types  and sources of information 
to use needed to be enough to be able to reasonably assess the sustainability of the arrangement  for 
the consumer.
In other words the assessment needs to be consumer-focussed. It is not an assessment of the risk to 
the lender of not recovering the credit but of the risk to the consumer  of incurring  financial difficulties 
or experiencing significant  adverse consequence as a result of the decision to lend.
As set out in the guidance,  the risk to the consumer directly relates  to the particulars of the lending  
and the circumstances of the consumer. Therefore, a lenders assessment of creditworthiness  would 
likely need to be flexible.  That is to say, what is sufficient for one consumer might not be for another, 
or indeed  what might  be sufficient for a consumer in one circumstance  might not be so for the same  
consumer in other  circumstances.
Bearing the above in mind, I would expect an assessment of creditworthiness to vary with 
circumstance. In general, Id expect a lender to require more assurance, the greater the potential  risk 
to the consumer of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way.
Certain factors might  point  to the fact that MYJAR should fairly and reasonably  have done more to 
establish that any lending was sustainable  for the consumer. These factors  include, but are not limited 
to:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more  difficult  to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount  due to be repaid  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular  level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period  of time during 
which a customer has been given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing  had become,  or was becoming, unsustainable).
MYJAR told us it asked for details of Mr Es income and expenses  when it agreed loan 1 and 2. It also 
carried out a credit  search. This was the start of the lending relationship  between  the two parties. Mr 
E provided details about his income  and expenditure. The information  he had declared  about his 
disposable income  meant  that the amount he was asking  to borrow  for loans 1 and 2 and the 
repayments would have appeared  affordable. So I dont think at this stage MYJAR was wrong to give 
Mr E loans 1 and 2.
Mr E then applied for loan 3 on 20 July 2017. At this stage MYJAR carried out another  credit search. 
The results  from this showed  that Mr E had opened 11 new accounts in the previous 3 months.  His 
unsecured debt had increased  by around £3000 also. I think when MYJAR had seen this it should  
have had enough concerns that it should have found out more about whether Mr E had taken  out 
other short  term lending at the time he was asking to borrow from them  for the third time. 
Ref: DRN57627315Mr E has provided  bank statements from the time he took out loan 3. It shows that on 20 July 2017, 
Mr E would have held 2 other  short  term loans.  I think if MYJAR had carried out further checks and 
seen that he had 2 other open short term loans  and also taken into consideration what  Mr E had told 
it, I think it would have  still had provided the loan. On balance, the repayments that Mr E would  have 
had to make  for loan 3 would have still appeared affordable based on his disposable income that he 
declared and taking  into consideration the short term lending that it would  have been made  aware  of. I 
do think though, that MYJAR,  at this stage would be starting to have concerns  that Mr E would  
potentially have problems  managing his finances in a sustainable way going  forward.
Nine days later, Mr E took out loan 4 on the same  day he repaid  loan 3. He had asked to borrow  twice 
the amount of his previous  loan. MYJAR used the same credit search results for loan 4 that it did for 
loan 3. I think  for the same  reasons as I have already given, MYJAR should have been asking Mr E 
about his other short term lending commitments. If it had, it would  have seen that as well as having  
the same 2 other short term loans open  as he did for loan 3, Mr E also only 4 days previously taken  
out a 3rd short  term loan with another lender.  I think at this point,  presented with this information, 
MYJAR would  have  been aware  that Mr E was having problems managing his finances and in all 
likelihood was unlikely  to have been able to repay loan 4 in a sustainable way. 
So as a responsible lender,  I dont think MYJAR should have  agreed loan 4 or any loans after that 
point (loan  5) and should put things right as set out below.
Ref: DRN57627316EXTRACT FROM 1ST PROVISIONAL DECISION (13 February 2020)
complaint
Mr E says MYJAR Limited irresponsibly lent to him.
background
This complaint  is about  five instalment loans MYJAR provided to Mr E between March 2017 and July 2018. 
Details of these  five loans are as follows:
Loan Taken Repaid Instalments Amount monthly repayment
1 30/03/2017 23/04/2017 6 700 209.92
2 23/04/2017 06/05/2017 6 1000 313.23
3 20/07/2017 29/07/2017 6 600 192.94
4 29/07/2018 28/06/2018 12 1200 182.84
5 05/07/2018 outstanding 12 1100 164.95
Our adjudicator  upheld Mr Es complaint in part and thought loans 2-5 shouldnt  have  been given. He concluded 
that from loan 2 the amount  MYJAR was asking  Mr E to repay was a significant part of his income. So he felt it 
shouldnt have given this loan or any subsequent  loan to him as the loan repayments were not sustainable.
MYJAR disagreed with our adjudicators findings. So as the parties  still do not agree,  the complaint has been 
passed to me for a decision.
My provisional  findings
Ive considered  all the available  evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  Weve  set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  lending - 
including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.  
MYJAR needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice this means  that it 
should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr E could repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account a number of different things,  such  as how much  was being  lent, the 
repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a 
lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain  factors might point to the fact that MYJAR should  fairly  and reasonably have done more to establish 
that any lending  was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers  income  (reflecting  that it could  be more difficult  to make  any loan repayments to a 
given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a higher  repayment  
from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency  of loans,  and the longer the period of time during which a customer 
has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal  that the borrowing had 
become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  demonstrates  that the 
lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that MYJAR was required  to establish whether Mr E could 
sustainably repay his loans  not just whether  the loan payments were  affordable on a strict pounds and pence 
calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a consumer could  sustainably 
make their repayments.  But it doesnt automatically  follow this is the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit 
Sourcebook (CONC) defines  sustainable as being  without  undue difficulties  and in particular 
the customer  should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well 
as without having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought  fairly 
Ref: DRN57627317and reasonably to realise, that a borrower  wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely 
to be able to make their repayments without  borrowing further. 
Ive carefully  considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided  in this context and what  this all 
means for Mr Es complaint.
MYJAR did a number of checks before it lent to Mr E. It asked him for details of his income and his normal 
expenditure. And it then used this information to calculate how much disposable  income Mr E had left over each 
month. MYJAR also used a credit reference  agency to gather some more information about Mr Es financial 
situation at that time.
Mr E took out his first loan on 30 March 2017. I dont  think there  was anything to indicate  to MYJAR that it 
needed to do more when it approved it. This was the start of the lending relationship  and the repayments  for this 
loan seemed  affordable based on what Mr E had told MYJAR.  
Mr E then repaid loan 1 early,  on 23 April 2017.  On the same day he then took out another loan with MYJAR for 
£1000 to be repaid over 6 months.  Our adjudicator found that the repayment  amount  Mr E would  have  had to 
repay was a significant amount  of Mr Es disposable  income and he considered  the first two loan repayments that 
Mr E would have had to make. But Mr E had repaid his first loan before  he took out loan 2. So he would  only 
have been  committed  to repaying the repayments for loan 2 only.  When I consider this amount  next to what  Mr E 
had declared and that it was still fairly early on in the lending relationship between  the parties, I dont think at this 
stage MYJAR needed to do anymore before it agreed to this loan. Mr E then repaid loan 2 early and 2 months 
later took out a third loan. This was for a smaller amount and seemed  easily affordable based on what Mr E had 
disclosed so I dont think at this stage  MYJAR would  have  needed to carry out further  checks based on what it 
had in front of it.
There was a gap of around 12 months  before Mr E asked  MYJAR for another  loan. So as there was a fairly 
lengthy amount of time here, I have considered the two loans taken out by Mr E from this point forward as a new 
lending relationship with MYJAR. When Mr E did approach  MYJAR again in July 2018, it again did a number of 
checks. It asked him for details  of his income and his normal  expenditure. It also gathered data from credit 
reference agencies.  From the information it did gather,  again  there was nothing to indicate MYJAR needed  to do 
more when it approved loans 4 and again when  he asked for loan 5. These two loans seemed affordable for him 
and there was nothing within the credit  search results that I think  should have alerted it to find out more.
In conclusion, I dont  think it wouldve been  proportionate for MYJAR to ask Mr E for the amount  of information 
that would be needed to show the lending was unsustainable  before it agreed  to lend to him loans 1-5. So I am 
minded to not uphold his complaint
Ref: DRN5762731