K820x#14complaint
Its been agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL),  as the 
insurer, should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to 
FICL as the seller  in my decision.
Miss P says FICL mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out alongside a store  card in 1995. The card and 
PPI were taken out in store.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Miss P disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Ps case.
As some of the evidence is either incomplete or contradictory, Ive made  a decision on what  I 
think is most likely  to have happened   based on whats available. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Miss Ps complaint and Ill explain why.
FICL had to make Miss P aware that the PPI was optional and get her consent before 
adding PPI. I dont  know what  was said at the time the policy  was sold. And FICL no longer 
has a copy of Miss Ps store card application.  Businesses often only keep records  for six 
years, and this sale took place over twenty years ago. 
Miss P said it was implied  she had to take PPI to get the card. But, from what we know  about 
FICLs sales  processes  around that time from dealing with other  cases, the form had a 
separate section  for PPI and the customer was asked to say whether they wanted to take 
PPI or not. I think it likely that paperwork like this wouldve been  used  when the PPI was sold 
by FICL to Miss P. FICL  say its records show that Miss P selected PPI and thats  why it was 
added to her account. I have no reason  to doubt  those records. Miss P has not said that she 
didnt take PPI.
But she has said she felt pressured into taking it. This is a very subjective  area and Ive not 
seen enough to fairly conclude that that was the case here.  Overall,  I think  it likely that FICL 
did make  it clear to Miss P that she didnt  have to take PPI, but that she chose to take it. 
FICL didnt  recommend the PPI to Miss P so it didnt have to check  if it was right for her. But 
it did have to make sure Miss P got clear information so she could make and informed 
choice and decide if it was right for her.
Ref: DRN54173162Its possible the information FICL gave Miss P about  the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve 
been. Miss P has told us she wouldve got statutory sick pay if off work sick. The PPI would 
have paid on top of Miss Ps sick pay, possibly for longer than her work related benefits. The 
PPI wouldve  also paid out if she voluntarily lost her job. Miss P said she had around three 
months worth of savings  or insurance  and was still living at home at the time. But, I cant 
see that her other means clearly made the policy inappropriate  for her. Overall, I still think 
PPI could have  provided her with a valuable benefit.
 
Based on what Ive seen  of Miss Ps circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover. As she couldve  benefitted  
from everything the policy offered, I dont think having better information about these things 
wouldve affected her decision take out PPI. It also looks  like the PPI was affordable and she 
couldve cancelled it at any time. I cant see that Miss P has lost out because of anything that 
FICL did wrong, so I dont  uphold this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Miss Ps complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 February  2019.
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5417316