K822xcomplaint
Mrs E thinks  that Oakbrook Finance Limited, trading as Likely Loans, treated her unfairly  
when it lent her money in August 2018.
background 
In August  2018,  Likely Loans lent Mrs E £1,000, which Mrs E agreed to repay, with interest, 
over 12 months. The monthly repayments were £115.96, and if Mrs E made all her 
payments on time, shed  pay £1,391.52.
Mrs E thinks  Likely Loans was irresponsible to lend her the money.
I issued my provisional findings on this complaint on 27 May 2020.  I said that, based on what 
Id seen, I thought  the complaint should be upheld. 
Likely Loans has replied  to say it agrees with my provisional findings.  Mrs E has said she 
has nothing further  to add. I have therefore looked  at the complaint again.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable I have taken into account relevant law and 
regulations; regulators  rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and what I 
consider to have  been good industry  practice  at the time.
As Likely Loans was entering a regulated credit agreement, it needed to assess  Mrs Es 
creditworthiness, including the potential for the commitments under the agreement to 
adversely impact Mrs Es financial  situation,  and the ability for Mrs E to make repayments  as 
they fell due over the term of the loan.
In particular, the regulators rules that applied to Likely  Loans  at the time said it needed to 
take reasonable steps to assess  Mrs Es ability to meet the repayments  under the 
agreement in a sustainable manner without  Mrs E incurring financial difficulties or 
experiencing significant adverse consequences. This included Mrs E being  able to make the 
payments on time while meeting his other reasonable commitments  and without having to 
borrow to meet the repayments.
Any checks  Likely  Loans carried  out had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of 
the loan agreement. This depends on a number of factors, including  the circumstances of 
the borrower, and the amount, type and cost of the credit  theyre  seeking.  Even  for the same 
consumer, what is proportionate  may differ  between  loan applications.
In my provisional decision,  I said that I thought the complaint  should  be upheld.  I said:
Ive looked at what Likely Loans  asked.  It says that when it decided  to agree the loan 
it used the information it received from Mrs E in her application together with 
information it received  from a credit reference  agency. 
Ive looked at Likely Loanss record of Mrs Es application. This says Mrs E told them 
she had an annual gross  income of £30,000  a year, and had £0 in outgoings.
Ref: DRN58828472Ive also looked  at the information Likely Loans  received  from the credit reference  
agency. This showed Mrs E had existing debts  of £5,300. It therefore concluded 
Mrs E was spending around 5% of her income on existing debt repayments, and that 
the new loan was around 3.3% of her income. And it concluded  that Mrs E met its 
affordability criteria at the time.
But based  on what Mrs E told Likely Loans, I think further checks would have  been  
proportionate.
First, Im mindful  that the rules that applied to Likely Loans at the time said it 
shouldnt accept an application where  it suspected that the customer  hadnt been 
truthful in completing  the application in relation  to information relevant to the 
creditworthiness assessment. I think its extremely unlikely that Mrs E would have 
had zero expenses.  I think  that if Likely Loans wanted to lend, it was important that it 
clarified this.
The information Likely Loans received from the credit reference agency also 
suggested that what Mrs E had said about  her expenses might  not be right.  She had 
over £5,000 in existing  debts. The other  information  from the credit  reference agency 
suggested that Mrs E had a high level of indebtedness. I think  this reflected the fact 
that, according to the full credit file Likely Loans has provided, since  the beginning of 
August 2017 Mrs E had opened six credit  cards, most of which had had balances 
approaching their credit limits. This also seems  inconsistent with zero expenses.
I note the detailed credit file Likely  Loans  submitted in response to this complaint was 
created when it investigated Mrs Es complaint, and not at the point it lent Mrs E the 
money. So I cant be certain to what extent  the information it used in its affordability 
checks reflect the amounts show on the detailed credit report it has submitted.
But it was important for Likely Loans to consider whether it was sustainable  for Mrs E 
to take on additional credit. I think further checks were appropriate.
Ive therefore  gone  on to consider what further checks would have  revealed.  Mrs E 
has told us she was a single parent with two dependent children. She says she paid 
rent of £440 a month. And shes also sent us bank statements  and in the absence  
of better information I think the information in these statements are the best 
information I have  of what further checks would  have revealed. 
Mrs E initially told us her income  was a lot less than the figure stated on her 
application. I see that her salary, paid just one day before  she drew down this loan,  
was £1,120, But after we put the dates to her she confirmed that she was just about 
to start a new job with a salary of £28,000 a year, so I think  its likely the income she 
gave Likely  Loans  reflected this.
Im nevertheless concerned that Mrs Es expenses were considerable. In the month 
before she drew down  this loan, she spent around  £3,200. I also see evidence  that 
her ex-partner was sending her money to help her pay for important  bills, such as car 
insurance. In addition, I see payments to a sheriffs  officer - Mrs E says she was 
being pursued for council tax arrears. And so I think even limited checks  of Mrs Es 
current spending would likely have made Likely Loans aware  that Mrs E was 
struggling to meet her day to day expenses. 
Ref: DRN58828473Additionally, I note that a significant part of her spending each month  was on internet 
gambling: £2,000  in the month before  she took out the loan. It seems  likely that 
Mrs E was borrowing to gamble  for example,  she took out a loan of £1,000 in 
July 2018 and then on the same day spent £1,550 on an online gambling site. 
Based on what Ive seen,  then, Mrs E was borrowing  more  money at a time when 
she was having  difficulties paying  other important financial commitments. So I think 
there was a real prospect  shed  need to borrow again to fund these new 
commitments.
For these reasons I think that if Likely Loans had carried out further checks I think  its 
likely it would have realised that further  lending  wasnt sustainable. I think it wouldnt  
have lent Mrs E the money.  And so I think Mrs E has lost out.
Likely Loans says it agrees  with my findings.  Mrs E hasnt sent me anything  further  to 
consider. I therefore  reach the same  findings  for the same reasons.
putting things right
Likely Loans shouldnt  have given Mrs E this loan. So Likely  Loans needs  to:
(a)Add together and pay back the total of the repayments made by Mrs E towards  
interest, fees and charges on the loan
(b)Work  out interest (the rate is 8%) on this part of the repayments  from the date Mrs E 
paid them until she gets them  back
(c)Pay the amounts  worked out to Mrs E
*HM Revenue & Customs  requires Likely  Loans to deduct tax from this interest. It should  give Mrs E a certificate 
showing how much tax it has deducted, if Mrs E asks for one.
Likely Loans has told me that as at 16 June 2020 Mrs E has paid £1.391.52 towards this 
loan. She borrowed  £1,000. So it proposes to pay her £391.52, plus simple interest, which  
was £22.79 at the point it made its offer. It has also confirmed that any negative  information 
regarding the loan will be removed  from her credit file.
my final decision
For the reasons  above, I uphold Mrs Es complaint. I direct  Oakbrook Finance Limited to put 
things right by doing what  Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 July 2020.
.
Edward Hardman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5882847