K821x#15complaint
Mr M, Mr M and Mr M are unhappy  that issues with TSB Bank plcs IT system made it 
difficult for them to obtain details  and reassurance about fraudulent activity that had taken 
place on their accounts, and left them  without  access to funds  a significant period of time.
background
I issued my provisional decision in January 2019  (copied below). I explained I had carefully 
considered all of the available  evidence  and arguments from the outset,  in order to decide 
what was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. I had also taken into account relevant 
regulatory rules as well as the law and good  industry  practice.
Having done so, I explained  I intended to uphold the complaint and to issue  instructions  to 
TSB to put things  right. 
Mr M, Mr M and Mr M have responded saying that further access problems have arisen  
since my provisional decision was issued. As I understand it, a further block was applied to 
the account, and  following informal mediation by our Investigator  - has since  been 
removed. Mr M, Mr M and Mr M would like the compensation I suggested in my provisional 
decision to be amended to take account of this latest issue.
As I have asked our Investigator  to explain to Mr M, Mr M and Mr M, Im not considering this 
latest development as part of this complaint. It arose after I issued my provisional  decision, 
and the circumstances under which it was applied have not formed part of my consideration. 
Furthermore, TSB has not been  given an opportunity  to investigate this as a new complaint 
issue or to resolve  it directly with the customer. As such, if Mr M, Mr M and Mr M wish to 
make a complaint  about this point, they should  raise  it with the business in the first instance.
Neither party has provided any further  evidence  to consider. The deadline  for further  
submissions has now passed.
my findings
Having reconsidered  the complaint again in its entirety, I have reached the same decision as 
before, and for the same  reasons. It follows  that I uphold this complaint, and instruct TSB to 
put things right as set out below.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and instruct  TSB Bank plc to pay Mr M, Mr M and Mr M £500 for the 
trouble and upset  theyve  experienced.
I also ask TSB Bank plc to rework Mr M, Mr M and Mr Ms accounts to ensure  they are not 
out of pocket as a result of any interest  that wouldve  accrued on the accounts. This means 
TSB should pay interest on the unauthorised transactions  at the respective account interest 
rates, from the date of the withdrawals to the date of settlement.  If TSB deducts tax from the 
interest element  of this award, it should  provide Mr M, Mr M and Mr M with the appropriate 
tax deduction  certificate.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M, Mr M and 
Mr M to accept  or reject  my decision before 12 April 2019.
 
Ref: DRN55293512Ellie Clare
ombudsman
Ref: DRN55293513copy of provisional decision
complaint
Mr M, Mr M and Mr M are unhappy that issues with TSB Bank plcs IT system  made it difficult  for them  
to obtain details and reassurance about fraudulent  activity that had taken  place on their accounts, and 
left them without access to funds a significant period  of time.
background
In late April 2018, TSB experienced issues with its IT system. Shortly  afterwards, Mr M received  a 
text, purporting to be from TSB, alerting  him to suspicious  account  activity and asking him to call a 
number, which he did. Mr M then had a telephone conversation with someone claiming to be a TSB 
representative, and provided passcode information received by text. It appears that this allowed a 
beneficiary to be set up on the accounts without Mr Ms knowledge.
On 29 and 30 April various sums of money were taken from the accounts, totalling £52,920. Mr M 
discovered the balance was much lower  than it shouldve  been on 2 May and reported the matter to 
TSB on the same day. 
Mr M feels that TSB didnt  provide him with adequate advice or support. He has told us that TSB 
confirmed the accounts  would be blocked, but that this wasnt done correctly  at first. He has also said 
he was given  a number to call that turned  out to be incorrect, and that when he was provided with the 
correct number he was then left on hold for a significant period of time.
TSB initially told Mr M that a refund of the money was unlikely and, when  he objected, he was told this 
was because he had provided the passcodes. Mr M explained that the person  he spoke to appeared  
to be a genuine TSB representative because they had access to information  that would only be 
known to the customer  or TSB. 
TSB reversed  its decision and Mr M, Mr M and Mr Ms funds were  returned on 29 June,  nearly two 
months later.  I understand the block on the accounts  was not removed  until 9 July.
Mr M has told us he has spent considerable time and effort chasing  the matter up with TSB.  He has 
provided details of a number of telephone calls and a lengthy period of time spent  on hold trying to get 
through, before  being cut off. Mr M has also told us he was promised call backs that he never  
received.
Mr M has also described the period as extremely stressful and worrying, and has told us it left him in a 
vulnerable mental  state. He says the lack of information and communication on TSBs part made this 
worse, and that he was shown no sympathy or empathy. He has also described having to borrow  
money from his family, and having to take leave from work to deal with the situation.
Mr M, Mr M and Mr M brought their complaint to this service and our investigator recommended TSB 
pay Mr and Mrs £500 to reflect the trouble  and upset  caused by what had happened.  Mr M, Mr M and 
Mr M disagreed as they feel that they are due more compensation. They  have requested an 
ombudsmans decision,  so the complaint  has been passed to me.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Ive thought about any financial loss that Mr M, Mr M and Mr M may have incurred  as a result 
of the issues described above. I understand that no additional charges have been applied for the late 
payment of bills caused  by the issues described above and that all direct debits have been honoured. 
Ref: DRN55293514Mr M has been asked to provide evidence  of any charges associated  with the many phone calls he 
made to TSB, but has not done so, and has told us that he believes the majority of the calls were 
likely to have been free. So Im not making an award for this.
However, I do think that Mr M, Mr M and Mr M have lost out in respect of the interest that wouldve 
accrued on the £52,920  if it had remained in their accounts.  As  such, I think  TSB should rework the 
account as though the unauthorised  transactions had never taken place, and pay Mr M, Mr M and Mr 
M any interest  they wouldve accrued on this sum until it was returned to them.
I can also appreciate  that Mr M, Mr M and Mr M have experienced worry and inconvenience as a 
result of all the issues theyve had to deal with. And the hours spent  attempting to contact TSB have 
only added to the stress  and frustration. So I agree  that Mr M, Mr M and Mr M are entitled to some 
additional compensation regarding this.
Mr M, Mr M and Mr M think the figure of £500 proposed by our investigator isnt high enough to 
compensate them for everything theyve experienced. I understand Mr M, Mr M and Mr Ms strength 
of feeling on the matter, but I should explain that its not within this services remit to sanction or 
punish businesses, but simply  to put things right for individual  consumers.
Ive thought about all the problems that Mr M, Mr M and Mr M have experienced in relation to this 
complaint. Overall, having reviewed all the information relating to this case, I think  that £500 is an 
appropriate figure to compensate Mr M, Mr M and Mr M for the trouble  and upset  resulting from TSBs  
failings in this case.
my provisional  decision
Im minded to uphold  this complaint and ask TSB Bank plc to pay Mr M, Mr M and Mr M £500  for the 
trouble and upset theyve experienced.
I also intend  to ask TSB Bank plc to rework Mr M, Mr M and Mr Ms accounts  to ensure they are not 
out of pocket  as a result  of any interest that wouldve  accrued on the accounts. This means TSB 
should pay interest on the unauthorised transactions at the respective account interest rates, from the 
date of the withdrawals to the date of settlement. If TSB deducts tax from the interest element of this 
award, it should provide  Mr M, Mr M and Mr M with the appropriate tax deduction  certificate.  
If either party has anything further to add, they should do so by the date specified above. I will then 
reconsider the complaint before reaching  a final decision.
Ellie Clare
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5529351