K821x#15complaint
Mr B and Ms M have  complained about their home insurer,  Ageas Insurance Limited. They  
are unhappy  with how it handled their fire claim and the settlement it paid.
background
There was a major fire at Mr B and Ms Ms home on 2 November 2016. Ageas was 
contacted and accepted  the claim. In March 2017 it was agreed  that the property would be 
knocked down  and rebuilt. Ageas said it would  settle the claim in cash  based on the amount 
it would  cost to rebuild on a like basis. Mr B and Ms M and their architect  sought  tenders  and 
these were provided to Ageas in September  2017.
In December 2017 Ageas offered £300,000  in settlement of the rebuild costs.  This sum was 
a rounded down  figure of the lowest tender  at £284,040, plus a 6% fee for the architect.  
Ageas said if this was not acceptable, it would  complete the rebuild. The offer was made to 
Mr B and Ms M in mid-January 2018.
The architect responded to Ageas in an email dated 24 January 2018  setting out that the 
total rebuild cost was currently estimated at £337,515.  This figure  was broken down as 
follows:
£284,040 for work set out in the tender.
£2,500 for the building control  fee.
£1,000 for the planning  application.
£5,000 for a building  warranty.
£22,000 for architect fees.
£3,000 for fees associated with health  and safety regulations.
£9,000 for a quantity surveyor.
£1,000 for a structural engineer.
£500 for an ecologist.
£500 for air testing.
£275 for an energy assessor.
Ageas didnt respond to the request for further  payment  but in March  2018 did issue a final 
response letter in which it accepted there had been delays and a lack of communication. For 
which it apologised and offered £250  compensation. It also noted therein that its settlement 
offer had been  refused  and discussions over it were continuing. It didnt give any reason for 
not increasing the amount  as requested  or any explanation for the sum offered.
In April 2018 Mr B and Ms M complained to this service. They  asked that we require Ageas 
to pay them  the full rebuild cost. Our investigator at the time logged  the complaint but noted  
the total value of the disputed settlement amount was above  our award limit. He explained to 
Mr B and Ms M that we couldnt  make a binding award for Ageas to pay just the disputed 
amount. When Mr B and Ms M asked for advice, he explained that we couldnt  provide that, 
that they may wish to seek  legal advice.  
Mr B and Ms M instructed a solicitor and resumed negotiations with Ageas in respect of the 
settlement. All the while theyd been  living in rented accommodation and paying  to store their 
furniture. Ageas paid for 26 weeks of storage costs and for rent to the end of 
September 2018. 
Ref: DRN57806612In early 2019 Ageas decided it would increase the settlement offer. In a final response 
issued in February 2019 Ageas said its final offer, which  it would not amend, was £317,500.  
But from this it would  deduct some payments already made,  leaving an outstanding 
settlement for it to pay Mr B and Ms M of £278,200. Ageas then paid a further six-months  
rent, covering the cost of the alternative accommodation until the end of March  2019. Mr B 
and Ms M were, understandably,  disappointed.  They reverted to us and Ageas paid the 
settlement to them.
Our investigator felt Ageas should make payment in line with the total cost of rebuild set out 
by the architect,  but felt some  deductions from this could be fairly made. But he also felt if 
Mr B and Ms M had paid for some  things, Ageas should reimburse their costs on top of the 
overall settlement.  He noted that following the initial visit, which considered the prospects for 
repairing the building,  that it was felt this would take 12 months. So he felt a year of rent and 
storage costs should be paid to allow the rebuild to progress following the settlement having 
been made in February 2019.  He said Ageas  unfair settlement had caused Mr B and Ms M 
to feel like they had no choice but to instruct solicitors so Ageas should  reimburse  them 
those costs. He said a total of £1,000 compensation should be paid (which would include the 
£250 offered but not paid in 2018).
Mr B and Ms M were  generally in agreement  with the findings. Although they had some  
concerns about  what Ageas would likely pay as a result. They  felt the amount  they were  due 
was around £75,000. Ageas responded to the findings by making an offer which  totalled  
around £30,000  this didnt include the additional building  costs the investigator had 
recommended, nor the solicitors costs, and the amount for rent was capped  (Ageas  said 
because of the policy limit). Ageas said it needed to see evidence of storage costs before 
offering a figure in that respect. Whilst our investigator  asked Ageas why its offer hadnt  
allowed for many of the recommendations  hed made, Ageas didnt reply  further.  The 
complaint was passed to me for a decision to be made.
In summary,  I said that I felt that Ageas should make  further  payments to Mr B and Ms M  
£28,799.59 for re-build costs, plus reimbursement for their accommodation costs incurred 
April  August 2019, including  storage until August 2019 (the latter  from the outset but less 
anything already paid). I also felt Ageas should  pay a total of £1,500 compensation for upset. 
But I explained that I couldnt  make  an award in these respects  because  of the overall  
value of the claim and our limits, I could only recommend  that Ageas pay these sums. 
I noted though that some  of my recommendations would attract interest  payments  
I explained that these payments are not subject to our limit so will be made  as awards.  I said 
that I wasnt planning to say Ageas should reimburse Mr B and Ms Ms legal fees. 
Ref: DRN57806613My full provisional findings  were:
re-build costs
Often an insurer will want to be in charge of completing work as that will keep costs down. 
Here Ageas agreed  to settle  in cash seemingly as it was of the impression a deal could be 
struck which would  keep its settlement costs below the rebuild  cost.  Its offer of £300,000, for 
example, was based on the lowest tender price, plus the agreed 6% architect  fee, but whilst 
knowing that there could be at least  another  £20,000 of fees on top. It acknowledged  that 
the £300,000 included  costs that might  not come to pass, such  as some contingencies, but 
was prepared to pay those in order to end its involvement in the claim, rather  than staying 
involved and reviewing  costs and invoices as they came in, as well as incurring further  costs  
such as for the expected fees. It also seems to be acknowledged that this type of settlement 
would suit Mr B and Ms M because they didnt intend to re-build on a like basis (although  the 
tender and costs  were  submitted  on the premise of a like-for-like  re-build).  But it seems to 
me that the basis  behind what Ageas was seeking to do was never really explained to Mr B 
and Ms M  such that they have  never  understood why Ageas seems intent on paying them  
less than what it will cost them to complete the rebuild.
But I also see from Ageas file that when it was reviewing its settlement in 2019,  it did clearly 
identify (internally at least) that there  were some concerns about the figures  requested in 
settlement. But again, Ageas never clearly explained what these were  to Mr B and Ms M  
despite they and their solicitor repeatedly asking for detail. Nor did Ageas explain why, when 
its final offer was made, it sought  to deduct previous payments from this sum or what those 
payments had been made in respect of.
I think, given the way this has been handled  by Ageas  the only reasonable starting  point 
for considering a fair settlement is the sum Mr B and Ms M have asked  for  £337,515. Ill 
then decide if Ageas should be paying  the elements that make up that sum,  and whether  any 
deductions for previous payments can reasonably be made.
Tender £284,040  the loss adjuster agreed this was reasonable, and it was the lowest of 
the three returned.  Ive no reason to think Ageas wouldnt have had to pay this sum if it had 
been reinstating the property. I think its fair to include the sum of £284,040  as part of the 
overall settlement.   
Architect fee  the loss adjuster agreed  early  on that 6% of the contract sum would be paid 
to the architect,  it seems they were  acting as somewhat of a project manager. Whilst I know  
Ageas questioned this later, I think the arrangement, with the architect completing work on 
the basis of that arrangement, had been in place for too long for Ageas to reasonably  
withdraw it. Six percent of the tender price is £17,042.40. I note that Ageas paid some 
monies to the architect for his services during the course of the claim  £7,157.81  for work 
up to February 2018. I think  its reasonable to see that as part of the overall work the 
architect agreed to carry out for the fee equating  to 6% of the tender price.  There  was 
certainly no clear agreement that 6% would only apply to work done in the period after 
repairs commenced. Ill, therefore, deduct  the sum of £7,157.81 from the total fee, leaving a 
sum of £9,884.59  to be included in the overall fair settlement value.
Building control and planning application  fee  the loss adjuster was satisfied by the costs 
submitted. In fact he thought theyd likely be more. I see no reason not to include the sums 
of £2,500 and £1,000 as part of the settlement figure.
Ref: DRN57806614Warranty  the loss adjuster thought it was fair for Mr B and Ms M to want to obtain a 
warranty for the new build  property,  but when Ageas reviewed it, it felt this would equate to 
betterment. I think Ageas has a point. Whilst it may be a desirable thing to obtain, it isnt 
something Id usually see an insurer pay for when rebuilding a property if there  wasnt a 
warranty in place before the insured event. Im not going to factor  a cost for this into the 
overall settlement.
Costs associated with health and safety regulations  I think  these  are a common  part of 
rebuild work, and costs  Ageas itself would likely  face. And again  the loss adjuster actually 
thought the value of £3,000  claimed was less than what hed have expected to incur. I think  
the sum of £3,000 fairly  has to be accounted  for in the overall  settlement.
Quantity surveyor  £9,000 was asked  for this. Ageas seems  to think  that such expert  advice 
would not be needed for a rebuild. But I note that a sum of £4,200  has been paid during the 
claim to this expert. As such its hard for me to accept, on the face of it, that input from this 
expert is not reasonably required.  However, Im not convinced that £9,000  in addition to the 
£4,200 already paid is due. Therefore, Im going  to factor in the difference of these two sums 
 £4,800  into the overall settlement.
Structural engineer  - £1,000, Ageas  nor its loss adjuster has commented on this sum. I think 
it stands to reason  that some input from a structural engineer will likely be required when a 
property is being  built. The sum seems  reasonable and I think its a cost Ageas would likely 
have incurred if it had undertaken  the rebuild. Im going to factor  £1,000 into the settlement.  
Ecologist  Ageas has already paid for an ecological report. I cant  see that any further cost 
for this is required. (For the avoidance of doubt, £1,020  was paid for an ecological report, 
along with the £4,200 for the quantity surveyor, in March 2018).
Air tests and energy  assessor fee  the loss adjuster  accepted the first was necessary but 
didnt comment on the second. The sums requested by Mr B and Ms M are £500  and £275.  
It occurs  to me that this type of report and input might well be needed for current building 
regulations and I see that Mr B and Ms M have referred to some costs  arising  out of current 
requirements. Unless Ageas can satisfy  me that these costs,  totalling £775, arent 
reasonably due, Im prepared to say they should  form part of the overall settlement. 
Previous payment  when  Ageas  made its final settlement offer,  it looked back at its loss 
adjusters last report and determined  that, to that date, around £40,000 had been paid 
against the buildings claim. It then deducted  the total sum paid from the settlement it was 
prepared to make. In principle I have no issue with that  an insurer shouldnt pay twice. But 
to execute that fairly an insurer has to make sure that what was paid for before is being 
duplicated in some way by the payment that is now being made.  Otherwise deducting 
previous payments from money now due for different aspects  of the claim leaves the 
policyholder out of pocket. And that is unfair. Here, when Ageas made its deduction,  it didnt 
look at the individual payments which made  up that sum, or what they were  paid for. Ive 
now done that. Ive explained above where  Ive found payments it had already made appear 
to be replicated as part of the £337,515  asked  for. Other sums it paid were for things like 
initial debris removal  which  occurred before the tenders  were  created, so it seems  unlikely  
that work  formed part of the tender cost. Therefore, it cant be reasonably  deducted from the 
costs necessary to complete the tender. Apart  from the figures Ive set out above,  Im not 
going to apply any further deduction from the overall settlement figure.
Ref: DRN57806615Overall settlement  Having set out above the sums I think  Ageas  should reasonably  pay 
from the breakdown  requested by Mr B and Ms M, I find the overall fair settlement sum to 
be; £306,999.59. Ageas  paid £278,200  to Mr B and Ms M at the end of February  2019.  
I recommend it now pays the difference outstanding of £28,799.59.  To this I award interest*  
to be applied on that sum from the date payment was made  in February 2019 until 
settlement is made. 
rent and storage
Rent was paid to include March 2019  but it was only at the end of February 2019 that the 
settlement figure had been paid to Mr B and Ms M. Despite Ageas having  been aware for 
more than a year what the rebuild cost would likely be. Ageas reasonably needs to provide 
accommodation for the period of work  from the point it made its settlement payment. And 
thats regardless of the policy limit for accommodation  if Ageas had handled  things better 
the claim could have been settled  before the limit was reached. 
The tenders  showed there  would be an eight-week lead time and a thirty-week building 
period. That is roughly  six-months. But rent for the first month of that period (March 2019, 
the settlement  having been  made in late February) was covered by Ageas. That leaves five 
months for it cover  assuming Mr B and Ms M can show they incurred costs for living 
elsewhere for that period  (April  August 2019 inclusive). If they can show Ageas they paid 
to stay in alternative  accommodation during April  August 2019, then I recommend Ageas 
reimburse that cost to them.  To this I award interest* to be applied on that sum from the date 
they paid the rent during that period  until settlement is made.
From the file Ageas appears to have only paid for initial storage costs which included 
26 weeks of storage charges. Ive seen that Mr B and Ms M were paying £20 a week  for 
storage until 28 November 2019.  In line with the accommodation cost, I think  Ageas liability 
for these  costs reasonably ceases at the end of August  2019.  And there is the previous 
payment to take into account. I recommend that Ageas reimburse their total outlay  for 
storage costs incurred  until the end of August 2019, less the £520  previously  paid for the first 
26 weeks. To this I award interest* to be applied on each amount Mr B and Ms M paid out 
from the date they paid it until settlement is made.
legal costs
Whilst Ageas settlement  was unfair and unreasonable, when Mr B and Ms M had concerns 
about this they initially  came  to this service. They didnt seek legal assistance. It was then, 
after we first advised Mr B and Ms M that our awards are limited,  that they sought legal 
advice and then pursued the matter via that vehicle before eventually reverting to us a year 
later. In that instance Im not persuaded its fair to make Ageas pay the solicitors costs  
Mr B and Ms M chose,  seemingly having  received legal advice, to appoint the solicitor and 
incur costs. But they always had the option  of using our, free service.  
compensation
I think Ageas  let Mr B and Ms M down badly. In summary:
Its settlement offer was unfair.
It didnt offer to pay it whilst allowing Mr B and Ms M to dispute the short-fall  (which 
would have allowed  them to start the build).
It didnt confirm that its payment would mark the end of its involvement, meaning its 
authorisation for what was actually to be built wasnt required.
Despite its delays  and failures  it did not pay sufficient costs to cover Mr B and Ms Ms 
outlay during that time and through  the reasonable rebuild period.
Ref: DRN57806616If a settlement had been made  in 2017, the rebuild  would have completed  in 2018, 
avoiding all the upset  in the period up to Ageas final response in February 2019.
Through all of this Mr B and Ms M have been  dispossessed from their home  and unable  to 
put the traumatic event  of the fire behind them. Im satisfied that total compensation of 
£1,500 is fairly and reasonable  due.
Mr B and Ms M responded,  with some input coming  from their architect. They  said they were  
disappointed to now learn that Ageas previous  settlement would mean  I couldnt  make an 
award in respect  of the outstanding claim sum I felt Ageas owed.  They also said it was 
unclear how Id come to that sum as Ageas had deducted nearly  £40,000 from the 
reinstatement costs set out by their architect  but I had only said it should pay them  just under 
£30,000. They wanted to be clear what payment of £10,000  it was I was allowing Ageas to 
deduct. They asked  about VAT. They said they hadnt received a final settlement in 
March 2019 for rent and provided some proof regarding their outlay for April to August 2019. 
They explained that theyd incurred legal costs  as they hadnt  realised  how the limits,  which 
apply to decisions issued  by this service, work in practice. In respect of compensation they 
said it was difficult to quantify the upset  caused but their lives had now been irrevocably 
changed because  of Ageas actions.
Ageas said it was generally in agreement with my findings. But it said there was a limit for 
alternative accommodation payments on the policy, so it wouldnt be able to provide the 
payment for the further five months Id recommended. It explained that the final 
accommodation payment  it had agreed to pay in March  2019 hadnt been paid due to an 
oversight. But it said it was happy to pay it, plus interest, once it knew  where to pay it. 
However, it also said that, the sum owed, once  paid, would take the total settlement for 
accommodation beyond  the limit covered by the policy.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Ive considered the responses made by both parties  in reply. My further, final findings  are set 
out below.
re-build costs
Mr B and Ms M have  argued that charges are due for re-build costs in addition  to those set 
out in the email from January 2018  which stated the total expected cost for the re-build 
would be £337,515. It was also argued  that the total rebuild figure,  in respect  of some of the 
individual costs  stated,  needed VAT adding to it.
Im not persuaded that it would be fair to now work  on the basis  of a different set of figures, 
or to include  VAT. Whilst the January 2018 email  says that the figures are subject to change  
as well as VAT, the work which progressed was not on the basis  of the tender and costs set 
out therein. The settlement being  paid by Ageas was always  a compromise, between what  
the policy offered  cover  for and what Mr B and Ms M wanted to do following the unexpected  
circumstance of the fire. Any further  costs werent  necessary on account of a like-for-like 
re-build   because  that never took place. Likewise VAT for work to re-build  on a like basis  
was never  incurred. Im not going to make any further recommendations. 
Ref: DRN57806617I havent looked at what Ageas sought  to deduct  and then determined  which  of those 
payment were fair. As I said provisionally,  Ageas act of making a sweeping  deduction of 
everything it paid was not fair. My approach,  as explained, was to start, as both parties had 
in January 2018 with the email which set out the figure of £337,515 and the cost elements 
which made up this sum. I then looked  specifically at each cost element and took into 
account in respect  of each of these issues, whether Ageas  was fairly liable for them, and if it 
was what sum it needed to pay  which took into account relevant payments Ageas had 
already made. That process led me to the conclusion that fair settlement for the claim was 
£306,999.59. Having  determined that, I then deducted the payment Ageas had made to Mr B 
and Ms M in early 2019 of £278,200. This left a sum outstanding of £28,799.59, which I felt, 
and feel, Ageas is liable  to pay. 
I note Ageas hasnt  objected to my findings  in this respect. Whilst Ive considered what Mr B 
and Ms M have said, their comments  havent changed my view. My final decision regarding  
the re-build costs is that Ageas is liable  to pay a further £28,799.59 and I recommend it pay 
this sum. I further award interest* in respect of this sum. 
rent and storage 
Provisionally I noted that Ageas had paid rent up to the end of March  2019. I recommended  
it make  a further payment, pending  proof being  provided by Mr B and Ms M for 
accommodation costs,  for the period April  August 2019 inclusive. I also said it should pay 
for storage until the end of August 2019, less what it had already paid in this respect.
As noted above,  Mr B and Ms M said they hadnt  received a payment in 2019  for 
accommodation to the end of March 2019, and Ageas said this has been an oversight on its 
part  it would pay it plus 8% simple interest once bank details were provided. As the parties 
are agreed and happy this sum is due, I wont mention it further  here. 
Ageas though, argued that paying this sum would take it beyond  the limit on the policy which  
applies for accommodation costs (and which includes payment for storage costs). Therefore, 
Ageas says it cant reasonably pay anything more.
Im quite surprised, in this situation, given my provisional findings, to hear Ageas raise this 
argument. My provisional findings  which by and large Ageas  has not disputed  make it 
clear that Ageas failed Mr B and Ms M, that it should  have settled their claim in part at least 
as early as 2017.  This would have allowed them to have at least  started the re-build work  
much earlier.  So it stands  to reason, if it had, the work would  not have been outstanding 
when the policy limit for accommodation was reached in early 2019.  Ageas own failures 
have led it to a position where, reasonably, it must  settle for these costs beyond what the 
policy would ordinarily  allow. My recommendation for rent and storage remain as 
provisionally stated  but Ill arrange for the proof  provided to this service to be copied to 
Ageas for it to consider  in line with the recommendation Ive made.
legal costs
I understand that a complainant may not be fully aware of the rules  which  apply to this 
service. However, Mr B and Ms Ms lack of knowledge doesnt give me grounds to award 
them the legal costs they incurred as result of pursuing a settlement from Ageas. 
Ref: DRN57806618compensation
I can see that this has been a very distressing matter for Mr B and Ms M and I understand 
that my decision, as restricted  by the limits  of what I can award, is disappointing for them. 
Our compensation awards are designed to make  up for the upset thats been caused  but 
money can only do so much. And whilst I know that Mr B and Ms M believe the attitude  of 
their neighbours has been affected,  because  Ageas unfair treatment  meant their property 
was in a state  of disrepair  for a prolonged period, Ive no way of knowing thats the case. Its 
also the case that my recommendation  regarding  compensation is not designed to be 
punitive and I cant issue findings in order to try and force a business  to change how it 
conducts itself.
That said,  I accept this was a major incident  which, all being well, Mr B and Ms M shouldve 
been able to start putting behind them in 2017.  But, as explained provisionally,  Ageas  failed  
to handle their claim in a fair and reasonable manner which  prevented that from happening. 
I accept that Ageas failures caused  them significant  distress  and inconvenience which could  
have been avoided. I remain of the view that total compensation of £1,500 is fairly and 
reasonably due.
in summary
Having considered the responses from both parties, my view on the fair and reasonable 
outcome for this complaint has not changed.  My provisional findings now form part of the 
findings of this my final decision. 
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  against Ageas Insurance Limited. Where  I uphold a complaint,  I can 
award fair compensation to be paid by a financial business of up to £150,000 plus any 
interest that I think is appropriate.  If I think that fair compensation is more than £150,000, 
I may recommend that the business pays the balance.  Here the claim has already been  
settled in excess of £150,000 so, in respect  of further claim and compensation amounts, 
I can only make a recommendation.  But I am satisfied that those amounts reasonably draw 
interest  and that I can award. My award  and recommendation  are set out below.
My award
I direct  Ageas  Insurance  Limited to pay Mr B and Ms M an amount equivalent to interest* in 
respect of the following  recommended  payments and applied  for the period Ive directed: 
£28,799.59, with the interest* being applied  from the date the claim settlement payment 
was made in February 2019  until this amount is paid. 
Subject to reasonable proof of rental outlay for April  August 2019, apply the interest* to 
each rental amount  paid by Mr B and Ms M from the date they paid it until settlement is 
made. 
Based  upon  the proof provided for cost incurred for storage up until the end of 
August 2019,  less the £520  previously paid, with the interest*  being  applied to each  
payment Mr B and Ms M paid until settlement is made.
My recommendation
I recommend that Ageas  Insurance  Limited pays Mr B and Ms M:
Ref: DRN57806619£28,799,59 in full and final settlement for re-building their home.
Subject to reasonable  proof,  an amount to reimburse their outlay for renting alternative  
accommodation between April  August  2019 (inclusive).
Based  upon  the proof provided the cost they incurred for storing their property until the 
end of August  2019, less the £520 already paid for the first 26 weeks of storage.
A total of £1,500 compensation but if £250 of this has been paid already, a payment of 
only £1,250 will now be due.
This recommendation is not part of my determination or award.  Even if Mr B and Ms M 
accept my final decision within the deadline  set, Ageas Insurance  Limited doesnt have to do 
what I recommend. Its unlikely that Mr B and Ms M can accept my decision and go to court  
to ask for the balance if the recommendation is not honoured. Mr B and Ms M may want to 
get independent legal  advice before  deciding  whether or not to accept this decision.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B and Ms M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  21 February  2021.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the amounts  specified and from/to the dates stated. If Ageas Insurance 
Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from any interest due to Mr B and Ms M, 
it should  tell them how much  its taken off. It should also give Mr B and Ms M a certificate showing this if they ask for one, so 
they can reclaim  the tax from HM Revenue & Customs  if appropriate.
Ref: DRN5780661