K820x#14complaint
Mr Rs complaint about IG Index Limited  (IG) mainly  alleges the following:
A margin call was wrongly applied to his trading account(s) on 5 February 2018. This 
was followed by closures of open options  based  spread bet positions  at less or least  
favourable prices, which resulted in the loss of around £1 million (equity in the 
account(s)) and a negative balance of around  £200,000.
IG was supposed  to give him prior notice of the margin call  because  it had done so 
in the past and because of his professional client status  but it did not.
IG closed his positions in an unreasonable manner that caused and/or compounded 
his losses.
IGs prices   at which the positions  were closed  were  not reflective of the 
underlying market prices.
He instructed IG to close  the remainder of his positions the following day  on 6 
February 2018  but it did not follow his instructions  to do so.
background
IG says:
There was extreme market volatility on 5 February 2018 which prompted it to switch  
to telephone dealing only; section 9 (4) of the terms for the account expressly 
permitted its suspension or termination of the electronic service  unilaterally and with 
immediate effect.  In addition, the rationale  behind the switch included access to more  
reliable pricing through telephone dealing, the need  to avoid numerous trade 
rejections online  due to price  volatility  and its need to manage its risk exposure 
through hedging.
Mr Rs positions were  closed automatically,  not manually  and not by someone  from 
Asia as he alleges.
The margin breach  in Mr Rs account  legitimately arose  due to the market  volatility  
affecting the equity balance  in his account  and taking that balance below the margin  
related requirement   and this is what led to the closure of his positions. The account  
terms made it Mr Rs sole responsibility to manage his account and the margin 
requirements within it. Mr R was online  and monitoring  his account during the event 
so he would have  been in a position to fund the account as part of management of 
the margin requirement (and to avoid the margin breach).
Contrary to Mr Rs claim there was no preferential order  flow applied  for elective 
professional client  accounts (as his was). Such  accounts had the same order  flows 
as retail accounts. It had no obligation to notify him before the positions  were  closed 
or to close them in any particular order. The terms for the account  required neither 
and it has not seen evidence that either  was promised to Mr R. It was not obliged  to 
close positions on the basis of a clients trading strategy  which  it would not have 
known in any case. Positions were closed in order to repair the margin breach and it 
generally did this by closing oldest positions  first.
The terms of the account also provided  that its prices are derived from the relevant 
underlying instrument, so they will be reflective  of the relevant underlying  market  but 
may differ from it. It does not accept  that its prices were  unreflective of the underlying 
market as Mr R alleges.  Its prices were derived from the futures market and the 
Black Scholes model  which is common for options pricing  so it reflected  the 
underlying market. It has shared data/evidence directly from the Chicago Board 
Options Exchange (CBOE) which shows that its prices,  during market times, were  
Ref: DRN57942662within the market  spread.  It is also noteworthy that Mr R was trading an Over The 
Counter (OTC) product in the context of an OTC market; that meant IGs prices, not 
exchange trade prices,  were relevant; IGs prices were within  the exchange (CBOE) 
price spreads, so it is established that they were reflective of the underlying market  
they were not required to match, identically, that market.
With regards to Mr Rs claim about giving closure instructions on 6 February  2018  its 
records show that acceptable instructions were given in a telephone call on 7 
February 2018 and the positions were  closed during the same call. Mr R made a call 
on 6 February in which he referred  to closing the positions  but this did not amount to 
acceptable instructions because the call was very brief, he introduced  himself  only by 
his first name  and he terminated the call before he had passed its security checks.
Overall, the complaint  should not be upheld for the above reasons; in addition, it 
initially extended a gesture of goodwill to Mr R to reduce  the debit balance  in his 
account by £20,000  and it then increased  this gesture by writing  off the entire  
outstanding balance owed in the account. It considers this a very reasonable gesture.
The investigator concluded that the complaint should not be upheld, for broadly the same 
reasons as those  given  by IG. In addition, he said:
Historic data confirms  the market volatility that occurred on 5 February 2018, leading  
IG to switch  to telephone dealing only.
Mr R has shown evidence of previously  receiving  text notices to warn about  margin  
requirements but there  is no evidence that he was assured he would always receive 
such notices. The terms for the account did not require IG to give such  notices and 
they granted it discretion  over how positions  would  be closed (partly or wholly)  or 
amended after a margin breach. Evidence  related to confirmation of Mr Rs elective 
professional client  status makes  no mention  of preferential  treatment  for margin  call 
notices or position closures. Order history evidence for his account shows that the 
relevant closures  followed IGs general approach of closing the oldest positions first.
The requirement was for IGs prices  to be reflective of the relevant underlying market 
and not necessarily an exact  match   allowance, in this respect, also had to be given 
for price  differences during times of high price volatility. Available  evidence, including 
the data from CBOE, shows that the prices were  reflective  of the underlying market  
and not manipulated as alleged. Some pricing  evidence presented by Mr R does not 
relate to the date(s) of events  in the complaint.
The loss amounts Mr R has outlined do not exceed the negative balance  that IG 
wrote off, so even if IG had done something  wrong in the complaint and there was a 
basis for redress, such redress  would only apply for loss that exceeded the negative  
balance that has been written off. In this respect, an alternative outcome could also 
be the case whereby  a basis for redress might not be clear because  it could be 
impossible to establish what would have happened to the relevant positions  had they 
not been closed by IG. Furthermore, Mr R pursues  a claim with a total value [over 
£1.2 million] that far exceeds the maximum award this service  can order  for a 
successful complaint. 
Mr R considers that IG was still required to uphold its duty of best execution  and its duty to 
safeguard a clients best interests in terms of the position closures  so it was unreasonable 
for it to have applied the closures  in a way that worsened the loss in the account. 
With regards to his call on 6 February,  Mr R says that it had never been necessary to go 
through security  checks in the past. IG accepts this could have been possible if his call was 
connected to his account manager as the account  manager would have  recognised him, but 
Ref: DRN57942663his call was received by someone else who identified herself  so Mr R knew she was not 
his account manager  and he terminated the call following her request for his account 
number. 
Mr R disputes this argument and version of events. He also argues that there is a conflict  
between what IG says about him not passing  security checks and its closing of some of the 
positions over the following 36 hours, from 6 February. In response,  IG has explained 
evidence of account activity showing that the positions closed on 6 February were done 
automatically as a result of a margin call(s), not based on Mr Rs brief call on that date, and 
that those closed on 7 February were different because they were closed on his instructions.
Mr R says his claim is for the recovery  of lost equity in his account, so IGs gesture of writing  
off the negative account balance does not achieve the outcome he seeks. On the matter  of 
IGs prices, as applied to the position  closures, Mr R maintained  his allegation that they were 
in conflict with the underlying market and referred  to specific examples  in support. IGs 
response to the examples is that they depict a widening of its spread as it was entitled to do, 
but its prices and spread remained within the underlying market spread.
Mr R asked for an ombudsmans  decision.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I have reached the same 
conclusions expressed  by the investigator for broadly the same reasons and I adopt  those  
reasons as part of or in addition to what I have presented below.
The investigator fostered  a very good  level of transparency, between  the parties, in terms of 
the arguments and counter arguments they exchanged over the complaint issues. I am 
satisfied that this resulted in both parties exhausting their respective arguments/counter  
arguments, and in those arguments/counter  arguments being duly tested, to the extent that 
this services fair and reasonable remit provides. I am also satisfied  that the investigator was 
notably thorough  in his pursuit  and clarification of evidence and in presenting his resulting 
views. For this reason,  I do not intend  to feature the wide range of details he considered  over 
the course of his investigation. However,  the parties are entitled  to a reasoned decision and, 
below, I have presented  this by addressing the main issues arising from Mr Rs complaint.
Margin Breach and Application of Margin Call closures
I have considered, and I understand,  Mr Rs arguments about his expectation of prior notice 
about the margin call(s) and about  how they were applied to the closure of his positions.  
Primarily, the terms for his account  are relevant. They confirm that IG did not owe him prior 
notice of margin calls or a particular approach towards the closure of his positions. 
The terms provided for the application  of margin calls when  a margin  breach occurred in his 
account; they granted IG discretion over how any closures during the margin  call were 
performed; a margin breach (which appears  to have been triggered, beyond  the parties  
control, by market volatility on 5 February  2018) occurred  in Mr Rs account and led to the 
margin call closures; and like the investigator  noted,  evidence supports the conclusion that 
IGs general approach  of closing older positions first was what it applied to his positions.
Ref: DRN57942664Overall, there is evidence that shows Mr R was, and remains, an experienced (and 
professional) trader and I expect he would have known  or ought  reasonably  to have known  
 the relevant terms and the practical  (and sole) responsibility he had to manage his account 
and the margin  requirement(s) within it. 
I do not doubt the sincerity of his belief  that he should have received prior notice and that IG 
should have used a particular approach towards  the closure of his positions. However, with 
his awareness of the relevant terms and his responsibility under them, the question that 
arises is whether (or not) IG gave him cause to expect something else  as he has claimed   
on the basis of an agreement (express or implicit)  that overrode  the terms for the account.
On balance, I have  not seen evidence  of such an agreement or undertaking from IG that had 
the effect of making it obliged to give Mr R prior notice of margin calls or obliged to apply 
closures in a particular  manner.  
It appears that his expectation of the former  came  from past experiences in which he 
received such notices. He has established those experiences but they amount to IG applying 
discretion to provide them. Like the investigator  said, there does not appear  to be evidence  
in which  Mr R was assured he would always receive  them  or that he would be entitled to 
continue receiving them  so the default  position in the terms remained unaltered. 
With regards to the latter, I consider that Mr R has mainly relied on the somewhat generic 
argument that best execution and fair client treatment  obligations   owed by a firm to a client  
 meant  IG should have  been mindful of the financial  health  of his account  in the course  of 
the margin call closures. 
I do not consider  that IG breached either  obligation. The best execution  argument relates 
more to closing  prices  that is, execution at the best available price  than it does to the 
approach towards  closure. The matter of pricing is addressed below. The margin calls were 
not trade orders, they were compulsory closures  required  to repair the margin breach in the 
account. I do not consider it unreasonable that IG retained discretion over the closure 
approach, or that it closed older positions  first, in that context. 
In terms of fair client treatment, the key motive  behind the margin calls was to protect the 
account from exposure it could not afford   at any point the margin  requirement was 
breached. That is a fair motive that contributed  to the overall financial health of Mr Rs 
account. I appreciate  that they crystalized losses, but the idea was to avoid greater  and 
unaffordable losses and the priority was to achieve  this  not to close  positions on a trading 
strategy basis.
Overall and on balance,  I do not consider that IG was wrong  to apply the margin  call 
closures as it did. 
Events of 6 February  2018
I am not persuaded that the balance of evidence supports Mr R in this matter and I do not 
consider that IG has done wrong  within it. I have  listened to a telephone call recording from 
the above date and it appears to be the call in which he says he gave the closure  
instructions. It is a very brief call, he introduces himself by his first name only, he quickly  
says he wants the remainder of his positions closed and as the IG official  begins  to seek 
further identification the call is terminated.
Ref: DRN57942665I do not consider  that the debate over when IG should or should not have applied security  
checking is relevant.  The fact appears  to be that it sought to apply such a check   as it is 
entitled to do  but the conversation did not last long enough to do so. Given that the IG 
official was beginning  to seek  further  identification as the call was terminated and given that, 
as she did this, part of the last few words from Mr R in the recording are  thanks bye  it 
also appears that the call was terminated by Mr R.
His point about  the closures  on the above date could have been a persuasive  argument if 
those closures resulted  from the same  brief call. As he argued,  if IG says it took no action 
from the call because he had not passed  the security check how could it explain closures  
resulting from the call? However, available evidence shows that the closures on the above 
date were automated   not manual (as can be expected if based on instructions)  and 
resulted from a margin call. In this context, Mr Rs point arguably  falls away.
IGs Prices
There is a sizeable amount of account  activity data, market and CBOE data related to the 
dispute between  the parties about  IGs prices.  Information arising from the data is as 
summarised by IGs submissions and the investigators findings  IGs prices  were not 
identical to but were also not beyond the relevant market prices  and spreads; its prices 
reflected the relevant underlying market(s).
IGs Order Execution  Policy for spread betting  describes the OTC context it has mentioned,  
whereby it made the market, it offered its own bid/ask prices  and spreads and it undertook  to 
reflect the relevant underlying market in doing so. I consider  that this creates  parameters for 
considering the relevant data. IG was neither required to match the exchange prices  and/or 
spreads nor was it wrong to make  its market for Mr Rs trades. 
The terms for the account also provided  it with discretion over the widening  of its spreads  
including the provision that its spreads can  widen significantly in some  circumstances, 
that they may not be the same size as in the Product details and that there is no limit on how 
large they may be. In the context of the market volatility on 5 February 2018,  it is arguably 
unsurprising  and reasonable   that its spreads were widened.
With the balance  of evidence supporting the conclusion that IGs prices  and spreads for the 
closed positions  broadly,  and within reason, reflected the underlying  market  prices/spreads 
and with evidence  in the terms and Order Execution policy showing that it had the 
contractual remit to conduct its pricing as it did, I am not persuaded that Mr R  and his 
arguments, all of which I have given serious consideration,  has established  that unfair 
prices were  applied to his closed positions.
IGs Goodwill Gesture
It is worth noting the size of IGs goodwill gesture. It features the writing off of around 
£200,000 worth of negative  balance (in Mr Rs account). This creates  a financial benefit  
that is, cancellation of a large indebtedness   of significant value. I understand and agree 
with the investigators  observation that even if merits in Mr Rs complaint were upheld  
which, for the sake of clarity, is not my finding   the size of the benefit to him within  IGs 
gesture will be a notable  factor  in the treatment  of any basis for redress that might  apply.
Ref: DRN57942666my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I do not uphold Mr Rs complaint. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or reject  my decision 
before 25 April 2020.
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN5794266