K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B say National  Westminster Bank  Plc (NatWest) mis-sold them  a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Mr and Mrs B bought the policy  in 2009 at the same time as taking out a mortgage. Its not 
entirely clear  how they applied for the mortgage and PPI policy  but Mr and Mrs B 
remember it being done by phone. And the available evidence doesnt  contradict this. In any 
event this is not important to the overall  outcome  of this complaint.
The policy provided  joint cover for accident,  sickness, and unemployment  subject to its 
exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay  £424.90 a month towards  Mr and Mrs Bs 
mortgage balance  (split as a percentage of their salaries) in the event of a successful  claim.  
At the time,  it cost £21.75 a month. 
At the time,  Mr B was employed as an insurance  adviser. In his initial PPI questionnaire he 
told us (and NatWest) that he was entitled  to three months sick pay and the same amount in 
redundancy pay. Later on Mr and Mrs B provided  another PPI questionnaire in which  they 
ticked the box to say 12 months  sick pay  but its not entirely clear whether this was a 
combined joint amount  or an individual amount. I find it highly  unlikely either of them were 
entitled to 12 months  full sick pay  so I think in Mr Bs case it was likely around the amount 
he first told us. Mr B said he didnt have any other means of repaying their mortgage should 
he be unable  to work and said he was in good health at the time of the sale.  
Mrs B  was employed as a teacher. As I said above, I think  its unlikely she was entitled  to 12 
months full sick pay  more likely her entitlement was paid at a lower  rate for a period of 
time e.g. six months full pay followed by six months  half pay. Mrs B said she was also 
entitled to some redundancy pay and didnt  have any other  means of repaying  their 
mortgage should she be unable to work. Mrs B said she too was in good health at the time of 
the sale. 
NatWest has sent us screenshots to show that the mortgage account started in 2009  and 
was a regulated  mortgage. 
Mr and Mrs Bs representative has made  lengthy  and substantial  representations on their 
behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr and Mrs Bs representative  says:
NatWest failed to meet the sales standards which  applied  at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr and Mrs B 
wouldnt have taken  out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr and Mrs 
Bs representatives believe there to be no evidence  to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
Ref: DRN56278382The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means NatWest should  have 
told Mr and Mrs B about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means NatWest should  have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mr and Mrs B 
and the impact they would have had on their chances of making a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long-term transaction   cover would stop just at 
the time it would  be most needed;  and
The information Mr and Mrs B received was misleading. These policies  were  
promoted as providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations 
on the scope of the cover meant  this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr and Mrs B disagreed  with the adjudicators 
opinion for several  reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Bs. I dont intend to set that 
out in much detail  here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Bs complaint.
The mortgage was arranged after mortgage  lending became regulated in October 2004  as 
such this was an FCA regulated mortgage.  
That means the unfair relationship provisions  set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, 
the Supreme Court  judgment in Plevin  about  s.140A  of that Act and the rules and guidance 
made by the FCA about the handling  of complaints about the non-disclosure of commission 
in light of the Plevin judgment, arent  applicable.
This sale took place  in 2009 after the sale of general  insurance  products like this became 
regulated by the Financial Services Authority (FSA) in January 2005 and after the FSA 
renewed its insurance conduct  rules in January 2008. So the FSAs and the FCAs 
overarching principles for businesses and insurance conduct rules  (ICOBS) are applicable to 
this complaint.
Ref: DRN56278383Its also relevant to note that there  have for some  time been codes governing the sale of 
insurance products  such as PPI. There is much in common between  the present statutory 
regulatory regime and the non-statutory provisions that preceded  it (and, indeed, the position 
at law). 
Although the non-statutory provisions no longer apply as specific requirements on those 
selling insurance,  I consider they still represent a helpful guide to good  industry  practice. As 
a result its appropriate for me to take them into account along  with the relevant ICOBS rules 
and the other relevant considerations.
In the period immediately before statutory regulation in 2005, there was a period of industry 
self-regulation by the General Insurance  Standards  Council (GISC). It published  The 
General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance Code for private customers   the 
GISC Code. This set out minimum  standards of good practice for its members  to follow 
when selling  insurance, including PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
NatWest, selling insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
The sale took place  after the sale of mortgage products became regulated by the FSA. So 
the mortgage conduct of business rules  (MCOB)  are applicable to this complaint. Prior to 
regulation subscribing  lenders and mortgage intermediaries followed a voluntary mortgage 
code. While predominantly about mortgage  related matters, it also included  some insurance-
related commitments.  As with the sale of general insurance, there is much in common  
between the pre and post-regulatory position.
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. The sale took place after insurance mediation became  a regulated  activity  in January 
2005, so NatWest was required  to take into account  the provisions in DISP  App 3 when 
considering Mr and Mrs Bs complaint.
Ref: DRN56278384key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If NatWest  gave  advice, whether it advised  Mr and Mrs B with reasonable care and 
skill  in particular,  whether  the policy was appropriate or suitable for them,  given 
their needs and circumstances. 
-Whether NatWest gave Mr and Mrs B sufficient,  appropriate and timely information to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take out the policy,  
including drawing  to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions of the policy  and significant  limitations  and 
exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr and 
Mrs B, I must then go on to consider  whether and to what  extent Mr and Mrs B 
suffered loss or damage and what  I consider  would amount to fair compensation for 
that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr and Mrs B 
and NatWest, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. Ive set out my reasoning 
below. 
did Mr and Mrs B know they had a choice?
NatWest had to make  it clear that the PPI policy was optional. 
NatWest has provided some of the paperwork from the time of the sale.  One of the 
documents provided is a giving your agreement  form which  Mr and Mrs B signed to reflect 
some of the key things  discussed as part of their mortgage application. One of the things 
recorded under the heading Your protection arrangements is that Mr and Mrs B wanted  to 
apply for Mortgage  Repayment Protector  as part of this application.  This section says that 
printed crosses have  been put against  the decisions Mr and Mrs B made  through  the 
application. And Mr and Mrs B signed this document. I think its reasonable to assume  that 
Mr and Mrs B wouldnt have  signed  it  or they wouldve queried it - if it didnt accurately 
reflect the decisions they made  as part of the mortgage application process.
NatWest has also provided  Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage offer letter.  Looking  at this, under  
section nine of the form titled  Insurance  it says Mr and Mrs B didnt have to take out any 
insurance through NatWest as a condition  of the mortgage. The only condition was that 
buildings insurance  was needed. It also described  PPI here as being Optional  insurance... 
So taking everything into account, I think its more likely  Mr and Mrs B knew  the policy was 
optional and they agreed to take it out without undue pressure. 
Ref: DRN56278385did NatWest provide  advice?
NatWest says it didnt provide advice during this sale.  Mr and Mrs B havent said either  way.   
Looking at what happened when NatWest sold Mr and Mrs B the PPI, Im not persuaded that 
it provided advice. The key facts document Mr and Mrs B were provided  with said NatWest 
hadnt provided advice about  the particular mortgage they wanted   so I dont think they 
wouldve thought  they were receiving  advice about the PPI. In any event Ive not seen 
anything to show or suggest  NatWest considered Mr and Mrs Bs particular circumstances 
and recommended the PPI as being right for them.
This means  NatWest didnt have to check if the PPI was suitable  for Mr and Mrs B. Instead, 
it had to give them sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable Mr and Mrs B to 
make an informed choice  about whether to take out the policy, including drawing to their 
attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions of 
the policy and significant limitations and exclusions.  
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not Mr and Mrs B were  given a broad description of what 
the policy was intended to cover  (that is that the policy would protect  their payments if Mr 
and Mrs B were unable to work through accident,  sickness or unemployment) and of the 
approximate costs. Ive reached this conclusion because  I think its unlikely Mr and Mrs B 
would have taken  out the policy  without any sense of what the policy  was for and of how 
much the premium might be.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  NatWest gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost or about  the exclusions or 
limitations before Mr and Mrs B agreed  to take out the policy.  
So I dont  think NatWest  gave Mr and Mrs B sufficient, appropriate and timely information  to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take out the policy,  including 
drawing their attention  and highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading way  the main 
provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and exclusions.  
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr and Mrs Bs representative  has raised a 
number of general points about  the requirements  on a business  when providing information 
in PPI sales. It suggests these points  apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr and Mrs Bs. Ive 
considered these carefully and summarised them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr and Mrs Bs representative considers to be 
poor value   and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business rather than 
the insurer. 
Ref: DRN56278386-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr and Mrs B about the limitations  and exclusions, it should have gone further 
and explained  the significance of them  to them. 
Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Bs representatives views on this. The duty of utmost good 
faith in insurance  law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose material 
facts and not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what a court  
would say  I think  its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer having to 
disclose the claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and 
exclusions in the way Mr and Mrs B have  suggested.  And taking into account the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude that NatWest ought  to have done either. 
what effect did NatWests  shortcomings have on Mr and Mrs B? To what extent did Mr 
and Mrs B suffer loss or damage as a result?
Ive found NatWest didnt do all it should have  done when it sold this policy  to Mr and Mrs B. 
So Ive gone  on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mr and Mrs 
B suffered loss and damage  as a result. To answer this, I must decide  whether or not Mr and 
Mrs B would have still taken out the policy, had NatWest done things properly. 
Mr and Mrs B say they would not have taken it out and believe that I should presume this to 
be the case given  the significant  failings identified above. Ive considered  the representations 
of both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
As this was a non-advised sale, Mr and Mrs B had to weigh up in their own minds the cost of 
the policy against the benefits offered and the potential  consequences if they didnt insure  
against the risk of either of them  being unable to work. 
As Ive found above, Mr and Mrs B chose to take this policy  out. So I consider that its 
reasonable to conclude  they had some  interest  in the benefits offered by this type of 
insurance. But they made this decision based on incomplete information. So what Mr and 
Mrs B thought they were getting is not exactly what they got. The extent  to which  this 
differed is a relevant consideration when determining if Mr and Mrs B have suffered any loss 
or detriment.  
Although I consider it more likely than not Mr and Mrs B knew they would have to pay 
something for the policy, it doesnt appear from the available evidence  that NatWest  told 
them the exact premium at the point they applied for the policy. Having said that Mr and Mrs 
B were told the cost before the policy started because  it was set out clearly in their mortgage 
offer letter. And they paid for the policy for a number of years,  so if the costs  were 
significantly at odds  with their expectations at the point of sale,  its possible they might  have 
raised that with NatWest  at the time or reconsidered  their decision.
Overall, Im not persuaded Mr and Mrs B would have found the cost unacceptable  if they had 
been given the exact figure during the meeting in which they agreed to the policy.
In addition, Im not persuaded  NatWest  made  clear  exactly what  Mr and Mrs B would get 
back in return in the event they made  a successful claim. 
Ref: DRN56278387But I think its unlikely Mr and Mrs Bs expectations about what the policy  would pay in the 
event of a claim (an amount sufficient to meet  their mortgage payment) were  significantly 
different to what the policy actually did.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr and Mrs B thought  they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr and 
Mrs B werent permanent employees;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mr and Mrs B be 
unable to do their own job, or any a similar job, which their experience,  education or 
training reasonably qualified them to do; and
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
I do accept that there is a possibility the limitations  and exclusions above  might well have 
caused Mr and Mrs B pause for thought  and may well have caused them to conclude  that 
the policy was not as good as they thought and they might  have decided not to proceed.  The 
limitations on the cover, when coupled with the other shortcomings in this sale, might  have 
dissuaded some  consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs B from 
taking out the policy.  
But, the evidence  about Mr and Mrs Bs circumstances  at the time of sale shows  that the 
policy wasnt fundamentally wrong  for them. They were eligible for its benefits and it 
provided cover that, despite its limitations  and exclusions, couldve proved  useful  to them  
should the insured risks have become a reality. I also havent seen any evidence to suggest 
they wouldve  been caught  by any of the significant  exclusions  Mr and Mrs B were  in 
permanent employment  for example. So, I still think they had some good reasons to take the 
policy out.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Mr and Mrs B would 
have expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some evidence  
to support that claim.  
Also the policy  didnt exclude claims  for existing medical conditions  albeit Mr and Mrs B 
were in good health in any event.
If Mr and Mrs B had known they could  only claim for disability if they were unable  to do both 
their job and any similar gainful  occupation which in the insurers  view they might  
reasonably become qualified for, it might  have played into their thinking about what they 
would have done. And I accept it may have  given them pause for thought   although  its 
possible they may not have been overly  concerned  given that if Mr and Mrs B were unable 
(through disability) to carry  on their own occupation  the chances  that they would be able to 
take up a similar occupation would also, in all probability, be limited.
Ref: DRN56278388NatWest may not have  told Mr and Mrs B that any claim they made would be limited to a 12-
month period.  This may have differed from what they expected and might have hoped for  
but 12 months was a longer period than I consider  it likely Mr and Mrs B would have 
received full sick pay for and their statutory redundancy  entitlement was also significantly 
less than 12 months income.
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mr and Mrs B would still have  thought a policy that 
paid up to 12 monthly mortgage  payments  would  have been of benefit to them and would 
help them manage the consequences  should Mr and Mrs B be unable to work in the 
circumstances covered by the policy. The policy allowed for multiple claims to be made, it 
could help reduce their outgoings at a difficult and uncertain time ensure their home was not 
placed at risk and might  potentially help preserve Mr and Mrs Bs sick pay or redundancy 
money for other use such as other ongoing  household expenditure.
So having  considered all of the evidence and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs B would still have  taken out the policy.  The policy was sufficiently close  
to what its likely they thought they were getting  and provided benefits that would help them  
manage the consequences  if Mr and Mrs B were made redundant, or unable to work through 
the accident or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more  likely than not that Mr and 
Mrs B would have taken out the policy in any event  notwithstanding  the limitations on cover.
Mr and Mrs Bs representatives say the rules about  how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP App 
3) make it clear  that, where  a significant failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr and Mrs B wouldnt have bought the PPI they bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted  
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Mr and Mrs 
Bs circumstances  as detailed above, I consider it reasonable to conclude the position Mr 
and Mrs B found themselves in as a result of the sale was the same  position they would  
have been in had the breach or significant  failings  not occurred. 
Mr and Mrs B believe the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken out the policy. Im not persuaded by these  arguments. 
Ref: DRN56278389Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), Im only doing  so because I dont consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs B in the position they would have been in if 
they had not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept its possible they wouldnt have taken out the policy, Im 
satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not they would still have taken out 
the PPI had they been given clear,  fair and not misleading information  about the policy  they 
were buying
. 
So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable  in those circumstances, to conclude 
NatWest should  pay Mr and Mrs B compensation, as that would  put them in a better position 
than they would have been  in if everything  had happened as it should have done. 
Im also aware that Mr and Mrs B think NatWest misrepresented the terms of the policy in 
how it described the PPI. While I accept there is a possibility a court might conclude some  of 
NatWests statements misrepresented the contract,  in my opinion the reason why NatWest  
failed to act fairly and reasonably was not because of what  it did or didnt say in the 
information it provided  but because the overall  information NatWest gave Mr and Mrs B, in 
the way it did, was insufficient  to meet the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to 
expect it to have  met in 2009 when providing information about  an insurance policy. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs Bs representative says a court might  take 
if it were to find NatWest negligently  misrepresented the contract  to Mr and Mrs B and about 
the remedy a court  might award if it were to find that NatWest  had been  in breach of its duty 
of utmost good  faith. But this doesnt persuade me to alter my conclusions  about what is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mr and Mrs B in a better position than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  5 August  2021.
Paul Featherstone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5627838