K821x#15complaint
Ms M is unhappy with the amount of the premiums charged for her home  emergency  policy  
over a number of years by Homeserve Membership Limited.
background
Ms M had home emergency insurance  for plumbing and drainage with Homeserve from 
2006 until 2018. In 2018 as she had the same cover with her new home insurance she rang 
Homeserve to cancel.  She had been notified  that her renewal premium  that year was to be 
£344.40. Homeserves call hander offered to reduce this to an annual premium  of less than 
half - £156.  Ms M was shocked to be offered  such a large discount.  She complained to 
Homeserve about  overcharging. Homeserve said the premiums were  correct and that she 
wasnt offered any discounts  because she hadnt  called it to query the price.
On referral to this service  our adjudicator said that Ms M had been  treated unfairly.  He said 
that it would  be reasonable to set the premium at the amount offered in 2018 and go back to 
2012. From  then until 2017  Homeserve should then refund the difference between £156  and 
the premium actually paid for each year. It should  also add interest.
Homeserve said that the content of any marketing  or invitation to renew has to be clear and 
not misleading and appropriate for the customer to make an informed choice whether this 
product still meets their needs. It said its information complied with The Financial Conduct 
Authoritys (FCA) Principles for Businesses and the rules contained in the Insurance: 
Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS). It pointed out that it wasnt  obliged by those rules  
to advise the consumer that they can shop around until the 2017  addition  to the rules.
The matter  has been passed to me for consideration.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I wont quote here the rules that I have applied, as our adjudicator has clearly  set them out. 
But essentially I have to consider whether the renewal  information sent by Homeserve each 
year was clear, fair and not misleading. And that Homeserve didnt take advantage of the 
inequality of knowledge between it and the customer.
I have looked  at the information provided by Homeserve for a sample  of renewal letters from 
the 2009 until the 2016 renewals. Despite our adjudicator  requesting them, it hasnt  supplied  
the renewal letters for 2013, 2015 and 2017. . But I think it fair to say that the letters would 
have been set out in a similar way. From 2006 to 2017 the renewal  price  went up from 
£66.99 to £247.32, an increase of over 360%. I think on the whole the renewal  letters are 
geared towards encouraging the customer not to query the renewal. I have noted the 
following issues:
In the 2010  and 2011 renewals, the top of the letters both have  a large red stamp  
type logo which  says NO ACTION  REQUIRED.  Both letters went  on to explain that 
the policy would be automatically renewed. The 2010 letter said  in today's economy 
when many struggle  financially,  you may wish to be reminded of the benefits of your 
cover.  And the 2011 letter said In the current economy,  you want to make sure you 
are getting value for money from your insurance policy . The price went  up by 
respectively about 19% and then 21% for those policy years.
Ref: DRN52211112For the 2012 renewal  it said As a valued customer, we are giving you extra  cover  
this year with cover  for internal pest contaminations. implying, I think, that the cover 
was being enhanced  to reflect the valued  customer status. Yet the policy premium 
went up by another  22%.
The 2014 renewal  said Your Plumbing and Drainage Cover will automatically renew 
on 03 February 2014 so there's  nothing  for you to do. You can continue to feel safe 
in the knowledge that if you have a problem we're just a phone call away.  It also said 
that the cover would be enhanced  on renewal. 
The 2016 renewal  was headed in bold letters Relax. You are covered  In the letter it 
went onto say You don't  need  to do anything - you will be covered for another  12 
months If a problem occurs, just call us and we'll be there to help. 
Although all the letters give a number to call if the customer  has any questions  regarding the 
policy or to make a claim none of them, not even the later ones,  suggest  that the premium  
can be queried. I dont  include here the 2018 renewal as Ms M didnt go ahead  with that, but 
I would observe in passing that the price was to go up by over 39% that year.
Also I think, overall, the way the letters are set out, encourages  the consumer to relax 
because their cover was continuing. They  highlight  the benefits of the policy but, dont  
encourage the consumer to get in contact to discuss the price, even though  if they had done 
so they could have saved  money. I think there was a need  for Ms M to get in touch and by 
effectively discouraging her from doing  so, this meant she couldnt  be told that there were 
other policies that may have been  available to her from Homeserve that would have been 
cheaper. Or that there were discounts  on this policy that she could take advantage of.
I bear in mind that when Ms M did get in touch,  it was to cancel the policy  as she had now 
got the same cover  on her home insurance. Homeserves response was to offer a 
substantial discount,  and I think this shows that its advisers are geared to responding to 
customer queries by reducing the premium, often,  as here,  quite substantially.  If she hadnt 
had duplicate cover, Ms M may never  have discovered that discounts or alternative policies 
were available.
This brings  me to the question of inequality of knowledge.  Whilst Ms M has an occupation 
which may mean she knows about  financial  markets, there is no indication  that she was 
aware that her policy with Homeserve was set at a price much  higher than it was making 
available to other customers. Homeserve has pointed out that it wasnt until 2017 that it was 
required by the FCA to tell customers that they can shop around for a better price. But I dont  
think this is a case of Ms M not being able to shop around.  Homeserve clearly  has had (as 
far as I know)  an identical product now for considerably less than Ms M would have  been  
charged, at least since 2012. So I think that by Homeserve effectively misleading Ms M into 
staying on the legacy policy and continuing to increase her price each year, Homeserve took 
advantage of her. Thats not treating a customer fairly - which is something that Homeserve 
is required to do by the regulatory  rules,  and always has been, for many years  prior to the 
introduction of the transparency at renewal rules  in 2017.
I think the fair resolution for this complaint  is to go back  to the price charged in 2012 when it 
was around the price  offered  in 2018.  That will put Ms M into the position  that she would 
have been in had Homeserve given  her the information that she needed to make an 
informed decision and not taken advantage of her lack of engagement. Then Homeserve 
Ref: DRN52211113should refund to Ms M the difference between the present price of £156,  and the price  that 
she paid for the 2012 to 2017 renewals inclusive. Homeserve should add simple interest at 
8% from the time that she paid each monthly instalment until the date it pays her.
my final decision
I uphold the complaint and require Homeserve Membership Limited to refund to Ms M the 
differences between  £156  and the premiums she paid for the 2012  to 2017 renewals 
inclusive together  with simple interest* at 8% a year from the date she paid each monthly 
instalment until the date it repays her.
*HM Revenue and Customs requires that Homeserve take off tax from any interest paid. 
Should Ms M request it, Homeserve should provide her with a certificate showing how much  
tax has been taken off so she can reclaim it if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2019.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5221111