K820x#14Complaint
Mrs A is the administrator  of the estate of the late Mrs L.  She has complained that HSBC 
UK Bank Plc wont refund  unauthorised transactions  on the late Mrs Ls account.
Mrs A is represented by her daughter, Mrs W.
Background
The late Mrs L lived with dementia before  she sadly passed away in June 2018.
Her daughter, Mrs A, was appointed as her deputy under a Court of Protection Order  dated 
14 November 2017.
In September  2014, HSBC noticed  Mrs L was writing a lot of cheques.   The cheques were 
made payable  to a local village shop.  It asked her about the cheques. Mrs L admitted she 
had some memory problems but confirmed that the cheques were genuine. 
No further action was taken until 22 November  2017, when HSBC  received the Court of 
Protection Order. HSBC placed  restrictions on the account and cancelled  the debit card. Mrs 
A was appointed  to manage  the account.
Mrs A is now disputing  cheque payments and cash withdrawals, totalling  approximately  
£28,000, from her late mothers account  dating  back to 2014. She believes  the transactions  
were carried  out without her mothers consent  by her brother, who was living with Mrs L at 
the time.  Mrs A has also queried transfers  from another account, which Mrs L held with 
HSBC, into the current  account.
Mrs A feels  strongly that HSBC should  have done  more to protect her mother, who was a 
vulnerable consumer. She believes  it should  have noticed the large number of cheques  and 
ATM cash  withdrawals  and acted sooner. And she said the bank should  have contacted  
Social Services.
She says HSBC is responsible for the disputed transactions and she has asked it to refund 
them.  
HSBC refused to refund  the disputed transactions. It said Mrs As dementia wasnt confirmed  
until November 2017. And although Mrs A admitted in 2014  that she had some memory 
problems, she was adamant that the cheque payments were  genuine.  
HSBC said it contacted Social Services  about the increase in cheques  but heard nothing  
more. Also,  Mrs Ls son had contacted the bank about telephone banking and account  
transfers in 2016. He mentioned her dementia and HSBC asked him to attend a local branch 
with Mrs L so they could discuss the situation. It also recommended  that Mrs L set up a third-
party mandate on the account. However, she didnt set up a mandate  or discuss alternative 
arrangements for managing her finances.
HSBC also explained  that it doesnt  have the capacity to monitor every cheque  on a 
customers account and it relies on information from the customer,  relatives or other third 
parties to let it know if a customer has health  problems. 
As Mrs A wasnt happy with HSBCs  decision,  she asked this service  to investigate.
Ref: DRN57079522Her complaint was reviewed by two investigators  who decided not to uphold it. They  were  
unable to conclude  that the disputed transactions were made fraudulently.  Also, they 
couldnt rule out the possibility that Mrs L benefitted  from the cheques  and cash  withdrawals 
or that she wanted  her to give her son some money. So, the investigators couldnt  be 
satisfied that she had suffered a financial loss due to fraud.
Mrs A didnt agree with the investigators assessments. Her representative, Mrs W, said that 
Mrs L was very vulnerable  at the time and couldnt  have  made the transactions. She said it 
was also unlikely she knew about them. 
Mrs W said Social Services had contacted the bank about her condition, but it had failed to 
take steps to protect her.
Mrs W has asked  for an ombudsmans final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance  and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
The investigators wrote detailed views that set out in full the facts, background history  and 
evidence. The second view also sets out the relevant regulations,  which were missing  from 
the first view, hence a second view.   Both  Mrs W and HSBC have read the two views, so I 
wont repeat  every detail  here, only those which form the basis of my decision. However, I 
can assure Mrs A and Mrs W that Ive read the file, including  their comments  and evidence.
In particular, Ive read descriptions of Mrs Ls condition by Social  Services  and Mrs W. I 
accept she was vulnerable, and I was very sorry to learn of her dementia and living  
circumstances. This is a sad case.  I would like to take this opportunity to pass on my 
condolences to her family. 
My task is firstly to determine whether the transactions were authorised (which I will go on to 
explain) and then whether  there  were any signs of financial abuse or fraud.  Im afraid my 
review of the evidence  has led me to the same overall conclusions  as those reached by the 
investigators and for broadly the same reasons.
I will explain  how Ive reached my decision. 
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected  to process  payments 
and withdrawals that a customer  authorises  it to make, in accordance  with the Payment  
Services Regulations 2009 and the terms and conditions  of the customers account.  And I 
have taken that into account  when  deciding what is fair and reasonable in this case.
The Payment Services Regulations also require  banks to refund  any payments which a 
customer didnt authorise.  So, when we look at whether a bank has acted fairly in rejecting 
someones fraud complaint, one of the things we consider  is whether the customer made  the 
Ref: DRN57079523transactions themselves or allowed  them to be made. If they did, then we wouldnt generally  
ask the bank to refund  them.
The regulations dont cover cheque payments so  although I have considered the
general principles of this legislation   it doesnt apply to the cheque payments.
But the regulations are not the only consideration.
Regulated firms like HSBC are also required to conduct their business with due skill, care 
and diligence  (FCA  Principle for Businesses  2) and to pay due regard to the interests of its 
customers (Principle 6).
And as a matter of good industry practice at the time, I consider firms should also have  taken 
proactive steps  to: 
identify and assist  vulnerable consumers  and consumers in vulnerable  
circumstances, including  those at risk of financial  exploitation (something recognised  
by the FCA in recent years and by the British Bankers Associations February 2016 
report improving outcomes for customers in vulnerable circumstances); 
look to identify and help prevent transactions - particularly unusual or out of character 
transactions  that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam (something also 
recognised by the British Standards Institutes October 2017  Protecting Customers 
from Financial  harm  as a result of fraud  or financial abuse  Code of Practice,  which 
a number of banks and trade associations were involved in the development of); and
 
in relation to branch transactions  follow  the Banking Protocol when available.     
This means  that there are circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, where a 
bank should, in my opinion,  fairly and reasonably take additional steps, or make additional 
checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases decline to make  a payment 
altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm.  I have noted  the
BSI Code came into effect after the cheques in this dispute  were written.
In this case, I need to decide  whether HSBC acted  fairly and reasonably  under the 
regulations and whether it should have  done more than it did.
So, to help me decide what happened, Ive looked at the evidence of the transactions,  as 
well as what both HSBC  and Mrs W have told us. Ive also looked at how Mrs L used her 
account.
Cheque payments
HSBC had an obligation to follow Mrs Ls instructions to honour the cheques. I realise Mrs W 
doesnt believe that Mrs L signed  the disputed cheques and suspects that her uncle signed 
them. Sadly, its now too late to find out whether she did sign them. Theres no evidence to 
confirm that her son signed them.  In any event, it appears from HSBCs records  that Mrs W 
was still attending  the branch in 2014  to cash cheques. In these circumstances, I think  it was 
reasonable for HSBC to treat the cheques as authorised by Mrs W  either  by writing them 
herself or asking her son to do this. 
Ref: DRN57079524But there are some  situations in which a bank should reasonably  have had a closer  look at 
the circumstances surrounding the payments.
Ive looked at the statements for the account, and I dont think  the cheques made payable to 
cash were particularly unusual or suspicious in comparison to the normal activity  on Mrs Ls 
account.  According to her bank statements, it was Mrs Ls custom to write  out cheques  
payable to cash. Her bank statements show that she had been  doing this since 2006. Mrs W 
also confirmed that Mrs L used to visit her local branch, by taxi, to withdraw cash.
In fact, the change  in spending pattern was that Mrs L started writing out more cheques  for 
smaller amounts. The cheques made  payable to cash also increased in value, but it was 
usual for her to write cheques for £100 or more. HSBCs records show that it noticed  this 
change in the number of cheques and asked her about it in September 2014.  According to 
the notes, Mrs L confirmed that she had written the cheques and that the payee  was a local 
village shop. HSBC  tried to contact  the shop but couldnt get through.  It also called Social 
Services.
Mrs W has provided us with some notes from Social  Services. They record  that HSBC called 
them on 29 August 2014 to report that Mrs L had visited the local branch several times that 
week with 10 cheques  going out. There is a discrepancy in the date of this call, but Im 
happy that the call was made. According to the notes, HSBC  told Social Services that it had 
concerns about  her memory. Social  Services informed HSBC that when they met 
Mrs L a few weeks earlier she had told them  she wanted to manage  her own monies, she 
would give it to who she wants  and does not want other people interfering  in her affairs.  
HSBC agreed to monitor the situation.  However, it heard nothing  more from Social Services 
or anyone  else about  Mrs Ls condition until 2016  when her son mentioned she had 
dementia.
Based on this information, I consider  that HSBC acted fairly and reasonably in treating the 
cheques as authorised. It made additional checks by asking Mrs L about the cheques and 
calling Social  Services.  However, Mrs L was adamant  that the cheques  were genuine. Also,  
apart from the cheques  to the village shop,  there  was nothing unusual  or irregular about the 
cheques payable to cash. In these  circumstances, Im afraid I dont  think there was any 
reason to suspect  fraud or stop the cheques.  
ATM cash  withdrawals
In short,  HSBC is required to refund  the amount of an unauthorised  transaction under the 
regulations. But the bank  can hold the estate liable  for any disputed  transactions  if the 
evidence suggests  that its more likely than not that Mrs L made or authorised them  herself. 
So, my primary  concern is to come  to a view about whether or not I think Mrs L authorised  
the ATM cash withdrawals.
The ATM cash  withdrawals started  in February  2016. It looks  as if Mrs L stopped  using 
cheques and got a debit  card instead. There were  multiple cash  withdrawals on a weekly 
basis ranging from £50 to £250  at a time.
I understand Mrs W and Mrs A accept that Mrs L had given her card to her son so that he 
could buy groceries. They are not disputing payments  for groceries.  However, they are 
concerned about  the large sums which were withdrawn from ATMs. I cant see any card 
payments to stores so I assume the groceries  were paid for in cash. 
Ref: DRN57079525Im afraid that under the regulations, if Mrs L allowed her son to use her card then she is 
treated as having  given authority or apparent authority to him to make  transactions  with it. 
And I think its more likely than not that her son had taken control  of her finances. However, 
HSBC can hold her liable for the transactions, even if she didnt ask her son to make  the 
cash withdrawals or didnt know about them.  
HSBC is entitled,  therefore, to refuse  a refund of the disputed  cash withdrawals on the basis  
they were authorised by Mrs L.
Bank transfers
When Mrs Ls current account  came  close to an overdraft, HSBC transferred money from 
another account to avoid an overdraft. I can see from the banks notes that it agreed this 
course of action with the son. Mrs Ls son couldnt  give authority to do this, but his consent is 
irrelevant anyway. HSBC  has a right of set off which means it can take money in any 
account with it and use it to reduce or avoid any debts, such  as an overdraft. This is set is 
out in the terms  and conditions. So, I dont consider it did anything  wrong  when it made the 
transfers.
Should HSBC have done more to protect Mrs L?
If there were obvious signs of financial abuse  or fraud which HSBC failed to act on, then I 
may consider whether  its fair and reasonable for it to refund some or all of the disputed 
transactions.
Ive read the note by Social Services which Mrs W sent us. I can see that by 2014  Mrs Ls 
living conditions were  such that she was potentially vulnerable.  The critical question is 
whether HSBC knew about her circumstances or noticed anything unusual  or suspicious 
with the way she used her account.  And if so, did it fail to take steps to protect  her.
HSBC observed that Mrs L had memory  problems and contacted social  services  in 2014. 
Social Service confirmed  that she knew what she was doing  and was in control of her 
finances. There was no evidence at that time that she had dementia  or lacked mental  
capacity. Indeed, when the bank spoke to her it said she was adamant  that the cheque 
payments were genuine.
In 2016, Mrs Ls son contacted the bank to reset  her telephone banking. He mentioned  her 
dementia and HSBC asked her to visit a local branch to discuss  her situation.  It also 
recommended she set up a third-party mandate on the account but neither Mrs L nor her 
family took any further action. As for her spending  pattern, the ATM cash  payments were 
consistent with the cheque  payments. They were  not out of character  for the account.
Its easier to see with the benefit of hindsight  that Mrs Ls memory  problems were probably 
deteriorating but I dont consider there was enough  evidence for HSBC to conclude that she 
had dementia or lacked  capacity until November 2017. In fact, I think it would have been 
inappropriate for HSBC to make  that decision without independent evidence. 
And it did try to get more information. HSBC took appropriate steps  by speaking to Mrs L, 
contacting social services, it asked her to visit a local branch and gave advice to Mrs Ls son. 
It couldnt know there was a conflict within  the family and as Ive explained there  werent any 
obvious signs of fraud  or financial abuse  from looking  at the transactions.  Even if it had 
spoken to Mrs L about  the transactions, its likely she would have repeated  that she knew 
what she was doing. So I dont think there  was anything more it could do, not without her 
cooperation.
Ref: DRN57079526Lastly, theres no evidence Mrs L didnt benefit  from the cash withdrawals, although  I accept 
her needs  were probably few and her household  bills were paid separately. And I cant rule 
out the possibility that she wanted to give some  money to her son.
For all these reasons, I consider that HSBCs decision to refuse a refund is a fair and 
reasonable one in the circumstances.
Im sorry  this will be disappointing and unwelcome news  for Mrs A and Mrs W. Ive no doubt  
this has been  a painful and distressing  experience. I also apologise for the length of my 
decision, but I feel it was important  to set out clearly how I reached my conclusions.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 November 2020.
Razia Karim
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5707952