K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that Aviva Insurance Limited  paid only part of his travel  insurance claim and 
that it hasnt treated him fairly. 
background
Mr H was abroad with his parents. When at the airport waiting for their return flight  Mr H 
suddenly fell ill and wasnt able to board the flight. His parents both remained with him. After 
Mr H had medical treatment they all booked new flights  and returned  to the UK.
Aviva paid Mr Hs claim for medical  and other  expenses, including  the cost of two additional 
flights. It said that under the policys terms and conditions  Mr H was covered only for one 
person to remain with him, so it wouldnt pay for all three  additional flights.
Mr H thought this was unfair and that Aviva  hadnt treated him fairly in line with the Financial 
Conduct Authoritys  (FCA)  high level principles. He wasnt happy with Avivas response to 
his complaint so he came  to us.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. He concluded that Aviva had fairly dealt with 
Mr Hs claim and complaint. Mr H asked for a face to face hearing  with an ombudsman.
I wrote  to Mr H. I explained I didnt think that I needed to hold a hearing given that Mr H had 
expressed his complaint  clearly in writing. I said that Mr H could speak to me on the 
telephone to explain his case in his own words or to record a message  for me. But Ive not 
heard from Mr H by the date set out in my letter so Ive gone  on to review  the complaint.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont uphold this complaint.  Ill explain  my reasons.
The policy covers the additional travel and accommodation costs of one relative  to stay with 
an insured person where they fall ill abroad, in certain stated circumstances. Here, Aviva 
agreed to pay the additional costs for one parent to remain with Mr H.
Mr H accepts that the policys term and conditions dont strictly cover  both of his parents  
additional flights. But he doesnt think Aviva  treated  him fairly. He explains that as he fell ill 
suddenly before boarding his flight his parents had no real option but to remain with him. He 
says in these  circumstances Aviva should fairly  pay for both their additional flights.
I do see Mr Hs point. I entirely accept that Mr Hs parents decided theyd both want  to 
remain with him, and that is understandable.  But it doesnt follow that Aviva must pay all their 
additional costs.  I understand Mr Hs parents  are covered by their own insurance  with Aviva, 
but here Mr H fell ill and their costs were included under his claim.
Im aware of the FCAs high level principles about treating customers fairly. I can require an 
insurer to step outside  the strict policy terms where  I consider it fair and reasonable to do so. 
But having  thought about all the circumstances in this case I dont think theres any basis  for 
Ref: DRN53685392me fairly to require  Aviva to pay Mr Hs claim for both his parents additional travel costs, 
where there  is cover for only relative to remain with him.
I think Aviva  explained  its claim decision clearly. When  Mr H explained he wasnt  happy with 
its decision it properly arranged to review the complaint under its internal complaints 
process, and gave him its reasons  for turning down his complaint. I think  it dealt adequately 
with Mr Hs claim and complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 August 2019.
Amanda Maycock
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5368539