K820x#14complaint
Mrs B complains that Nationwide Building Society misled her into believing she was entitled  
to cashback on her credit card.
background
Mrs B says she applied for a Nationwide credit card online on three occasions but didnt 
know if the applications were successful. She says she contacted  Nationwide and was told 
to apply again which she did. She also says she asked Nationwide if the credit  card she 
applied for paid her cash back. But Nationwide didnt answer her question which caused her 
to believe it did. Mrs B also says that she should have been entitled  to cash  back as she 
held a Nationwide current account and met the criteria. She says Nationwide had an 
obligation to advise her correctly and she would like Nationwide  to pay her the cash  back 
she was entitled  to.
Nationwide doesnt  accept making  a mistake and says it doesnt  pay cash  back  on the 
account Mrs B opened. It says to be eligible, the credit card account  needed to have been 
opened before January 2018 and that it makes  that clear in the terms and conditions.  
Nationwide accepts it didnt answer Mrs Bs question but says that doesnt mean that was an 
indication of account benefits.  It says Mrs B should  have  checked and decided if the account 
was what she wanted.
Mrs B brought her complaint to us but our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator didnt 
think there was any evidence Nationwide had told Mrs B the credit card had a cash  back 
feature and thought the terms  and conditions made  clear it didnt. The investigator thought 
Mrs B didnt meet the criteria as the credit card account was opened  after January 2018 and 
that Nationwide hadnt misled Mrs B by not answering her question  but should  have 
answered it.
Mrs B doesnt accept that view and says she asked Nationwide a direct  question and its 
failure to answer  led her to believe she was entitled to cashback. She also believes she did 
qualify for the cashback in any event as her current account had been open  before January 
2018.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall view as the investigator. I realise Mrs B will be disappointed  by my decision.
Ive looked at that account terms and conditions which Im satisfied Mrs B would have 
agreed to when the account was opened.  And I can see that in order  to be eligible for 
cashback or cash rewards the account  must have been opened before January 2018 and 
that account is defined as the credit card account.  So Im satisfied that Mrs B didnt meet the 
criteria for cashback as the account was opened too late. And Im also satisfied that whilst 
Mrs B held a Nationwide current account,  it was the date of the opening of the credit  card 
account that was the relevant date. I appreciate Mrs B thought that account meant her 
current account. But for the reasons  Ive explained,  I find that wasnt the case.
I can see that Mrs B asked Nationwide if the credit card account  paid cashback  and that 
Nationwide didnt answer the question  one way or the other. I appreciate Mrs B says that led 
her to believe she was entitled to cash  back.  And I accept that Nationwide should have 
Ref: DRN52089242answered the question. But I dont think by not answering the question that meant  
Nationwide misled Mrs B. And I think  that Mrs B could have checked the account terms and 
conditions in any event  or gone back to Nationwide and asked it again to answer the 
question. I also think that Mrs B applied for the account and Nationwide didnt provide her 
with any advice on it or tell her that she was entitled to cashback.  So I dont think Nationwide 
has acted unfairly or misled Mrs B.
Overall I dont think it was reasonable for Mrs B to assume she was entitled to cashback in 
these circumstances.  So I cant fairly order Nationwide to pay her the cashback as she 
would like.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 August 2019.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5208924