K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a hire purchase  payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out 
in 2011. Mrs L says First Response Finance Ltd (First Response)  mis-sold her the PPI. The 
loan included an amount to pay for the PPI policy. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Ls case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold, and Ill explain  why. 
Mrs L says that First Response made  her feel that if she didnt take out the PPI she wouldnt 
be accepted for the finance.  First Response has given me four calls that relate to the sale.  
And Ive listened  to them all very carefully.   
In one of these calls First Response made  it clear  the PPI was optional  and didnt say 
anything to suggest that Mrs L needed  to take the PPI in order to be approved for the 
finance. The advisor quoted costs with and without  PPI and, said explicitly  that it was 
optional and that Mrs L can make a decision  about  it. In a separate  call after this one, the 
advisor explains Mrs L can cancel  it both before signing the agreement, and 30 days  after  
as is her statutory right.  
The credit agreement Mrs L signed  also referred to the PPI being  optional.  Its listed as 
Optional Payment  Protection Insurance. So after weighing  everything  up, I think  
First Response made it clear that Mrs L had a choice about taking the PPI and that she 
chose to take it out. 
Mrs L has said that she felt pressured into taking out the PPI. For me to uphold her 
complaint on this point  I would  have to find that its more  likely than not that First Response 
acted in this way. From the calls Ive listened  to, Im satisfied that no unfair  pressure was put 
on Mrs L to take out the PPI. Its quite possible something might have happened in the car 
dealership that made Mrs L feel like this. But I must  make my decision on the evidence  I do 
have. And I simply dont have compelling  evidence to say that any unfair pressure was put 
on Mrs L. 
First Response recommended the PPI to Mrs L so it had to check that the PPI was right for 
her  and based  on what  Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think  that it was. It 
doesnt look like Mrs L wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover,  
and she seems to have had a need  for the cover. 
Its possible the information First Response gave Mrs L about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But some of the cost of the policy was explained in the sales call. And the 
loan agreement she signed included the amount  of the premium,  the interest payable  on the 
premium and the total cost. 
So I think Mrs L would have understood how much  the PPI would cost if she kept the policy 
for its full term. But even if First Response hadnt  done  this, I still think Mrs L wouldve found  
the policy useful,  and therefore  taken  it out. Thats because, given how long the policy could 
Ref: DRN58081082have paid out for, if Mrs L made a successful claim she couldve got back quite a bit more 
than what she paid for it. 
I think Mrs L chose to take the PPI out - so it looks like she wanted this type of cover. It also 
seems like it would have  been useful for her if Mrs L had been too ill to work or had lost her 
job. Ive considered what Mrs L has said about  her family being able to help with 
repayments, but circumstances can change and her family may not have been in a position 
to help when needed. I also note what shes said about her sick pay benefits, but the PPI 
paid out for longer and it wouldve meant she could use other funds for essential living costs. 
It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont  think better information about the 
PPI would have  put her off taking out the cover. 
Mrs L wouldve got back only a limited refund of the PPI premium if she cancelled the policy 
early. I dont  know if First Response  thought  about  this when it recommended the policy.  But 
I havent seen  anything to suggest Mrs L thought  shed repay  the loan early. So I dont think  
this meant  the policy wasnt right for her.
Ive also thought about the commission Mrs L paid on her policy   and whether 
First Response treated her unfairly. 
First Response has told us that the commission for Mrs Ls policy  was less than half of what  
she paid for each premium. Weve  looked  at how First Response has been working this out 
and based on what weve seen it looks like its right  Mrs Ls commission was less than half 
the cost of the policy. As thats  the case, I dont think it needed to tell her about  the 
commission  so I dont  think  First Response  treated  her unfairly. This means it doesnt need 
to pay back any of the commission Mrs L paid for the PPI. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs L to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 April 2019.  
Ketan Nagla
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5808108