K820x#14complaint
Miss Ps unhappy that some personal items  disappeared  from her car while  it was being 
recovered and stored  following a claim on her Ageas Insurance Limited  motor  insurance 
policy.
background
Miss P was involved in an accident  and she made a claim on her Ageas policy. Her car was 
recovered and she says she was told her personal effects in it would be bagged  up so 
nothing would be lost. She didnt think she wouldnt see her car again or that she shouldve 
removed her personal effects from it. A number  of her personal items have gone missing.  
Shes unhappy that Ageas only offered her £100  for them at the time and that its 
subsequently withdrawn that offer. She wants the items back. She thinks shes been treated 
poorly.
Ageas said in its final response  that neither the recovery or salvage agents who dealt with 
the car have  any evidence of the items Miss P says are missing ever being  in the car. And 
none of the items are shown  in images taken.  It was difficult to pinpoint when the items may 
have left the car. It has offered  to make a £100 payment under the personal effects cover but 
Miss P wants the items back rather than their monetary  value.
Our adjudicator felt this complaint shouldnt be upheld. She said:
Miss Ps car was recovered and held in storage for a short  time. Photographs taken 
by Ageas agents show the items removed from her car but they dont show the 
personal effects Miss P says are missing. And theres no evidence which proves 
Ageas or its agents are responsible for the items being  missing.
Ageas  has taken Miss Ps concerns seriously.  Although she understands Miss P 
would prefer to have  the items back,  Ageas has offered to pay £100 for them which  is 
the maximum payable  under the personal belongings cover section of her policy.  
Thats fair in the circumstances.  If Miss P changes her mind  and wants  Ageas to pay 
this to her she should contact it directly.
Miss P remains unhappy and has asked for an ombudsman review. She says the £100 offer 
isnt fair as her car wasnt stolen or broken into. It was recovered after an accident. When it 
was recovered  she was asked to leave  the car open and the keys in it, even though it was in 
a ditch. It took all day for the car to be recovered.  She now realises she shouldve  removed  
her items from the car at the time but she was in shock and didnt know  she wouldnt get the 
car back.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Miss Ps frustration at what has happened.  Even  so as the adjudicator has said 
theres nothing to show when any of the personal  items she lists were  taken from her car or 
by whom. The images produced by the recovery agents show some items were  in the car 
but not those Miss P says are missing. As a result I cannot say on balance  who mayve  
Ref: DRN57609752stolen any missing items and I certainly  have nothing to suggest any theft was carried out by 
any of Ageas agents.
Ageas has offered to pay Miss P £100 for the loss of any personal items which is the 
maximum cover for personal  items  this under her policy. Taking everything into account I 
think thats reasonable. And dont think I can fairly Ageas to pay her any more than this.
Miss P has recently raised a new issue that the recovery agents  arrived  at her car very late. 
But Im afraid I cant deal with this issue as it wasnt included in Miss Ps original complaint. If 
she remains concerned  about it she must raise this new issue  with Ageas in the first 
instance so that it has the opportunity to investigate it and respond to her.
Overall I dont see any compelling reason to change the proposed outcome in this case. And 
I simply leave  it to Miss P to decide if she now wants to accept Ageas offer to pay her £100.  
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 October  2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5760975