K821x#15complaint
Miss B says Provident  Personal Credit  Limited (trading as Satsuma Loans) irresponsibly lent 
to her.
background
This complaint is about three instalment  loans  Satsuma provided to Miss B between 
November 2017  and May 2018. Miss Bs lending history is as follows:
Loan 1 taken 26 November 2017 for £400,  to be repaid in six instalments of £126.40. 
Loan repaid 25 May 2018.
Loan 2 taken 28 December 2017 for £1,000, to be repaid in 12 instalments of £166.00. A 
balance remains outstanding.
Loan 3 taken on 26 May 2018 for £800,  to be repaid  in 12 instalments of £132.80.  A 
balance remains outstanding.
So the repayments for loan two overlapped with those for loan one. The highest expected 
monthly repayment was then £292.40. Loan  three was taken immediately loan one was 
repaid and its repayments overlapped with those for loan two. The highest  expected  monthly 
repayment was £298.80. 
Our adjudicator upheld  Miss Bs complaint  in part and thought loan three  shouldnt  have 
been given. Satsuma agreed  but Miss B didnt and so the complaint was passed  to me for a 
final decision. Miss B said she thought loan two shouldnt have been approved also.  She 
said she had many other payday loans at the time and the loan for a larger amount was 
taken on top of loan one. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Satsuma needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Miss B could repay  the loans in a sustainable manner. These  checks  could take into account 
a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment  amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Satsuma should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
Ref: DRN58741192the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet  a 
higher repayment  from a particular  level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing  may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Satsuma was required to establish 
whether Miss B could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments  were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to 
make repayments on time,  while meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without 
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont  be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Bs complaint.
Satsuma asked Miss B for information about  her income and expenditure and it carried  out 
credit checks. Miss B said her monthly  income  was £3,000. She gave her monthly outgoings 
which Satsuma adjusted  upwards to about  £1,800 for loans one and two and £2,565 for loan 
three. 
For loans one and two, I think Satsuma carried out proportionate and sufficient affordability 
checks. Satsuma wasnt  then required to check Miss Bs other short-term borrowing. From 
the information Miss B provided, the loans, even  where they overlapped, looked affordable 
for her. Loan two was for a larger amount, but it was spread over a longer period. 
Given the loan amounts,  what  was apparent about Miss Bs circumstances at the time and 
her history  with Satsuma, I dont think it wouldve been proportionate to ask her for the 
amount of information  needed to show the lending was unsustainable. There wasnt  anything  
in the information Miss B provided  or the information Satsuma shouldve been aware of, 
which meant it wouldve  been proportionate  to start verifying what  Miss B was saying. So I 
cant say it was wrong for Satsuma to provide loans one and two.
But I agree  with the adjudicator that Satsuma should have made better  checks  for loan 
three. This was Miss Bs third loan in six months.  Shed repaid loan one the day before and 
then borrowed a similar amount. I think Satsuma should then have asked  for more 
information about Miss Bs other financial  commitments, both regular and short-term,  to 
check that she could  sustainably repay  this loan.
Ref: DRN58741193As our adjudicator explained, a proportionate  check for loan three would most likely have 
shown that Miss B was having  problems  managing  her money. This was because  when she 
asked for loan three, Miss B had at least three other  short-term loans with another lender as 
well as one outstanding with Satsuma. So I think Satsuma should then have realised that 
Miss B wouldnt be likely to be able to sustainably repay loan three. And so I think it was 
wrong to approve  it. 
putting things right  what Satsuma needs  to do
refund  all interest and charges Miss B paid on loan three and waive  any still outstanding; 
this refund should be offset against the principal Miss B still owes  and the remainder paid 
to her; or, if a balance  remains  outstanding an affordable repayment plan should be 
agreed. 
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information  about loan three from Miss Bs credit file;
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Satsuma to take off tax from this interest. Satsuma must 
give Miss B a certificate  showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I partially uphold Miss Bs complaint. I 
require Provident  Personal Credit Limited  (trading as Satsuma Loans) to pay Miss B 
compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 December 2019.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5874119