K820x#14complaint
The estate  of Mrs L (the estate) says Octopus Investments Limited (Octopus) prevented 
and/or delayed liquidation  of an Enterprise  Investment Scheme (EIS) investment since 2017.
background
Evidence from both parties provides the following main background:
The late Mrs L passed away in early 2017, probate  was granted  thereafter and later 
that year the estate  (with help from its financial  adviser) sought  to liquidate her 
Octopus portfolios. Many  of the assets in the portfolios were  on the Alternative 
Investment Market (AIM). Two portfolios  were  liquidated in 2017. A third  the 
Eureka EIS portfolio   features in the complaint. AIM based assets within  it appear  
to have been liquidated in 2017. However,  liquidation of its investments in private 
companies remains outstanding  which is the issue in the complaint.
Investment in the Eureka EIS portfolio took place in 2008,  upon the financial 
advisers recommendation.  Octopus says it was the financial advisers responsibility 
 not Octopus  to ensure that the recommendation  was suitable. It also says that 
repeated notices/warnings were given in literature for the fund and in the customer  
agreement, at the time, about the risks of long term illiquidity given the inherent  
nature of the EIS investments, and especially those in unquoted private companies 
which lack a secondary market. Octopus  says it repeated these warnings  from 2017  
onwards in the context of the estates liquidation pursuit.
In 2018 Octopus told the estates financial adviser that the Eureka fund was 
undergoing a managed exit, conducted by the fund managers, which  may take 
between five and ten years  to finalise.
The estate  considers it unreasonable that complete  liquidation of the Eureka fund has been 
delayed, from 2017 to date, and that Octopus expects it to wait a further five to ten years.  It 
has referred to financial  detriments, beyond the scope  of the investments, which  it says have  
been caused by the delay.
One of our adjudicators looked  into the matter and concluded that the complaint should not 
be upheld. He was persuaded  that Octopus had given sufficient notices about the illiquid  
nature of the Eureka fund at the outset of the investment and it was/is not responsible for the 
suitability of the investment recommendation; and that the managed exit process for the fund 
is not something this service can override in favour of the estate (and its complaint). He did 
not accept the estates  suggestion that the notices (and warnings) were hidden  in small print 
and considered that they were quite  clear. He also did not accept that the estates reference 
to new products marketed  by Octopus was relevant to the complaint. The complaint was 
referred to an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I have reached the same 
conclusion presented by the adjudicator for broadly the same reasons. I do not uphold  the 
complaint.
I understand the estates position in the matter, given their pursuit  since 2017 to completely 
liquidate the Eureka fund and given  the prospect that such  liquidation could  take another  five 
Ref: DRN54033002to ten years  to complete.  Suitability of the fund for Mr L (and her estate) is not an issue 
within the complaint.  As stated above  a third party financial adviser recommended  the 
investment  Octopus  did not. The issues to determine are whether (or not) the illiquidity 
risks within the fund were  clearly disclosed at the point of sale and whether  (or not) Octopus 
has responded to the estates liquidation pursuit fairly.
If the funds  illiquidity  risks were clearly disclosed to Mrs L and her estate at the outset, the 
implication is that they were risks she and her estate agreed  with, it appears, advice  to 
undertake. This would also mean  that Octopus did not mis-sell the fund in this respect and 
that the illiquidity problem faced by the estate since 2017 was foreseeable. As the 
adjudicator mentioned, there is sufficient evidence  of the illiquidity risks having been 
disclosed  in a sufficiently clear manner  within the literature for the fund. The fund was not 
mis-sold in this respect  and, with such prior awareness, the estate ought  reasonably  to have  
foreseen the prospect  of the illiquidity problem it has faced since  2017. 
Both parties  have been engaging with each other, with regards to the overall liquidation 
pursuit (including that related to the Eureka fund),  since early 2017  and up to this services 
involvement in the matter.  Two of three  portfolios  and part of the Eureka fund  appear to 
have been liquidated in 2017. During  the relevant period Octopus has been clear in giving  
the estate a reasonably consistent message about the illiquidity issue  facing the remainder 
of the fund  due to the inherent nature of selling unquoted shares in private companies 
without a meaningful  secondary market. 
As the adjudicator concluded,  the managed exit that is being pursued in the fund is not 
unreasonable. It appears to be a strategy  that has been applied  for all investors in the fund. 
In addition, I too do not consider that the assertion about Octopus new products is relevant 
to the complaint. I understand the estates point that its pursuit for liquidation could have 
been catered  for instead of or as part of the alleged new products, but this has not been 
established. In addition, I have not seen evidence that Octopus responsibility for the Eureka 
fund includes a duty to create liquidity through other products. Overall  and on balance, I do 
not consider that Octopus has responded to the liquidation pursuit unreasonably.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I do not uphold the complaint.  Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs L to accept or reject my decision 
before 11 January 2020.
Roy Kuku
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5403300