K822xcomplaint
Mr F is unhappy  with repairs carried out by Aviva Insurance  Limiteds  approved repairer 
(AR). Hes also unhappy with the service  Aviva provided while it dealt with a claim he made 
under his car insurance policy.  
background 
Mr F reported an incident to his insurer, Aviva.  In September 2018 a third party reversed into 
his car in a car park and admitted liability. Mr Fs car was damaged to the front. 
Mr F complained to Aviva about the following:
His car was returned to him with warnings  and further damage which wasnt  
there before it went to the AR.
Mr F wanted  a like for like replacement car as he wasnt  at fault for the 
incident and Aviva  had caused  delays.
Mr F provided information from a franchised  dealership garage. Mr F said the dealership told 
him they believed the AR was responsible  for damage to the media  unit (headset). The cost 
to replace this unit came  to approximately £3,000.
However, the information Mr F provided  from the dealership garage didnt confirm what  he 
said theyd told him. And Aviva said when Mr F first returned his car to the AR, it carried  out 
checks while he was there and the issues Mr F reported were  all working.
In February 2019  Mr F provided Aviva with a report from the dealership garage and a video. 
The report  said that the headlight replacement repair hadnt been carried  out properly  by the 
AR. Aviva agreed to reimburse Mr F for the costs of the rectification repairs  at £150.
Mr F told us hes received his car back from the dealership garage  fully repaired. But he 
believes Aviva  should reimburse him for the repairs hes paid for  including the replacement  
of the media unit - which he believes were caused by the AR. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think there  was sufficient  evidence  to show that the AR had caused all 
of the damage  Mr F claimed to his car. But he thought it was right that Aviva  reimburse Mr F 
for the rectification repairs to the headlight  as this was incident related. 
The adjudicator thought  Aviva had caused  some  delays. He asked Aviva to consider  offering 
a compensation  payment to address this along  with the inconvenience Mr F had in having 
rectification repairs carried out. Aviva  said it would pay Mr F £200. The adjudicator thought 
this was reasonable to reflect the poor service Mr F received. 
Aviva accepted the adjudicators findings.  
Mr F didnt  agree. He said he can understand why the adjudicator reached his view. But he 
believes the remaining  repairs  which he paid for were caused by the AR  even though  he 
cant prove it. So hed like an ombudsman  to decide.
Ref: DRN51002272my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think Aviva  caused some  delay in the handling of Mr Fs claim. Under the terms of his 
policy, hes entitled to a basic courtesy  car for the duration of the repairs. I understand Mr F 
feels Aviva  should have given him the option of a similar replacement car as he wasnt at 
fault for the claim. But Aviva  didnt promptly contact the third party to gain an admission of 
liability  and so this didnt happen until after Mr Fs car had been repaired by the AR. Aviva  
had incorrectly initially recorded the claim as a fault claim on its records.
Im satisfied from what Ive seen that the initial repairs to the headlight werent carried  out 
properly. Mr F said he could  hear a noise  from that area after repairs  - and it appears  the 
bolts werent correctly put back. So I think it was right that Aviva reimburse Mr F for the costs 
of these repairs by the dealership garage. 
The dealership garage has provided a report to show the cost to replace the media unit 
(headset). But it didnt  confirm that it was damaged  by the AR  or give an opinion as to why 
it required replacing. And Aviva referred the issue  to its engineer  who didnt think  there was 
enough to say that the AR was responsible. So based on what  Ive seen, I cant  say that 
Avivas decision not to cover the media  unit repairs was an unreasonable one. 
So I think the remaining  issue  is whether £200  compensation  is fair for the distress and 
inconvenience Aviva  caused. I think Mr F was put to inconvenience  by having to have the 
headlight repairs rectified in February 2019.  Aviva  accepts  that it had options that it should 
have utilised for Mr F from the outset of the claim in terms of a similar replacement car. And 
it said it could have  done more to gain admission of liability sooner by requesting CCTV 
footage  as Mr F told it this was available. 
I understand Mr F will be disappointed as he wants Aviva to cover the costs  to replace the 
media unit. But overall I think £200  is a fair compensation award for Avivas failings. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require Aviva Insurance Company 
Limited to pay Mr F £200 compensation  for the distress and inconvenience  caused.
Aviva must pay the compensation  within  28 days of the date on which  we tell it Mr F accepts 
my final decision. If it pays later than this it must  also pay interest on the compensation from 
the date of my final decision  to the date of payment  at a simple  rate of 8% a year.
If Aviva considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income  tax from 
that interest,  it should tell Mr F how much its taken  off. It should also give Mr F a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 January 2020.
Ref: DRN51002273Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5100227