K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with an Egg 
credit card in 2001. Mr E says the PPI was mis-sold to him.
Barclays Bank UK PLC later took over the credit  card account and has accepted 
responsibility for the sale. So, for clarity, I will refer to Barclays  in my decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Es case.
Having done so, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Barclays has sent us screenshots  of what it says the online application  form for the credit  
card wouldve looked like. This included a section on PPI, with yes and no options  to 
show whether the customer wanted to take it out. Barclays  has also sent us its records  
from Mr Es application, which show he selected  the yes option.
Based on this, and what I understand  about  its sales practices at the time, I think  
Barclays made it clear to Mr E that he had a choice about the PPI. And that Mr E chose 
to take it, knowing  he didnt have to.
I havent seen  clear evidence that Barclays gave Mr E any personalised advice about the 
PPI. So I dont  think it recommended the PPI to him. This means  Barclays  didnt have to 
check if the PPI was right for Mr E. But it did have to make sure he got the information he 
needed to decide  if the PPI was right for him.
Its possible the information Barclays gave Mr E about  the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been. But, based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time,  it doesnt 
look like Mr E was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover. And the 
policy couldve paid out for longer than hes told us he wouldve been  entitled to sick pay. 
So it would have  been useful for him if something went  wrong.  It also looks  like it was 
affordable. So I dont think better information  about the PPI would have put Mr E off 
taking it out.
Which means Barclays doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr E.
But Barclays  has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr E because:
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr E about that. Because  Barclays  didnt tell Mr E, that 
was unfair.
To put that right, Barclays  has paid back the amount  of commission  and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ref: DRN52809302my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC doesnt have to pay back  all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr E.
But Barclays  Bank UK PLC does  have to pay back to Mr E any commission and profit  share 
it got that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 February  2019.
Alan Millward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5280930