K820x#14complaint
Mr E complains that Bank  of Scotland plc (trading  as Halifax) mis-sold him a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a mortgage PPI policy taken out in 2009. The policy  was taken out in 
one of the banks branches. Mr E was applying for a mortgage  at the time  but not from 
Halifax. The policy  provided Mr E with cover for accident, sickness  and unemployment.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.  Mr E disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Es case.  
I have decided not to uphold Mr Es complaint and Ive set out my reasons below.
Mr E suggests he was aware  he had a choice about  whether or not to buy PPI. As he wasnt  
borrowing from Halifax at the time I think that must  have been the case  buying the PPI 
wasnt linked  to a lending decision made  by Halifax. 
Instead Mr E says the policy  was unsuitable because he had both critical illness  insurance 
and an income protection policy at the time,  which, when combined with his work benefits, 
meant he didnt need  the PPI. So Ive thought carefully about whether either of those policies 
provided income that outweighed the benefits of the PPI and made it unsuitable for him.
The bank has accepted that it advised  Mr E to take out the policy,  but even after looking at 
Mr Es other policies, it doesnt  look like it was unsuitable  for him based on what Ive seen  of 
these and his general circumstances at the time. I say this because:
-Mr E was eligible  for the policy given his circumstances and the PPI terms and 
conditions.  (Although  the exact  policy Mr E bought isnt available, ones from the same 
time period  suggest that he was eligible for the policy given his circumstances and the 
PPI terms and conditions.  And  as Mr E successfully claimed  under  the policy in 2014  
thats been confirmed.)
-Mr E had some work related benefits  if he couldnt work  due to a sickness  or accident. 
And he had an income policy  too. But the income  policy  Ive seen wouldnt have paid out 
for the first 12 months of any period when Mr E couldnt work  so it wouldnt have 
provided any income until after the PPI had paid out. The PPI would pay out both as well 
as and for longer than Mr Es work  benefits.  Mr E also had a critical illness policy. This 
type of policy normally  only pays out for life changing illnesses, and often pays  out a 
lump sum  so covers somewhat different circumstances than the PPI. I think  Mr E 
would have had some use for the policy despite the other policies he held.  
Ref: DRN51061912-Mr E wasnt affected by any of the conditions limiting the policys main benefits, such as 
those affecting  self-employed  people or people with pre-existing medical conditions. 
As he could have benefited  from the full extent  of the cover  I think  it unlikely Mr E 
needed better advice or information about the policys  exclusions and limitations.
-Im not sure exactly  when Mr E was told the cost of the policy,  but I hed have received a 
letter giving him this information  shortly  after his meeting, if it wasnt  done in the meeting  
itself. I think Mr E would have been  aware  how much he would be paying for the policy 
and Ive seen  nothing to suggest it was unaffordable or that the benefit was insufficient to 
meet his monthly  mortgage repayments.
Its possible the information the bank  gave Mr E about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should  
have been. But he chose to take out the policy and so appears  to have wanted this type of 
cover. As Ive already  said Mr E wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions or limitations and 
the policy seems to have  been affordable, I think it unlikely Mr E would have made  a 
different decision if better information had been provided  overall, I think he would  still have 
taken out the policy.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 June  2019.
Susan Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5106191