K821x#15complaint
Mrs T complains about advice given by HDIFA (then  part of Berkshire Financial Advisers
Limited) to transfer  the value  of her deferred benefits in a former employers defined  benefit 
pension scheme  and a personal  pension to a self-invested personal pension  (SIPP) to invest  
in an unregulated investment.
Meyado Private Wealth Management London  Ltd (Meyado) is now responsible  for the
advice HDIFA gave.
background
Mrs Ts mortgage  adviser passed  her details to another regulated  business  (an appointed 
representative of a network) who Ill call Firm A for advice about  investing her pension  in 
carbon credits.  Mrs Ts pension arrangements included  deferred benefits in a former 
employers defined benefit pension scheme.  Firm A didnt have the necessary permissions 
to advise and referred  Mrs T to HDIFA. 
The documents Ive seen  include  a pension review questionnaire which  Mrs T signed on 30 
December 2011,  HDIFAs letter of engagement and a letter  from HDIFA to Mrs T dated 6 
January 2012.  It says shed already decided where she wanted  to invest her pension 
monies. Shed satisfied  herself the investment was suitable for her needs  and she didnt 
need any further input from HDIFA.  And, in bold, that HDIFA wasnt going to comment on 
the underlying  investments shed chosen  and accepted no responsibility for her decision.  
HDIFAs recommendation letter dated 26 January 2012 (which Mrs T also signed) said shed  
decided, after discussions with her agent, to invest in carbon credits. HDIFA said Mrs T was 
an adventurous even speculative investor . HDIFA recommended that Mrs T transfer her 
benefits in her former employers pension scheme and her personal  pension to SIPP with a 
named provider. 
HDIFA recommended the funds were initially invested in cash.  Mrs T would then arrange the 
purchase of the investment with her agent.  HDIFA repeated that it wasnt making any 
recommendation about the investment. And, in a letter dated 10 October  2012  to the SIPP  
provider, Mrs T confirmed  she took full responsibility for the underlying investment. 
A transfer  value of £68,107.18  was paid into the SIPP from Mrs Ts former employers 
pension scheme  plus £19,406.34 from her personal  pension. £80,996.50 was then invested 
in carbon credits.  
Mrs T complained to HDIFA in June  2016. Her representative said both Firm A and HDIFA 
had been paid for the business but after consultation with the Financial Ombudsman  they 
feel that HDIFA are indeed liable for the advice.  
Meyado didnt uphold the complaint.  Mrs Ts representative referred it to us. Our adjudicator 
upheld it. Meyado didnt accept what the adjudicator said. Meyados main points were:  
Our analysis of the facts was flawed.  We hadnt  taken into account Mrs Ts buy to let 
property portfolio and what it showed about  her attitude  to risk and the level of risk she 
could afford to take. Shed  been  very clear she was prepared to take a high level of risk 
and could tolerate  losses. 
Ref: DRN52750352Shed built up her property portfolio  despite being  told it was risky. Concluding shed 
have heeded advice against  investing  in carbon credits was irrational. 
Wed dismissed Firm As involvement.  HDIFA understood  Firm A (a regulated entity)  
would advise  on and deal with the underlying  investment.  HDIFAs letter  dated  26 
January 2012 to Mrs T unequivocally  said that. She didnt correct that. 
Wed made no enquiries of Firm A. Wed failed to investigate its role and the advice it 
gave. We hadnt  asked it to disclose what documents  it had. Wed told Mrs T (our letter  
dated 21 June  2016) the complaint should  be pursued against HDIFA. Wed summarily 
decided the complaint.  
HDIFA was simply arranging the transfer  (because Firm A didnt have the necessary 
permissions). It wasnt fair and reasonable to hold HDIFA liable  in full when, on advice  
from another party, the money transferred was invested  in carbon credits.  Thats 
irrational and ignores causations issues. It leaves  Firm A, who gave the advice to invest 
in carbon credits, without any liability. HDIFA had no control over, but is being  blamed 
for, Mrs Ts investment  decisions.  
Wed been selective about what the suitability letter said. HDIFA was entitled to rely on 
what Mrs T said at the time. 
The complaint was referred  to me. I issued a provisional decision on 21 June 2019.
my provisional decision dated  21 June 2019
I upheld the complaint. My main findings  were:
HDIFA had to advise on the overall  transaction, including the proposed underlying  
investment. To determine if the transfer  to a SIPP was suitable, HDIFA needed to 
consider the suitability  of the proposed investment. I referred to the then regulators alert 
issued in January 2013.
I also referred to COBS 19.1.6G.  HDIFA should have started  by assuming the transfer  
(of Mrs Ts deferred  benefits in a former employers pension scheme)  wouldnt be 
suitable. The intended investment wasnt suitable for Mrs T and it seemed HDIFA didnt 
argue otherwise.  The transfer wasnt suitable  and Mrs T should have been advised not 
to transfer. 
If HDIFA had advised Mrs T against transferring  I didnt think shed have  gone  ahead.  I 
took into account that shed apparently been  prepared  to disregard advice about buy to 
let being risky;  shed  signed documents to confirm she understood HDIFA wasnt  
advising on the underlying investment; shed apparently  said she regarded her pension  
arrangements as insignificant; and she did have  some capacity  for loss. 
But, even  if HDIFA understood shed  be getting  advice about  the investment elsewhere,  
HDIFA had a responsibility to consider it. If HDIFA had explained fully the risks involved 
and advised Mrs T against  transferring to invest in carbon credits,  I thought  shed have 
reconsidered the investment and if it was really  suitable  for her. Shed been  referred  to 
HDIFA for specialist pension advice and my view was that shed have placed significant  
weight on what  HDIFA had said. 
I acknowledged  HDIFA wasnt the only party involved. Firm A was a regulated  business,  
as was the SIPP provider. I recognised the involvement  of others may have impacted on 
what happened  and was a factor in deciding who was responsible  for Mrs Ts losses. 
But the complaint  had been made against HDIFA and so Id concentrated on what it did 
(or didnt do). 
HDIFAs role was instrumental.  If the transfers (which HDIFA recommended)  hadnt 
happened and the SIPP hadnt been  set up, Mrs T wouldnt have  been  in a position  to 
invest in carbon credits. Firm A had introduced Mrs T to HDIFA. It was up to HDIFA to 
Ref: DRN52750353give suitable (and complete) advice. Even if Firm A (or another  party) did advise Mrs T 
to invest in carbon  credits,  she wouldnt have been  able to invest if she hadnt 
transferred on advice from HDIFA. Her losses had arisen directly from HDIFAs 
unsuitable advice.  
I didnt agree with what had been  said about our letter of 21 June 2016. We may have 
expressed an opinion  as to who might  be the respondent  to a complaint about the 
advice to transfer. As HDIFA  had given that advice it wasnt unreasonable to suggest a 
complaint might  lie against  HDIFA. That didnt mean  wed prejudged the complaint. And, 
if HDIFA considered other parties  were responsible  for some or all of Mrs Ts losses, it 
was open to HDIFA to pursue those other parties
HDIFA wasnt simply arranging the transfer. HDIFA had advised Mrs T to transfer.  If 
that advice was unsuitable,  I didnt  see why HDIFA shouldnt be responsible for the 
losses Mrs T had suffered in consequence of that unsuitable  advice. That wasnt wrong 
in law or irrational. Rather  it reflected the facts of the case  and HDIFAs pivotal part in 
the matter: HDIFA gave unsuitable  advice  and had acilitated the transfer. 
I didnt agree HDIFA had no control  over but was being blamed for Mrs Ts investment 
decisions. Shed been referred to HDIFA for specialist advice about whether she should  
give up valuable  deferred defined benefits and invest in a high risk, speculative  
investment. HDIFA gave her unsuitable  advice and is responsible  for the consequences  
of that. I set out how Meyado should  redress Mrs T.
Meyado didnt accept  what  I said. Meyado made further representations.  We asked  Mrs T for 
some more information about what  happened.  We shared  the further information she 
provided (aside from her bank statements) with Meyado.  I then wrote  to the parties  on 6 
December 2019.   
my letter of 6 December 2019
I first summarised what Meyado had said in response to my provisional  decision followed by 
the further enquiries wed made of Mrs T, what shed told us and Meyados comments. Ive 
summarised those sections of my letter below. I then went  on to makes  some further 
provisional findings which Ive more or less repeated (although Ive anonymised the parties).  
Meyados comments on my provisional decision
Mrs Ts decision to transfer was made with assistance or advice from a number of 
entities, not just HDIFA. Id continued  to ignore the material involvement of others. I 
hadnt considered  what  was fair and reasonable in all the circumstances and my 
decision was irrational.  
In particular  Id been unwilling to look into the relationship between  Mrs T and Firm A   
the business which had advised her to invest in the investment which is at the heart  of 
her complaint. That suggests,  where  multiple entities are involved (regulated or 
otherwise) well ignore  all but the one at which the complaint  is directed and hold it 
liable, irrespective  of where responsibility  properly lies. 
That approach had handicapped Meyado. Key documents and evidence  from Firm A 
havent been made available and had impaired Meyados  ability to defend itself. Our 
enquiries are at best incomplete. What Id said about  knowing what  Firm A did  
introducing Mrs T to Meyado  suggested a wilfully  simplified approach.  
That had led to a fundamental error as to causation, based on the assumption that, 
without HDIFAs  involvement,  the investments and Mrs Ts losses  wouldnt have 
happened. But shed already been advised about  and had decided on the investments 
which are the primary cause of her losses. 
Ref: DRN52750354Mrs T held herself out as an experienced investor. But wed assumed she was a wholly 
inexperienced retail investor.  Thats contrary to how she described herself and her 
investment profile. Its irrational and ignores relevant evidence in favour  of assumptions. 
Meyado highlighted sections of my provisional  decision. 
Given her reasons  for wanting to move her pension and her history  of disregarding 
others advice, my finding shed have accepted advice not to transfer and invest as she 
did was contrary  to the evidence. She regarded her pension as insignificant , which  
demonstrates an attitude to risk at odds with how shes portrayed  and based  on 
assumptions which arent supported by the evidence. 
Id ignored the fact that HDIFA took care to remind  Mrs T she needed  to take advice  
from Firm A about any investments she wanted  to make.  HDIFA made sure her initial 
investment was in cash. That protected it and gave Mrs T time to properly consider her 
investment on the basis of the advice HDIFA reasonably  believed  shed seek.  
The alert dealt  with unregulated introducers which  wasnt  the situation here. 
What Id said about there being failures  in HDIFAs fact finding  process  was based on 
unsubstantiated assumptions about  Mrs Ts behaviour  and understanding  and more  
suited to a wholly  inexperienced retail  client  which  Mrs T wasnt. 
Id said what other parties did or didnt do may have impacted on what happened.  But Id 
then failed,  without  justification, to take that into account. My failure to engage with Firm 
As role undermined  my decision. 
What Id said about Mrs Ts complaint having  been made against HDIFA amounts to a 
refusal to consider  all the circumstances. And my comment,  about knowing what  Firm A had 
done, understated  and misrepresented that firms role and renders the decision irrational. 
In conclusion  my provisional decision  was flawed and premature.  Id failed to properly 
appreciate the causation and reliance issues. It was unfair  to put the entire responsibility 
for Mrs Ts losses  on Meyado  and didnt meet our obligations  under the Financial 
Services and Markets  Act 2000  (FSMA).  
our further  enquiries
Wed become  aware that some  investors  had received incentive  payments. We asked 
Mrs T if shed  had any payment. She confirmed shed  been  paid £25,918.88 on 1 June 
2012. Her son had debts and shed used the money to settle them.  
She had a long standing relationship  with an adviser who arranged  her buy to let 
mortgages. He worked  for a regulated business  Ill call Firm B. Hed asked Mrs T about  
her pensions.  She said he then talked  her into and sold her the carbon credits 
investment. He said hed invested  himself and shed  make  amazing money,  much  more 
than her pensions  would provide. He explained  shed receive  an initial  payment  of 
£25,000 from her pension with the rest invested  in carbon credits. 
Her focus was on the potential of the investment. She didnt really understand how it 
worked but she trusted the adviser.  She was working at the time and didnt need the 
money so she gave it to her son who did need  it. 
She carried  on getting mortgage  advice from the adviser until she discovered hed been 
involved in an investment scam. 
We shared what Mrs T had told us with Meyado. It queried why we hadn't  disclosed the
questions we'd asked. In the meantime it said it was apparent  Mrs Ts dealings were  with her 
mortgage adviser and not HDIFA. She had little or no recollection of HDIFA and the role it 
played. She'd said she'd  been talked into the investment by her mortgage  adviser.  The 
Ref: DRN52750355evidence points to other  parties having  a material involvement in Mrs T's decision  to invest  
as she did. Firm As part was a material factor which we hadn't  investigated properly  or at all.
Further, the availability  of an incentive  payment would have been  a powerful motivating
factor in Mrs Ts decision  to transfer  her pension  to invest in her chosen investment. And, at 
the time,  she had trust and confidence in her mortgage adviser's recommendations. She'd 
have gone ahead irrespective of any advice  to the contrary. She blames  other parties, not 
HDIFA, and it isn't right to say HDIFA is fully responsible  for her losses. 
We shared the questions  we'd asked Mrs T. We explained we'd seen a copy  of her bank 
statement showing the incentive payment she'd  received  but we weren't going  to provide a 
copy. Meyado  asked  us to reconsider.  It said we'd refused to provide copies of the bank
statements we were  relying on for unspecified data protection reasons and there was no 
proper basis to conceal material evidence.
Further, Mrs T had complained in 2016. It wasnt until over three years later, after Meyado 
had already been required  to respond substantively to the complaint, that shed revealed the 
highly material fact that shed received a substantial incentive payment. Meyado asked us 
and/or Mrs T to explain  why this information had been withheld until now. The incentive 
payment was obviously material. It was essential  that complainants provide all relevant 
information to avoid misleading us and risking an unfair decision. Meyado had already faced 
an adverse (provisional) decision based on incomplete evidence about the payment.
The evidence is that Mrs T faced serious  financial  pressure at the time. The payment  was 
used to discharge her sons  debts  and which would have caused  significant distress and 
strongly reinforced the importance of the substantial payment. Thats  relevant to causation.  
At the time Mrs T was fundamentally influenced  by the payment and no advice against would 
have prevented the transfer. A conclusion otherwise would be irrational.
my further provisional findings 
DISP 3.6.IR requires me to determine a complaint  by reference to what is, in my opinion,
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of the case. I agree the involvement of other 
parties is a relevant factor.
There are specific  DISP  rules which might apply where more than one party  is involved:
DISP 3.5.2R says that I may inform the complainant that it might be appropriate to
complain against  some other respondent. DISP 3.5.3R says that, where two or more
complaints from one complainant relate  to connected circumstances, I may investigate
them together, but will issue separate provisional  assessments and determinations  in
respect of each respondent. And DISP 3.6.3G says that where a complainant makes
complaints against  more  than one respondent in respect of connected circumstances, the
ombudsman may determine that the respondents must  contribute towards the overall
award in the proportion that the ombudsman considers appropriate. I've borne all those
provisions in mind.
It isn't the case that because Mrs T's complaint has been made against Meyado I haven't  
considered the involvement of others.  Or that we won't consider whether any other party  
might have some responsibility in the matter where the complaint has been  made  about  
another party. But that doesn't  mean  a conclusion  that, despite the involvement of other  
(regulated) entities, the complaint should be upheld against the party complained  about  and 
that party should meet the consumer's losses in full, must be unfair or unreasonable.
Ref: DRN52750356I agree  with Meyado that liability and causation is determined  by factual and legal
considerations rather than which party a complainant  may think  is responsible and names
as the respondent to the complaint. As Meyado has said, a complainant may not recall  who 
they dealt with, which party did what,  and what a particular entity's regulatory and legal 
obligations were.
Against that background and taking into account  the further information we've obtained I've
considered again Meyado's main point - the involvement of other  parties and, in particular,
Mrs Ts mortgage  adviser and Firm A.
Mrs T doesn't recall  exactly  who she dealt  with apart from her mortgage adviser. She
clearly regards his role as important  and she may blame him for her losses.  Its
understandable, given  her long standing business  relationship with him, that she may feel 
that he let her down  or as she's put it 'conned her. But, as Meyado accepts, who Mrs T may 
think is responsible  won't  necessarily be conclusive  - a consumer may not have a full
appreciation of the roles and responsibilities of each  party thats  been  involved.
From what  Mrs T has said, the whole process was instigated by her mortgage adviser. He 
brought up the topic of Mrs T's pension arrangements. He suggested  the investment and the 
route by which  it could be achieved - using Mrs T's pension. And he told Mrs T that the 
investment would generate very good returns for her. Mrs T had a long standing relationship 
with her mortgage adviser.  She trusted him and from what she says he was persuasive.  And 
she no doubt felt reassured by the fact that he'd said he'd invested his own money. I don't 
underplay his role or influence.
He was, and as far as I can ascertain, remains a regulated adviser.  And Firm B is regulated  
too. If what Mrs T recalls about what  he said about the investment is correct that could 
amount to investment advice. Advising on investments is a regulated activity under article  
53(1) of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Regulated  Activities)  Order 2001 (SI 
2001/544) (RAO). The definition includes  advice  on the merits of an investor (or potential 
investor) buying, selling,  subscribing for, exchanging, redeeming,  holding or underwriting  a 
particular investment. The adviser's permissions might not have been  limited to mortgage  
business and might have extended to investment advice too. So he may have given 
regulated advice about the investment.
But I think he also had some links to an unregulated introducer for the carbon credits
investment. Its possible, in any conversations  with Mrs T about the investment, he was 
acting for the introducer and in an unregulated capacity. On that basis he'd have  been
prohibited from giving financial advice - under section 19 of FSMA a person  must be 
authorised to conduct any regulated  activity.  If what he said amounted to investment advice 
and he was acting  for the unregulated introducer, he'd be in breach of section 19.
But even if the mortgage adviser did give some advice he knew  any investment would be
made out of funds  transferred from Mrs Ts pension(s) so he referred her to Firm A for
advice. But, because Mrs T's pension arrangements included  deferred benefits in a
defined benefits  occupational scheme,  Firm A couldn't advise and so introduced  Mrs T to
HDIFA. Meyado has highlighted,  more than once, what I said about Firm A having 
introduced Mrs T to HDIFA. I don't think its helpful, or representative of my provisional  
decision overall, to take a single sentence,  out of context, as indicating  that I'd ignored the 
role played  by others.
Ref: DRN52750357From what  I've seen  Firm A also undertook some initial  information  gathering.  The
arrangement appears to have been  that Firm A would  complete a fact find and research the
consumer's existing pension arrangements. The information would be submitted to HDIFA
and used, together with any additional details obtained by HDIFA, to prepare  the
recommendation report. Firm A may also have verified the consumer's identity. And Firm A 
did get a fee (£500) for the introduction.
Mrs T doesn't really  recall HDIFA's involvement. It was after all some years  ago. But there's 
no dispute that HDIFA was involved and that it played a key part. It wrote to Mrs T on 6 
January 2012  enclosing  various documents including HDIFA's  letter  of engagement  which  
Mrs T signed. It looks like she returned the documents to Firm A who forwarded them to 
HDIFA. There's also a telephone  exchange  between HDIFA and Mrs T about  her 
contributions continuing.  And Mrs T signed HDIFAs report  recommending  that she transfer. 
HDIFA then arranged the SIPP and the transfers into it.
It was up to HDIFA to give suitable  advice. As I explained in my provisional  decision, 
HDIFA's advice should have  taken into account the proposed underlying investment. It 
wasn't open to HDIFA to seek to limit its advice to the SIPP wrapper and not consider  the
underlying investments. Where a consumer seeks advice on a pension transfer, 
consideration has to be given  to the suitability of the overall proposition, that is, the wrapper 
here the SIPP  and the expected underlying investment  here a high risk, illiquid 
unregulated investment , which  is the type of investment mentioned  in the alert. 
I acknowledged, in my provisional  decision, that the alert was aimed at business  which
involved an unregulated  introducer and Meyado might argue that the position was different  
as the referral had come  from another regulated firm. But my view remains that, regardless 
of the source  of the business, it wasn't open to HDIFA  to seek  to limit its advice  to the SIPP  
wrapper.
I acknowledge HDIFA told Mrs T that it wasn't  advising  on the underlying  investments. And 
HDIFA understood Mrs T would be going back to Firm A for investment advice. But the point 
is that it wasn't open to HDIFA to advise on that basis - HDIFA was required to consider the 
proposed underlying investment.
Its also the case that, by the time the carbon credits investment came to be made, HDIFA
had completed its work: it had recommended  the transfers, set up the SIPP  and arranged
for the transfer  values from Mrs T's PPP and her former employer's scheme to be paid
into the SIPP where the funds were held in cash.  And HDIFA didn't give the instruction  for
the investment  to be purchased: the SIPP provider's letter  dated 3 February 2012 to HDIFA 
confirms receipt of the transfers in but says that no investment instructions had been 
received. The investment  wasn't made until some weeks later. The SIPP  provider's 
investment purchase  request form was dated 25 April 2012 and wasn't completed by HDIFA 
- it names an adviser with Firm A as Mrs T's appointed adviser.
But I don't  think  any of that changes things. HDIFA had to consider the proposed investment 
as part of the transfer advice. HDIFA knew from the outset the transfer was to allow Mrs T to 
invest in carbon credits. It isn't the case that Firm A, contrary to HDIFA's expectations,  
advised Mrs T to invest differently.
I think the advice  should have been  not to transfer.  Recommending Mrs T transfer   and 
give up virtually guaranteed  benefits in her former  employer's scheme - to invest  in a high 
risk, unregulated scheme - was unsuitable.  Even  if the proposed underlying  investment had 
Ref: DRN52750358been different  it would still have been  difficult to justify the transfer. As I said in my 
provisional decision, the starting point under COBS 19.1.6G is that transferring won't be 
suitable. And I don't think Meyado seeks to argue that its advice was suitable. Rather its 
position is that, due to the involvement of other  entities, it wouldn't be fair or reasonable to 
hold it responsible for Mrs T's losses in full.
I can see an argument that Mrs T's losses stem  mainly from the failure of the investment. 
And, given  that the funds transferred were initially held in cash, no loss had resulted by the 
time HDIFA's role ceased. But I think that ignores  the bigger picture.  As I've said, HDIFA 
knew that, ultimately, the proposed investment was in carbon credits. And the money was 
only available to invest because HDIFA had recommended the transfers and facilitated them.
I note that in signing the SIPP member  declaration Mrs T confirmed that she understood the 
investment may be high risk and that responsibility  for the investment and the decision to 
invest rested with her and her investment adviser. But, as already discussed, HDIFA had a 
responsibility to consider  the investment too. I don't  think signing the declaration  absolves 
HDIFA from that.
I've also considered very carefully all Meyado  says about why Mrs T would have gone ahead  
anyway even if HDIFA had advised her against.
Where there's a dispute about what happened (or what might  have happened if something
different had been done) I have  to decide, on the balance of probabilities  and taking into
account such evidence  as is available, what the likely outcome would have been.  The weight 
I attach to particular  evidence is a matter for me. Meyado may not agree with my findings. 
But that doesn't mean what I've said is irrational or that I've failed to take into account 
relevant information  or evidence or that I've based  my decision  on irrelevant factors.
Meyado says Mrs T had already been advised  about  and had decided  to make  the
investment which  is (and not the SIPP wrapper) the primary cause of her losses.  But, even
if that is the case, I don't think it must follow she'd have gone  ahead anyway. I think if she'd  
been given suitable advice - that she shouldn't transfer and invest as she planned - its likely 
that would  have made her think again.
Effectively HDIFA's unsuitable  advice endorsed what  Mrs T had been told by her mortgage  
adviser. That meant she had no reason not to go ahead. She'd been  told, by her own trusted  
mortgage adviser and a pension transfer  specialist, that she should transfer to a SIPP  and 
give up the security and virtually guaranteed  benefits of a final salary  pension  so she could 
invest in carbon credits.
HDIFA didn't consider  the investment because it didn't  think it had to. But it was part and
parcel of the overall transaction and so HDIFA should  have considered it. That would  have
entailed spelling out the risks posed by the carbon credits  investment. I think  that would
have gone a long way to countering any overly  positive  views  expressed by Mrs T's 
mortgage adviser. But, as things were,  no one explained how risky that sort of investment
was. If HDIFA  had done that and told Mrs T it couldn't recommend  she transfer that would  
have given Mrs T pause for thought  about  what her mortgage adviser  had said.
And the process  that would  have  needed  to have  been followed if HDIFA had advised Mrs T 
not to transfer  wouldn't have made  it easy for her to do it anyway. HDIFA might have been 
prepared to treat her as an insistent client, that is one who still wanted to proceed despite 
advice to the contrary. But that would have entailed  discussions with Mrs T to explore  and 
Ref: DRN52750359record her reasons why she was prepared to proceed and take a high degree of risk, despite  
advice to the contrary from a specialist pension  transfer adviser. I think that would have 
concentrated Mrs T's mind on whether it was really  advisable  to do what  her mortgage  
adviser had suggested. And, on balance, I think she'd have  reconsidered.
HDIFA may not have  been prepared to process  the transfer on an insistent client  basis. If
HDIFA had declined to act, Mrs T would have  needed to have found  another  adviser. I'd 
assume any new adviser would have  given suitable  advice - that she shouldn't transfer to 
invest in carbon credits. So Mrs T would have been  no further forward.
I note what Meyado has said about me having treated Mrs T as a wholly inexperienced retail 
client. I don't  think thats the case or that was an assumption I'd made  which wasn't based 
on the evidence.
I don't think an adviser should rely entirely on how an investor  might  describe herself.  Mrs T 
may have  said that she had a 'fair degree ' of understanding or knowledge about investing. 
But that should have been tested by exploring her actual investment experience and 
knowledge. I haven't seen  anything to suggest she had any history or experience  of
investments generally.  And certainly  not of specialist, complex,  high risk and unregulated
investments such as carbon credits - the type of non mainstream unregulated fund that had 
been identified  by the then regulator as being  rarely suitable for ordinary retail clients  - which  
Mrs T was. I note her existing personal pension was invested in the provider's managed 
fund. She's said she didn't really  understand the carbon credits investment. Given  her 
background, I don't see she was an experienced or sophisticated investor.
I also explained in my provisional  decision  why I didn't think  her apparent willingness to build a 
buy to let portfolio  - despite having  been told that it was very risky  necessarily meant  she'd  
always be prepared to disregard professional financial  advice  if it didn't endorse  what  she was 
planning to do. Just because she'd  apparently been  confident enough to go ahead with a buy 
to let portfolio  doesn't mean she'd have adopted  the same approach  with transferring her 
pension and investing in carbon credits. Someone might be prepared to take a risk in a certain 
area but that doesn't mean  that will prevail  in all aspects of their financial planning.
I also considered why I didn't think Mrs T's description of her pension as 'insignificant meant 
that, properly  advised,  she'd be prepared to risk losing it all. As I've mentioned below, her 
main objective appeared to be increasing  her pension fund - she was attracted by the 
potentially high returns that the carbon credits  investment might generate.
But we now know that Mrs T received a substantial payment - £25,918.88 - in return for
investing in carbon credits.  Thats a very substantial amount. I recognise that most people, if 
told that sort of sum is on offer, would naturally want to access  it. I agree it was a motivating 
factor in Mrs T's decision to go ahead.
Mrs T has told us that she didn't need  the money herself. She wasn't actively looking  to raise 
money (whether to help or son or for any other purpose). From what she's  said (which I see 
no reason to doubt) her mortgage adviser  brought up the topic  of Mrs T's pension 
arrangements and the possibility of investing in carbon credits.  And it was the potential 
returns, rather than the availability of an immediate  lump sum, that attracted Mrs T  shes 
stressed that her main reason for investing  was because she believed the investment had 
potential. Her focus seems to have been  the returns the carbon credits  investment would 
generate. Improving her financial position when she retired appears to have been her main 
motivation rather than the incentive payment.
Ref: DRN527503510All that said,  Mrs T no doubt welcomed the money. It put her in a position where she was 
able to help her son. But, even if she'd felt compelled to help him (I note she describes his 
debts as of a 'serious nature') she might have  been able to have raised the money  by other  
means. She'd been able to secure buy to let mortgages so borrowing the money may not 
have been out of the question. Or she may have been able to sell one of her properties  to 
raise capital. And ultimately,  if she hadn't have had that money, she might  simply to have 
been unable  to assist her son.
I don't agree  with Meyado's comments about  Mrs T or us having concealed the payment. It 
seems Mrs T understood it was money that she was entitled  to as part of her tax free cash  
and which  would be paid out of her pension fund. So I don't think  she'd necessarily have  
seen it as something which might be controversial or out of the ordinary or which she 
needed to keep quiet about. It seems, from the way she describes it, that she simply thought  
it was a portion  of the transfer  value she was entitled to take as cash. When it came  to our 
attention that other investors had received payments  we asked Mrs T about  it and she 
provided the details  we'd requested, including a copy  of her bank statement showing the 
receipt of the payment.
I agree  that it would have been preferable if we'd had that information before I issued my
provisional decision. And I note whats been said about the length  of time we've had the
complaint. But thats our fault rather than Mrs T's. And where, as here, we're  investigating a 
number of similar complaints, it may be that something may arise on one or more cases  that 
also applies  to some or all of the other  cases.
But whats  important here is that the payment has now come  to light, we've looked into it
and shared the details with Meyado, which has been  able to comment on it. I'm also
issuing this letter so that Meyado can see what I think about it and the other comments
made and has the opportunity, if it disagrees,  to provide further evidence and argument
before I issue any further decision.
I don't agree  with what Meyado has said about  us concealing material  evidence  - a copy of
the relevant bank statement. We asked for that as evidence of the incentive  payment. We
can supply a copy of that statement. But we'll redact all the details except for the payment
So I don't see that much  would be gained from doing that.
I think Meyado's argument for requesting  sight of Mrs T's bank statements is that her 
financial position at the time is relevant in terms of the incentive payment and whether
she'd have gone ahead anyway to secure  that money. But Mrs T's financial position  at the 
time was explored by HDIFA - it carried out a fact finding exercise which  included  obtaining 
details of Mrs T's income  and expenditure. She was working and had income from her buy to 
let properties.  I don't  think there's any suggestion  that her financial  position was difficult  at 
the time.  I don't think its necessary or proportionate to insist  that her bank statements are 
disclosed.
As to whether  we should seek further  information from Firm A, I dont see that would help
Meyado when I've considered Firm As involvement and from the perspective of what  HDIFA
understood Firm As role to be  in particular that Firm A (or another  party)  had given Mrs T 
advice about the carbon credits investment before she was put in touch with HDIFA and
that Firm A would be advising her as to how her pension fund would be invested  once the
transfers had been  completed.
Ref: DRN527503511As to causation, my starting  point is that Meyado gave unsuitable advice. So primarily it is
responsible for the consequences of that unsuitable  advice  - the losses that Mrs T has
suffered in consequence of transferring to the SIPP and investing in carbon credits.  As I've 
said, I don't  think Meyado  argues that HDIFA's advice was suitable.  Its position is, given the 
involvement of other parties, it isn't fair or reasonable to hold Meyado responsible for Mrs Ts 
losses in full. I've recognized the involvement  of others.  And I've considered  it very carefully 
along with the other  causation issues that Meyado  has raised.
But my view remains that Meyado is responsible for Mrs Ts losses. As I said in my
provisional decision, if Meyado considers that other parties are also to blame and should
share some of the liability, its presumably open to Meyado  to pursue those other  parties. I
don't see that Mrs T, if her losses are met in full by Meyado, would object to assigning
her rights to Meyado.
comments in response  to my letter of 6 December 2019
 
Mrs T was happy with what Id said. Meyado didnt accept what Id said.  It continued to rely 
on the arguments it had previously raised. It particular it drew attention to the following:
No proper enquiries had been made  about Firm As material  involvement. 
My conclusions  as to causation  were  unreasonable and irrational. Mrs T signed the 
SIPP member declaration confirming she knew her chosen investment was high risk 
and that responsibility for the investment and her decision  to invest  rested with her and 
her investment adviser  (not HDIFA).
Its irrational and unreasonable  to say HDIFA also had an advisory responsibility when (as 
Mrs T knew and acknowledged) it had clearly  set out the limited scope of its involvement 
and recommended  the transferred fund was held in cash. A contracting  party (HDIFA)  has 
the right to determine  the scope of the services it is (or isnt) willing  to provide. 
Mrs T was more likely than not to have proceeded with the transfer  irrespective of 
contrary advice  from HDIFA. The evidence shows  she was aware  of the risks and was 
willing to accept  them in the hope of higher future  returns. Hindsight was being used to 
revisit and modify the evidence. 
The (previously  undisclosed) very substantial incentive payment was of real concern.  It 
was overwhelmingly likely to have  been a decisive factor  in Mrs Ts decision making. 
Theres no reasonable basis to speculate that she might have been able to raise  money  
by other means to try to solve  her (and her sons) very serious  financial distress.  
The present factual analysis is incorrect and unfairly influenced by hindsight  and/or 
unevidenced speculation about what might  (or might not) have happened but for 
HDIFAs involvement.  
my findings
Ive considered again all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
I dont think Meyados further comments are new. I dont have much  to add to what Ive said 
previously. Meyados main remains Firm As involvement. I dont agree we havent made 
sufficient enquiries  about  that. Or that Ive misunderstood or failed to take proper account of 
the part played by Firm A, or indeed others. 
Ref: DRN527503512I dont see theres much  dispute  about what Firm A did. Mrs T had been referred to Firm A 
because she was interested in investing  in carbon credits using her pension  fund. The idea 
appears to have come from Firm Bs adviser. Mrs T may also have had some initial 
discussions with Firm A about  the investment. But she had deferred benefits  in a former 
employers final salary  pension scheme. Firm A couldnt advise about that and introduced  
her to HDIFA. As far as HDIFA understood, Firm A would be advising Mrs T on the 
investment and arranging it. And it was Firm A, some weeks  after the transfers had been 
completed, that instructed  the SIPP provider to purchase the carbon credits investment. 
HDIFAs position is that it was only advising Mrs T on the transfer  and the SIPP itself. HDIFA 
understood - and Mrs T agreed  - shed be getting investment advice from another  regulated 
business. Mrs T also confirmed in writing that she and her adviser (not HDIFA)  took full 
responsibility for the investment.  But Ive explained why HDIFA couldnt  advise  on that 
limited basis and that, in considering the suitability of the transfers and the SIPP,  HDIFA had 
to consider the proposed  underlying investment too. Thats the position  even though  the 
introduction had come from a regulated  firm (and not an unregulated introducer)  and 
notwithstanding that investment advice was to be given by that regulated firm. 
I dont agree HDIFA could  seek to exclude or restrict its regulatory responsibilities to Mrs T 
by agreement with her. And I dont think it matters  that the transfer  values were  initially  held 
in cash: HDIFA knew  from the outset  that Mrs T was planning to invest in carbon credits.  
The proposed investment  wasnt suitable for Mrs T. Ive explained elsewhere why I dont 
regard the assessment of her attitude  to risk (adventurous or even speculative) as credible. 
And, even  if shed indicated she was prepared  to take a very high level of risk, my view is 
that investing in carbon credits represented  more risk than she should have been  advised to 
take with her (only)  pension funds and even  if shed described those as insignificant. HDIFA 
should have advised Mrs T against transferring and investing in carbon credits.  
I dont agree my conclusions have been  reached  with the benefit of hindsight.  Theres no 
dispute as to the advice  HDIFA gave Mrs T  HDIFA recommended she transfer. That 
advice was unsuitable. HDIFA is responsible for the consequences of its unsuitable advice. 
Ive considered very carefully what Mrs T would  have  done if shed been given suitable 
advice  that she shouldnt transfer  to invest in carbon credits.  I maintain what Ive said 
before. I dont agree, for the reasons Ive explained, that shed have proceeded anyway. I 
agree the availability of a substantial incentive  payment   given Mrs Ts sons problems  and 
her natural  inclination  to want  to help him if she could   would have been a significant  factor  
in Mrs Ts decision. But, on balance, Im not convinced  it was determinative and that shed 
have gone ahead anyway and if HDIFA had advised  her against. 
All in all my views remain as Ive previously indicated. I uphold  the complaint.
fair compensation
My aim in awarding redress is to put Mrs T as far as possible  in the position shed be in now
if HDIFA had given  her suitable  advice. I think  Mrs T would have retained her existing
pension arrangements.
Ref: DRN527503513what Meyado should  do?
To compensate Mrs T fairly, Meyado must determine the fair value of her transferred
pension benefits  as outlined in Step One and Step Two below. If the actual value  is greater
than the fair value , no compensation is payable.
actual value
This means  the actual amount payable from the SIPP at the date of the calculation.
It may be difficult  to find the actual  value of the carbon credits investment. So the actual
value should be assumed  to be nil to arrive  at fair compensation. Meyado should take
ownership of the investment by paying a commercial value acceptable  to the SIPP  provider.
Here the SIPP  provider has confirmed that a zero valuation can be used.
If Meyado is unable or unwilling  to purchase  the investment, the actual value should be
assumed to be nil for the purpose of calculation. Meyado may require, if Mrs T is redressed 
in full, that Mrs T provides an undertaking to pay Meyado  any amount she may receive  from 
the investment  in the future. That undertaking must allow for any tax and charges that would 
be incurred on drawing  the receipt from the pension plan. Meyado will need to meet  any 
costs in drawing up the undertaking. 
If Meyado takes ownership of the investment that should allow Mrs Ts SIPP to be closed.  If 
the SIPP remains open Id normally need to consider an award for future SIPP  fees. But the 
SIPP provider has told us that it hasnt taken any fees since 2017. On the basis that no fees 
are being  incurred Im not making any award for future SIPP  fees. 
fair value   step one
Meyado should  undertake a redress calculation (in respect of the deferred  defined benefits
transferred) in line with the regulators pension review guidance as updated by the Financial
Conduct Authority  in October 2017.
This calculation should  be carried out as at the date of my final decision, and using the most
recent financial assumptions published (at the date of that decision). In accordance with the
regulators expectations, this should  be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider
promptly following receipt of notification of Mrs Ts acceptance of the decision.
Meyado may wish to contact the Department  for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mrs Ts 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related  Pension Scheme (SERPS  or S2P). These 
details should  then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will take 
into account the impact  of leaving the occupational scheme on Mrs Ts SERPS/S2P entitlement.
fair value   step two
Meyado will also need to determine  the notional value of Mrs Ts personal pension,  had she
not transferred  to the SIPP. 
Mrs Ts personal  pension was invested  in the providers Managed  Pension  Fund.  Thats
consistent with a medium or balanced  attitude to risk. On that basis an appropriate
comparator would be the FTSE UK Private Investor  Income Total Return index.  Meyado
should use that index to work out the personal  pension transfer value would be worth as at
Ref: DRN527503514the date of my final decision  had it achieved a return in line with that index.
Any additional sums paid into the SIPP should  be added to the fair value calculation from the
point in time when  they were actually paid in. Any withdrawal, income or other payment out
of the investment should be deducted  from the fair value  at the point it was actually paid so it
ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from that point on. If there are a large number
of regular payments,  to keep calculations simpler, I will accept if Meyado totals all those
payments and deducts that figure at the end instead of deducting periodically.
The combined value  of the above two steps is the fair value.
If the redress calculation  demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid
into Mrs Ts pension  plan.  The payment should allow for the effect  of charges and any
available tax relief.  The compensation  shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would
conflict with any existing  protection or allowance.
If a payment  into the pension isnt possible (and I assume that Mrs T will be looking to close
her SIPP) or has protection or allowance implications, it should  be paid directly to Mrs T as a
lump sum after making a notional deduction  to allow for income tax that would otherwise
have been paid. 25% of the loss would be tax-free  and 75% would have been taxed
according to her likely  income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making  a
notional deduction  of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this.
In carrying out the above  calculations, Meyado should make  an allowance  for the lump sum
Mrs T was paid.  It should do this by applying a withdrawal of £25,918.88  from the calculation
on the date Mrs T actually received the lump  sum (1 June 2012). Its possible Mrs T could 
face an unauthorised payment charge. But whether that will be the case  and, if so, what  
amount Mrs T may have to pay is uncertain. Meyado should give Mrs T an undertaking to 
meet any unauthorised payment charge that Mrs T may in the future  have to pay. 
In addition to the above,  Meyado  should  pay Mrs T £250 to reflect the distress  and upset
caused by its advice. 
Meyado should  provide details of its calculations to Mrs T in a clear and simple format.  
The compensation resulting from the loss assessment must where possible be paid to Mrs T
within 90 days of the date Meyado receives  notification of her acceptance of my final
decision. Further interest must be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per
year simple  from the date of my final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in
excess of 90 days, that it takes Meyado to pay Mrs T this compensation.
Its possible that data gathering  for a SERPS  adjustment may mean that the actual time
taken to settle goes  beyond  the 90 day period allowed for settlement above   and so any
period of time where  the only outstanding  item required to undertake the calculation is data
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
Ref: DRN527503515my final decision
I uphold the complaint. Meyado Private Wealth Management London Ltd must redress  Mrs T 
as Ive set out above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 April 2020. 
Lesley Stead
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5275035