K820x#14complaint
Mr B has complained about esure  Insurance Limiteds handling of his car insurance policy.
Reference to esure includes  their agents.
background
On 25 August 2018, Mr Bs father was driving his car on a motorway. He was towing a trailer 
at the time when  another car crashed into the back of the trailer. The accident was the other 
drivers fault. Mr B claimed on his esure policy.
esure recovered the car to one of the approved  repairers (AR).  The approved repairer  
identified the accident related damage  to the car and repaired it. That was mainly the rear 
bumper and surrounding areas.  The car was returned to Mr B in December 2018.
But Mr B said there was other accident related damage that hadnt been repaired.  He asked 
esure to fix the following: an oil leak; the power  steering; the central locking; the fuel flap and 
fuel clap; and the electric adjustment for the drivers seat.
To establish whether or not the problems raised by Mr B were accident  related, esure  
arranged for the car to be examined  by the main dealer garage and have a diagnostic test 
done in January 2019. The main dealer garage didnt think  the damage  Mr B complained of 
was accident related.  But as Mr B remained unhappy esure had an independent engineer 
examine the car in February 2019.  Like the main dealer garage the independent engineer  
also said the issues Mr B raised werent  accident related.
esure didnt  uphold Mr Bs complaint. But they offered to pay him £150  compensation 
because esure accepted  certain aspects of their service could have been better.
Mr B then contacted the independent  engineer  and told them  his car had been idle at the 
ARs garage  for a long time. On the basis of that information the independent  engineer did a 
further report and said, while  they maintained their opinion that the suspension and steering  
problems werent accident  related, it was possible that those problems occurred as a result 
of the car being idle.
esure looked into the matter again. In relation  to the suspension, Mr B had raised that from 
the start.  So, as all the engineering evidence said it wasnt accident  related, esure  concluded 
it was a pre-exiting problem. But Mr B hadnt  raised a problem with the steering before.  As a 
result, although the engineering evidence confirmed the steering problem wasnt  accident 
related, given the independent engineers opinion that the problem could have developed 
while the car was idle at the AR, esure  gave  Mr B the benefit of the doubt and agreed to fix 
the steering issue.  esure also offered an additional Mr B £150 compensation because they 
had now decided to fix the steering problem. I understand that Mr B later paid to have his car 
repaired and esure reimbursed him the cost of fixing the steering.
Mr B remained dissatisfied with esure. He therefore brought  his complaint to our service.  
Two of our investigators looked  into it. They both felt that esure had dealt with Mr Bs claim 
fairly. As Mr B didnt think that was fair, the complaint has been passed  to me to decide.
Ref: DRN50999572my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I appreciate  this will be disappointing for 
Mr B, but Im not going to uphold his complaint. Ill explain  why.
Mr B is adamant that the damage to his car that esure havent  fixed  was related  to the 
accident. But esure said those issues were as a result of wear  and tear or pre-existing which 
isnt covered under the policy.
I am basing my decision on the available evidence. And the evidence provided by esure 
shows that their AR, the main dealer garage and the independent  engineer agree with esure.  
They are all engineers  and are considered experts. Both esure and our investigators told   
Mr B that he could get his own expert  engineering evidence to comment on why the 
engineering evidence esure  have  given is wrong. But he didnt do that. I note that he paid to 
have his car repaired by his own engineer. I think that would  have been  a good opportunity 
for Mr B to have asked his engineer to provide their opinion on the issues  that are in dispute.  
Given the extent  of the repair involved, I understand Mr Bs car would have been stripped 
and undergone extensive work. His engineer would have had the benefit  of that process and 
would have been in a good position  to comment.  But that didnt happen.
As a result, I am left with the expert  opinions of three engineers, two of whom  are 
independent who all said that the additional repair work Mr B wanted esure to pay for wasn't  
accident related.  I therefore think it was reasonable for esure  to rely on their opinions in 
refusing to deal with the damage  claimed  by Mr B that is in dispute between the parties.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 June  2020. 
Mehmet Osman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5099957