K820x#14complaint
Mr J complains that Aviva Insurance Limited  turned  down a claim made under his home 
buildings insurance  policy.
Mr J is being represented in his complaint by a friend. For ease I will refer to all actions as 
being those of Mr J.
background
In late 2017 Mr J made a claim under his policy  for damage to his driveway. Mr J said his 
driveway began to sink earlier in the year. He wasnt sure when the problem started but 
thought it mightve  been after an oil delivery  to his property, and that it might have to do with 
drains under the driveway. Aviva investigated  the claim but turned it down saying the 
damage wasnt consistent with a one-off  event,  so wasnt  covered under the policy.  Aviva 
went on to say that there was no evidence of damage to the drains under the driveway,  nor 
any evidence the driveway was damaged by the weight of a vehicle delivering oil. 
Mr J was unhappy with this so brought his complaint  to our service  where one of our 
investigators looked into what happened. Our investigator considered the policy  documents,  
all of the information provided by Mr J, as well as a report  done on the drains under the 
driveway. He thought  Aviva acted reasonably when turning the down claim by saying the 
damage happened gradually over time due to wear and tear, and not as a result of 
accidental damage.  Mr J remained unhappy  so the complaint has come to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr J has supplied a lot of information about his complaint. If I havent mentioned  something,  
or answered  a particular  issue raised by Mr J, its not because Ive ignored  it. I havent. Im 
satisfied I dont need to comment on every  individual point to be able reach what  I think is a 
fair outcome. This reflects the informal  nature  of our service. However, Ive given careful 
consideration to all of the submissions made before arriving at my decision.
I think its important to tell Mr J I dont doubt theres  an issue  with his driveway, and this has 
clearly caused a great deal of upset. But its also important to say that my role isnt to re-
underwrite the claim, but to decide  whether Aviva acted fairly and reasonably  when applying  
the policy terms to Mr Js claim.
Insurance policies  cant  and dont  cover every eventuality. Insurers  are free to decide what 
events they wish to provide  cover for under  a policy. They  are also free to include exclusions 
in policies for events  they dont want to cover. Here  the policy doesnt cover  wear and tear, 
or damage  which happens  gradually over time. Aviva has relied upon this exclusion when 
deciding not to pay the claim. An exclusion for wear and tear, or damage that happens  over 
time, is common  in home insurance policies. 
An expert report was conducted on the drains underneath the driveway which  found no 
defects to the drains. Aviva considered this report and conducted a site visit. They  
maintained there was no damage with the drains, and no evidence of damage  due to a one-
Ref: DRN53870232off event. Without any evidence of the cause of the problem Aviva said the issue was due to 
wear and tear and not accidental damage, and therefore isnt covered under the policy.
In order to be covered  under the policy there  would need to be evidence of a one-off event 
that caused the damage. Aviva says there is no such evidence. 
Having looked  at the drains report,  and the notes  of the investigation, Im satisfied that Aviva 
considered the evidence  in a reasonable way. Thats  not to say there isnt a problem with the 
driveway; there is. But Aviva says the problem is not an insured event under  the policy. I 
agree Aviva has acted  reasonably when considering the evidence and coming to that 
outcome on the claim. 
Having considered everything, Im satisfied  Aviva applied the policy terms in a fair and 
reasonable way when  turning down  the claim.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 February  2020.
Warren Wilson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5387023