K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain  that Countrywide Principal Services Limited  mis-sold a mortgage to 
them. They ask that it compensates them for the early  repayment charge (ERC) they paid 
when they re-mortgaged.
background
Countrywide recommended a mortgage  to Mr and Mrs B in 2014 with a five year fixed  rate 
product. Mr and Mrs B say the mortgage was unsuitable as it included  an ERC for five years. 
They say they werent offered products without ERCs or given a suitability letter.  
Mr and Mrs B say it was obvious  that they would  want to re-mortgage within  five years as 
their incomes and the value of their property increased. 
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She said 
Countrywides notes  said Mr and Mrs B asked for a five year product as they were  thinking 
of starting a family the following year and wanted to budget. The mortgage  met 
Mr and Mrs Bs other stated needs. 
Our investigator said the information Countrywide gave to Mr and Mrs B told them it 
reviewed products from its panel of lenders. And the mortgage planner  and key facts 
illustration gave them enough information  about  the product  they took out, including about 
the ERC.
Mr and Mrs B didnt  agree. They were  disappointed that the investigator put more weight on 
notes written at the time by Countrywide than their own recollections. Mrs B said she was 
about seven months  pregnant at the time so the note they intended to start a family next 
year was clearly wrong. They said they didnt ask for a five year product  they just wanted 
the cheapest available.  
Mr and Mrs B said they previously had a three  year product and have since  taken out a two 
year product. They say this shows they wouldnt have wanted a long term product. They ask 
whether Countrywide  received more commission for the five year product. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely  to have happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances. 
Countrywide recommended the mortgage. So it needed to obtain all relevant information and 
ensure the mortgage was suitable  for Mr and Mrs Bs needs and circumstances. 
Countrywide completed a mortgage planner  in March 2014. This included information about 
Mr and Mrs Bs income and expenditure, their employment and their requirements. They  
wanted to borrow  £180,000. The property  they intended to buy was valued at £190,000. 
The mortgage planner says Mr and Mrs B didnt expect  any significant changes  to their 
income or expenditure.  They didnt think it likely theyd move house. They wanted to fix their 
costs for five plus years. They were thinking of starting a family next year and wanted to be 
Ref: DRN50645952able to budget. The mortgage  planner also says Mr and Mrs B wanted a mortgage which 
would allow them to use the help to buy scheme and offer cashback to cover fees.
The mortgage recommended  by Countrywide met these requirements. Countrywides  
records say that this wasnt the least  expensive  mortgage: it recommended it because 
Mr and Mrs B wanted to use the help to buy scheme. Countrywide says it provided key facts 
information to Mr and Mrs B about its mortgage  services  including that it can only offer 
mortgage from a limited number of lenders.  
Countrywide provided a copy  of the key facts  illustration (KFI) for the mortgage it 
recommended. This says the mortgage has a five year fixed  interest rate and an ERC is 
payable during the fixed rate period. The amount of the ERC is clearly  stated.
Mr and Mrs B say that some  of the information recorded by Countrywide is wrong. They  say 
they wouldnt have  said they intended  to start a family as Mrs B was pregnant. Perhaps this 
wasnt well phrased.  But I dont think Mrs B being pregnant is inconsistent with them  wanting 
to budget for starting  a family. While Mr and Mrs B now say they didnt  want a five year fixed 
rate product,  I havent seen  evidence  they made Countrywide aware of this in 2014. 
Countrywide had to ensure any mortgage  it recommended was suitable,  regardless of the 
commission or fee it received. It completed  a mortgage planner  and recommended a 
mortgage that met the needs and requirements  it had recorded for Mr and Mrs B. On 
balance, I dont think I can reasonably find that Countrywide deliberately recorded incorrect 
information about Mr and Mrs Bs needs or recommended a mortgage  that wasnt suitable 
for their needs at the time. 
It follows that I dont think its reasonable to require Countrywide to pay compensation to 
Mr and Mrs B for the ERC they paid when they re-mortgaged. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  22 March  2019.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5064595