K820x#14Complaint
Mr T complains that Allianz  Insurance Plc caused  delays  when  dealing  with a claim under 
his buildings insurance policy. Hes also unhappy Allianz declined to cover some of the 
damage within his home  and wont renew his policy.
Background
Mr Ts buildings  insurance policy is underwritten by Allianz and its responsible for 
complaints relating to claims so Ill refer to it throughout.  Allianz  used a loss assessor to 
manage the claim and it in turn used a number of experts to undertake investigations. When  
I refer to Allianzs actions  that includes the actions  of its nominated representatives.
This complaint concerns  all matters up to 18 November 2019 when Allianz issued its final 
response. All matters after this date, including  the matter of underpinning,  loss of rent and 
the condition of the home are being  dealt with by our service under a separate  case.  
A claim  was set up in June 2017 for damage  to Mr Ts property. After the initial site visit it 
was confirmed there was a valid subsidence claim. Following this, various monitoring 
readings were taken, with drains repaired, trees removed, and reports conducted.
Mr T feels Allianz  has taken an unreasonable amount of time in dealing with the claim given  
that it had been almost  two and a half years  at 18 November 2019  with repair works still not 
completed. Allianz has said theres been continuous work, including  monitoring, on the claim 
during this time. 
Allianz does however accept there  have  been  significant delays in responding to Mr T, with 
some missed appointments  and other delays following site investigations.  Allianz has said 
these havent  significantly impacted  the overall  timeframe, but it has offered to pay Mr T 
£500 to acknowledge the delays and shortcomings  it is responsible for. Mr T doesnt feel this 
is fair compensation for the delays and the trouble and upset  he experienced.
Mr T is also unhappy with Allianzs decision not to cover damp and some of the distortions to 
the home. Allianz  believes the damage is unrelated  to the subsidence and not covered under 
the policy. Mr T also complained that Allianz  refused to provide buildings insurance cover  
beyond his renewal. It said this was due its decision to withdraw from the personal home 
insurance market.
Our investigator didnt  uphold this complaint. She felt that Allianz had acted  fairly  in relying 
on the expert information and opinion in deciding what damage was and wasnt covered 
under the claim. And that Allianz had fairly excluded the damage  in question in line with the 
policy terms. In her opinion, £500 was fair compensation  for the things Allianz did get wrong 
and Allianz was entitled to take the commercial decision  not to provide new personal home 
insurance policies.
Because Mr T didnt  agree with our investigator, this case has been  passed to me for a final 
decision 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN58810992This includes the additional points  Mr T raised following our investigators view.  Although  Ive 
summarised matters above,  Ive looked carefully  through all the information on the claim to 
understand whats happened. And having done  so, Ive arrived  at the same conclusions as 
the investigator and for broadly the same  reasons.
The time the claim has taken
Its generally acknowledged that subsidence claims can take a long time, as they often 
involve things like monitoring to measure movement and determine stability over an 
extended period.  But Ive taken a closer look to see if Allianz  acted unreasonably or took an 
unreasonable amount of time.
From the evidence Ive seen, Allianz arranged a site visit shortly after the claim was set up, 
including making  contact at that time with the local authority to notify it of the possible need  
to remove a tree it owned. Allianzs decision to carry out monitoring at the property was a 
reasonable course of action and in line with what Id expect an insurer  to do when dealing 
with a claim for subsidence.  Monitoring was necessary to determine the cause  of the 
subsidence, the actions necessary to stop it and in this case, to provide evidence  to the local 
authority that the damage may be caused  by things it was responsible for.
Whilst the monitoring was ongoing, an arborist was also appointed to review  the cause of the 
subsidence and drainage  repairs were  also completed. Once the local authority had taken 
the action of pollarding the tree it was responsible for, and after the drainage repairs  had 
been completed, further monitoring took place to see if the property had stabilised  I think  
Allianz acted reasonably  in doing this.
In July 2018, the local authority told Allianz  it didnt believe there was enough  evidence  to 
show the tree it owned needed to be removed. Following this, Allianz obtained  the arborists  
report and recommendations, maintaining contact with the local authority and providing  
evidence that its tree was still having  an influence despite the pollarding and drain repairs.
From what  Ive seen, Allianz  had to chase the local authority numerous times for a response,  
eventually giving it 30 days  notice  to remove the tree in July 2019. I think  Allianz acted fairly 
here and I cant hold it responsible for the local authoritys inaction or delay,  particularly 
when Allianz repeatedly  chased it for a response.
I understand that by September 2019, the local authority had removed the offending  tree, 
which leads me to conclude Allianz was able to gather the evidence necessary to satisfy  it 
the tree was having an influence on Mr Ts property  and needed  removing.
Although Allianz  at first intended  to proceed to repairs  at this point, it then agreed to carry 
out further monitoring in November 2019 to confirm stability  following the tree removal. I 
consider Allianz  acted  fairly in agreeing to do this.
Although I accept the claim has taken a long time, I dont consider that Allianz  has taken an 
unreasonable amount of time overall, given  the work and monitoring that was necessary on 
the claim and the delays  that were outside  its control.
I do agree  that Allianz was wrong not to respond  to Mr Ts initial concerns of July 2017. Even 
though work  on the claim was ongoing, Allianz was still wrong to take till February 2018 to 
respond to Mr T. I can also see there were missed appointments, particularly in July 2019 
Ref: DRN58810993and some delay in obtaining  the arborist report.  But I think the £500 Allianz has offered is fair 
compensation to reflect  these shortcomings and I wont  be asking Allianz to increase this.
Other damage to the property
Moving to the damage thats not covered, Mr Ts policy doesnt provide cover for damage  
that is historical. This is common with many insurance policies.
The experts that have  reviewed the damage  to the property have said only the damage  
proven to have  been caused by the subsidence would be covered under the claim. In the 
opinion of the expert, this doesnt include the damp  staining which  they consider to be a 
longstanding problem  not connected  to the foundation movement (the subsidence). This also 
doesnt include the distortions which theyve said are not related to the subsidence.
I acknowledge Mr T doesnt agree with this experts view.  And to support this view, he has 
been given the opportunity to provide an alternative  expert report to show  why the damage 
isnt historical and should be covered. Hes said on a number of occasions he planned to 
appoint a structural surveyor to do this but so far hasnt. 
So, in the absence of an expert opinion supporting Mr Ts view, I think it was reasonable for 
Allianz to rely on the opinion of its expert that this damage isnt covered and so to decline 
that part of the claim.
Mr T has said Allianz should define  what it means by historical when it refers to the damage  
not being covered but I think  its enough that Allianz  has explained this means damage not 
related to and pre-dating  the subsidence  damage  its agreed  to cover. 
Mr T has also pointed  to a case study on our website  that suggests  wed ask an insurer to 
deal with historical subsidence damage.  Although  we deal with each case  on its own merits, 
the important  point to note here is the case study  is based on it being established the 
damage, even  if historical, was caused  by subsidence. I dont think this is the case here as 
the expert opinion is the damage is not related to or caused by subsidence and although Im 
conscious of Mr Ts opinion on the matter, Ive not seen enough evidence to support his 
view.
Lastly, on this point, Mr T points out that subsidence can be described as a gradually 
operating cause so all the damage should be covered. But I dont agree because  the 
damage Allianz is declining to cover is damage  it says was not caused by or related to the 
subsidence. Im persuaded by the reliability  of the information Allianz has relied on in coming  
to this conclusion  and the onus is on Mr T to prove otherwise. I cant  see that Mr T has been  
able to do this.
If Mr T does decide to obtain his own expert  opinion,  he should send this directly  to Allianz 
as it has always been open to reviewing  any further  evidence from Mr T. This includes any 
evidence that the damp  is related to this or any previous instance of subsidence  although 
Allianz may not be responsible if this is because of defective work carried  out by another 
insurer under a previous claim.
Policy renewal
On the matter of renewal, Mr Ts home insurance  policy is an annual  policy  rather than a 
long-term contract.  This means that Allianz is not obliged to continue  to provide cover  at the 
policy renewal date.  Allianz has said it wasnt able to renew Mr Ts policy  because  it ceased 
providing insurance through the third-party  company that had previously distributed the 
Ref: DRN58810994insurance to the broker through  which Mr T purchased his policy.  Allianz  also shortly after 
withdrew from the personal  home  insurance  market entirely. I consider these to be 
commercial decisions that Allianz was entitled  to make.  
Allianz has said it notified the third-party  company about this decision. If Mr T has any 
concerns about  not being notified, or with the failure  to reinsure with other insurers,  he 
should raise this directly  with this company.
Allianz has continued to deal with Mr Ts claim as it was his insurer at the time of the loss. 
Allianz has also said it would retain  a claims team  to deal with ongoing or past claims. I 
consider this to be fair.
Overall, based on everything  Ive seen on this complaint, I think Allianz has made a fair offer 
of compensation  for the things it got wrong.  I also think  Allianz  has acted fairly in deciding  
what it wont cover and in exercising its commercial judgement  to not provide new buildings 
insurance cover.
My final decision
I am aware  Allianz Insurance Plc has made  an offer to pay £500  to settle the complaint.  I 
conclude that such an offer is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. My decision is 
that Allianz Insurance Plc should  pay Mr T £500  if it hasnt done  so already.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 August 2020.
Paul Phillips
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN5881099