K821x#15complaint
Mrs M complains about the way Amtrust  Europe Limited handled a claim for a damaged sofa 
under her extended  protection  policy.
background
Mrs M bought a sofa in January 2016 but when it was delivered in April 2016, it was faulty. 
So in August 2016 a replacement sofa was ordered  - which was delivered in October  2016.
In mid-February 2018, the replacement sofa developed a fault,  so Mrs M made a claim 
under her extended  protection  policy. She complained  that the reclining mechanism wasnt  
working properly, and the underneath of the sofa seemed to have dropped.  At the end of 
February, a specialist technician looked  at the sofa and noted  the frame  was bent and 
needed replacing. 
In mid-March, a new frame was ordered  and Mrs M was told it would take 6-8 weeks for 
delivery. However, after 8 weeks had passed, Mrs M was told it would be a further 9 weeks 
before this would  be received. In mid-June  Mrs M finally received the replacement frame  but 
despite numerous calls to Amtrust - and three more technician visits over a period of five 
months - the sofa still couldnt  be repaired. 
In October, Amtrust offered Mrs M £85 for the delays  and poor communication  in dealing 
with her claim. They also told Mrs M that she had two options  to resolve her complaint - she 
could wait several more  weeks for replacement parts, or have £121 compensation for her to 
arrange for her own repair and to keep the damaged  sofa. Mrs M wasnt happy with this as 
she wanted her money back  to buy a replacement sofa. She felt that shed lost faith in the 
retailer, and Amtrust as there had already been so many  unsuccessful attempts to repair the 
sofa - and this was already a replacement for the original faulty sofa.  So she asked this 
service to look into her complaint. 
Our investigator thought Amtrust hadnt  treated Mrs M reasonably. He felt the claim process 
had taken far too long and that Mrs M shouldve been offered a replacement sofa when the 
first repair couldnt be completed. He also said that he wasnt comfortable that the sofa could 
now be repaired - given  that the previous  three attempts hadnt worked. So he felt Amtrust  
should either replace the sofa or give Mrs M her money back.  He also said they should pay 
Mrs M £500  compensation  to acknowledge the significant inconvenience and upset caused 
to by them.     
Mrs M accepted the investigators recommendation but only if she could have a full refund - 
as she felt she could  no longer deal with the retailer, Amtrust. Amtrust didnt agree with our 
investigators opinion.  They  felt that the £500  compensation  was too high. And they said 
wouldnt be prepared to offer Mrs M a refund.  However, they did feel there might be a case 
for a replacement sofa to be provided. As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case  has 
been passed to me for a decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided to uphold  it 
for broadly the same reasons as the investigator. 
Ref: DRN57759352Ive looked at the terms and conditions of Mrs Ms policy  which say the intention of the plan 
is to provide cover for accidental staining,  accidental damage and structural faults  - including  
defects in the frame,  feet, legs and recliner mechanism.  And that if a repair  or replacement  
isnt possible Amtrust can choose  to either  offer a replacement or settle the claim by a cash  
payment. Ive looked at the interactions between Mrs M and Amtrust and I think  that the 
relationship and trust has broken down  irreparably. And I understand based on the time 
period that has elapsed,  the numerous attempts at repair,  poor communication  and delays  
caused to Mrs M why she now doesnt  want a replacement sofa. 
Mrs M has told us that she no longer feels able to deal with any party involved with her claim  
- and I can understand why she feels this way. When Mrs M tried to claim on her plan in 
February 2018, she did so having  already given the retailer and Amtrust, the opportunity  to 
replace her original faulty sofa. So I think it wouldve been reasonable for Mrs M to expect to 
receive a replacement that was in perfect  condition - or at least had been checked for faults  
before she received it. 
  
I recognise the need for the first technician to look at the sofa to locate the fault and order 
the replacement  parts. However, when the second  technician wasnt  able to complete  the 
repair, 19 weeks had already passed since the first technician had seen the sofa - and 
nearly 21 weeks since Mrs M had first made her claim. So I think based on Mrs Ms previous 
experience and the lengthy delay shed suffered with a broken sofa, it wouldve been 
reasonable for Amtrust  to have offered a replacement at this time - which Mrs M would then 
have been happy to accept. 
Ive also seen that over a further period of 16 weeks, Mrs M had two further technician visits 
- which she had to take time off for - and made  numerous phone  calls to see who would be 
looking into her claim  - as neither the retailer, nor Amtrust were accepting  liability.  Amtrust 
then suggested  in October  2018, after 35 weeks, that Mrs M could again wait for a further 
repair or accept a cash settlement of £121 to arrange for her own repair.  But I dont think 
either of these options was fair to Mrs M  especially as Ive seen evidence that the sofa 
repair would cost Amtrust substantially more than theyve  offered Mrs M to go elsewhere. 
Amtrust also noted under the first option, that even if Mrs M did chose to wait again for the 
replacement parts there wasnt any guarantee that there would be a colour or pattern match  
to the rest of the sofa. I dont think its reasonable that Mrs M should be expected - through 
no fault of her own - to accept a repair that wouldnt have left her in the position she 
shouldve been  had this issue not taken place. 
I feel that Mrs M has been very fair in allowing Amtrust numerous  attempts at repair, 
especially as this is the second replacement  shes received. But Amtrust  cant  guarantee a 
repair will fix the issue and put the sofa back into the condition  youd expect for a piece of 
furniture of this value. So based  on this evidence and the previous issues Mrs M has 
experienced with Amtrust,  I feel the fairest  resolution is for Mrs M to receive a refund for the 
full cost of the original  sofa - so she can purchase an alternative  of her choosing.   
Ive seen that Amtrust  offered  Mrs M £85 compensation for the delays and lack of 
communication. But I dont think thats enough. Amtrust said they disagreed with the £500 
compensation the investigator recommended for distress and inconvenience. They said the 
delay in receiving  the replacement  parts was outside  of their control, so there wasnt  
anything else they could do during this time - and I agree.  However, this still doesnt take into 
account the numerous visits  from technicians  who werent able to complete the repair and 
the 35 weeks Mrs M was without a working  sofa before  she brought  her complaint to us. 
Ref: DRN57759353I also dont think Amtrust have taken into account  that Mrs M hasnt had the full use of the 
sofa that she expected. And shes experienced the inconvenience of having to take time off 
for each  of the technicians to look at the sofa when  a replacement couldve been provided  
back in July 2018. So I feel that Amtrust should  pay Mrs M £500 compensation for the 
trouble and upset  caused as I feel this fairly reflects the level of trouble and upset Mrs M has 
experienced.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct Amtrust Europe  Limited  to:
Refund Mrs M the original cost of the sofa;
Pay Mrs M £500 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 April 2019.
Jenny Lomax
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5775935