K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain  that St Andrews Insurance Plc (St Andrews)  mis-sold them a 
monthly premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
In late 2003 Mr and Mrs B took out a mortgage.  About a month later PPI to protect  their 
repayments started.  The PPI covered Mr B only. It cost just over £43 a month  and would 
have paid out about £712 a month if Mr B had made a successful claim.
Mr B says he had good sick pay at the time and wouldnt have  bought the PPI  and he goes 
on to point out that hed never  have  bought  insurance just for himself. Mr and Mrs B think  the 
bank was wrong to sell them the policy.
The policy wasnt sold by St Andrews but by another insurer.  But St Andrews has taken 
responsibility for these  sales, so Ill refer to it throughout this decision.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.  Mr and Mrs B disagreed  with the adjudicators 
opinion so the complaint has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Bs case
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Bs complaint and Ive set out below my reasons for 
this.
This is a difficult case to decide because of the lack of available evidence from the time of 
the sale. So Ive based my decision  on the evidence I do have and what I think is most likely  
to have happened.
Mr and Mrs B say they thought the PPI was sold by the provider of their mortgage. And I can 
understand that, as the business that sold the insurance was part of a group of businesses  
that included the lender. But Ive looked at the internal records  from the time and on balance  
I think it was sold by St Andrews, not the lender. 
Mr and Mrs Bs main  concern  seems to be that they have no recall of the sale of the PPI. 
And St Andrews doesnt have much paperwork  about the actual sale of the PPI. But this 
isnt surprising given  the sale took place over 15 years ago. I wouldnt expect either Mr and 
Mrs B or St Andrews to keep paperwork indefinitely.
From what  this service knows about how St Andrews sold PPI at the time,  its likely it was 
sold during a phone call. And from the many sales weve looked at, its also likely Mr and 
Mrs B were  given a choice about  buying the PPI. I can see that it was set up to cover  Mr B 
only. That does suggest that a conversation took place  about the PPI at the time and it was 
tailored to suit Mr and Mrs Bs needs.  St Andrews also sent the relevant  literature  to Mr and 
Ref: DRN53685802Mrs B after the sale, and I cant see that they queried this as Id expect if it was something 
they didnt know  about. 
St Andrews  has sent us some internal records of the statement entries  for the mortgage.  
Theres no record of any PPI payments on that  which suggest the premium was collected 
separately from Mr and Mrs Bs bank account.  I think that if Mr and Mrs B didnt recognise 
the payments  they could have queried  them, but they havent said they did that.
Overall, I think St Andrews most likely gave Mr and Mrs B enough information for them  to 
know they had the PPI, even though  I do understand why theyve  forgotten  this over the 
years. And I dont  think  Mr and Mrs B could have  thought it was something they had to have 
 because the PPI didnt  start until about  a month  after Mr and Mrs B got their mortgage. If it 
had been sold when they were applying for the mortgage Id expect  it to start at the date the 
mortgage was drawn  down.
St Andrews  thinks it advised Mr and Mrs B to buy the PPI. This means that it needed to 
ensure that it met their needs. From what I know of Mr and Mrs Bs circumstances at the 
time, I think the policy was suitable  for her.
-Mr B was eligible  for the policy, and it doesnt look like hed have been  affected by any of 
the significant limitations or exclusions of the cover, such as those relating to pre-existing 
medical conditions.  
-Mr B says he would  have received generous sick pay if he couldnt work.  But this policy  
would pay on top of these benefits and for considerably longer than Mr B would get his 
full salary. The PPI covered Mr B only. I accept that Mr B says he wouldnt have bought 
PPI in his name only  but I can see from contemporaneous records  that he did earn 
about twice as much as Mrs B. So its not unreasonable to protect  only his contribution to 
the mortgage, which would also reduce the cost.  A mortgage  is a big commitment, and I 
think Mr and Mrs B would  have  had some use for the policy.
-I dont know exactly when they were told what the PI would cost. But I do think theyd 
have known it cost something.  The policy was competitively priced and apparently  
affordable, and I dont  think when Mr and Mrs B first knew  the cost affected  their decision 
to buy the PPI. 
-Its possible that St Andrews could  have provided more information  about  the policy, 
particularly in regard  to the things  that it didnt cover. But Mr B wasnt affected by any of 
these things at the time, so I dont think that more information would have caused them 
to change their minds about  buying the policy. So they arent  any worse off as a result of 
anything St Andrews may have done wrong.  So theres nothing that St Andrews needs 
to do to put things  right.
Ref: DRN53685803my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  9 August  2019.
Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5368580