K820x#14complaint
Mr Ss complaint against Barclays  Bank  UK PLC (Barclays) is that it registered a fraud alert 
warning against  his name, which means  he cant open another bank account elsewhere.
background
Mr S held an account with Barclays. In September 2018, a large credit  was received into the 
account, and withdrawn as cash. A fraud was reported, and investigated, and it was 
determined that the money  that came  into Mr Ss account had been obtained fraudulently.
Mr Ss account was then closed, and CIFAS  (Credit Industry Fraud  Avoidance  System) and 
Hunter markers registered against  his name. 
Mr S came to realise this when he tried unsuccessfully to open a new account  elsewhere.  
He complained to Barclays, asking it to remove the markers. But it explained why it had 
applied them, and why they couldnt be removed.  
So Mr S brought  his complaint to our service.
Our Investigator  looked  carefully  at the evidence, and spoke further to both parties. He 
concluded that Barclays hadnt  acted  unreasonably  in taking the action it did following the 
outcome of its fraud investigation, and that he couldnt uphold  Mr Ss complaint. He referred 
to the Payment Service Regulations  2017  (PSRs), and said he believed  the account activity 
leading to the application of the fraud markers,  had been authorised by Mr S.
Mr S didnt agree. He maintained it wasnt  him who withdrew the cash from his account  after 
the large payment was received. He said hed lost his bank  card and PIN. He also denied 
being paid, or asked,  by someone else to use the account.
He asked for an ombudsmans review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im in agreement with our Investigator that we cant uphold this complaint.
I know this will be very disappointing for Mr S, but my role is to assess  all the evidence,  and 
reach an outcome  thats fair to both parties.  Mr S is asking me to tell Barclays to remove  the 
CIFAS and Hunter markers. In order to be able to do that, Id have  to make a finding  that the 
markers were incorrect, or applied in error. But Ive not been able to do so.
The evidence Ive seen  suggests that it was more likely to be Mr S, or somebody authorised 
by him, who made the large cash withdrawal than anybody else. His genuine card and PIN 
were used, and an additional  security question was answered at the cash  terminal,  to allow a 
larger than usual daily amount to be taken  out. To do this somebody  other  than Mr S had to 
have the card, PIN, and security question answer.  Mr S has told us he cant  explain how this 
might have happened.
Ref: DRN55730142In addition, the withdrawal was made at the same branch where Mr S had opened his 
account. This seems  a big coincidence  if its a case of third-party  fraud.
Finally, our Investigator previously commented on Mr Ss version  of events, and the 
inconsistencies in his stories  particularly regarding the loss of his card and school lanyard, 
and personal security information.  I agree  with what he said. In cases such as this, where 
some of the evidence may be incomplete, we have to decide  on a balance of probabilities 
what we thinks most  likely  to have happened. And if some  of the evidence we do have is 
personal testimony, then its important  that we consider how truthful and accurate we believe 
it to be. Inconsistencies,  for obvious  reasons, can cast doubt  on a persons credibility. 
In this case, not only do we have Mr S not sticking to the same story about what  he lost and 
when, we also have  the fact that he didnt report his card as lost or stolen  to either  
Barclays or the police,  and neither  did he query Barclays closing  his account, until he found 
he was unable to open another elsewhere.  This is unusual, and not what  youd expect from 
somebody whod been an entirely  innocent victim of fraud and theft.
Put together with the other  evidence  we have, I think theres enough  for me to say that it 
looks more likely than not that Mr S was involved in the fraudulent  activity  that took place on 
his Barclays account.  Thats  to say, that Im satisfied he authorised the transactions (PSRs 
2017  this makes  Mr S responsible for them). And as such  it wasnt  unreasonable  for 
Barclays to place the relevant anti-fraud markers against him. Im satisfied that it met the 
criteria for doing so, and that it hasnt made a mistake or treated Mr S unfairly.
For all these reasons, I cant uphold the complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I cant uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 May 2020.
Ashley L B More
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5573014