K821x#15complaint
Mr I has complained about the refusal  of a claim made under his legal expenses  insurance 
policy with Ageas Insurance Limited.
Ageas uses agents  to deal with claims and complaints  on its behalf. Any reference to Ageas 
in this decision, should be read as including anything done or said by those agents on its 
behalf. 
background
Mr I had instructed his own solicitors to act for him in a potential personal injury  claim against 
his former  employer. In November 2017, the solicitors contacted Ageas to make a claim for 
their costs under the policy. This was apparently eight days  before the deadline by which  Mr 
I was required to lodge his claim. 
Ageas asked Mr Is solicitors for more information about the claim and advised that it was 
unlikely it would be able to confirm if the claim was covered by the policy or not before the 
deadline. Ageas also asked one of its panel solicitors to assess  the case.  
The panel  solicitors said they didnt consider that there was enough evidence to support that 
the case had reasonable prospects of succeeding  (a pre-requisite of cover under  the 
policy).They said that Mr Is solicitors  had said the claim was worth £25,000 but there was no 
supporting evidence as to how that had been evaluated and there was limited evidence  of 
his injury. The panel solicitors said there would also be concerns about contributory  
negligence, and put the prospects at 50/50  which is not quite enough to satisfy the policy 
terms. Ageas therefore asked Mr Is solicitors  for some further  information.  
Mr Is solicitors responded but Ageas  says they didnt provide the information it had asked 
for. In May 2018, Ageas wrote to reject the claim as it says it couldnt  verify that the claim is 
covered. In particular, it says that a medical  report was needed to verify the claim.
Mr I was very unhappy with this. He has made  a number  of submissions, which Ive 
summarised below: 
He didnt realise he had legal cover  at the time he had first instructed his solicitors, 
which is why he did not make  his claim earlier. 
He was unable  to pursue his claim because Ageas  didnt confirm  funding and he 
couldnt afford to pay the costs himself. He is now out of time. He had to pay £1,000  
in costs anyway.
His solicitors  werent telling him what was going  on as they kept ignoring him
 He has had medical problems and is in financial difficulty and is struggling to 
manage.
 He gave Ageas authority to access his medical  records. 
One of our investigators  looked into the matter. He recommended  that it be upheld, as he 
thought that Mr I had demonstrated, on the face of it, that he had a valid claim under the 
policy. Mr Is solicitors had said the case had reasonable prospects of success  and Ageas 
should have obtained an opinion from a barrister. The investigator also thought  that the cost 
of the medical  report should have been considered as a litigation expense  covered by the 
policy. The investigator  therefore recommended that Ageas pay to obtain a medical report  
and appoint a barrister to assess the claims for prospects and value of the claim. If the claim 
Ref: DRN52009572was deemed to have  prospects and be proportionate,  the barrister  should advise on what 
likely outcome the Mr I wouldve received had he been successful at court  and Ageas should 
pay this, as settlement,  to Mr I.
Ageas doesnt  accept  the investigators assessment  and has also made a number of 
submissions, summarised below:  
Its for the claimant  to demonstrate they have  a valid claim under the policy  that 
meets the necessary terms  and conditions in order for funding to be provided. A 
scenario cannot  be found whereby the client is provided with limited funding; either a 
claim is covered, or it is not. 
Until the policy terms are met, it would not be in a position to confirm  funding under 
the policy and, therefore, would not be in a position to pay for a medical report.  
It is not responsible  for paying for a report which, ultimately could confirm the claim 
does not meet the policy terms.
Mr Is solicitors provided little in the way of justification as to how they reached the 
conclusion that the case had excellent  prospects of success  and how they are able to 
value a claim where they have  not obtained a medical report. This is vital information  
in respect of an injury  claim  as this demonstrates  the amount of detriment a client  
may have sustained.  
If Mr Is solicitors were  confident the claim was to be successful and a large pay out 
received, there is no reason why they would not have funded this report  in the first 
instance, as many  solicitors do before approaching it for funding.
Whilst it might be appropriate sometimes to get a barristers opinion, this wasnt  
appropriate in this case because it not been  provided with the reasonably  requested 
information which the panel solicitors  had highlighted. 
Mr Is solicitors advised the claim was worth  up to the value of £25,000,  but did not 
demonstrate how this figure has been reached. This means  the claim could be worth  
anything from £100 up to £25,000.  
They should be able to justify this estimate, rather than for Ageas to dispute that it 
was not right. 
The solicitors were  provided with more  than enough opportunity  to provide this 
information.
Mr Is solicitors should have obtained a medical report  at the outset  in order  for them  
to demonstrate the value  of the claim.  Without  that it seems  the solicitors  had 
selected a figure with out method. 
Even if it had agreed to pay for a barristers opinion, its likely they would have asked 
for the same additional information  as the panel  solicitors had asked for. 
The panel solicitors  made it clear  they didnt need a formal  medical report but they 
needed some medical evidence.  
Whilst there may not be a specific policy term about claims needing to be 
proportionate, it is reasonable that an insurer would not be asked to fund a claim that 
a privately paying client would not reasonably pay for themselves. This is a position  
this service has confirmed on numerous occasions and have not advised at any 
stage that the policy  would  need to specifically identify this.
A medical report is one of the first things which is obtained  in order  to consider the 
cause of the injury,  the extent of the injury, the value and to demonstrate to the 
defendant that there is a justified claim being made against them before application  
to the court  is made.  This is on the basis that if all reasonable steps have not been 
taken to resolve the matter before court, the judge can take a very dim view of this 
and ultimately prejudice the clients position.
Ref: DRN52009573The process of obtaining  a medical  report is not a short one either.  Usually a medical 
expert will recommend a course  of treatment, for example physio, and then ask to 
see the client further at a later date in order to ascertain the extent  of the injuries and 
ultimately value the claim. 
The claim was reported with limitation  approaching;  Mr Ss solicitors  had not obtained 
a Medical Report before this time.  It therefore  could be argued that the clients 
solicitor had prejudiced the clients position  and they should consider making a 
complaint about them.
Ageas does not therefore agree that Mr I has provided enough information to demonstrate  
he has a valid claim under the policy, as key information was missing and has not been 
obtained.
As the investigator  was unable to resolve the complaint, it has been  referred  to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Is policy includes  cover for pursuing a personal injury claim  and covers  the costs 
and expenses for doing so. Costs and expenses are defines under the policy as 
being:
Legal and professional  fees for which you are responsible, including reasonable fees, costs 
and expenses incurred  by the appointed  representative acting for you in connection with the 
pursuit or defence of legal  proceedings.
In common with all other  such legal expenses insurance policies, this one also includes a 
term which says for a claim to be funded it must, among other things, have reasonable 
chances of success.  I also dont think its unfair as I wouldnt  expect an insurer  to fund a 
claim which is likely to fail in the same way that I wouldnt expect a privately funded 
individual to do so either. So I think Ageas can rely on this term. 
We generally expect policyholders  to be able to show  that they have a valid claim in the first 
place before an insurer goes on to consider it. Mr I has provided a solicitors opinion that his 
claim does  fall within one of the heads of cover  under the policy  and that it has reasonable 
prospects of succeeding.  The solicitors  said there  was a regulatory breach by the employer  
and that Mr I would therefore succeed  on liability. In order to properly assess  causation  and 
quantum a medical report is needed but this would be a normal expenses  of litigation.
Mr Is solicitors set out in some detail  their reasoning for this. 
Ageas says it needs a medical report before it can confirm there is a valid insurance claim 
and has been  critical of his solicitors  for not obtaining this before submitting his insurance  
claim and for not funding  it themselves.  
Panel solicitors said: 
We have conceded that we are not familiar  with the Act [particular practices relevant to the 
claim] What we have  however pointed out is that limitation was the 8 December 2017 and 
we have no knowledge if protective proceedings have  been issuedWe have pointed out 
Ref: DRN52009574that contributory negligence will certainly  be an issue and as we have no idea at all of the 
level of injury, and have pointed out that Mr I following this injury, continued to work,  then we 
have to ask the question  of proportionality. This is clearly going  to be a robustly defended 
claim. We have no idea of value,  at all, and even  if liability  can be established, contributory 
negligence will be of significance. 
When assessing prospects, it is not simply a question of liability. It is about value, and 
proportionality and merits of success based on tort and statute. We cannot  be more  specific 
than 50/50 because we know nothing of what this case  is worth,  or if its been  issued  
protectively.
Protective proceedings  had apparently been  issued by Mr Is solicitors  (which Mr I paid for). 
The panel  solicitors conceded they didnt know about the relevant working practice 
regulations that would be relevant to Mr Is claim. They pointed out that proportionality and 
contributory negligence might be relevant considerations. In my experience these would be 
ongoing considerations but there is no evidence that Mr Is claim was disproportionate at this 
stage. That would be established with medical  evidence. 
The policy provides cover for reasonable disbursements. And having had a legal opinion  that 
Mr I would succeed on liability, I do consider that cover should  have been given to fund the 
obtaining of the medical  report.  I think the cost of the expert medical  report would be a 
reasonable disbursement, as part of the costs of the case as it would be needed as part of 
the expert evidence to pursue the case in court. 
Ageas says it couldnt provide limited  funding in this way: a claim is either covered or it is 
not. I can understand the point it is making.  But I agree with the investigator.  There  were   
sufficient prospects that it would be reasonable for Ageas to have provided cover to pay for 
obtaining some  further evidence.  Ageas would  then have had the right to review  the 
prospects of success depending on the outcome of that medical  report. This seems  entirely  
reasonable to me and it is common for legal expenses insurers to authorise  costs up to 
certain distinct stages of evidence gathering and so on, and then reassessing prospects  
before authorising further work. I think that would  have  been entirely appropriate  here. 
As proceedings werent apparently served on the other party, I understand Mr I is now out of 
time to pursue  his legal claim. Therefore I agree with the investigator  that Ageas should  pay 
to obtain a medical report and, if this is favourable, appoint a barrister to assess the claims 
for prospects and value of the claim.  If the claim was deemed  to have prospects and be 
proportionate, the barrister  should  advise on what likely outcome the Mr I wouldve received 
had he been successful at court and Ageas should  pay this, as settlement, to Mr I.
The claim was only made with little time left before limitation ran out, so Mr I had to pay 
himself to issue the proceedings. If the barrister considers that the claim should  have been 
met then (on production of evidence about the payment of these costs) he should also be 
reimbursed for the costs  he paid. 
Ref: DRN52009575In order to manage Mr Is expectations this does not mean he will definitely get a payment 
from Ageas. If the barristers opinion is that he is unlikely to have succeeded in any claim 
against his former employer, or that it would not have been proportionate  to pursue (an 
therefore would not have  been covered under the policy), then it will not be required to pay 
him anything. 
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  against Ageas Insurance Limited and require it to pay to obtain  a 
medical report on the effect of the accident  at work on Mr I. Once this is obtained (and 
provided it confirms an injury to him) it should instruct a barrister to assess the claim for 
prospects. If the advice  is that the claim would have had reasonable prospects an would 
have been proportionate  to pursue,  the barrister should also be asked to advise on what  the 
likely outcome and a reasonable settlement would have been  and Ageas  should pay this, as 
settlement, to Mr I.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 March  2019.
Harriet McCarthy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5200957