K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B say Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax  (Halifax) mis-sold them  a regular 
premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
During a meeting in 2000 Mr and Mrs B took out a loan with Halifax. At the same time they 
were sold a regular  premium PPI policy to protect  their repayments. Although the loan was in 
joint names the policy was in Mr Bs name  only.
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld. He thought  the policy  was 
presented as optional and wouldve suited  their needs.  
Mr and Mrs B disagreed. They say didnt  know  they had PPI and always selected not to take 
it.
 
So the complaint has come  to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Bs complaint.
Mr and Mrs B applied  for a loan during  a meeting with Halifax. Mr and Mrs B say they didnt 
know they had PPI and dont remember selecting to take it. I dont know exactly what  was 
discussed at the time. And given the length of time that has passed since Mr and Mrs B were 
sold the policy I wouldnt expect them  to have a detailed recollection  of what was discussed. 
So Ive given  more  weight to what the documents from the time of the sale show.
Ive seen a copy  of Mr and Mrs Bs loan agreement.  I can see on the loan agreement  that 
the costs of the loan and PPI are set out separately on the right. Mr and Mrs B have signed 
just to the bottom left of the agreement. I think Mr and Mrs B wouldve read the agreement 
that they signed and understood they were  taking out PPI with the loan. And I dont think that 
PPI wouldve  been included on the agreement if there hadnt  been a discussion about  PPI 
and Mr and Mrs B hadnt agreed  to take it. 
So I think its likely that Halifax did make it clear  the policy was optional  and that Mr and Mrs 
B chose  to take PPI at the time of the sale.
This was an advised  sale. What  this means  is that Halifax not only had to provide 
information about PPI in a clear, fair and not misleading way so that Mr and Mrs B could 
make an informed choice  about buying PPI. They also had to make sure that if they were to 
recommend PPI that the policy was suitable to their needs and circumstances.
I dont know if Halifax did take all the steps they shouldve. But I think  the policy  was a 
suitable recommendation for Mr and Mrs B for the following reasons:
Ref: DRN58908552Mr B was eligible  for the policy and it doesnt look like he wouldve been caught  by 
any of the main exclusions in the terms and conditions of the policy which couldve 
made it difficult to make a successful claim.  
At the time of the sale Mr B says he was entitled to a good level of sick and 
redundancy pay but had no other  means of making their repayments  if they couldnt  
work. The policy wouldve  paid out on top of any sick or redundancy pay and for 
potentially longer covering their repayments for up to 60 months  if Mr B was too sick 
to work and for up to 12 months  if he lost his job. So I think  the policy wouldve 
provided a useful benefit to Mr and Mrs B in their circumstances.  
There was nothing  to suggest that the policy wasnt affordable to Mr and Mrs B at the 
time and if they no longer wanted  the policy they could cancel  it.  
I also need to consider  whether Halifax gave  Mr and Mrs B information in a way which was 
clear, fair and not misleading so that they could make a proper choice about whether or not 
they wanted to take the policy out. I can see that cost of the policy was shown on the loan 
agreement but I dont know if Halifax gave all of the information as they shouldve.
For the same reasons  that the policy was suitable and based on what  Mr and Mrs B has told 
us about their circumstances at the time, I think they wouldve still taken out the PPI policy if 
theyd been given all the proper information on the policy.  
This means  Mr and Mrs B arent  worse  off as a result of any wrong  doing  by Halifax.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint against 
Bank of Scotland plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  30 April 2019.
Caroline Davies
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5890855