K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that CIGNA Europe  Insurance Company SA-NV declined  his claim for 
permanent and total disablement benefits under his personal accident insurance policy.
background
Mr M has an insurance policy  with CIGNA  which provides  certain benefits if hes temporarily 
or permanently disabled by accident  or illness and unable to work.
In 2015 Mr M was involved in a road traffic accident.  He sustained a number  of injuries  
including the loss of the tip of his thumb.
Mr M has been employed throughout his working  life as a carpenter. When he was unable  to 
return to work after the accident, he claimed for temporary disablement  under his policy. 
CIGNA paid him temporary disablement benefit for the full two years  allowed under the 
policy.
At the end of that period, Mr M made a claim for permanent and total disablement  (PTD). He 
says he was still unable  to return to work due to the injuries sustained in the accident.
CIGNA declined the claim. They said the policy defined PTD as something which  prevented 
the insured person from carrying out any gainful occupation.  And on the basis of the 
evidence available, they didnt think this applied to Mr M.
Mr M made a complaint to CIGNA. When they didnt change  their stance, he brought is 
complaint to us. Our investigator looked  into it and thought CIGNA  had done nothing wrong.
Mr M disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M thinks its unfair for CIGNA to decline his claim on the basis  that he can return to any 
gainful occupation. Hes been  a carpenter all his life. Hes trained to carry out that role and 
experienced in doing  it. Taking  a wide interpretation of the policy wording  would mean he 
might have to undertake  roles for which hes unsuited and in which he has no experience.
I agree  with Mr M about  that. Where a policy uses the words  any occupation or any gainful 
occupation rather than any occupation  whatsoever, our approach is based on the Court of 
Appeal case of Sargent v GRE [April 1997]. In this case  the court found that the phrase any 
occupation was ambiguous, so it should  be interpreted in favour  of the policyholder rather 
than the insurer.  We therefore interpret any occupation to mean any relevant or suited 
occupation. 
So, the key issue  for me is whether Mr M can return to an occupation thats  relevant  and 
suited to him, given  his work history, experience and skills. That doesnt  have to be exactly  
the same  occupation  or role. But it must be an occupation to which Mr M is suited. 
Ref: DRN59603542CIGNA have  maintained  throughout  that Mr M can return to work. Theyve looked at the 
medical evidence  and, on that basis, made the decision to decline Mr Ms claim. 
Mr M has continued to question that decision.  So CIGNA commissioned an expert  report  
from a qualified and experienced  medical  consultant. He assessed  Mr Ms condition  and 
reviewed the previous  medical records. Hes also been provided with surveillance  film 
footage of Mr M, taken  in April 2018.
The consultants conclusion, based  on all the evidence, is that although Mr M may need 
slight modifications in terms of the intensity of his work, he would be able to return  to his 
previous occupation.
I dont think its unfair  or unreasonable for CIGNA to rely on that independent expert  opinion  
and to decline Mr Ms claim. Theyre told by the expert that Mr M can return to work  in a 
relevant and suited  occupation.
As part of his complaint, Mr M has also questioned the way the policy wording  is set out. He 
says a lack of punctuation  in certain  places meant  that he was misled about  what benefits 
would be provided  in what circumstances and mis-sold  the policy.
I agree  with Mr M that theres  a lack of punctuation in the original policy  schedule 
particularly. This makes it more difficult than it need  be to understand the meaning. I gather 
CIGNA have  now corrected this. 
But I cant agree  with Mr M that this caused  any real misunderstanding about  what  the policy  
covered. Its very apparent from reading any of the relevant policy  schedules  or booklets 
(before or after correction) that CIGNA will provide certain benefits in case of temporary 
disablement and other benefits in case of PTD. And PTD is clearly  defined.
Im satisfied on balance  that Mr M bought the policy thinking hed receive PTD benefits if he 
was prevented from returning to gainful employment to which he was suited. Given  our 
interpretation of the policy terms  as set out above  and as per the relevant Court of Appeal 
ruling  thats  exactly what he was getting when he bought the policy.
The real crux of the matter is that the medical  expert  believes Mr M can return to work in a 
suited occupation.  So I cant  say CIGNA  are being unfair or unreasonable in declining Mr 
Ms claim. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 May 2019. 
Neil Marshall
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5960354