K820x#14complaint
Mrs R says Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold  her a payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mrs R took out a PPI policy in 1989 at the same time as she applied  for a loan in one of the 
banks branches.  The PPI gave her accident,  sickness and unemployment cover.  She paid a 
monthly amount  for it.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs R disagreed so the complaint was passed 
to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete  (as 
some of it is here),  I have based  my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other  words,  
on what I consider is most likely given the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Our general  approach to complaints about  the sale of PPI is on our website  and Ive followed 
it here.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Rs complaint. Ill explain why.
Mrs R says she wasnt aware  she had PPI on this loan. The bank cant  provide her 
documents from the time of the sale, but this isnt unreasonable  or surprising as the sale 
was nearly 30 years  ago.
As there are no documents from the sale or notes about what  was said,  I cant be sure 
how Halifax described the policy and whether it made clear  to Mrs R that she had a 
choice. Ive thought carefully  about Mrs Rs comments but I also have to take into 
account how long ago the meeting was and how that might impact  what she recalls. 
Overall, without stronger evidence to show Halifax didnt make her aware the PPI was 
optional, and she didnt  agree to take it, I cant fairly uphold the complaint on this point.
Halifax recommended the PPI to Mrs R. And it seems to have been right for her based 
on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time. She was entitled to at least  six 
months sick pay but the PPI wouldve paid out in addition  to any work  benefits and for 
up to 24 months. Mrs R told us she had savings worth at least  three months  salary  but 
the PPI would have  allowed  her to use these for other living  expenses  whilst not working,  
or to keep  them  intact for her future  needs. Mrs R also said family would have helped but 
thats not suitable alternative protection. Its not guaranteed and peoples  circumstances 
can change.  So I think the PPI wouldve been  useful  for Mrs R if she was sick or lost her 
job.
Ref: DRN54090532Its possible  Halifax didnt give Mrs R all the information she needed before deciding  to 
buy PPI. I dont know when  the cost was made  clear but the PPI was competitively priced 
and apparently  affordable.  I dont know if the bank pointed out the main things the policy  
didnt cover.  However Mrs R doesnt appear  to have  been affected by any of the main 
exclusions. So I dont think  better  information about  the policy wouldve changed her 
mind about buying it. And Mrs R could have cancelled the PPI at any time,  without  any 
further cost.
Ive considered carefully Mrs Rs email  comments in response to our adjudicators letter, but 
for the reasons set out above  they dont change my conclusion.  It follows  I dont think Mrs R 
has lost out because of any problems with the sale.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, my decision is that I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 July 2019 .
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5409053