K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that he didnt consent to taking out a payday  loan with Nextcredit  Limited 
and he didnt see the credit agreement before the money was transferred to his account. He 
wants the loan removed from his credit  file and a refund.
background
Mr H says that he went through an application  process for a payday loan with Nextcredit but 
he did not consent to proceed  with the loan and he was never provided with a copy  of the 
credit agreement. He says that the money was incorrectly  credited to his account and he 
wants a refund.
Nextcredit say that all the correct processes were followed, Mr H clicked to confirm  
acceptance of the terms of the credit agreement  and a copy  was sent to him via email.
Our adjudicator didnt  think Nextcredit had done anything wrong. He thought  that looking at 
all the information  provided by Nextcredit,  the correct  processes had been followed and it 
was likely that Mr H had been provided  with a copy of the credit agreement at the application 
stage.
Mr H didnt agree and said that he had provided  evidence showing his login screen was 
blank and he thought the process was fraudulent.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusions as the adjudicator for broadly similar  reasons.
Mr H confirms that he began the process of applying for a payday  loan but he did not 
consent. Nextcredit has provided  a copy of the credit agreement which has a declaration  that 
checking the box and submitting the application is confirmation of agreement to the terms. 
The agreement is dated 7 March 2018 and the details match  Mr Hs.
I can understand why Mr H may have thought that he was only going  through  an application  
process when completing information online.  However, the evidence provided by Nextcredit 
suggests that the box was ticked on the credit  agreement and the application was submitted. 
I have no reason to think that Nextcredits usual  online processes were not followed in this 
instance.
Mr H has said that his login screen  was blank and so he was unable to view the credit  
agreement within his account. Nextcredit  has explained that Mr H could have got in touch 
with the helpdesk in order to gain access to his online account as there  appeared to be 
issues with the email containing the login details. I dont think  this demonstrates that Mr H 
did not see or sign a credit agreement.  In any event the credit  agreement shows Mr Hs 
correct email and so I think it is likely he would have received a copy  via email.
I cant see that there is any fraudulent activity and Nextcredit followed  all its processes 
before granting  Mr H the loan. In any event he has had the benefit of the money and so I 
dont consider that he should be refunded.
Ref: DRN53556382my final decision
For the reasons  set out above my final decision is that I dont uphold  this complaint. Under 
the rules of the Financial Ombudsman  Service, Im required  to ask Mr H to accept or reject  
my decision  before 10 June 2019.
Emma Boothroyd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5355638