K820x#14complaint
Miss A is unhappy that Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited  declined  a claim under her 
home insurance policy for theft on the ground that no force or violence had been used on 
entering or leaving the property.
background
Miss A says she was expecting a roofer recommended by a friend to visit her property. So 
when a man arrived  at her front door she let him in and then went up onto the roof expecting 
him to follow  her. She said he didnt do so and she later suspected  that he used that 
opportunity to steal various items.
Miss A says it became  clear the man wasnt  a roofer and he implied he had a gun. She 
says he pushed her against a wall. The man let himself out of the front door.  She said the 
next day she realised  shed been robbed.
She says she tried to report the theft to the police straightaway but couldnt  do so because 
the imposter had made  a complaint to the police about her.
Lloyds declined the claim. It said Miss As policy only covered theft if force  or violence was 
used to enter or exit the property. It said no violence had been  used.  It also said she was in 
breach of the condition in her policy that she had to notify the police immediately of any loss. 
Miss A wasnt happy with that. She said force and violence had been  used against her while 
the imposter was in her home.
Lloyds later said it wasnt relying on the breach  of condition to decline the claim.
I issued a provisional decision explaining why I was minded not to uphold  the complaint.  
In my provisional findings I said that, as Lloyds  had decided not to maintain its position that 
Miss A was in breach  of the condition in the policy about reporting  the loss, I didnt  need  to 
look into that further. I thought the only remaining question was whether Lloyds had treated 
Miss A fairly  and reasonably in declining the claim on the basis that no force and violence 
had been used to enter or leave Miss As home. 
I referred to Miss As policy. This states  that the following isnt covered:
Theft  Force and Violence
We will not pay a claim for loss or damage  caused by theft or attempted  theft under  your 
policy unless force and violence is used to enter or exit the home.
I thought this type of restriction  was intended  to make sure the insurer  only had to pay 
claims where a policyholders  home  had obviously been broken into.
I was satisfied that no force and violence had been  used  to enter  the property. Miss A let 
the man in because  she thought he was the person whod  come to repair her roof. The 
imposter used deception but that didnt  amount to violence.
In my opinion force  had been  used  to exit the property. That was because  the imposter 
had let himself out and the simple act of opening the door involved a degree of force. I said 
Ref: DRN56271052under the terms  of the policy  Lloyds was only liable for the theft claim if violence had also 
also used to exit the property.
Although it seemed to be agreed that the imposter used and threatened violence while  he 
was in the property  pushing Miss A against a wall and claiming to have a gun amongst 
other things,  I thought  there was no suggestion  that hed used violence in connection with 
the theft or to leave  the property. According to Miss A, hed just opened the door and let 
himself out.
I said I knew Miss A thought she was letting in someone whod come  to repair  her roof. But 
in doing that I thought shed, unintentionally, left the property at risk. In my view it was likely 
the imposter had the opportunity to steal various items while Miss A had climbed out onto 
the roof of the property and he remained in her home. And this was the sort of risk that 
Lloyds had specifically  chosen not to be liable for. So I didnt  think it treated her unfairly or 
unreasonably in declining her claim.
For completeness, I didnt  consider that the exclusion in Miss As policy was unfair, as 
the insurer is within its rights to set the terms of the policy it wishes  to offer.  I said this 
was a typical exclusion found in most property insurance policies.
I had a great deal of sympathy  for Miss A and the situation she found herself in. She had 
what must have been a very distressing and frightening  experience. But for the reasons 
already mentioned, I thought Lloyds  was entitled to limit its liability  through standard terms 
and conditions of the contract  to which both parties had freely agreed.
Lloyds didnt comment on my decision. Miss A gave a detailed  response which  Ive carefully  
considered. The main points of her response  are as follows:
The only reason now being  relied upon  by Lloyds to reject her claim was that in its 
opinion no violence  had been  used to exit her property.
The investigator previously dealing with her complaint to this service didnt think  it was 
right to reject the claim on this ground.
The police  and local authority were  treating  this incident as a violent crime.
She hadnt  intended  to leave the imposter alone in her property  she thought he was 
going to follow  her onto the roof.
Shed been pushed  against a wall and threatened with a gun.
The police  later changed their position  and fully supported  her claim.
She hadnt  ever been a victim  of repetitive violent crime or domestic  violence.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  that the only remaining question is whether Lloyds treated  Miss A fairly and 
reasonably in declining the claim on the basis that no force  and violence had been used to 
enter or leave her home.
I dont doubt what  Miss A has said about the circumstances  of the theft and in particular, that 
at one point she was pinned against  a wall by the imposter and thought  he had a gun. But, 
unfortunately for her, in order for her to bring a successful claim under her policy  I dont think 
Ref: DRN56271053its enough for her to establish that shes been  the victim of violence in the property.  
Because of the policy wording she needs  to show that violence was used to enter or exit her 
property. I dont think she has shown  that  she let the imposter  in and he let himself out 
without any violence being  used at the time of the entry and exit.
I accept that Miss A didnt mean to leave the imposter  in the property unintended.  But for the 
reason explained above that doesnt change my decision  that it was fair for Lloyds to decline 
her claim.
Id also like to explain our process to Miss A. After  an investigator has issued a view on a 
complaint referred  to this service, either or both parties have the right to refer the matter to 
an ombudsman if theyre unhappy  with the outcome. An ombudsman  will look at the whole 
matter afresh and may reach a different  decision.  Because I reached the same outcome as 
our investigator but for a different reason, I issued a provisional decision  to give both parties 
the opportunity  to provide  more evidence or arguments that might affect the outcome. 
I didnt think Miss A had been the victim  of repetitive violent  crime or domestic  violence.  But 
if I had thought that, I wouldnt have treated what she said with any less respect and care.
Im sorry  to disappoint Miss A but I dont think Lloyds treated her unfairly or unreasonably in 
declining her claim.
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 March 2020.
Elizabeth Grant
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5627105