K821x#15complaint
Miss B, who is represented  by Mr H, complains  that BMW  Financial Services (GB) Limited  
(BMWFS) refused to let her reject a car.
background
On 19 October 2017 Miss B bought a second hand  high performance car funded  by a 
personal contract purchase (PCP) agreement from a garage I will call R. A couple  of weeks  
later Miss B experienced  problems with the brakes and R replaced the brake pads.  It says 
they had been damaged by excessive use and were scorched.  Shortly after this an engine  
management light came  on and the engine  blew up. Miss B says she notified  R on 16 
November and it collected the car about a week later.
It needed a new engine. R sought  to source  lower  cost engine  which took some months, but 
eventually it was replaced. R said the cause  of the fault was excessive driving. A few days 
after the car failed  Miss B told Mr H of the problem and he informed her of her right to reject  
the car within 30 days of purchase.  He says he approached BMWFS  and it agreed to pursue 
a rejection. He says BMWFS said they were having  trouble engaging with R, but in the end it 
seems both R and BMWFS refused  to let Miss B reject the car.
I gather  that due to the problems three  months repayments were  written off, but even though 
Miss B has refused to collect the car from R BMWFS has pursued  her for the outstanding 
payments. 
The complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators who recommended  it be upheld. 
He reviewed the history  of the complaint and the documents supplied by both parties. He 
asked BMWFS for additional information,  but this wasnt forthcoming.  
He noted there was disagreement as to how much mileage had been done by Miss B. R 
suggested it was unusually high, but Mr H explained  that Miss B worked locally and had little 
time to do much  driving.  The adjudicator  also considered  the claim made by R that both 
faults were due to the car being driven in an excessive manner. 
He said he had not been given any evidence to support this claim. It was simply an assertion 
made by R without any supporting diagnostic information or details of the work carried out 
into the engine  failure. However he took note of the fact that R had decided  to replace the 
engine at its own cost which  didnt fit with its assertion that the problem was caused  by Miss 
B.
He noted the MOT carried out prior to the sale to Miss B showed  there  was corrosion of the 
brakes and he thought  it more likely  than not that there were  issues with the brakes at the 
point of sale.
He also pointed out that Mr H was under the impression  that BMWFS had agreed to the 
rejection and it hadnt been particularly clear in its communication  with him or with Miss B. 
He said he understood the car had been  repaired,  but Miss B was understandably  reluctant 
to reuse  the car after her previous experience  as she feared that similar  issues could arise 
again in the future. 
Given the specification,  price, age and mileage  of the car, the adjudicator  was inclined to the 
view that there was a fault that was present or developing at the point of supply which  
Ref: DRN55352792resulted in the issue with the brakes  and engine failure. But he explained  that even if 
BMWFS disagreed with this substantive point, the relevant legislation also imposes an 
obligation on the finance provider to ensure that any faults are rectified promptly.  And 
without significant  inconvenience to the customer.  He didnt think  it had done so.
He recommended that BMW Financial  Services (GB)  Ltd:
1.   allow  Miss B to exit the Hire Purchase  agreement at no cost;
2.   collect the car from the dealer at no cost to Miss B;
3.   refund  any monthly payment  which Miss B paid after no longer being  able to drive the 
car;
4.   refund  the deposit (if Miss B paid a deposit);
5.   remove any adverse information  relating  to the agreement from Miss Bs credit  file and;
6.   pay Miss B £300 compensation.
Items 3 and 4 are subject to 8% simple interest  from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement.
Mr H accepted this recommendation on behalf  of Miss B, but BMWFS didnt respond.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators  rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what  I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.  
The finance  agreement, that is the personal contract purchase agreement, in this case is a 
regulated consumer credit agreement. As such this service is able to consider complaints 
relating to it. BMWFS is also the supplier  of the goods under this type of agreement, and 
responsible for a complaint about  their quality.
The relevant  law says that under a contract to supply goods,  there  is an implied  term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory .
The relevant  law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person  would consider satisfactory taking into account  any description of 
the goods, price  and all other relevant circumstances. So it seems likely that in a case  
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might  
include things like the age and the mileage  at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods  includes their general state and condition and 
other things  like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects  of the quality of the goods.
It is clear the issue with the brakes  arose within the first 30 days  as did the engine failure. 
Miss B didnt reject the car within the 30 days as the Consumer  Rights  law entitles her to do, 
but neither did R draw  her attention to this option.  Given the serious nature of the problem, a 
total engine failure,  it is regrettable  that it didnt do so.
Ref: DRN55352793However, the car was clearly rejected within six months and the legislation  allows  the 
supplier one attempt  to effect a repair. R has repaired the brakes and I gather it says it has 
replaced the engine. I have  seen no evidence of this work and I must admit I find this 
surprising. The adjudicator asked for the worksheets which  would show what work  had been  
done, but these werent supplied.
I gather  much  of the delay in dealing  with the engine  was that R wanted to source a cheaper 
engine rather than obtaining one from the manufacturer. If that is the case it calls into 
question whether the repair work is satisfactory. The car is an expensive  high performance  
model and given Miss B had spent over £30,000  on a three year old car I would expect any 
repairs to use the approved  manufacturers parts. While it is possible the repair is 
satisfactory I havent been given the information that would allow  me to conclude that it was. 
I am also concerned  about the discrepancy  in the alleged mileage. Mr H has confirmed that 
Miss B drives  a very small  annual mileage  and his explanation is credible. R says the car 
had done 62,424 miles when it was sold on 19 October, but I see the MOT carried out on 13 
September records it as 62,434. Although this is a minor  discrepancy  it gives  me cause to 
wonder about  the accuracy of Rs records.
Overall I consider that the car wasnt of satisfactory  quality  when  sold and the engine fault 
wasnt remedied promptly. I am not aware  that Miss B was provided with an alternative car 
while she waited three months for the car to be repaired  and I cannot safely conclude that 
she wasnt unreasonably inconvenienced. As such I find myself in agreement with the 
adjudicator.
Therefore I direct  BMW Financial Services (GB)  Limited to:
1.   allow  Miss B to exit the Hire Purchase  agreement at no cost,
2.   collect the car from the dealer at no cost to Miss B,
3.   refund  any monthly payment  which Miss B paid after no longer being  able to drive the 
car ( I believe she had one months use),
4.   refund  the deposit (if Miss B paid a deposit),
5.   remove any adverse information  relating  to the agreement from Miss Bs credit  file and
6.   pay Miss B £300 compensation.
Items 3 and 4 are subject to 8% simple interest  from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct BMW Financial Services  (GB) 
Limited to compensate Miss B as set out above.  Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept  or reject my decision before 
7 February 2019.
Ivor Graham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5535279