K821x#15complaint
Mr C complains that British Gas Insurance Limited acted unfairly and unreasonably when 
dealing with his claim under  his home  emergency  policy. He wants  compensation.
background
Mr C had a kitchen appliance policy with British Gas, which covered his kitchen appliances if 
they needed repair. He said that when his dishwasher started leaking, British  Gas delayed 
the repair and caused damage  to his kitchen units by incorrectly completing the repair  (as 
the leak continued afterwards).  Mr C also said that two appointments were  missed and no-
one came for over two weeks. He said that he had relatives staying with him while  his 
dishwasher was broken,  and was caused extra  stress by the incorrect  repair  and waiting on 
the phone  to talk to British Gas. It took over a month from the failed repair  for a successful 
repair to be made, though  Mr C was on holiday  for part of that time.
Mr C complained to British Gas. It said that the damage to the kitchen units was caused  by 
the leak, not its engineer and so wasnt covered by the terms and conditions  of the policy. It 
paid £100 compensation  to cover the trouble and upset caused  by an engineer  not attending 
and the wait for an available engineer.
 
Mr C complained to us. British Gas said that Mr C said the dishwasher only leaked when in 
use, so it didnt understand why he would continue  to use it until a successful repair  was 
carried out. The investigators view was that two appointments  were missed by an engineer, 
but agreed that the damage  done by the water leak was excluded  under the terms and 
conditions of the policy and had been caused  by the dishwasher,  not British  Gas. He also 
said that it took too long to send an engineer to finally fix the dishwasher, and thought  
compensation of £225 in total was fair and reasonable.
British Gas disagreed.  It felt £100 compensation was fair and reasonable, and pointed  out 
that it was possible  to wash dishes without a dishwasher. The investigator said that the 
dishwasher was broken  over Easter and when relatives were  staying,  and thought the delays 
caused by British Gas inability to attend and successfully fix the appliance caused distress. 
He noted that Mr C had to chase British Gas several  times to progress matters and it was 
reasonable for him to expect to be able to use his dishwasher. Mr C agreed  with the 
investigators view.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Dealing first with the damage caused  by the water leak,  this was caused by the dishwasher, 
not British Gas. And the terms and conditions  of the policy itself is clear   it doesnt cover 
any damage due to an appliance  breaking,  and specifically excludes  damage from water 
leaks. I dont think that it would be fair and reasonable for me to award the cost of replacing 
the damaged  kitchen  units, and there isnt any evidence showing that more damage was 
caused by the delay  in repairing  the dishwasher.
Ref: DRN58439082This leaves  the issue of trouble and upset. British Gas did miss two appointments (though 
one was initially refused, it was booked and confirmed). And it did cause delay as it wasnt  
able to send an engineer  in a timely way to fix the dishwasher, though some of the delay 
was caused by Mr C being away on holiday. While  repairs can be unsuccessful, it still took 
an unreasonable time for British Gas to return and it took over a month to actually fix the 
dishwasher. British Gas accepts much  of this.
We dont award compensation for trouble  and upset in the way that British Gas calculates 
such compensation. We look at the trouble and upset actually suffered by the consumer, not 
the number of errors. Mr C was clearly very frustrated  and upset about  the delay and the 
missed appointments  according to the evidence available  to me; he chased British Gas on 
several occasions. And while  dishwashing can be done by hand, I accept that its 
significantly more inconvenient to do so over a festive period with visitors staying in the 
property. Compensation  for trouble and upset includes inconvenience. Taking the 
circumstances in account, I dont think £100 compensation is fair or reasonable and £225  is 
more reflective of Mr Cs trouble and upset.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint  and British  Gas Insurance  Limited should pay 
Mr C a further £125 compensation for his trouble and upset. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or reject  my decision before 
8 August 2019.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5843908