K820x#14complaint
Mr W complained  that HSBC UK Bank  Plc, trading as first direct  (HSBC),  mis-sold his 
credit card payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy. 
background
Mr W took out the PPI policy when  he applied for a credit card in January 1997. HSBC said 
that the application was made by post and it didnt  advise Mr W to take out the PPI. Mr W 
couldnt remember much  about the sale but said he didnt need  the PPI as he had good  
employee benefits.
The policy cost 71p for each £100  Mr W owed on his credit card. If hed successfully claimed 
on the policy for accident, sickness  or unemployment, each month  it would have paid out 
10% of what he owed on the card when he stopped working. This would have carried on for 
up to 12 months per claim. The PPI also included life cover.  
Our adjudicator didnt  think there  was enough evidence to say that HSBC mis-sold the 
policy, and therefore  didnt uphold the complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Ws case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ws complaint. Ill explain  why.
HSBC sent us a copy of Mr Ws credit card application form. HSBC  said the application had 
been sent out to him as part of a mailshot,  and Ive no reason to think thats incorrect. 
Mr Ws details  were handwritten on the form, and I can see that Mr W had to tick a box to 
say that he wanted the PPI  and he couldve  ticked a separate box to say that he didnt  
want it. So from what I can see, I think Mr W had a choice about taking the PPI, and decided 
to do so.
HSBC didnt advise  Mr W to take out the policy, so it didnt need to make  sure that the PPI 
was suitable for him. But it shouldve given him enough information for him to decide 
whether the policy  was right for him. 
The credit card application only shows brief details of the cover, and doesnt refer to any 
separate information about the policy. So I dont  know what information about the cost and 
benefits Mr W wouldve had available to him when he filled in the form. 
From what  Mr W told us about  his circumstances, I dont think hed have been affected  by 
any of the main exclusions in the PPI policy. He told us that he wouldve  had between  three 
and six months sick pay from his employer. And he said he had some  savings he couldve 
relied on. 
Ive thought about what Mr W said. But the PPI couldve paid out in addition  to his sick pay - 
allowing him to use his savings for his everyday living expenses  and it couldve paid out for 
up to 12 months at a time, so longer than the period over which Mr W wouldve received sick 
Ref: DRN59912712pay. I think Mr W couldve found it difficult to meet the monthly card payments once his sick 
pay ended  or if he lost his job. And Ive no reason to think that the cost of the PPI was an 
issue for him. So overall I think  the PPI couldve  provided a useful benefit.  
Although I cant be certain that HSBC fully explained  the policy,  Im not satisfied that Mr W 
would have acted  differently  and not taken out the PPI  if it had. It couldve provided 
useful protection  for him if he couldnt  work. This means Mr W isnt worse  off as a result of 
what HSBC may have done wrong, so theres nothing it needs  to do to put things right.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ws complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 March  2019.  
Jan Ferrari
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5991271