K820x#14complaint
Mrs D complains on behalf  of her late husband, Mr D, that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as 
Halifax) will not refund  any commission it received from the mortgage payment protection  
insurance (PPI) premiums paid for the PPI policy  taken out in 2002.
Mrs D would also like us to reconsider the decision  this service made in 2010 about the 
mis-sale of this PPI policy.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats  fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs D took out a joint mortgage with the Bank of Scotland in 2002, and 
alongside that a PPI policy covering Mr D only. In 2005, they took out a further 
mortgage advance. 
This service issued a decision in 2010  on the complaint about the mis-sale of this particular 
PPI policy. This was a final decision,  and so that decision stands. So, to be clear, this 
decision only deals with Mrs Ds complaint about commission. 
Im not upholding this commission  complaint. Ill explain why. 
In 2017, following a Supreme Court judgment, the Financial Conduct  Authority  (FCA),
issued some rules about how businesses should deal with complaints about  
the non-disclosure of commission where PPI was sold.
The FCA said that if a business got a high level of commission  and profit  share from the 
PPI policy   more  than 50% of the PPI premium  and it didnt tell the consumer, then that 
could create  an unfair relationship between the parties. So to put that right,  the FCA said 
that businesses  should pay back the amount  of commission and profit share  that was more  
than 50% of the PPI premium.
But these  rules and the Supreme Court judgment relate to the unfair relationship  provisions 
in the Consumer Credit  Act 1974. The unfair relationship provisions were added to the 
Consumer Credit Act in 2006  and came  into force on 6 April 2007. For these provisions to 
apply to credit agreements taken out before this date, the credit agreement would still need  
to be running on 6 April 2008 and it would  still need  to be covered by the Consumer  Credit  
Act on this date.
On 31 October 2004, the regulation of mortgages by the FCA began  and mortgages were 
no longer covered by the Consumer Credit Act. It was possible for mortgages taken out 
before this date to become regulated, if a change was made to the mortgage,  such  as a 
further advance  or interest rate switch. Different  lenders took different  approaches to this.
Mr and Mrs D took out their joint mortgage  in 2002.  From the information that Bank of 
Scotland has provided, they made a change to this mortgage in 2005, when they took out a 
further mortgage advance. Bank  of Scotland has told us the entire mortgage became a 
regulated mortgage  at this point. Based on what we have seen, and what  we know about 
how Bank of Scotland completed  these mortgage  changes, I think  it likely that in 2005 their 
mortgage become  a regulated mortgage.
Ref: DRN59495972As their mortgage became regulated before 6 April 2008, it was no longer covered by the 
Consumer Credit Act. This means  that the FCAs rules and guidance dont apply. So, Bank 
of Scotland doesnt need to refund  any commission paid for the PPI that ran alongside their 
joint mortgage.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs D, on behalf  
of the late Mr Ds estate, to accept or reject my decision  before 22 November 2019.
 
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5949597