K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains that Tesco Personal Finance  PLC (Tesco) wont accept his offer to settle his 
outstanding credit card debt.
background
Mr P has held a credit  card with Tesco since 1999 with a limit of £4,000. In 2008  when his 
credit limit had been increased  he transferred the balances  from a number of other cards 
to his Tesco card. Soon  afterwards his financial circumstances changed and the account fell 
into arrears  with a default being  registered in June 2009. In 2011 Mr P made  an offer to 
repay his outstanding balance which wasnt accepted. However, a repayment  plan of £10 
per month was put in place. In 2013 Tesco agreed that Mr P could pay around 50% of his 
outstanding debt to resolve matters. But he couldnt afford  to make that payment. Instead the 
ongoing repayment plan was re-set  at £36 per month. 
Several further  offers have been  made but no agreement has been reached. Mr P has now 
offered to pay a further £270  which he says would mean hed repaid 50% of the original 
outstanding debt as had been previously been  agreed in 2013.  Tesco  didnt accept that offer 
so Mr P complained. He said he hadnt  been  treated  fairly as all his other creditors  had 
accepted a payment of around  50-55% of his debts with them.  He also said Tesco  had been  
irresponsible in its lending  when it first gave him the card and for that reason it should write 
off at least half of the debt.
Tesco didnt  agree and said it was under no obligation to accept his offers. It asked Mr P to 
complete an updated income and expenditure form so that it could reassess his financial 
situation. As he didnt  agree Mr P brought his complaint to us.
Two adjudicators looked into Mr Ps complaint and concluded it shouldnt  be upheld. 
Ultimately they said that Tesco had acted  fairly  in reviewing Mr Ps circumstances regularly 
and arranging payment plans for his outstanding debt. They  said Tesco  werent obliged  to 
accept reduced offers  of payments.
Mr P didnt agree. He said Tesco was asking him to underwrite a higher proportion  of its 
credit losses which he didnt think was sympathetic or a positive outcome. He said we 
should have considered the settlements he agreed  with his other creditors  and the context in 
which the debt was incurred.
As no resolution could  be found the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
Mr P said hes now been  told that his debt is being  transferred  to another  company. 
Mr P has also confirmed  that his complaint is about Tesco not being  prepared to accept  the 
settlement offer hes made and that he would  be comfortable with a 50% settlement of the 
current balance. So thats what Ive considered here and I havent looked  at the wider point 
of the context in which  he was first given the credit card.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN51204762Mr P says his complaint  is about his offer to Tesco not being  accepted.  He says Tesco were 
prepared to accept  an offer of around  50% of his outstanding balance some  years ago and 
he thinks it should still accept the same  sort of percentage offer  of the original balance. On 
the other hand  Tesco says its not obliged to accept Mr Ps offer but it has made  a number of 
offers to him already  which he hasnt accepted.
Ive some sympathy for Mr Ps position  as Ive seen that hes keen  to reach  an agreement 
with Tesco  to pay off his credit card  as hes done  with most of his other creditors. But I 
dont think Tesco has done  anything wrong here  which  I know  will disappoint Mr P  so Ill 
explain why.
When Mr P first incurred financial hardship  Tesco was required to treat those circumstances 
positively and sympathetically. But that doesnt  mean its required to accept a reduced 
settlement. Tesco can consider a range of options  which could include reducing/suspending 
interest or accepting lower monthly  payments for example. And I note it has agreed an 
ongoing repayment plan with Mr P which has been  subsequently reviewed. And Ive seen 
that Tesco has made a number  of offers to Mr P which  would have allowed him to pay a 
reduced amount  of his outstanding balance in full and final settlement. So I think Tesco  has 
acted sympathetically to Mr Ps situation.  
Mr P said that his other creditors accepted  offers of around 50% of the outstanding balances  
to replay his debts  with them. I note those payments were made in 2014  just a few months 
after Tesco had also agreed  to accept payment of around 50% of the debt  which  Mr P was 
unable to make. So I think  Tesco were prepared  to accept payment in line with his other  
creditors in 2014.  But Mr P wants that same deal to be honoured four years  later.  I think 
Tesco is entitled to evaluate its position afresh after four years as Mr Ps circumstances may 
have changed.  I dont think its unreasonable for Tesco to reach  a different conclusion of 
what it might  be prepared  to accept to resolve the matter. So although Tesco did agree to 
accept around 50% of the outstanding debt four years ago, I dont think  its for me to tell 
Tesco what  it should now accept in settlement of an outstanding debt. Thats entirely  a 
matter for Tesco to consider.
Ultimately here I dont think Tesco has done anything wrong in not accepting Mr Ps offer of 
settlement. Its entitled to ask for the outstanding balance  on Mr Ps account or if it wants to 
consider what might  constitute an alternative satisfactory offer.  This service  wouldnt 
normally interfere in a business legitimate  commercial decision, so Im not going to tell 
Tesco what  it should accept as an offer.
I note Tesco  has asked  Mr P to complete an income  and expenditure form so that it can 
discuss alternative repayment options  with him. I would urge Mr P to complete the form and 
enter into meaningful  discussions with Tesco  to try to reach some agreement.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint against  Tesco  Personal Finance 
PLC.
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 April 2019.
Ref: DRN51204763Keith Lawrence
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5120476