K821x#15Complaint
Mr Q complains that the car he acquired through a hire purchase agreement  with BMW 
Financial Services(GB)  Limited (BMW FS) wasnt of satisfactory quality. He needed to return 
the car on several  occasions before repairs resolved the issues.
Background
Mr Q entered into a HPA with BMW  FS in May 2018 to acquire  a used car. He says that 
within the first three weeks  he noticed a noise coming from the car. He contacted the dealer 
and was told to take the car to a local centre.  He did this and paid £90 for an initial health 
check. He says he then had to return the car again but the issue wasnt  identified  and so he 
raised his complaint with BMW FS. 
Mr Q says that following  the third visit to the garage he received the car with more issues  
than it had been in for. He says that the issues were  only resolved on the fourth visit. 
BMW FS says that Mr Q experienced  issues with the car however these were repaired under  
warranty. It says that a courtesy  car had been provided while Mr Qs car was in for repair but 
noted this wasnt  of the standard  for Mr Qs car. Because of this it offered to pay Mr Q £200,  
equivalent to half a months  payment.  
Our investigator thought that BMW FS needed to do more to resolve  this complaint. He 
noted the times Mr Q had needed to return the car and that the issues were resolved  in 
February 2019. Given this he didnt think  BMW FS was required to unwind the agreement. 
He thought it likely that the faults  Mr Q experienced between June 2018  and February 2019 
were linked and given when they first arose he thought it fair to assume the faults were 
present at the point of supply. Given this he thought  Mr Q should be refunded  the £90 he 
paid for repairs in June  2018. 
He noted that BMW FS had offered to pay Mr Q £200 and also that Mr Q had said he was 
only provided with a courtesy car on one occasion. Given  the number of times the car had 
been returned he thought  Mr Q had been  caused  considerable  inconvenience, and he 
thought the concerns about  the engine noise would have  impaired  his enjoyment of the 
vehicle. Given these  issues he thought £250 compensation was more reasonable than the 
£200 offered by BMW  FS.
Mr Q didnt accept our investigators view. He reiterated that he only had a courtesy car on 
one occasion  and was without his car for around  a month in total.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Q acquired  a used car through  a HPA with BMW FS. Under the regulations,  specifically 
the Consumer  Rights Act 2015 (CRA 2015), BMW  FS can be held liable if the car wasnt  of 
satisfactory quality at the point of supply. Satisfactory quality takes  into account factors  such  
as the age and mileage  of the car and what a reasonable person would expect taking into 
account all the circumstances. At the time of acquisition the car had been driven just under 
30,000 miles and was three years old.
Ref: DRN55762802Mr Q experienced an issue with the car shortly after acquisition. An invoice provided from 21 
June 2018, when the cars mileage was 30,378  has been provided. Various checks were  
carried out and I note there is a comment next to the engine  check  saying insulate air intake 
pipe  vibration   now ok. This supports Mr Qs comments that he returned  the car due to 
concerns about  a vibration. No further issues are noted. Mr Q paid £90 for this visit.
Mr Q returned the car again on 3 July 2018  when the mileage was 30,539. On this visit the 
notes record a confirmed  rattling under the bonnet  while  braking at low speeds. The car 
was returned again in December and the issue investigated was an intermittent noise from 
the engine. Again this issue was investigated  in January 2019. In February 2019, Mr Q says 
that the issues were  resolved.
I have looked  at the job card for February 2019 and can see that amongst other items a 
noise is recorded  when turning the wheel and that noise and vibration from the engine are 
recorded in the notes.  Given the information provided I find, on balance,  that the issues  Mr Q 
raised in June 2018 were linked to those  that were raised throughout the following months 
and finally  resolved in February  2019. Given when the issue  were first raised  I find it 
reasonable to accept  that they were more likely than not due to faults that were present from 
the point of supply.
As repairs were undertaken under warranty I find this a reasonable remedy.  I understand the 
repairs have resolved the issues. However  Mr Q did pay £90 for the first visit and given the 
issue and when it arose I find it fair that he is refunded this amount.
Mr Q has explained that he only received  a courtesy car on one occasion  and that he was 
without his car for a period of around  a month in total. I can understand that his was an 
inconvenience for Mr Q and I note the comments about the standard of the courtesy  car that 
was provided. I also accept that it took a number  of visits before the issues with the car were 
resolved. However,  based on the information,  and without further evidence  regarding  the 
times Mr Q was without his car, I find the recommendation of compensation of £250 is 
reasonable.
My final decision
My final decision is that BMW Financial Services(GB) Limited should, as it has agreed,  
refund  Mr Q £90 for the June 2018  investigation  along with 8% simple  interest  from 
the date of payment to the date of settlement; and
pay Mr Q £250  for the distress  and inconvenience he has been caused; 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr Q to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 May 2020.
Jane Archer
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN5576280