K821x#15complaint
Mr T complains that British Gas Insurance  Limiteds (BG) failure  to properly repair  a leak 
under his Homecare  insurance policy caused  damage to his home. He also complains about 
BGs service. My references to BG include its agents.
background
On 13 April 2018 Mr T contacted BG when he discovered water coming through  his dining 
room ceiling from a leaking  emersion tank.  BGs contracted engineer didnt  attend  in the 
arranged time slot and arrived  about  an hour later that day only when Mr T complained.
BGs engineer stopped the leak by emptying the tank and turning  off the hot water. He said a 
replacement tank was needed  and would be replaced the following week.
On 14 April 2018 at around 11pm Mr T arrived home to find a leak.  Hes told us that the main  
damage to his home happened then. He says BG is responsible  for the damage  to his 
ceiling, carpet and furniture because it should have done a proper  repair to prevent the 
second leak happening.
BGs final response letter to Mr T said it wasnt responsible for the damage because the 
areas had already been damaged by the first leak. It also said the second leak had occurred 
because there was a hole in the coil in the cylinder of the tank causing the tank to refill and 
overflow again. The engineer couldnt  have known  about the hole as the coil isnt visible.  So 
BG didnt  accept its first engineer carried out poor work. But BG did accept it had given poor 
service and delayed.  It offered £100 compensation for Mr Ts distress and inconvenience.
Mr T complained to us saying BG had accepted  liability for the damage in a call. Its £100 
offer wasnt  enough  for the cost of repairing the damage, the stress  caused by BGs very 
poor service and his loss of income when  he had to stay at home several days for BG to sort 
out problem.
Our investigator thought BG wasn't responsible for the damage, but BGs offer of £100 
wasnt enough compensation  and it should  pay £400.
Mr T said he reluctantly agreed the recommendation for £400. He still strongly believed BG 
was responsible for the damage. BG didnt agree and offered £200  which  Mr T refused.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I partly  uphold  this complaint. I think BG isnt responsible for the damage to Mr Ts home  but 
its £100 compensation offer isnt fair. It must pay £400 compensation in total.  Ill explain why.
responsibility for damage
The policy says BG isnt responsible for:
Ref: DRN55333772any loss of or damage to, or cleaning of property, furniture or fixtures as a result  of 
your boiler, appliance or system breaking  or failing unless we caused it. For example 
damage caused by water  leaks.
Mr T has sent us photos showing  the damage  to his property. But looking  at those and 
taking into account  all the information hes given  about the damage theres no clear evidence 
that most  of the damage did occur due to the leak on 14 April.
Mr T told us the initial leak didnt cause much  damage. He said:
There was a very small stain on the dining room ceiling,  plus the carpet  in the airing  
cupboard was wet. The water  had leaked  into the void space between the floor and 
the ceiling  from the airing  cupboard 
When the initial repairs were made  good,  we had taken out the damp piece of carpet 
(it was stained badly), and emptied the contents of the cupboard (clothes wise), but 
there was no material damage  to the clothes
The majority of the damage occurred with the secondary leak on the following day 
when we werent in the property (as the photos  ... I sent you show)buckets  all over 
the floor, on the table, plus the wet dining room chairs, the wet carpet, and the now 
very big water marks on the ceiling,  plus the hole in the ceiling where the water was 
then pouring down from above.
However in Mr Ts detailed letter of complaint to BG dated 24 April 2018  he said:
On Friday 13th April, I woke up at 6.00am to discover that I had water coming 
through my dining room,  which  I realized was coming from the Airing  Cupboard.
On closer inspection I could see a large  pool of water under the carpet in there
In the meantime I had 3 buckets collecting the water,  a hole in the dining room 
ceiling, and soaking wet carpet.
The following  day (Saturday 14th April)In coming back  to the house at 11pm, 
I opened the front door to the sound of water once  again pouring out of through my 
dining room ceiling.
 
Based on Mr Ts earlier description of the damage at the time and the photos I think  BG can 
reasonably say there was no new damage  caused  to his home by the 14 April leak.  
Even if there  had been evidence that much of the damage occurred due to the 14 April leak,  
BG says its repair of the first leak was reasonable as its first engineer couldnt have known 
about the hole in the coil. I dont have any expert  evidence to the contrary. So on the 
evidence I have BGs first engineer did a reasonable repair  of the leak on 13 April. 
Overall, on the available evidence I think BG isnt responsible for the damage to Mr Ts 
home.
service
BG accepts its service was poor and it delayed. But its new £200 offer isnt enough for all the 
distress and inconvenience it caused Mr T.
Mr T has detailed the events and many  phone calls he made to BG to try to have his claim 
resolved and his complaint responded to. He was extremely frustrated by BGs lack of 
response, and I think reasonably so. Mr T made  a formal complaint on 24 April 2018 but BG 
Ref: DRN55333773didnt send a final response until 24 August 2018.  Part of the delay was due to BG 
contacting the wrong department of its agent  which reasonably  shouldn't have happened.
Mr T says that in the meantime time he was given assurances by BG that if would cover the 
damage. BGs note of its call with Mr T on 25 July 2018 says BG will take ownership of some 
of the damage, so I think its probable BG gave that assurance. Although I think  BG fairly 
didnt accept liability when  it reviewed all the evidence, its assurance  to Mr T meant he had 
considerable loss of expectation. Understandably  he was very annoyed  and frustrated as to 
why BG had charged  its mind which BG could have easily avoided. 
Mr T says he lost four days income  as a result of BGs poor service. He would have had to 
take some  time off for the repair work to be done  anyway and, as Ive said, the evidence  is 
that BGs  repair of the first leak was reasonable. Our investigator  asked  Mr T to submit  
evidence as to why he couldnt  work from his home office, which Mr T hasn't provided.  Also 
I dont generally award compensation specifically  for lost income unless theres a particular 
reason to do so and I dont think there  is in this case.
I think compensation of £400 is reasonable for Mr Ts overall  distress  and inconvenience 
caused by BG. For the avoidance  of doubt Im awarding a total of £400  inclusive of the £100 
BGs already paid to Mr T.
my final decision
I partly  uphold  this complaint.
I require British Gas Insurance Limited to pay Mr T £400 compensation in total for his 
distress and inconvenience within 28 days of us telling it that Mr T accepts my final decision.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 October  2019.
Nicola Sisk
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5533377