K820x#14complaint
Mrs H complains National Westminster Bank Plc will not refund a disputed transaction.
NatWest says the payment was authorised by the late Mr H.
background
In May 2017  a payment  of just under £25,000 was made from the joint account of Mr and 
Mrs H to P.  A few days later, Mr H called NatWest  and complained  that the transaction was 
fraudulent.  He called  back  less than a week later to confirm  it was not fraudulent  and then 
withdrew his complaint.
In November 2018, Mr H contacted NatWest  again  to complain about the transaction.  
Initially NatWest told him his complaint was outside  of the time scales in which  it could 
investigate  but when Mr H said the delay  was caused by him suffering a stroke,  NatWest  
agreed to consider his complaint.
It sent two final response letters to Mr H  but ultimately it rejected his claim for a refund on 
the basis that the transaction was fraudulent.  It reminded Mr H of the call he had made 
withdrawing his complaint  in May 2017.   So, Mr H came to this service.
Unfortunately, whilst the complaint was with us, Mr H sadly passed away  in November 2019.  
His wife, a joint account holder, continued  the complaint on his behalf, assisted by her son-
in-law.
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt think NatWest  needed  to do anymore.  
Ms H and her son-in-law made further submissions and the matter was passed  to me for a 
final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am sorry  to disappoint Mrs H  but I cannot  fairly ask NatWest to do anymore here either.
I have seen the submissions from Mrs Hs son-in-law who is adamant that the payment was 
not authorised  by Mr H.  He refers to previous payments Mr H had made to a business  F  
and says the unauthorised transaction to P was taken by F or a company closely  associated 
with it.  What he says, essentially, is that they are all part of the same  scam.
My job is to decide whether NatWest has done anything  wrong  based  on the evidence it has.  
That evidence, crucially,  includes  instructions from Mr H withdrawing his complaint and 
confirming the payment  as genuine.
Ive listened to the calls Mr H made to NatWest  both at the time of reporting a fraud and 
then withdrawing  the complaint.  During  the latter, whilst asking NatWest how someone can 
take money out of his account with him being told, he does indeed  confirm the payment to P 
as genuine, that he now knows what it was for, and wanted to the fraud  complaint  
withdrawn.
Ref: DRN50890912Authorising a payment  consists  of a two-stage test  authentication  and consent.   I am 
satisfied that the payment was authenticated - - in that Mr Hs card was used to make it.  The  
second limb of authorisation requires Mr H to have consented to the payment being  taken.   I 
think its more likely  than not that Mr H did consent to the payment to P  and I say that 
based on his subsequent  conversation with NatWest.
On balance, I cant see anything to suggest NatWest has been unfair or unreasonable in 
rejecting Mrs Hs complaint. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask [insert anonymised  
name here] to accept  or reject my decision before 15 February  2021.
Shazia Ahmed
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5089091