K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold payment protection  insurance 
(PPI) to Mr K. 
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in 2002.  Barclays sold Mr K the 
policy when he applied  for the card in a meeting.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  be upheld. Mr K disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.  
Ive considered what Mr K has said, but Ive decided the policy  wasnt  mis-sold. I will explain 
why:
I think Barclays made Mr K aware that the PPI was optional  and that he chose to 
take it  although I can understand if he can no longer remember this so many  years 
later. I have seen  a copy of the credit  card application which  Mr K signed. On it I can 
see you either marked a box to say you wanted  PPI or another  to say you didnt  
and there is a handwritten X saying Mr K wanted  PPI. 
Barclays recommended the PPI to Mr K, but it doesnt look as if it was unsuitable,  
based on what Ive seen of his circumstances  at the time. The PPI could have helped  
pay the credit card bill for a period longer  if he fell sick or lost his job. Mr K has said 
he was entitled  to employer sickness benefits and didnt have savings to fall back on. 
So the PPI was potentially useful. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. And I 
cant see any other reason why the recommendation was unsuitable.
Its difficult now to know how well Barclays explained the PPI. Its possible the 
information Barclays gave  Mr K about  the PPI wasnt as clear as it should  have been. 
But I dont think, in his circumstances, full information about  costs and benefits would 
have affected  whether  he took the PPI. And it doesnt look like hed have been 
affected by any of the significant exclusions in the policy. 
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does  not have to pay back the 
cost of the PPI to Mr K.
Ref: DRN51156682Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 April 2018.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5115668