K821x#15complaint
Miss D complains that Volkswagen Financial Services  (UK) Limited (Volkswagen) unfairly 
charged her for damage to her car when  she returned  it. She would like some  of the charges 
removed.
background
Miss D says she took out a Hire Purchase Agreement with Volkswagen  in April 1015. She 
says when she returned the car in April 2018 Volkswagen  charged  her a total of £348  for 
damage to the car. She says she accepted the charge for damage to the front left wheel but 
not the charges for two dents and for damage  to the front right wheel.
She says one dent isnt visible.  And the inspector  who looked at her car said if the other dent 
had been anywhere else on the car she wouldnt have been charged for it. So she doesnt  
think she should be charged.   
my provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision in which I found:-
-According to the Hire Contract Miss D signed she needed  to return  her car at the end 
of her agreement in good condition  with no damage outside of what  was considered  
fair wear  and tear.
-Miss D originally disputed three  charges  a dent on the swage line, scuff  damage to 
the alloy wheels  and another dent.
-Miss D accepted our investigators view that it was reasonable for Volkswagen to 
charge for the dent on the swage line and scuff damage to the alloy wheels. 
-Miss D didnt accept it was reasonable for Volkswagen to charge for the second dent. 
She said the dent wasnt visible.
-The inspection report noted  two dents. I didnt see why the inspector  would  have 
noted two dents had he not found two dents
-Our investigator felt the evidence wasnt conclusive  about  the second  dent so didnt 
feel it was reasonable  for Volkswagen to charge for this.
.
-It wasnt possible to see an actual dent from the photographs I saw.  Most of the 
bodywork showed a mirror image reflection. However around the swage line there 
was clearly some distortion. That persuaded me there was a dent.
-the actual  size of the dent was irrelevant since BVRLA  Guidelines  clearly state any 
dent on the swage line is unacceptable. 
my findings 
Ive considered all of the available  evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN50571692Volkswagen has acknowledged  and accepted my provisional decision. It had no further  
comments for me to consider.
Miss D didnt accept my provisional  decision. She made a number of points which  I have 
considered.
Firstly Miss D doesnt feel its fair to charge her for a dent that isnt visible.  I accept the dent 
isnt visible  from the photos I have seen  including the one Miss D sent in with her response  
to my provisional decision.  But some distortion  which is an accepted indicator of a dent  is 
visible. So that persuades me that, however small, there is a dent. And the actual size of the 
dent is irrelevant since the BVRLA  Guidelines that Volkswagen uses to assess damage state 
that damage of any size to the swage  line is outside of normal  wear and tear.
Secondly Miss D isnt happy  that the inspector who inspected the car advised her to 
complain. And she says he told her he wouldnt pay for this damage himself. There  is no 
record of this conversation so I cant be sure what the inspector told Miss D. He did note two 
dents on the inspection report and didnt make  any other comments  about the dents on the 
report that could  help with Miss Ds complaint.
I can understand Miss Ds frustration  if, as she says, the inspector advised her to dispute the 
charge. He may have just been trying to be helpful  in telling her of her options. I dont know. 
But I dont think the inspectors personal comments of what  he might do in a similar situation  
over ride the fact he reported two dents.
Finally Miss D has pointed out that our investigator didnt find any evidence of a dent. She 
wanted to know  what proof there was of a dent given the investigators view, the inspectors 
comments and the photographic evidence  she has given  us.
I have already commented on the inspectors comments and the photographic evidence. In 
summary the proof for me is the inspectors  report and the distortion on the photographs.
I appreciate it must be frustrating for consumers  when an Ombudsmans view differs from 
that of an investigator  as has happened here. But my role is to review the evidence and to 
come to an independent view which may or may not accord with the investigators view. 
Unfortunately for Miss D I have carefully considered  all of the points she has raised. But I 
dont believe  she has given me any new information  that gives me grounds to change  my 
provisional view.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 August 2019.
Bridget Makins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN50571693
Ref: DRN5057169