K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a credit 
card in 1998. Mrs S says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ss case.
Having done so, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why below.
When selling  the PPI, Lloyds had to make it clear to Mrs S that she had a choice about it. 
But Mrs S says she doesnt remember asking for the PPI and wasnt  given  any information 
about it.
Lloyds has sent us a copy of Mrs Ss application  form for the credit  card.  This included  a 
section on optional  features, with a question about PPI and a box to be ticked  if Mrs S 
wanted to take it out. And the box has been ticked.
Based on this, I think Lloyds did make  it clear to Mrs S that she had a choice about the PPI. 
And that Mrs S chose to take it, knowing she didnt  have  to.
Lloyds says it recommended the PPI to Mrs S, so it had to check  that it was right for her. 
And, based on what Ive seen of Mrs Ss circumstances at the time,  I think  that it was. For 
example, she doesnt appear to have been  affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on 
the PPI cover. The policy couldve paid out for significantly longer than shes  told us she 
wouldve been entitled to full sick pay. And it wouldve meant she didnt need to rely on her 
family or any savings  she had to make her repayments if she wasnt earning.
As well as checking it was right for her, Lloyds had to give Mrs S clear information about  the 
PPI. Its possible the information  it gave her wasnt as clear  as it shouldve  been. But, for the 
same reasons I think it was right for her, it seems  like the PPI would have been useful for 
Mrs S if something went wrong. It also looks  like it was affordable.  So I dont think  better 
information about the PPI would have put Mrs S off taking it out.
Which means Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs S.
But Lloyds has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs S because:
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit  share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs S about that. Because  Lloyds didnt tell Mrs S, that 
was unfair.
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission  and profit  share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ref: DRN52275772my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank  PLC doesnt have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mrs S.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have  to pay back to Mrs S any commission and profit  share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done  this, so I dont 
award any further compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs S to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 September 2019.  
Alan Millward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5227577