K820x#14Complaint
Mr G says HSBC  Bank Plc (HSBC) mis-sold him a payment protection insurance  (PPI) 
policy because it wasnt explained  to him and he didnt know  it was optional.
Background
Mr G say he was sold a single premium PPI policy during a phone  call with HSBC  when he 
took out a personal loan in December 2000.  The loan was for £7,000  which was to be repaid 
over a term of 36 months. The PPI cost around  £963 and was the type that had to be paid 
for up front in one single payment. Like the loan, the PPI attracted interest  and also covered 
a 36 month  term.
Our adjudicator who looked at this complaint said it shouldnt be upheld. But Mr G disagreed 
and asked for the case to go for an ombudsmans  final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Gs case. 
Having done this Im not upholding Mr Gs complaint.
This sale was some  19 years ago and so its not unusual  that neither party is able to send 
me any of the original  paperwork. However,  weve seen a few similar cases to this and we 
now know that during  this time period, HSBC generally discussed PPI with consumers first 
and then produced some  documents for them to read and sign,  based  on that discussion. 
We know consumers whod agreed  to have PPI with their loan were then usually given a 
credit agreement and a separate creditor protection declaration which would  have shown 
that they a choice and that they had elected to take PPI. They  would also have had to sign 
separately to agree  to their loan and also the PPI.
HSBC provided us with the sample documents it said were used in this sale and having 
looked closely over these, I think they correspond with our understanding of HSBCs selling 
procedures back in 2000. 
So it seems  to me that Mr G agreed to have  PPI and would have been  able to know it wasnt  
something he needed to buy with his loan if he didnt want  it.
I think its quite likely  HSBC recommended the cover  to Mr G so it had a duty to ensure it 
was suitable for him. After  such a long time this can be difficult  to judge because it can often 
depend on the applicants individual circumstances and their attitude to risk. 
But having  looked carefully at his overall  situation,  I think Mr G was eligible for the cover and 
not caught by any of the major exclusions we sometimes see in these policies. I see Mr G 
had some moderate protection against sickness with his job, but Im afraid  that doesnt 
necessarily mean the policy wasnt of use. The PPI would have covered his loan repayments  
for up to 12 months for either unemployment or sickness  which  was better  than the cover he 
Ref: DRN54623692enjoyed though his work.  So whilst  I cant say for sure why he chose  to take out the policy, I 
can see it was useful  in his circumstances. 
Overall, I think the PPI policy was suitable for him.
HSBC also had a responsibility to provide information that was clear,  fair and not misleading  
so Mr G could make  an informed decision about buying this cover.  I cant  say what  was 
actually discussed  between the parties or whether  Mr G was given all the information he 
should have been given.  And I can certainty see how HSBC  could have  made some of its 
forms clearer, including setting out what Mr G might expect to be refunded  if hed cashed  in 
his single premium  policy  early. 
But I dont think this would have made  any difference to whether or not hed have still bought 
the policy. I say this because I dont think it was suspected or likely that Mr G intended to 
cash in his loan or PPI early. I also think the cost of both the loan and the PPI part of the 
loan were set out on the credit agreement he signed. So he would have been able to 
understand the costs he was facing. 
These things - and what Ive said above about him agreeing to the cover - lead me to think 
its more likely this policy wasnt mis-sold.
My final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Gs complaint or direct  HSBC UK Bank Plc 
to pay any compensation.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 September  2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5462369