K821x#15Complaint
Miss J complained to Oakam  Ltd that it shouldnt  have provided her with loans as she 
believed they were unaffordable for her.
Background
The background to this complaint was set out in my provisional decision dated  
20 July 2020.  An extract from this is attached (including the regulations and guidance 
enforce at the time) and forms part of this final decision, so I will not repeat that information 
here.
In my provisional decision I set out why I was minded  to partly uphold the complaint. I invited 
both parties to let me have any further  comments and evidence. Oakam didnt respond to 
the provisional decision, so I dont know what it thinks about the outcome that was recached.  
Miss Js representative told us it accepted the provisional decision and it didnt have 
anything further  to add.  
My findings
Ive once more  considered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss Js representative accepted the provisional decision and as Oakam didnt respond I 
dont know what it thinks about  the outcome. As no new information or evidence  has been 
provided, I see no reason  to depart  from the findings I reached in the provisional decision.  
So, I still think Oakam was wrong  to have provided Miss J with loans 4-9. 
Putting things  right  what  Oakam  needs to do
Oakam should refund  all interest,  fees and charges  Miss J paid on loans 4 to 9, 
including payments made to a third party where  applicable, but not including anything  
it has already refunded.
Add 8% simple interest*,  calculated from the date Miss J originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
Oakam should remove  any adverse information it has recorded on Miss Js credit  file 
in relation to loans  4 and 5. The overall  pattern of Miss Js borrowing for loans 6 to 9 
means any information recorded about them is adverse, so Oakam should remove  
these loans entirely from Miss Js credit  file. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Oakam to deduct tax from this interest.  Oakam should 
give Miss J a certificate showing how much tax it has deducted, if she asks for one.
Ref: DRN56806622My final decision
For the reasons  given  above and in my provisional  decision, I partly uphold Miss Js 
complaint.
Oakam Ltd should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 October  2020.
Robert Walker 
Ombudsman 
Ref: DRN56806623EXTRACT FROM PROVISIONAL DECISION
Complaint
Miss J complained to Oakam Ltd that it shouldnt have provided her with loans as she believed they 
were unaffordable for her.
Background
Oakam investigated Miss Js complaint and issued its final response dated 3 December 2018. A table 
based on the information given to us by Oakham can be found below.
Loan Date  Taken Date  RepaidAmount 
BorrowedNumber  of 
Weekly 
InstalmentsHighest 
Monthly 
Repayment*
1 18/01/2012 28/06/2012 £240.00 26 £75.00
2 28/06/2012 13/10/2012 £352.92 17 £150.00
3 13/10/2012 17/12/2012 £516.21 26 £155.00
4 17/12/2012 26/03/2013 £639.03 26 £180.00
5 26/03/2013 25/06/2013 £731.16 52 £125.00
6 25/06/2013 07/11/2013 £986.98 52 £168.00
7 07/11/2013 08/02/2014 £1,000.29 52 £174.00
8 08/02/2014 29/05/2014 £1,115.04 52 £192.00
9 29/05/2014 29/05/2015 £1,246.42 52 £216.00
*Highest repayment includes where  five payments  would be made during  a monthly  period over term 
of the loan.
As part of its response, Oakam stated that it didnt  look at Miss Js first two loans because they were 
given more  than six years  before she complained. It also explained it didnt think it had done  anything  
wrong in giving Miss J loans  3 to 6. However,  Oakam  upheld loans 7 to 9 and made  an offer. It 
offered to refund  all the interest and charges Miss J had paid on loans 7 to 9, plus 8% simple interest.
Miss Js representative  responded explaining Miss J wasnt happy to accept this offer but would  
consider any other  offers Oakam were willing to make. Oakam replied  stating it wouldnt make any 
other offers.
Miss Js complaint  was referred to this Service on 19 December 2018.
In March 2019, Miss Js representative emailed Oakam stating she would like to accept the offer that 
had been made. Since then both Oakam and Miss Js representative have confirmed that, while an 
acceptance of the offer was sent to Oakam,  the offer wasnt processed and still hasnt been paid to 
date.
Miss Js representative  has said that as the offer hadnt  been  actioned, due to Oakam going into 
administration, Miss J wanted us to look at the whole complaint as she believed  the complaint hadnt 
been resolved. However, Oakam is now no longer in administration. 
Oakam says that this Service shouldnt  look into Miss Js complaint at all because it believes the 
complaint to have been resolved. Oakam believes Miss Js acceptance of the offer was in full and 
final settlement of her complaint and that this means there wasnt  any ongoing dispute.  
One of our adjudicators  looked  into the complaint and she thought that we could consider  the sales of 
all the loans. The adjudicator  made a number of points  but overall she said that as the offer in respect 
of loans  7-9 hadnt actually been actioned in a reasonable amount of time, there was still an ongoing 
dispute to be considered.  She also noted that Oakams objection to us considering the complaint had 
Ref: DRN56806624been raised  after wed issued an assessment  of the merits into Miss J complaint  which  had been 
partially upheld on 13 January 2020.
Oakam responded  disagreeing, repeating that it believes  the complaint isnt one we should consider, 
due to Miss Js acceptance of the offer made in the final response.
The adjudicator also found that loans  1 and 2 were taken out more  than 6 years  before Miss Js 
complaint was raised, and so couldve been out of time. However, the adjudicator  thought  that Miss J 
complained within three years of being aware  she had cause  to. As a result,  the adjudicator 
considered the merits of all nine of Miss Js loans and found that Oakam  shouldnt have given Miss J 
loans 4 to 9.
 
Oakam has provided a response disagreeing  with the outcome of Miss Js complaint. Oakam has said 
that it believes the checks  carried out were proportionate and that it wasnt wrong to have given  Miss 
J loans 4 to 6. It has also said that it believes  our approach  to considering  complaints appears to have  
changed over time. It made no response about whether the case  was in jurisdiction or not. 
The merits  of Miss Js complaint were  reconsidered  more  recently, on 30 April 2020, and the 
adjudicator sent their findings to both Oakam and Miss Js representative. Here the adjudicator 
explained why they believed Oakam shouldnt have given Miss J loans 3  9. 
They said that Oakam shouldve been  aware of concerning information from Miss Js credit check  
results and her bank statements at the time of applying for loan 3. The adjudicator also said that this, 
combined with Miss Js borrowing history, shouldve  made  Oakam aware that it was likely Miss J had 
underlying financial difficulties and wouldnt have been able to sustainably  repay  loan 3, without 
having to borrow again.
Oakam hasnt provided a response to this most recent view but it has stated it still believes we cant  
consider the complaint due to the offer having been accepted by Miss J.
As no agreement could  be reached  the case has now been  passed to me. 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  
lending - including all of the relevant rules,  guidance and good  industry practice  - on our website.  And 
having done  so, Im intending to conclude that Miss Js complaint is a case  that this service  can 
consider and then, when consider what actually happened Im minded to conclude that Oakham made 
an error by providing some of the loans to Miss J. 
Consideration of Miss Js complaint
Firstly, I will address whether we can consider all of the loans involved in Miss Js complaint.  I want  to 
make it clear that this part of the decision  is not about  whether Oakam did something wrong  when it 
provided the loans to Miss J. It concerns  whether or not this Service should consider the merits  of her 
complaint.
Oakam has said that Miss Js complaint about loans  3-9 is one we should choose not to consider 
because she has accepted the offer it made in the final response  letter. This means Oakam believes 
the rules that govern what this service can consider doesnt extend to looking at Miss Js complaint. 
Jurisdiction 
Firstly, I dont think this complaint is outside of this services jurisdiction. And this is the first thing this 
service needs  to consider.  Because  if we think the case is outside of our jurisdiction then we have no 
power to take this case forward. However, looking  at the various arguments made by Oakham I dont 
Ref: DRN56806625think this case is outside of our jurisdiction  and therefore is a complaint we could take forward. Ive 
explained why below. 
I agree with the adjudicators findings that while  loans  1 and 2 were taken out more  than 6 years  
before Miss Js complaint  was raised, there isnt anything to suggest  she knew or she  ought  to have 
reasonably been aware more than three before shed  complained that she had reason to. 
I can also see the complaint  was referred to our Service around two weeks after the final response 
was issued,  so within the required six-month time limit. In light of this, I cant see there is a timeliness 
concern either that would suggest we dont  have the right to consider Miss Js complaint about  all nine 
of her loans.
Dismissal 
However, although  there is nothing  within  the rules to prevent us from taking the complaint forward, 
that doesnt always mean  that is appropriate for this service to do so. An objection to us considering 
the complaint based on Miss J having accepted an offer in full and final settlement,  could valid 
grounds for dismissing the complaint about loans 3-9 without considering the merits. 
In accordance with DISP Rule 3.3.1, the decision about whether its appropriate for us to investigate  a 
case is one for us. We may dismiss a case without  considering its merits  in a number  of different  
situations, for example  where a complaint is made about a business but the consumer  making the 
complaint can be shown to have accepted an offer on the understanding that such  an acceptance 
was in full and final settlement of their complaint   and the settlement has been actioned.
As neither  Oakam or Miss J appear  to dispute an acceptance of the offer was sent to Oakam  in March  
2019, I dont think there is a need for me to consider  this aspect any further.  But I have considered 
what has happened since the acceptance was sent to Oakam.
Miss Js complaint  was referred to this Service on 19 December 2018, and at that point there was an 
ongoing dispute that we could  consider. Based on what Ive seen, Miss Js representative didnt 
contact Oakam about accepting an offer until after this, on 12 March 2019.
On 15 March  2019,  Miss Js representative contacted  us to let us know they had accepted Oakams 
offer, but still wanted us to consider the loans  that hadnt been included in it. Based on Miss Js 
representatives acceptance  email to Oakam, I cant see they made  Oakam aware of this. Therefore, I 
think it was fair at that point for Oakam to reasonably believe  Miss J hadnt accepted the offer in 
settlement of her whole complaint. However,  this doesnt automatically mean the complaint should be 
dismissed. 
Generally, where an objection to us considering a complaint is raised by a lender, on the basis that an 
offer has been  accepted  to settle the complaint, that business is also usually able to evidence  the 
accepted settlement  has been actioned in a reasonable  period of time. What a reasonable amount of 
time may be will depend  on the individual circumstances  of the complaint. 
In some instances we may consider being provided with such  information  is enough  to have 
demonstrated that both parties to the complaint  have  fulfilled their part of the agreed settlement and 
that both parties  have  reasonably agreed the settlement  has resolved the complaint. However, in 
other instances we may not think  that this is enough, by itself, to say that it wouldnt be appropriate for 
us to consider the matter  further.
I acknowledge that Oakam has said that Miss Js offer acceptance wasnt processed once it went into 
administration. I also note that once Oakam confirmed  it was no longer in administration the offer still 
wasnt actioned. Both Oakam and Miss Js representative agree the offer accepted hasnt been  
actioned to date.
Ref: DRN56806626Miss J had a reasonable expectation that once shed accepted Oakams offer that this would  be 
fulfilled in a timely manner.  In November  2019, Miss Js representative told us that as the offer hadnt 
been honoured Miss J believed the complaint to be unresolved and asked  us to continue to consider 
the complaint  which we did. And it was reasonable for us to do so.  
This was around eight months after Miss Js acceptance had been communicated to Oakam. Given 
the amount of time that had passed  since Miss Js acceptance  had been sent to Oakam, and that the 
accepted offer hadnt been  fulfilled in a reasonable amount of time, I think  it was fair for Miss J to think 
at this point  that the offer acceptance hadnt resolved her complaint and that there was still an 
ongoing dispute between her and Oakam. I think we are able to consider Miss Js complaint.  
Id also note that there was at least two separate occasions where  Oakam  wouldve had the 
opportunity to raise  an objection  to us considering Miss Js complaint before the adjudicators  
assessment in January 2020. However,  there isnt anything  from what Ive seen to suggest Oakam 
did this. Therefore at the time we issued our view, I dont think  it was unreasonable for us to consider 
Miss Js offer acceptance had not resolved her complaint  as shed agreed.
Once Oakam had raised its objection to us considering Miss Js complaint  it still hadnt fulfilled the 
offer that had been accepted in March  2018. Therefore,  Oakam hadnt upheld its part of the 
settlement offer. 
Taking everything into consideration, Im satisfied that in this instance there was an ongoing dispute 
between Miss J and Oakam that we could and shouldve  investigated  when we did. As there is still an 
ongoing dispute, and I dont think that this case should  be dismissed, I will now address  the merits of 
Miss Js unaffordable lending  complaint.
Miss Js complaint
I have included some  of the regulations that were in place at the time Oakham started  to lend to Miss 
J (when regulation lay with the Office of Fair Trading)  and then the regulations from April 2014  when 
Oakham feel under  the remit of the Financial Conduct  Authority (FCA)  at the end of this provisional 
decision. As Oakham will see, the regulations that were  in place  from the OFT and the FCA are 
similar. Indeed, the FCAs regulations in part reference the OFT regulations. 
So, thinking  about the regulations that were applicable at the time,  Oakam needed to take reasonable 
steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice this means  that it should have carried  out 
proportionate checks in order  to reasonably  conclude  Miss J could repay  the loans in a sustainable 
manner. 
These checks could take into account a number of different things,  such as how much  was being lent, 
the repayment amounts  and the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  
stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Oakam should fairly and reasonably have done more to 
establish that any lending was sustainable  for the consumer. These factors  include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more  difficult  to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount  due to be repaid  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular  level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period  of time during 
which a customer has been given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing  had become,  or was becoming, unsustainable).
Ref: DRN56806627There may even come a point  where  the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Oakam was required to establish whether Miss J could  sustainably repay  her loans  not just whether  
the loan payments  were affordable on a strict  pounds  and pence calculation.  The loan payments 
being affordable on this basis might be an indication Miss J could  sustainably make her repayments. 
But it doesnt  automatically  follow that this is the case.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this context and 
what this all means for Miss Js complaint.
As neither  Oakam nor Miss J appear to dispute  the adjudicators findings that there isnt enough to 
suggest it was unfair for Oakam to have given her loans 1 and 2, I dont think  there is a need for me to 
consider these loans any further. However,  I have  kept them in mind when thinking  about  the overall  
lending relationship between  Miss J and Oakam.  Instead this decision will focus on loans  3 to 9.
Oakam has told this Service it carried out detailed and extensive checks  before agreeing to lend to 
Miss J. It says it asked  Miss J about her income  and monthly expenses. It also said it carried out a 
check of her credit file and that Miss Js income  was validated against bank statements as part of the 
application process.
For loan 3, I do think that the credit check results Oakam has provided raise  some real concerns for 
me about Miss Js indebtedness at the time. I say this as, while Oakam has stated the two active  
County Court Judgements (CCJs) Miss J had were issued several years earlier, in 2006 and 2007, 
the balance of these  totalled £27,064. 
This was in addition to the £8,843  balance Miss J had in loan or instalment credit  and revolving and 
budget credit. I think this reasonably suggested Miss J was likely already over indebted  by the time 
she applied for loan 3. I think this information ought  to have reasonably  prompted Oakam to carry  out 
a full review  of Miss Js financial circumstances before agreeing to lend further. There isnt anything  to 
suggest Oakam did this.
Oakam has shown it recorded Miss Js declared monthly income for loan 3 as £1,838 and her monthly  
expenditure as £1,157. I can also see for the majority of Miss Js loans Oakam did obtain some partial 
bank statements as part of the application process. However, Oakam  doesnt appear to have 
provided us with copies of such information for loan 3. 
Miss J hasnt provided copies of her bank statements  covering this period either. So, in the absence 
of anything else,  I havent seen enough to fairly say Oakam was wrong  to have provided Miss J with 
loan 3, despite my concerns  about the extent of the checks it undertook.  However, if Miss J is able to 
provide copies of her bank statements for the period of September and October 2012, I will review my 
findings for loan 3.
By loan 4, Miss J had had an ongoing borrowing relationship with Oakam for nearly a year without a 
single day of not being in debt.  With the exception  of loan 1, at the point of each new loan application 
Miss J still had outstanding debt on the previous  loan which she rolled over  into the new loan. This 
started with around  £56 from loan 1 into loan 2, and by loan 4 this was around £409 from loan 3. This 
was Miss Js largest outstanding balance  to date to be refinanced into a new loan, making loan 4 her 
largest loan to date. 
Additionally, I note the time period between Miss Js requests for further borrowing  decreased with 
each new loan.  Loan  2 was applied for just over five months after loan 1 but by loan 4 this had 
reduced to just over two months since  taking out loan 3. Therefore, I think  Oakam  shouldve 
reasonably been aware that Miss J was, in my view, showing signs of having  difficulties repaying 
previous loans since applying for loan 2 and that, by loan 4, this had become an emerging pattern of 
behaviour which only continued with loan 5. So, I think Oakam were  wrong to have given Miss J loans 
4 and 5.
Ref: DRN56806628Id like to take this opportunity to explain that I havent  recreated individual, proportionate affordability 
checks for loans 6 to 9 because I dont think that it is necessary to do so. Instead Ive looked  at the 
overall pattern of Oakams lending  history with Miss J, with a view to seeing if there was a point at 
which Oakam  should reasonably have seen that further  lending was unsustainable, or otherwise 
harmful. I think this point  was reached by loan 6, so Oakam  should have realised that it shouldnt 
have provided any further loans. I say that because:
I think that by loan 6 Oakam wouldve  been aware that Miss J had now had an ongoing 
borrowing relationship with it for almost 18 months and been in debt for the entire time. Such 
an overall pattern  of borrowing suggests Miss J had become persistently reliant on short-term  
loans.
There was an emerging pattern between loans 1 to 5 of Miss J taking new loans
prior to her having settled  the previous  loan  rolling the existing outstanding  balance  into the 
new loan and requesting further funds  on top of this. This was an indication that Miss J was 
showings signs of having difficulties repaying  previous loans.
By loan 6, there was no sustained,  significant reduction in Miss Js borrowing. Her overall  
borrowing only increased with each  new loan and by this point Miss Js loan amount was 
£986.98. This was her largest loan to date and more than four times that of the original 
amount Miss J borrowed for loan 1. Based on this, Oakam ought to have realised it was more  
likely than not Miss J was having to borrow  further to cover the hole repaying her previous 
loans was leaving  in her finances.
Miss J wasnt making any real inroads into what she owed Oakam and her indebtedness  was 
being prolonged for an extended period of time. As mentioned above,  loan 6 was provided  
around 18 months after Miss Js first loan. This period was to be extended for an additional 52 
weeks when loan 7 was provided and further still, along with an ever-increasing  
indebtedness, when loans 8 and 9 were given. 
At the time of applying for loan 9, Miss J had an ongoing borrowing relationship  for more than 
2 years and 4 months. By this point Oakam shouldve  reasonably  been aware  that Miss J 
wasnt using these loans  for the purpose they were intended.
I think  that Miss J also lost out when Oakam provided  loans 4 to 9 because:
These loans had the effect  of unfairly prolonging Miss Js indebtedness by allowing her to 
take expensive credit  intended for short-term use over an extended period of time and
the extended  period  of time Miss J owed  Oakam money was likely  to have had
negative implications  on her ability to access mainstream credit and so kept her in the market  
for these high-cost loans.
As part of Oakams response to the adjudicators findings, it has raised questions  about our approach 
to considering the merits of irresponsible/unaffordable lending complaints. Oakam has asked if our 
approach has changed  more recently and offered  a different complaint outcome as an example of 
possible inconsistencies  in our approach.
This service has always  considered the relevant rules  and regulations  that were in effect  at the time of 
the lending decisions were  made.  Indeed our approach  is based on what the OFT and FCA said at 
the time each  loan was given. 
For Miss Js complaint,  I have already set out the relevant  test that is applied to when thinking  about  
whether Oakams checks went far enough.  In light of this, there is no need  for me to comment  any 
further on the 2016 example  decision Oakam has provided.
Ref: DRN56806629Taking on board  all the information that I currently have access to, I think Oakam  was wrong to have 
given Miss J loans 4 to 9.
 
Ref: DRN568066210the legal and regulatory framework regulation by the Office of Fair Trading (up to 31 March 
2014)
Up to the end of March 2014 Oakham was subject to the OFT . During this time it needed a standard 
licence from the Office of Fair Trading  (OFT), in order to carry  out consumer credit activities.
Section 25(2)  of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 set out the factors the OFT had to consider when 
deciding whether  to grant a consumer credit licence to a lender. It said:
(1) In determining whether  an applicant for a licence is a fit person for the purposes of this section the 
OFT shall have regard to any matters appearing to it to be relevant  including  (amongst other things) 
(a) the applicant's  skills, knowledge and experience  in relation to consumer credit businesses, 
consumer hire businesses or ancillary credit  businesses;
(b) such skills, knowledge  and experience  of other persons who the applicant proposes will  
participate in any business  that would be carried on by him under  the licence;
(c) practices and procedures that the applicant  proposes  to implement in connection with any 
such business;
(d) evidence of the kind mentioned in subsection (2A)
(2A) That evidence is evidence tending to show that the applicant, or any of the applicant's   
employees, agents or associates (whether past or present) or, where  the applicant is a body  
corporate, any person  appearing to the OFT to be a controller of the body corporate or an associate 
of any such person, has
(a) committed any offence involving fraud or other dishonesty  or violence; (b) contravened any 
provision made by or under
(i) this Act;
(ii) Part 16 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000  so far as it relates  to the consumer credit 
jurisdiction under that Part;
(iii) any other enactment regulating the provision of credit to individuals or
other transactions with individuals;
(c) contravened  any provision in force in an EEA State  which corresponds to a provision  of the kind 
mentioned in paragraph (b);
(d) practised discrimination on grounds of sex, colour, race or ethnic or national  origins in, or 
in connection with, the carrying on of any business; or
(e) engaged in business  practices appearing to the OFT to be deceitful or oppressive or otherwise 
unfair or improper  (whether  unlawful or not) [my emphasis].
Section 25(2B) set out a direct example of the type of practice referred to in Section
25(2A(e)) and said: For the purposes  of subsection (2A)(e), the business  practices which the OFT 
may consider  to be deceitful or oppressive or otherwise  unfair or improper include  practices in the 
carrying on of a consumer credit business that appear to the OFT to involve irresponsible lending [my 
emphasis].
In March 2010, as required  by s.25A,  the OFT produced guidance on the test for irresponsible lending  
for the purposes of section 25(2B) of the Consumer  Credit  Act 1974 and so it issued its guidance on 
irresponsible lending (ILG).
So I consider the ILG to be of central importance in reaching a fair and reasonable  outcome in Miss 
Js case. The foreword  to the guidance  set out its purpose and it said:
Ref: DRN568066211The primary purpose in producing this guidance is to provide greater clarity for businesses  and 
consumer representatives as to the business practices that the OFT considers may constitute 
irresponsible lending practices  for the purposes of section 25(2B)  of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.  It 
indicates types  of deceitful or oppressive  or otherwise  unfair or improper  business practices  which, if 
engaged in by a consumer  credit business,  could  call into consideration  its fitness to hold a consumer 
credit licence.
Whilst this guidance represents the OFT's  view on irresponsible lending, it is not meant to represent 
an exhaustive list of behaviours and practices which  might constitute  irresponsible lending.
Section two of the guidance sets out the general  principles of fair business practice. Section
2.1 says:
In the OFT's view there are a number of overarching principles of consumer protection and fair 
business practice which apply to all consumer credit lending.
Section 2.2 of the guidance  says:
In general terms,  creditors should:
not use misleading or oppressive behaviour when  advertising, selling, or seeking  to enforce a 
credit agreement
make a reasonable  assessment of whether a borrower can afford  to meet repayments in a 
sustainable manner
explain the key features of the credit agreement to enable the borrower to make an informed  
choice
monitor the borrower's  repayment record during the course of the agreement, offering 
assistance where borrowers appear to be experiencing difficulty  and treat borrowers fairly  and 
with forbearance if they experience difficulties
Section 2.3 lists other expectations of lenders. Amongst other things,  it says:  In addition to the above 
there should be:
fair treatment  of borrowers. Borrowers should not be targeted with credit products that are 
clearly unsuitable for them,  subjected  to high pressure selling, aggressive or oppressive 
behaviour or inappropriate  coercion, or conduct which is deceitful,  oppressive, unfair or 
improper, whether unlawful  or not
Borrowers who may be particularly vulnerable by virtue of their current  indebtedness, poor 
credit history, or by reason  of age or health, or disability,  or for any other reason, should, in 
particular, not be targeted or exploited.
Section four of the guidance  is concerned  with the assessment of affordability that lenders were 
required to carry out before granting credit. Section 4.1 says:
In the OFT's view, all assessments of affordability should involve a consideration  of the potential for 
the credit commitment to adversely impact  on the borrower's financial  situation,  taking account of 
information that the creditor  is aware of at the time the credit is granted. The extent and scope of any 
assessment of affordability, in any particular circumstance, should  be dependent upon  and 
proportionate to  a number of factors (see paragraph 4.10 of this guidance document).
'Assessing affordability', in the context of this guidance, is a 'borrower-focussed test' which  involves  a 
creditor assessing a borrower's ability to undertake  a specific  credit commitment,  or specific additional 
credit commitment, in a sustainable manner,  without the borrower incurring  (further)  financial 
difficulties and/or  experiencing adverse  consequences.
Section 4.2 of the OFT guidance says:
Ref: DRN568066212Whatever means and sources  of information  creditors employ as part of an assessment  of  
affordability should be sufficient to make an assessment of the risk of the credit sought being  
unsustainable for the borrower in question. In our view this is likely to involve more than solely  
assessing the likelihood of the borrower  being able to repay  the credit in question.
We consider that before granting credit, significantly increasing the amount of credit,  or  significantly 
increasing the credit limit under an agreement for running  account credit, creditors should  take 
reasonable steps  to assess a borrower's  likely ability  to be able to meet repayments under the credit 
agreement in a sustainable manner.
In a sustainable manner is defined in Section 4.3 of the OFT guidance. And Section 4.3 says:
The OFT regards 'in a sustainable manner' in this context as meaning credit that can be repaid by the 
borrower:
without  undue difficulty   in particular without incurring or increasing problem indebtedness
over the life of the credit  agreement or, in the case of open-end agreements, within  a 
reasonable period of time
out of income  and/or  available savings, without having  to realise  security or assets.
Section 4.4 goes on to describe undue difficulty and says:
The OFT would regard 'without undue difficulty' in this context as meaning the borrower being  able to 
make repayments (in the absence of changes in personal circumstances that were  not reasonably 
foreseeable at the time the credit was granted):
while  also meeting other debt repayments and other normal/reasonable outgoings and
without  having to borrow  further to meet these repayments.
Building on the proportionality principle set out in section 4.1, section 4.10 deals with the issues that 
might influence how detailed the affordability assessment should be. It includes   factors such as:
the type of credit product;
the amount  of credit to be provided and the associated cost and risk to the borrower;
the borrowers financial  situation  at the time the credit is sought;
the borrowers credit history, including any indications of the borrower  experiencing (or having 
experienced) financial  difficulty
the vulnerability of the borrower
Section 4.12 is a non-exhaustive list of the types and sources of information  that a lender might use to 
assess affordability, including:
evidence of income
evidence of expenditure
records of previous dealings with the borrower
a credit score
a credit report from a credit reference agency
information obtained  from the borrower  through a form or a meeting
Section 4.15 concerns  the verification of income and expenditure for the purposes of making an 
appropriate assessment of affordability. It states:
In our view,  creditors  who do not require documentary evidence of income and/or expenditure as part 
of their assessment of affordability, but rather accept information provided by the borrower without 
any supporting evidence or, in the alternative, do not seek any information on income and/or 
expenditure at all as part of their assessment, should ensure that whatever  means and sources of 
Ref: DRN568066213information they employ are sufficient to make  an appropriate  assessment. We do not consider  that 
self-certification of income would generally  be sufficient in respect of significant long-term credit  
agreements, particularly those 
secured on property.
Section 4.16 specifically touches on the issue of proportionality in the context of short-term 
credit. It says:
Whilst the OFT accepts,  as a general  principle  from a proportionality perspective,  that the level of 
scrutiny required for small sum and/or short-term credit may be somewhat less than for large sum 
and/or long term credit,  we consider that creditors should also take account  of the fact that the risk of 
the credit being unsustainable would be directly related  to the amount of credit granted (and 
associated interest / charges etc.) relative  to the borrowers financial situation
Sections 4.18 to 4.33 of the ILG set out some examples of specific irresponsible lending 
practices relating  to how businesses assess affordability. Section 4.20 says this would  include where 
a lender is:
Failing to undertake a reasonable  assessment  of affordability  in an individual case  or cases Section  
4.21 gives another example:
Failing to consider sufficient  information  to be able to reasonably assess affordability,  prior to  
granting credit, significantly increasing  the total amount of credit provided, or significantly  increasing 
the credit limit (in the case of a running account credit agreement)This could (but not necessarily)  
include for example:
Where applicable, appropriate and proportionate, failing to verify details  of current  income  and/or 
expenditure by, for example, checking hard copies of payslip/contract of employment
(when a borrower is in employment), accountants  letters (where a borrower is self-employed) or 
benefit statements (where a borrower is not in employment).
And Section 4.26 says a business would be acting irresponsibly if:
Granting an application for credit when, on the basis of an affordability assessment, it is known, or 
reasonably ought to be suspected, that the credit is likely to be unsustainable.
Sections 4.29 and 4.31 deal with a lenders treatment of information disclosed  by the customer. 4.29 
says it would  be an unsatisfactory  business practice where a lender: fail[s] to take adequate steps,  so 
far as is reasonable and practicable, to ensure that information  
on a credit application relevant to an assessment of affordability is complete and correct.
And section  4.31 says it would be unsatisfactory for a lender to:
[Accept] an application for credit under  circumstances in which it is known, or reasonably  ought  to be 
suspected, that the borrower has not been truthful in completing the application for credit with regards 
to the information supplied relevant to inform  an assessment of affordability
Section 6 of the ILG sets out other specific  irresponsible lending  practices relating to lender 
behaviour once loan(s)  have  been agreed. Section 6.2 says it would be an unsatisfactory practice  
where a business is:
Failing to monitor  a borrowers  repayment record
Section 6.2 goes on to say: The OFT considers that creditors  should take appropriate actionwhen/if 
there are signs  of apparent  / possible repayment  difficulties.
Section 55B of the Consumer  Credit  Act 1974
Ref: DRN568066214On 1 February 2011 the majority of the legislation  implementing the provisions of the Consumer 
Credit Directive 2008 came  into force. At this point  the ILG was amended to reflect  any changes 
required by the Consumer Credit Directive and an additional requirement on a lender  to carry  out an 
Assessment of creditworthiness was set out in section 55B of the Consumer Credit Act.
Its important to note that both section 25 and section 55 remained in force  until regulation of
Consumer Credit  providers passed to the FCA in April 2014. Section 55B said:
Assessment of creditworthiness
55B     (1)  Before making a regulated consumer credit agreement, other than an excluded  
agreement, the creditor must undertake an assessment of the creditworthiness  of the debtor.
(2) Before  significantly increasing
(a) the amount  of credit to be provided under a regulated consumer credit agreement, other 
than an excluded agreement, or
(b) a credit limit for running-account credit under a regulated consumer credit agreement, 
other than an excluded  agreement,  the creditor must undertake an assessment of the 
debtors creditworthiness.
(3) A creditworthiness assessment must  be based on sufficient information  obtained  from
(a) the debtor, where appropriate,  and
(b) a credit reference agency, where necessary.
(4) For the purposes of this section an agreement is an excluded agreement if it is (a) an 
agreement secured on land, or
(b) an agreement under which a person takes an article in pawn..
By the time of loans 8 and 9 (1 April 2014  onwards)  this requirement to assess creditworthiness 
moved from S55B of the Consumer Credit Act, to the rules of the new regulator the Financial  Conduct 
Authority. Regulation by the Financial Conduct Authority (from 1 April 2014) Oakham gave  Miss J 
loans 8 and 9 after regulation of Consumer Credit Licensees had transferred from the OFT to the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) on 1 April 2014.
The FCA Principles  for Business (PRIN)
The FCAs  Principles  for Business set out the overarching  requirements which all authorised firms are 
required to comply  with. PRIN 1.1.1G,  says
The Principles apply in whole  or in part to every firm.
The Principles themselves are set out in PRIN 2.1.1R. And the most  relevant principle here is PRIN 
2.1.1 R (6) which says:
A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers  and treat them fairly.
The Consumer Credit sourcebook (CONC)
This sets out the rules which apply to providers  CONC also replaced the requirements set out in 
Section 55B. CONC  5 sets out a firms obligations in relation to responsible lending. But Ive not listed 
all the requirements under CONC 5.2 here, but they are similar to those that can be found  in the ILG. 
And CONC 6 sets out a firms obligations after a consumer has entered into a regulated agreement. 
Its clear there is a high degree of alignment  between the OFTs Irresponsible Lending Guidance  and 
the rules set out in CONC 5 and CONC 6 when they were introduced in April 2014. As is evident from 
the following extracts, the FCAs  CONC rules specifically note and refer back to sections of the OFTs  
Irresponsible Lending  Guidance on many occasions. Section 5.2.1 of CONC sets out what a lender 
needs to do before agreeing  to give a consumer a loan of this type. It says a firm must  consider:
Ref: DRN568066215(a) the potential for the commitments under the regulated  credit agreement to adversely impact  the 
customers financial situation, taking into account the information of which  the firm is aware at the time 
the regulated  credit  agreement is to be made; and
[Note: paragraph  4.1 of ILG]
(b) the ability  of the customer to make repayments  as they fall due over the life of the regulated credit 
agreement, or for such an agreement which  is an open-end agreement, to make repayments within a 
reasonable period.[Note: paragraph 4.3 of ILG]
CONC also includes  guidance about proportionality  of assessments. CONC 5.2.4G(2) says:
A firm should consider what is appropriate in any particular circumstances dependent on, for 
example, the type and amount of credit being  sought and the potential risks to the customer. The risk 
of credit not being sustainable directly  relates to the amount of credit granted and the total charge for 
credit relative  to the customers financial  situation.[Note: paragraph 4.11 and part of 4.16 of ILG]
CONC 5.3 contains  further  guidance on what a lender should bear in mind when  thinking about 
affordability. And CONC 5.3.1G(1) says:
In making the creditworthiness assessment or the assessment required by CONC 5.2.2R (1), a firm 
should take into account  more than assessing the customers ability to repay  the credit.  [Note:  
paragraph 4.2 of ILG]
CONC 5.3.1G(2)  then says:
The creditworthiness assessment and the assessment required by CONC 5.2.2R (1) should include 
the firm taking  reasonable steps to assess the customers ability to meet repayments under  a 
regulated credit agreement in a sustainable  manner without the customer incurring financial difficulties 
or experiencing significant  adverse consequences.
[Note: paragraph  4.1 (box) and 4.2 of ILG]
In respect of the need to double-check information disclosed by applicants,  CONC 5.3.1G(4)
has a reference to paragraphs 4.13, 4.14, and 4.15 of ILG and states:
(b)it is not generally sufficient for a firm to rely solely for its assessment  of the customers 
income and expenditure  on a statement of those matters  made by the customer.
Section 140A  of the Consumer Credit  Act 1974
All of Miss Js loans were given to her after Section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act came into force 
on 6 April 2007. Section  140A sets out circumstances where the court may determine  that the 
relationship between  a creditor and a debtor is unfair to the debtor. Section 140A says:
140A Unfair relationships between creditors and debtors
(1) The court  may make  an order under section 140B in connection with a credit agreement  if it 
determines that the relationship between the creditor and the debtor  arising out of the agreement  (or 
the agreement taken with any related agreement) is unfair to the debtor because of one or more of 
the following-
(a) any of the terms of the agreement or of any related  agreement;
(b) the way in which the creditor has exercised  or enforced any of his rights under the agreement or 
any related  agreement;
(c) any other thing done (or not done)  by, or on behalf of, the creditor (either before or after 
the making of the agreement or any related agreement).
Ref: DRN568066216(2) In deciding whether  to make a determination under  this section the court  shall have  regard to all 
matters it thinks relevant (including  matters  relating  to the creditor and matters relating to the debtor).
(3) For the purposes of this section the court  shall (except to the extent that it is not 
appropriate to do so) treat anything  done  (or not done) by, or on behalf of, or in relation to, an 
associate or a former  associate of the creditor as if done  (or not done)  by, or on behalf of, or in 
relation to, the creditor.
(4) A determination may be made under this section in relation to a relationship  notwithstanding that 
the relationship  may have  ended.
(5) An order under section 140B shall not be made in connection with a credit  agreement  which is an 
exempt agreement [for the purposes of Chapter 14A of Part 2 of the Regulated  Activities Order by 
virtue of article 60C(2)  of that Order (regulated mortgage contracts and regulated home  purchase 
plans)]
Section 140B sets out the types  of order the court could  make should it determine  that the 
relationship between  the creditor and debtor is unfair to the debtor.  Section 140B says:
140B Powers of court  in relation to unfair relationships
(2) An order under this section in connection  with a credit agreement may do one or more of the 
following
(a) require the creditor, or any associate  or former associate of his, to repay (in whole  or in part) any 
sum paid by the debtor  or by a surety by virtue of the agreement  or any related agreement  (whether  
paid to the creditor,  the associate  or the former associate or to any other person);]
(b) require the creditor, or any associate  or former associate of his, to do or not to do (or to 
cease doing) anything specified in the order in connection with the agreement or any related   
agreement;
(c) reduce or discharge any sum payable by the debtor or by a surety  by virtue of the agreement  or 
any related  agreement;
(d) direct the return to a surety of any property provided  by him for the purposes of a security;
(e) otherwise set aside (in whole or in part) any duty imposed on the debtor or on a surety  by 
virtue of the agreement or any related agreement;
(f)  alter  the terms of the agreement or of any related  agreement;
(g) direct accounts to be taken, or (in Scotland) an accounting to be made,
between any persons.
Ref: DRN5680662