K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains Portafina LLP (Portafina) gave him unsuitable advice to transfer his pension  
funds.
background
Ive considered Mr Ms complaint before. I issued my first provisional decision on 9 June 
2020. Both parties responded  and Portafina gave  a detailed and technical  submission  for my 
consideration. I issued  a second provisional  decision on 28 October 2020.  Ive summarised 
the findings I reached below. But Ill first recap the facts and how our investigation 
progressed.
In July 2018, Mr M says Portafina offering to review his current  pension arrangements  
contacted him out of the blue. He completed a fact find over the telephone with an adviser  
and in September 2018, Portafina presented  its recommendations in a suitability  report. It 
recommended he transfer his pension to another provider.
 Mr Ms circumstances  at the time Portafina gave him financial advice were as follows:
He was 59 years old, divorced and self-employed. He had no dependants under 18 
years of age
He held a personal pension  and intended to retire at age 65 or earlier. He was 
concerned about pension charges,  he wanted to improve the performance of his 
pension and have  a better level of pension service.
His attitude to risk (ATR) was moderately cautious; although  Mr M also said during 
a fact find call in July 2018 that he was more of a balanced  investor.
During the fact find call Mr M confirmed he was a homeowner and held property 
assets worth around £1,000,000
He earned around £20-40,000 per annum and received an additional income from 
rental properties of around £4,200 per month.
Mr M says, on reflection, he doesnt believe the advice was in his best interest.  He says 
Portafina charged him an initial  commission,  which  depleted his fund, and an ongoing 
commission, which he subsequently  cancelled. He understands his original scheme  to have 
had numerous  alternative funds available  for switching into. He feels  this would have been a 
better alternative than transferring to another provider.  He complained to Portafina.
In its final response dated 11 March  2019,  Portafina says Mr Ms objectives were to seek a 
better investment performance for his pension and decrease the charges applied to it. It 
carried out a full fact find to establish  Mr Ms current financial  planning,  retirement 
aspirations and attitude  to risk. It went on to use an independent system called O&M  to 
help compare the charges of his fund and the effect  they could have on his pension.
It said the annual  management charge (AMC) to run Mr Ms pension  with his current  provider 
was 1.85%, in addition  to a 0.37% policy charge each  year.  In contrast, the scheme it 
recommended charged 0.89%. This would result in a saving of 0.33% each year. It also said 
the recommended portfolio was outperforming Mr Ms existing scheme.  It said the existing 
scheme had an average investment return of 6.09% on average,  each year, for 5 years. It 
recommended a transfer to Dimensional Funds which had returns  of 8.15% based on the 
previous 5 years  annualised  returns.  The Dimensional Funds were not available  within Mr 
Ms existing scheme. It said the recommended  transfer would save  Mr M around 0.33% each 
Ref: DRN52468852year and offered  the potential of higher investment returns, this was in keeping with Mr Ms 
investment objectives  and so it didnt uphold his complaint.
An investigator looked onto things for Mr M. She compared Mr Ms existing provider and the 
funds available  with the arrangement Portafina  recommended. She concluded  the following:
There were  a lot of alternative funds available to Mr M with his existing provider. She 
didnt find the suitability report demonstrated  that Portafina had either discussed 
these in detail,  nor why the recommended fund was better than any of these options. 
She thought it more  likely than not there was a suitable alternative within the funds 
available with the existing scheme that was suitable and matched Mr Ms attitude to 
risk.
Mr M had said he was unhappy  with the service from his existing provider, but the 
investigator didnt  agree Portafina  had demonstrated why a transfer to the new 
provider would provide a better  service
The transfer came at a cost to Mr M. This meant  any investment returns  would need  
to exceed those in the existing scheme before  there was any real growth achieved. 
But she didnt agree Portafina  had adequately  demonstrated the new providers fund 
would offer a better return than the funds available with his existing provider.
She compared the charges on both funds and found the savings to be minimal
Because Mr M was only six years  away from retirement, there was no guarantee the 
recommended plan would achieve  the suggested growth or outperform the existing 
plan to such a degree  a transfer  was necessary.
The investigator upheld  Mr Ms complaint and set out how Portafina should  calculate 
whether Mr M had sustained a loss, and if so, how it should  calculate appropriate 
compensation.
Mr M accepted the investigators findings.  
Portafina didnt  agree. It said the following:
The investigator had confused the ongoing and initial charges and incorrectly  
calculated the costs  those associated  with the new plan were less than half of 
those stated by the investigator.  
To say the cost savings are minimal doesnt  alter the fact that they were  beneficial to 
Mr M and it argued that the savings were  in fact significant. 
In terms of service, the new provider  had a higher Defaqto rating than the ceding 
provider and so it didnt agree with the assessment that Portafina had failed to 
demonstrate a better service proposition from the recommended  provider.
It had clearly demonstrated that the recommendation  was appropriate as the new 
plan was cheaper, in line with Mr Ms revised attitude to risk and circumstances. The 
new plan was more  aligned with Mr Ms attitude  to risk and had outperformed the 
compensation benchmark set out in the proposed redress.  The adviser who made 
the recommendation to Mr M was a level four qualified adviser  and a pension transfer 
specialist. The case should be considered  by a suitably qualified ombudsman.
It provided regulated  ad unbiased advice that was within Mr Ms best interest and met 
his objectives  of: reducing the charges; potentially improving  performance; and 
having a better level of service.
The O&M  switch report was an industry  known and widely accepted comparison 
report. It was disappointing  that this had been  ignored in the investigators findings.  It 
Ref: DRN52468853showed that Mr M would  be better off by transferring,  and it wasnt  the case that this 
would come at significant cost.
In addition to the superior  service  with the new provider,  Mr M would also receive the 
benefit of Portafinas  ongoing  management  service  this would  ensure  the plan was 
reviewed annually  and that it was maximised to its full potential.
The regulators guidance  issued in February  2009 on pension  switching  was also 
taken into account. This said that when considering  a switch, preference  should be 
given to the low-cost  option. Although this wasnt the only reason for transferring, the 
saving to Mr M through switching was 0.33% pa. It didnt matter whether  this was 
minimal or not  it was still cheaper.
Having calculated any loss based  on the investigators recommendation, Mr M had 
gained by switching  to the new arrangement.
Portafina asked  for the case to be referred to an ombudsman for review.
In my first provisional decision  I considered  all the available evidence  and arguments  to 
decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I reached the same 
view as the investigator albeit with slightly different reasoning and the way in which Portafina 
should calculate redress. 
My first provisional  decision is detailed below:
was the advice  suitable?
Theres no dispute that Mr M wanted  to improve the performance of his pension.  He said he 
felt performance  and charges were equally important to him. So, I looked at how Portafina 
said it reached its decision to recommend Mr M transfer his pension to another provider. Ive 
done this by considering what was already available to Mr M with his existing  provider and 
the new provider.
Mr Ms current portfolio was made up of seven funds, each with different annual charges  and 
expenses. The value at the time of the advice was £40,840.  Portafina  says the charges on 
Mr Ms current pension were 1.85%  per annum (this included 1.35% fund management 
charges and a 0.5% on-going adviser  charge),  and an annual policy fee of £155. It said that, 
although the ceding scheme worked in a similar way to the recommended  scheme, there  
were some key differences:
the ceding scheme no longer  met the level of investment risk that was right for Mr M 
following Portafinas review of his ATR
the charges  of the receiving scheme  being lower  than that of the ceding scheme
the growth potential  of the receiving scheme  being better  than the ceding scheme
keeping his pension  in the ceding  scheme  could  have a negative  effect on his future 
retirement plans.
It was for these reasons that Portafina  recommended Mr M transfer  his pension to an 
alternative provider.  It said the main  reason  for this was the lower  charges (0.89%) and its 
better past performance.
In order to determine if the advice given by Portafina  was suitable I have listened to the fact 
find telephone  call between Mr M and the Portafina  representative and carefully considered 
the suitability report it provided. 
Ref: DRN52468854The suitability report details Mr Ms current overall  pension value, average growth 
performance and annual charges and compares that to the recommended  fund with the new 
provider. But the report makes no mention of the significant number of alternative funds 
available with his existing provider, nor is there any comparison.
On page 4, of the suitability report in the section entitled Putting your pension under the 
microscope
Fund choicesAre you limited in the choice  of funds you are allowed to invest in through  
your current  schemes, and how does this impact on their suitability for your needs?
The suitability report goes  on to say under comments from the adviser:
The portfolio I am recommending is in line with your risk tolerance and term to retirement 
and benefits from the inclusion of these  funds. These funds fit with our investment 
philosophy and spread  your risk very widely whilst  providing a good  opportunity  for future 
growth. The portfolio  (or a close equivalent)  is not available within your existing provider 
pension, or I would have simply  considered switching funds within  that plan
I didnt find anything in the suitability letter to suggest any discussion  about the many 
alternative funds with his existing  provider,  or any comparison of them  with the 
recommended plan. So, I said I didnt think the firm fully set out the options available to Mr M 
in a clear and comparative manner that allowed him to make  an informed decision between  
switching within funds  offered by his existing provider and the recommended fund with a new 
provider. 
Having looked  at all the available funds  with Mr Ms existing provider Im in agreement with 
the investigator that it is likely there were funds within  the existing provider platform that 
would meet Mr Ms retirement  objectives and ATR. and many of those available  funds had 
charges which  would have reduced  the overall cost by more than the 0.33% saving cited by 
Portafina in the new plan.  So, on the basis of fund options alone, Im not persuaded that the 
transfer was necessary, or in Mr Ms best interests.
In recommending the transfer, Portafina  also deducted an initial  commission that Mr M would 
not have had to pay if he had simply switched funds within his existing provision. And this 
wasnt included in the comparison of costs. This means any investment returns would have 
to cover this before  any real growth  could be achieved.  
I also noted Mr M is only six years away from retirement at age 65. He referred  in the fact 
find telephone  call that this wasnt set in stone and he could retire earlier or later. The 
suitability report states a number of times that the returns on the new scheme  arent 
guaranteed but at the same time places the emphasis  on the potential returns and past 
growth rate of the recommended plan. But because of the close  proximity  of retirement, 
there wasnt any guarantee  the recommended plan would achieve the growth or outperform 
the existing plan so as to justify a transfer to another provider. Furthermore, my view is that 
the existing benefit of a growth  rate of more than 6% was downplayed. This exceeded  the 
mid band growth rate used in illustrations  which would  have been consistent with an 
investor who was prepared to take a cautious or balanced attitude to investment risk.
summary
Ref: DRN52468855Portafina said that the recommended transfer  was suitable based  upon  a comparison 
between the funds within Mr Ms existing plan and the alternative  plan recommended.  And 
cost was a significant factor here. The available evidence doesnt support the position that 
Mr M was particularly  dissatisfied with the level of service being  received from the existing 
provider. But I also couldnt see a comparison with the available funds offered by the existing 
provider  which could  have met Mr Ms retirement objectives and revised attitude to risk. 
So, I said Mr M could have stayed  with his existing provider, switched funds  (if necessary), 
and have paid lower overall  charges  with no initial adviser fee to pay. On balance,  therefore, 
Im not persuaded the advice for Mr M to transfer his pension  to an alternative provider was 
suitable advice.
In order to compensate  Mr M my starting point  is to try to put Mr M back  in the position he 
would have been in had the transfer not taken place. To do this Portafina  should use the 
fund value at the time of the transfer for the notional  plan value  not the transferred amount.
So, I said I intend to direct Portafina to:
 compare the performance of Mr Ms investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below. If the fair value is greater than the actual value, there  is a loss and 
compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no 
compensation is payable.
if compensation is payable it should  also pay any interest set out below.
If there  is a loss, Portafina should  pay into Mr Ms pension plan, to increase its value by 
the amount of the compensation  and any interest. The payment should  allow  for the effect 
of charges and any available  tax relief.  Compensation shouldnt  be into the pension  plan if 
it would  conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If Portafina is unable to pay the compensation into Mr Ms pension  plan, it should pay 
that amount  direct  to him. But had it been  possible to pay into the plan, it would have 
provided a taxable  income. Therefore, the compensation should  be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise  have been  paid.
The notional allowance should  be calculated using Mr Ms actual or expected marginal rate 
of tax at his selected retirement age.
For example, if Mr M is likely  to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement age, the 
reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr M would have been able 
to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% of the compensation. 
Ive assumed that Mr M will be a basic rate taxpayer in retirement, so the overall deduction 
should be 15%.
 Portafina should provide the details of the calculation  to Mr M in a clear, simple  
format.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Portafina considers that its required by 
HM Revenue & Customs  to deduct  income  tax from that interest, it should tell Mr M how 
much its taken off. You should  also give Mr M a tax deduction certificate if he asks for 
one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN52468856investment name
status Benchmarkfrom
(start date)to
(end date)additional interest
AGEON SIPP still existsfor half the 
investment:
FTSE UK Private 
Investors Income 
Total Return 
Index; for the 
other half: 
average rate
from fixed rate 
bondsdate of transferdate of 
settlementnot applicable
actual value
This means  the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced a 
return using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark,  Portafina 
should use the monthly average rate for the fixed rate bonds with 12 to 17 months maturity 
as published by the Bank of England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of 
the previous month. Apply those rates to the investment on an annually compounded basis.
why is this remedy suitable?
I said Id chosen  this method of compensation because:
 Mr M wanted  capital growth  with some risk to his capital.
 The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would  be a fair measure for someone 
who wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to his capital.
 The FTSE UK Private Investors  Income  total return index (prior to 1 March 2017,  
the FTSE WMA  Stock Market Income  total return index)  is made up of a range 
of indices with different asset classes,  mainly  UK equities and government  
bonds. Its a fair measure for someone  who was prepared to take some risk to 
get a higher return.
 I considered that Mr Ms risk profile  was in between, in the sense that he was 
prepared to take some  risk to attain his investment objectives. As Ive said above, 
my view is that there were funds available to Mr M in the existing plan which  could 
have met his objectives at a lower overall  cost. But I cannot  know  which of those 
Mr M would have   or would have been advised  to switch into. So, the 50/50  
combination would reasonably put Mr M into that position. It does not mean that Mr 
M would have invested 50% of his money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in index 
tracker investment. Rather, I consider this a reasonable  compromise that broadly 
reflects the sort of return Mr M could have obtained from investments suited to his 
objective and risk attitude.
Ref: DRN52468857I invited both Mr M and Portafina  to make any additional submissions they wanted me to 
consider before issuing my final decision.
Mr M accepted my findings.
Portafina did not. It presented detailed, technical and lengthy objections, in summary it said:
It would  have levied the same  advice charge regardless  of whether the switch took 
place, or a new portfolio had been recommended via Mr Ms existing pension. The 
nature of Mr Ms pre-existing Phoenix pension arrangement was such  that it would 
have paid any fee as an adviser  charge in the same way as the recommended 
Aegon pension  did. 
Its advice has already paid for itself: Mr M has a larger pension fund than he would 
have, had he not taken Portafinas advice and kept his existing pension and holdings  
with Phoenix.  
Its recommended solution via Aegon was much cheaper than Mr Ms pre-existing 
pension arrangement; the saving in product charges were  0.85% per annum. This 
was because Portafinas recommended solution via Aegon  allowed Mr M to invest  in 
low-cost passive funds where an additional premium  is earned  long-term  through a 
particular investment style - which wasnt available through  Mr Ms old Phoenix 
pension. 
Its recommended solution would also be a better  way of investing than by the 
benchmark suggested in my provisional  decision: it would have been just over 0.5% 
p.a. cheaper via the recommended Aegon ARC  pension. 
The suggested redress formula was unclear.  
It asked for a further consideration of the submissions it had made.
In my second provisional decision  I reconsidered  all the available evidence and the 
additional submissions  made. Having done  so I reached a different  view to my first 
provisional decision.
Firstly, I thanked Mr M and Portafina for their patience. I said I appreciated they have had to 
wait several months  for my final decision.  This is in part due to the diligence with which I 
have considered the technical and detailed information to ensure  I have  reached  a fair 
outcome.
Disclosure of the available  options
I noted Mr M didnt approach Portafina  for any advice. It approached him, but nevertheless 
argues that the advice it gave was suitable considering Mr Ms objectives. 
Despite Portafinas  objections to my provisional findings, it remains  the case that there  is 
nothing in the suitability letter or fact find to suggest  alternative funds available  to Mr M 
within his existing scheme were discussed in any detail or why the recommended plan was 
more suitable  than any of the funds available within his existing provision.
 
Ref: DRN52468858I said there should, in my view, have been a comparison or specific details of why the ceding 
scheme provider couldnt  meet Mr Ms objectives. So, I dont think  the firm fully set out the 
options available to Mr M in a clear and comparative  manner that allowed him to make an 
informed decision between switching within funds  offered by his existing provider and the 
recommended fund with a new provider.  
Would this have made a difference   and did it affect the overall  suitability of the advice?  
I pointed out I also then needed  to consider  whether  a more  comprehensive  explanation  of 
the options available to Mr M would have made a difference  here  or whether the 
conclusion would reasonably have been reached  that the transfer was still a suitable  
proposition. And in doing so, Ive thought  carefully about everything Portafina  has said in 
response to my provisional  decision about the advantages of the new pension  arrangement  
compared to his existing policy, even taking  account  of possible internal fund switches.
Having done so, I said I found  the points made by Portafina to be persuasive. 
Portafina has provided a list of funds to which Mr M would have had access and which would  
have been cheaper than Aegon.  Ive considered these  carefully.  
Mr M could,  of course have decided  to decline the advice and stay where he was. But a 
comparison of notional  (with old plan)  and the actual position with Aegon  shows no loss  in 
fact the reverse, reasonable gain.
If Mr M had accepted alternative advice to switch within  Phoenix,  he would have been worse  
off in terms of overall costs. The overall  costs were  lower with Aegon, that is to say 0.89% v 
1.74% with Phoenix. I said from what Ive seen,  even if Mr M had switched into lower cost 
funds with Phoenix, the Aegon fund costs  couldnt  have been  bettered.
The 1% per annum  ongoing advice fee was optional and it looks  as though Mr M has 
cancelled this and did so within a few months.  From looking closely  at Mr Ms old plan, I can 
see he had been  paying a 0.5% ongoing  advice  fee for many years, without actually 
receiving any ongoing advice.
Having considered all the information,  I said although I remain  of the view Portafina should 
have set out the additional option into different funds  within the Phoenix plan, Im persuaded 
this wouldnt have made a material difference. I said this because  the same  (or similar)  
alternative plans  were available with Aegon  at a lower cost. Even if Mr M had decided  to 
switch funds within the old plan, he would still have  needed to pay the advice fee for the 
internal switch to be made.
In said in my view, If Mr M had rejected  any of the suggestions and stayed where he was 
with Phoenix,  he would have been  worse  off with the Aegon  plan.
Summary
I appreciate that, at face value, this change in the proposed outcome might come  as a 
disappointment to Mr M. I also understand he has been waiting some time for this decision 
and this wasnt what he was expecting.  But I have  reached this view based on an analysis of 
the facts, and importantly  costs, of the transfer and on the alternatives available.  And so, I 
hope that Mr M is also reassured, that the due diligence I have undertaken in considering all 
Ref: DRN52468859the information is that it doesnt appear that the transfer has resulted in an overall financial 
loss for him, or that it has been an unnecessarily costly exercise.
I invited both parties to make any further  submissions for my consideration before I issued 
my final decision.
Portafina accepted my findings.
Mr M responded to say he had no final points to make.  He said although he wasnt  trained in 
pension matters, he remained  strongly of the opinion  that he was totally  misled by Portafina.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive looked at all the information afresh 
and considered all additional submissions.
I appreciate this matter  has taken  a considerable to resolve and I accept Mr Ms strength of 
feeling on this matter. I understand pensions are a complex area and in this case  the 
considerations needed are technical  and detailed.  This is why it has taken some time to 
deliberate on all the information  available.
I understand Mr M feels the way in which Portafina went  about advising him has left him 
feeling underwhelmed and unclear about  whether he had made the right decision to transfer 
his pension. Had all the options been  explored and explained fully to Mr M, I think he would 
have felt more  reassured  about the decision he took.
I remain of the view Portafina shouldve carried out a comparison or given specific details of 
why the ceding scheme  provider couldnt  meet Mr Ms objectives.  I dont  think  the firm fully 
set out the options available to Mr M in a clear and comparative manner  that allowed him to 
make an informed decision between  switching within funds offered by his existing provider 
and the recommended  fund with a new provider. Had it done so, as I say I think Mr M would 
have felt far more reassured about  the choices he was making.
But as neither party has provided  any additional  information for my consideration it follows,  I 
have reached the same  view expressed  in my second provisional decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given I uphold the complaint  in part, but I wont be asking
Portafina LLP to take any further  action.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 December  2020.
Wendy Steele
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN5246885