K820x#14complaint
Ms L complains that Sanlam Life & Pensions  UK Limited  didnt advise her to join her 
employers Additional Voluntary Contributions (AVC) scheme. 
The complaint has been brought by a representative  who Ill refer to as T
background
In 1991 Ms L was advised to set up a personal  pension plan by a firm that Sanlam has since 
acquired liability for. Her employer at that time didnt  offer an occupational pension  scheme 
(OPS). Ms L changed her employer in March 1994 and joined their OPS.
In 1996 Sanlam asked Ms L to complete a Certificate of Eligibility. Following receipt of this 
they wrote  to Ms L saying:
The information you have  provided regarding your company scheme means all 
continuing premiums  will for the future need to be directed to a different  type of policy, 
a Free Standing  Additional Voluntary Contribution  contract. In the case of [Sanlam], 
this is called an Additional Retirement Policy.  We can convert your policy and redirect  
your future premiums  to an Additional  Retirement  Policy without penalty or charge.
Ms L completed the application form to convert her personal pension plan into a Free 
Standing Additional Voluntary Contributions (FSAVC) plan. And so, going forward,  Ms Ls 
premiums were paid into this.
Sanlam confirmed this in writing to Ms L and provided her with a revised  programme 
schedule and a certificate showing  the scheme was approved by the Inland Revenue.  But 
they explained that the premiums shed  paid into the pension  plan since she joined her 
employers OPS were deemed ineligible by the Inland Revenue and so had to be refunded. 
Sanlam sent Ms L a cheque for about £700  for the premiums  shed  paid between  June 1994 
and September  1996.
T complained to Sanlam  in 2018  saying  their client had been recommended the FSAVC plan 
as a means of enhancing her pension  benefits but that there was no evidence to show shed 
been made aware of the option to do this through  her employers in house  AVC scheme. 
And, even  if she had been aware of the availability of the in-house AVC scheme, theyd want 
to see evidence to show shed also been informed that her employers AVC scheme 
wouldve very likely incurred lower  charges. 
Sanlam rejected the complaint. They said that when the personal pension  plan was 
converted into a FSVAC  plan they no longer had a salesforce. And so, they werent 
responsible for any advice  given to Ms L to convert  the policy.
The complaint was referred  to our service but our investigator didnt uphold it. He said Ms L 
had the option of seeking financial advice, like she obtained when setting up the personal 
pension plan in 1991, but the application form she completed shows  no financial advice was 
provided. He also thought  Sanlam were under no obligation to inform Ms L of other  options  
available to her but were  only required  to ensure any pension contributions she chose to 
make were  paid into an appropriate  plan.
T disagreed  and so the matter has been  passed to me to decide.
Ref: DRN59017412my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive come to same  
conclusions as the adjudicator and for largely the same reasons. Ill explain why.
It isnt in dispute that, as a result of joining the OPS in 1994, Ms L was unable  to continue  
contributing to the personal pension plan she set up in 1991. This is because, up until 2001, 
the only way a member  of an OPS could make additional pension provisions was via an 
FSAVC or an AVC offered by their employer. And so, the contributions  Ms L made  to the 
personal pension  plan between June 1994 and September 1996  were deemed ineligible  by 
the Inland Revenue and refunded.
T however  argues that in 1996  Sanlam  ought  to have informed Ms L of her option  to 
continue making  additional pension provisions  via her employers in-house AVC scheme, 
along with encouraging her to seek financial advice. Had they done so then its likely she 
wouldve chosen to do this instead and her retirement benefits would now be greater than 
those accrued in the FSAVC plan.
While I appreciate Ms L may have been  better  off contributing to her employers  AVC,  rather 
than the FSAVC plan,  Im not persuaded Sanlam is responsible for this. They didnt provide 
advice to Ms L at the time, nor were they required to, and I think  it was reasonable for them 
to inform her that any future contributions  should she continue to make them   would have 
to be paid into a different  plan, an FSAVC, with them.  By doing so this meant  the 
contributions would satisfy the relevant regulatory requirements at that time and prevent 
further refunds  of premiums happening.
Ms L also had the option of seeking financial  advice  at the time, or later,  if she wanted. I cant 
see that this happened and I dont  think it was the responsibility of Sanlam to tell her to do 
this in 1996 either. They were only required to ensure her contract with them was compliant.
final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 April 2020.
Daniel ODell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5901741