K822xcomplaint
Mr G is unhappy with what  Lloyds  Bank  PLC has done to put things right following his 
complaint about  the sale of payment protection insurance (PPI).
background 
In 2001, Mr G applied  for a mortgage.  At the same  time, Lloyds sold him a PPI policy. The 
policy cost £80 a month.  Mr G thinks the policy was mis-sold.
Mr G first complained about  the policy in 2012. Lloyds investigated the complaint, but didnt 
think Mr G had bought  PPI.
In 2017, Lloyds looked at Mr Gs complaint again. At first it said Mr G hadnt bought PPI, but 
after Mr G sent Lloyds  more information  it agreed  he had. Lloyds agreed the policy  was mis-
sold, and offered to put Mr G in the position  hed be in if he hadnt bought the policy. It paid 
back the premiums Mr G paid towards the policy, plus simple interest to compensate Mr G 
for the time he was out of pocket.
In total, Lloyds paid Mr G £9,092.79.
Mr G thought he should get more.  He paid for the PPI out of a bank account that was 
overdrawn. He says he incurred interest and charges because  the PPI was paid from his 
overdraft  and thinks that Lloyds should  pay these back  to him.
Mr G was also unhappy with the way Lloyds  investigated his complaint and the information 
Lloyds had given  him. So he referred  the complaint to our service.
After Mr G referred the complaint to us, Lloyds offered to refund the charges and interest 
that were charged  to his bank accounts from March 2012 onwards  as Mr G could have 
repaid his overdraft  facilities if hed received this money in 2012.  Lloyds  also offered to pay 
£500 for the trouble it caused Mr G in having to write  and phone  about his complaint.
Our adjudicator looked at the complaint and thought  that what Lloyds had now offered was 
fair. Mr G didnt  agree with the adjudicators view, and the complaint  was passed to me.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 25 February  2019.  A copy of the 
provisional decision is attached and forms part of this final decision. The provisional  decision 
set out the background  to the complaint and explained why I thought what  Lloyds had now 
offered was fair. I said that unless something I received by 25 March 2019  changed  my 
mind, my final decision would direct Lloyds to pay Mr G its latest offer if it hadnt done so 
already. Ive now looked at the complaint again.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither Lloyds  nor Mr G have sent me anything further to consider in response to my 
provisional decision, I reach the same findings  for the same  reasons.
my final decision
Ref: DRN56797202For the reasons  above, and in my provisional  decision, Lloyds Bank  PLC has now offered 
fair compensation for mis-selling PPI. It should  pay this to Mr G if it hasnt already.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 May 2019.
Edward Hardman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN56797203copy  of provisional decision
complaint
Mr G is unhappy with what  Lloyds Bank PLC has done  to put things right following  his complaint 
about the sale of payment  protection  insurance  (PPI).
background
In 2001, Mr G applied for a mortgage. At the same time, Lloyds sold him a PPI policy. The policy  cost 
£80 a month. Mr G thinks  the policy  was mis-sold.
Mr G first complained about  the policy  in 2012. Lloyds investigated the complaint,  but didnt  think Mr 
G had bought PPI.
In 2017, Lloyds looked at Mr Gs complaint  again. At first, it said Mr G hadnt bought PPI, but after Mr 
G sent Lloyds more  information it agreed he had. Lloyds agreed the policy was mis-sold, and offered 
to put Mr G in the position  hed be in if he hadnt bought the policy. It paid back the premiums Mr G 
paid towards  the policy, plus simple  interest to compensate Mr G for the time he was out of pocket. 
In total, Lloyds paid Mr G £9,092.79.
Mr G thinks  he should get more. He paid for the PPI out of a bank account  that was overdrawn. He 
says he incurred interest and charges because the PPI was paid from his overdraft  and thinks that 
Lloyds should pay these back  to him.
Mr G is also unhappy with the way Lloyds  investigated his complaint and the information  Lloyds has 
given him. So he referred his complaint to our service.
After Mr G referred the complaint to us, Lloyds offered to refund the fees and interest that were  
charged to his bank accounts from March 2012 onwards   as Mr G could have repaid his overdraft 
facilities if hed received  the money  in 2012. Lloyds has also offered  to pay £500 for the trouble it 
caused Mr G in having  to write and phone about his complaint.
Our adjudicator looked  at the complaint and thought that what Lloyds  had now offered was fair. Mr G 
didnt agree  with the adjudicators view.  And so the complaint has been passed  to me.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. 
Lloyds has agreed the PPI was mis-sold, so Ive looked  at whether  what  it has offered is fair. 
Where I decide  or a business accepts  that a complaint about the sale of PPI should  be upheld,  Id 
expect the business to put the consumer in the position theyd be in if they hadnt bought the policy.
In Mr Gs case, the PPI was sold alongside a mortgage. He paid £80 a month from August 2001 until 
the policy  ended in August  2006. Mr G needs to get back the extra he paid.
Lloyds has refunded the PPI premiums and added simple interest  the rate is 8% a year  to 
compensate Mr G for the time hes been out of pocket. After tax, Lloyds has worked out it needs to 
pay him £9,092.79. This is in line with what Id normally  expect Lloyds to do when this type of PPI 
policy was mis-sold. 
But Mr G thinks that Lloyds should pay him more. Mr G paid for the policy out of an overdrawn  bank 
account. So he says he paid interest on the extra he borrowed. He thinks  he should get the extra 
Ref: DRN56797204interest back. Ive thought  about whether it would be fair to make Lloyds refund any of the interest Mr 
G was charged  on his overdraft.
I note that the approach  Lloyds has taken is in line with what the Financial  Conduct Authority  (FCA)  
which writes the rules  for financial businesses  says it should  do. DISP  App 3 of the FCA Handbook 
tells businesses how to put things right if they mis-sold PPI. The FCAs rules,  guidance and standards  
are something  I must take into account in reaching my decision.
 
I can see that if Mr G had to borrow more to pay for the PPI hed have had to pay more  interest. But I 
think Mr Gs alleged interest losses because of the PPI are too speculative.
I say this because Mr G could choose whether or not to spend money  using his current account with 
the overdraft.  PPI was only a small fraction of what Mr G spent from his account  each month.  I dont 
think it would be fair to say that the PPI caused the interest on his overdraft when actually  it was 
because his spending in general put his account in an overdrawn position.
I also note Mr G had two accounts with Lloyds. The account he used to pay for PPI was overdrawn at 
the time the policy started  but for much of the time his other account wasnt. Mr G chose to spend 
money from his overdrawn account even when his other account  was in credit. I dont think  it would 
be fair to make Lloyds pay Mr G more compensation just because he chose to manage his finances in 
this way. 
For these  reasons, while I accept  that Mr G was charged interest on his overdraft, I dont think it 
would be fair or proportionate to tell Lloyds  to refund  any interest he was charged..  
Instead I think  its fair  and in line with the rules   for Lloyds to compensate Mr G by paying simple 
interest on each premium. This is paid to compensate Mr G for being kept out of money  hed 
otherwise have had. This is a broad approach that reflects the speculative nature of Mr Gs alleged  
interest losses. He may have used the extra money to reduce his overdraft   but he may have spent  
it, saved  it elsewhere,  or invested  it. The award  of simple interest avoids the need  for a speculative,  
open-ended assessment of Mr Gs financial position throughout  the period he had the PPI, including  
what he may or may not have done with the money, which may well not have resulted in definitive  
answers  and which I dont think would be necessary or appropriate.
Mr G has raised a number of points about  the way Lloyds looked  into his complaint. He thinks Lloyds 
didnt look into his complaint properly: in both 2012 and 2017,  Lloyds told him he didnt have PPI, 
when in fact he did. Mr G is unhappy with Lloydss  response to several  subject access requests, when 
he was asking  for information about his accounts.  And he feels that Lloyds ought to have looked at his 
complaint again in 2015  following a direction  by the Financial Conduct Authority.
So Ive thought about whether Lloyds  needs to pay more.
When I make an award for distress or inconvenience,  this isnt to punish the business, but to reflect 
the material  trouble and upset that the actions of the business  caused the consumer. I recognise  that 
Mr G feels  Lloyds has breached specific regulatory or legal requirements. But that is a matter for the 
relevant regulators. In deciding  whats fair in the circumstances of Mr Gs complaint Ive looked at the 
impact of what Lloyds did on Mr G.
I recognise that Lloyds took a while to sort things  out. I think Lloyds  may have  been able to work out 
that Mr G had PPI sooner,  and I see Mr G had to repeatedly contact and ask for information  from 
Lloyds (including by making subject access requests) before Lloyds changed  its mind.
The delay is partly  taken into account by the simple  interest Lloyds has to pay Mr G for the time hes 
been out of pocket. And Lloyds has also acknowledged  that its service could have been better  and 
has offered  to pay Mr G £500 because of the trouble and upset it has caused.   
Ref: DRN56797205Lloyds has also offered to refund the interest and overdraft charges Mr G incurred  from 2012 onwards 
on two current accounts (£947.06 and £1,572.05,  respectively)  Lloyds say this is because it thinks 
that if it had investigated Mr Gs complaint fully in 2012, hed have  been able to repay his overdrafts at 
that point.
In the circumstances,  and given what Mr G says went wrong,  I think  this is a fair way overall  to resolve 
this part of Mr Gs complaint. 
Ive considered the other points Mr G has raised. But they dont change  my decision.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  above, I think  Lloyds  Bank PLC has offered fair compensation for mis-selling  PPI. 
Unless something changes my mind, my final decision will direct Lloyds Bank PLC to pay Mr G its 
latest offer if it hasnt already.
Edward Hardman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5679720