K821x#15complaint
Miss P complains  that she wasnt able to use her HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) account card 
on several occasions, despite having sufficient funds. Shes  also unhappy with the level of 
help she received from staff in branch  and the handling of her complaint. 
background
Miss P opened a current account with HSBC  in April 2017. Some months later,  Miss P 
complained that she was unable to use her card and that it had been declined several times. 
She said that this had often occurred in front of friends and caused her considerable 
embarrassment and upset. 
Miss P says that after this had happened a few times, she went  in to a nearby HSBC  branch 
with her mother. However, she wasnt helped and the issue  wasnt resolved. She was 
instead asked  to visit her local HSBC branch,  where  the account  had been  opened.  
Miss Ps father called  HSBC on several occasions  in attempts to sort out the matter. He did 
this in the belief that he had access to the account  and could deal with account  issues on 
Miss Ps behalf. However, HSBC wouldnt speak to Miss Ps father  because  it said a third 
party mandate hadnt been completed. It explained that only once this had happened could 
Miss Ps father then enquire about the account on Miss Ps behalf. 
HSBC said that although  there was no evidence of any declined  transactions,  these would 
not show if there was an internal fault with the card. Miss P was provided with a replacement 
card for the account which she has confirmed is working. HSBC offered Miss P £50 for the 
inconvenience caused. However,  this offer was declined and Miss P asked us to look into 
things. 
Our investigator found that Miss P and her father  had actually completed a third-party  
mandate in 2017 when she initially opened the account. So he should have been able to 
provide instructions in regard to the account. Because of this, HSBC offered a further £150  
for the inconvenience  of this error. The investigator thought that the total offer of £200 was 
fair. However, this was also rejected by Miss P, so the complaint has been  passed to me to 
reach a decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought carefully about how Miss P has said the declined  transactions  made her feel  
and I understand  why she mightve  felt worried and embarrassed when the payments 
werent successful. 
HSBC has suggested  that this occurred  due to a fault with the card. The fact that Miss P has 
received a replacement card and that is working  without any issue,  does suggest  the 
previous card had a fault. Despite this, I would have expected staff to have done more to 
resolve the issue when  Miss P visited an HSBC branch.  They should have been able to 
identify that the issue  was likely  to be a fault with the card and requested  a new one for   
Miss P.
Ref: DRN51647192I also feel that HSBC  could have done more to resolve matters quicker, following phone calls 
from Miss Ps father. If they had correctly identified that her father had a third-party mandate  
set up on the account  from inception, they would not have needed to speak to Miss P on 
each call. Miss Ps father made several  calls and was incorrectly told on more  than one 
occasion that a third-party mandate form would need to be completed.  This has caused 
further inconvenience and delay and the error was not identified until sometime  during our 
investigation. 
I can see how frustrating this experience has been for Miss P. And I appreciate that her and 
her father have had to make several phone calls to HSBC to try and resolve  the problem. 
The overall service from HSBC should  have been  better. 
However, overall, I think the total compensation offered  to Miss P is fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this complaint. It is in line with what I wouldve awarded if HSBC  hadnt 
made an offer at all. So, I dont think it needs  to increase this offer. 
my final decision
HSBC has already made an offer to pay Miss P £200 to settle the complaint and I think this 
offer is fair in all the circumstances. So my final decision is that HSBC Bank UK PLC should 
pay Miss P £200.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 September 2019
Yoni Smith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5164719