K822xcomplaint
Mr M complains that because of faulty  repair work  by Royal  & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc 
(RSA) under his home emergency insurance  policy, his central heating boiler failed 
prematurely and had to be replaced.
background 
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 4 April 2019, a copy  of which is attached  
to, and forms part of this decision.
RSA accepted my provisional decision subject to receiving a copy  of the invoice Mr M paid 
for his replacement boiler.
Mr M responded to say that he accepted my proposal in respect of the compensation 
towards the boiler replacement costs. In respect of the compensation proposed for upset 
and damage to the personal well being of Mr M and his wife he said:
 
RSAs engineers had been negligent. As a result, he thought  the escape of 
poisonous fumes was likely to have been  imminent, and could have proved fatal;
the deteriorating state of the boiler over the years should  have been picked up and 
rectified on service visits;
when the faulty flue was finally found, the engineer  took it away.  It took Mr M some 
time to get it returned. He suspected this was an attempt to hide the cause of the 
problem;
RSA was slow to respond when he complained; and
the £236 already paid was solely to cover the costs of alternative heating  sources.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr Ms concern that the deterioration  in the boiler caused by the faulty 
workmanship could well have proved fatal, and the upset this caused Mr and Mrs M when it 
came to light. Fortunately the fault was found  before this could happen.
It isnt our role to fine or punish  a business  that is for the Financial Conduct Authority as its 
regulator to consider. Nor can we compensate consumers for what  might have happened.
Ive considered carefully Mr Ms further comments,  but remain of the view that the 
compensation of £250 I proposed for the distress and inconvenience  suffered, in addition to 
the £236 RSA paid towards alternative heating costs, is appropriate in all the circumstances.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part, and order Royal  & Sun Alliance Insurance  
Plc:
1.subject  to Mr M supplying RSA with a copy of the invoice confirming what he paid to 
have his replacement  boiler supplied and fitted,  to reimburse Mr M 40% of what  it 
Ref: DRN51578392cost him to buy the replacement boiler  and have it fitted. RSA can deduct from this 
contribution the £400 it has already paid him towards this; and
2.to pay Mr M £250, in addition to the £236 it has already paid him, as compensation 
for  the distress and inconvenience  it has caused him.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 June 2019.
Lennox Towers
ombudsman
COPY OF MY PROVISIONAL DECISION  OF 4 April 2019
complaint
Mr M complains that because of faulty repair  work  by RSA under his home  emergency insurance 
policy, his central heating  boiler failed prematurely and had to be replaced.
background
Mr M took out a home emergency policy with RSA in January 2012.  Amongst other things,  it covered  
repairs to his central  heating boiler, which had been  installed in 2005.
Following a call out by Mr M in 2013, RSA arranged for the manufacturer to fit a replacement heat 
exchanger. However  it appears  this wasnt done properly  the flue manifold wasnt correctly 
Ref: DRN51578393reconnected. RSAs  engineers noticed this on subsequent  visits  as early  as 2015,  but didnt take any 
further action.
The result  was that escaping flue gases seem to have caused corrosion  in the boiler,  so that by 2018 
another replacement heat exchanger was required. However parts  for this boiler were no longer 
available so RSA said it was beyond economic  repair  (BER), and Mr M would have to fit a new boiler.  
Mr M did so at a cost of over £2,000. He said RSA should  compensate him because  it was the poor 
workmanship in replacing the heat exchanger  that made this necessary. He also asked for 
compensation because he and his wife, who were both elderly, were left without heating for more than 
a month during a period of exceptionally  cold weather.
RSA paid Mr M compensation of £400 towards replacing his boiler.  It did so on the basis that this was 
the maximum it would have  paid for a boiler  that became BER under its policy terms,  as the boiler 
was over 7 but less than 10 years old when he first took out the policy.
RSA paid him a further £236 as compensation in respect of the time he was without heating, his 
temporary heating costs,  and as a part refund of his policy  premium. Mr M didnt think RSA had 
compensated him adequately for the loss of his boiler and the impact on him and his wife, and 
complained to us.
our investigators view
Our investigator recommended that this complaint should be upheld.  She thought  RSAs engineers 
should have noticed in 2015 that the heat exchanger hadnt been fitted properly  in 2013,  and that this 
had damaged  the boiler. RSA acknowledged  that because of unavailability of parts the boiler was 
already BER in 2015.
The investigator said that as the boiler was BER in 2015,  Mr M had the benefit of a replacement  
guarantee under  his policy  as it was then less than 10 years old. So he would have been entitled to 
claim a replacement  then. She thought it was fair that RSA should now reimburse Mr M the full cost of 
replacing his boiler, rather than just the £400 it had contributed towards  this.
She said RSA should pay Mr M a further £500 as compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused to him and his wife. Due to its errors Mr M had suffered from repeated boiler failures and call 
outs over the years. And Mr M and his wife, both elderly, had been hit quite badly when  they were  left 
without heating  over a long period of time in exceptionally cold weather.
RSA responded to say, in summary, that if it had noticed the damage in 2015,  Mr M wouldnt have 
been entitled  to a replacement boiler.  It pointed out that Section  3 of its policy terms at that time, 
under the heading What  we do not cover,  said 
3.4 The boiler will not be replaced if spare parts are not available for the make/model of boiler  
specified in the Schedule during the term of cover.
It did offer to increase its compensation offer in respect of the boiler from £400 to £500.
The investigator thought that looking  at the policy document as a whole, the restriction on the 
replacement boiler guarantee RSA had mentioned wasnt highlighted sufficiently to bring it to a 
customers attention.  So it wasnt fair and reasonable for RSA to be able to rely on it. RSA disagreed - 
it thought the restriction was clearly set out in the document.
Mr M responded to say, in summary, that the reason his boiler failed prematurely was the negligence 
of RSAs agents and engineers, first in not properly  refitting the heat exchanger in 2013,  and then, 
although they noticed things  werent  right, in not dealing with the consequences of this.
Ref: DRN51578394The result  was that highly corrosive products of combustion escaped  inside  the boiler  casing and 
damaged the boiler, causing it to fail.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
In considering this complaint, I need to decide:
1.whether the restriction in the policy  wording  that RSA relies on was set out sufficiently 
prominently to bring it to the attention  of customers; and
2.what, if any, compensation RSA should pay to Mr M for the loss of his boiler and the distress  
and inconvenience he and his wife suffered.
1.The Policy  Wording
The policy booklet runs to 21 pages and is in two parts, first the general  description of what the policy 
does and does not cover, and then the policy wording itself.
The general  part contains a list of things  that arent covered. It points out two specific restrictions on 
the boiler replacement guarantee - if the boiler  is over 7 years  old at the policy  start date, or if its over 
10 years old at the date of claim. It also says:
A full list of what is not covered can be found in our Policy Wording  which can be found  at the back  of 
this booklet and which  you should read in conjunction with your Policy Schedule.
In the policy wording  itself,  there is a prominent panel in a different colour from the other policy 
wording. Included under  the heading MAIN POLICY  EXCLUSIONS is the following  wording:
Section 3

Boilers over 7 years old when taking Your very first Policy.
Boiler replacement if spare parts are not available  for the make  or model of boiler which is 
specified in the Policy  Schedule.
Replacement  of a boiler which is over 10 years old.
Section 3 of the policy terms,  under  the heading What we do not cover,  says: 
3.4 The boiler will not be replaced if spare parts are not available for the make/model of boiler  
specified in the Schedule during the term of cover.
In my view,  the document, taken as a whole, sufficiently clearly sets out the circumstances the policy  
doesnt cover.  So I disagree with the investigators  view on this point. I think if there had been a 
normal failure of part of the boiler  in 2015, when the appropriate spare parts were no longer  available, 
RSA could  have relied on section 3.4 to say the boiler replacement guarantee  didnt apply.
However, as Mr M has pointed  out, this wasnt a normal  failure of a boiler part. The boiler  failed in 
2018 because RSAs  agents didnt  fit the replacement  heat exchanger correctly  in 2013, and its 
engineers failed from 2015  onwards to notice and deal with the effects of this. 
The result  was that Mr M had trouble  and faults,  and consequential call outs, for his boiler between 
2013 and 2018 which I think  wouldnt  otherwise  have occurred. And his boiler failed completely in 
2018 when otherwise he might have expected several more years use.
Ref: DRN51578395In these circumstances I think its right that Mr M should be compensated by RSA, and it isnt 
reasonable for RSA to rely on its policy  terms to exclude proper compensation.
2.What compensation should RSA pay?
Mr M did have  the use of the boiler  until 2018, by which  time it was 13 years old. At that age, he might 
have expected  a few more  years of use, but it could have failed at any time.  So I dont  think  it would 
be reasonable for me to say that RSA should reimburse  the full cost of its replacement.  
There isnt a precise  formula for whats fair in such circumstances. However  it seems to me that it 
would be fair and reasonable for RSA to contribute 40% of what  it cost Mr M to buy the replacement 
boiler and have it fitted. RSA can deduct  from this contribution the £400 it has already  paid him 
towards this.
The failure  of RSAs  agents  and engineers also caused Mr M distress and inconvenience for which its 
right that RSA should compensate him. He had to suffer the trouble, faults,  and consequential call 
outs Ive already mentioned. He wasnt able to change his boiler  at a time of his own choosing. And 
this meant he and his wife were without heating for several weeks during a period of very cold 
weather.
RSA has already paid Mr M £236 as compensation and towards  his temporary  heating  costs. I think  
its fair that it should pay him a further £250 in addition to this as compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience he suffered.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, but subject to any further comments and evidence I receive from 
either Mr M or from RSA by 18 April 2019, I intend to uphold this complaint in part. I intend to order 
Royal & Sun Alliance  Insurance Plc to:
1.reimburse Mr M 40% of what it cost him to buy the replacement boiler and have it fitted. RSA 
can deduct from this contribution the £400 it has already paid him towards this; and
2.pay Mr M £250, in addition  to the £236 it has already  paid him, as compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience it has caused  him. 
Lennox Towers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5157839