K820x#14complaint
Mr M has complained about the valuation esure Insurance Limited paid for his car under  his 
motor policy  when it was written off following an accident.
background
In March 2019, Mr M was involved in an accident and his car was written off. He made a 
claim to esure. Esure valued his car at £10,429  less the policy  excess of £500. 
Mr M thought the valuation was too low. However,  esure believed  it was fair based on the 
motor trade  guides.
Mr M remained dissatisfied and brought his complaint to us. The investigator didnt think 
esure had done  anything  wrong. Mr M didnt agree so his complaint has been passed to me 
to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding this 
complaint. Ill no explain  why.
As the investigator  explained this service  doesnt provide valuations of cars. Instead, we 
assess whether the insurer, esure here came  to its valuation reasonably and in line with the 
policy terms.
Mr Ms policy with esure says esure wont pay more than the market  value  of your car at the 
time of the loss less the total excess payable. It goes to explain how it calculates the market  
value, which  is by the motor trade guides. These guides record  the actual selling prices of 
cars rather than the asking prices and therefore  I consider this is a fair and reasonable 
method of valuing a car for its market value.
Esure has shown me that it used  the all the trade guides. Thats fair and reasonable. The 
investigator also checked the trade  guides  and showed Mr M that esures valuation was 
slightly higher than the average prices of his car across four of the trade  guides.  Indeed  its 
valuation was over £450  higher. 
Mr M believes the actual specifications on his car increase the value. But this isnt borne out 
by the motor trade guides. This isnt unusual, as often various  specifications simply dont 
affect the actual  valuation.  
Esures duty as per its policy terms is calculate  the market valuation according to the trade  
guides, it did this and indeed paid Mr M a slightly higher price that it could have done.
Therefore, whilst I appreciate Mr M doesnt  agree with the calculation, esure has done  
nothing wrong, as it has fulfilled its duty under its policy terms. This is what Mr M agreed  to 
when he chose to take out his insurance  with esure.  
my final decision
So for these reasons, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN56039932Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 June 2020.
Rona Doyle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5603993