K820x#14complaint
Mr K has complained that National  Westminster Bank Plc mis-sold him a credit card 
payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
Mr K took out the card and PPI in 1998 by filling out an application form.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr K disagrees with the adjudicators opinion 
and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account  in deciding  
this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ks complaint and Ill explain why.
Mr K has lately said that at no point was it made  clear to him that the policy was optional.  But 
originally Mr K had told us that he couldnt remember anything  about how the sale had been 
made. Overall Im not persuaded that Mr K has any recollection of taking out the PPI, which 
is not surprising  given how long ago it happened.
Ive seen a copy  of Mr Ks application form.  There is a separate section for PPI and Yes 
and No options to either accept or decline the policy.  Both options  are given equal 
prominence. Mr K has signed next to the Yes  option to request PPI. Looking  at the wording 
and layout of the form I think  that Mr K would have  known  that he didnt have to take out the 
PPI if he didnt want to. It seems to me that he decided to buy it, knowing that he didnt have 
to, even if he no longer  remembers doing so.
Nat West didnt advise  Mr K to buy the policy, so it didnt need  to ensure that it met his 
needs. But it did need to provide him with enough  information for him to make  an informed 
decision about whether or not the policy was right for him.
 
Mr Ks employer  would  have given him six months  full pay, followed by six months half pay, 
if he was off sick. But the policy would have paid out in addition to this and potentially for 
longer than Mr K would have received full pay for. And Mr K didnt have any other means, 
such as savings, to fall back on. So I think Mr K had a need for the policy and could have 
benefitted from it at what  would have been  a difficult time.
Its possible that Nat West  didnt provide as much information about the policy as it should 
have, particularly about the things  that it didnt cover. But Mr K wasnt affected by any of 
those things. As I think that he had an interest in the policy  and decided  to buy it, I dont  think  
that further information would have caused him to change his mind. This means  that Nat 
West doesnt have  to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr K. But Nat West has paid back 
some of the cost of the PPI to Mr K because: 
When the policy was sold,  Nat West expected to get a high level of commission  and 
profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr K about  that. 
Because Nat West didnt  tell Mr K, that was unfair.  
Ref: DRN59786002To put that right, Nat West has paid back the amount of commission and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  National Westminster Bank Plc does not have to pay back 
all of the cost of the PPI to Mr K.
But National  Westminster Bank Plc does  have to pay back  to Mr K any commission  and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  I understand it has already 
done this, so I dont  award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 July 2019.
Carole Clark
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5978600