K822xcomplaint
Mr B has complained about Tradewise Insurance Company Limiteds  handling of his motor 
trade insurance policy.
Reference to Tradewise includes their agents.
background 
On 10 September  2018, Mr B took out a fully comprehensive motor  trade  policy with 
Tradewise. The day he took out the policy he asked for his recovery  truck to be covered. 
During the sales call the sales  advisor asked Mr B: is it registered as a recovery  vehicle? to 
which Mr B replied yes, it is. The sales advisor then said so you will get the full policy  
cover for that. The sales advisor then went onto say if there is a recovery  vehicle that you 
do have and it isnt registered as a recovery vehicle then its third party only until it is. Mr B 
was also asked if any of the vehicles on the policy were modified or customised. He said 
they werent.
On 26 October 2018, Mr Bs recovery truck  was damaged in an accident, so he claimed on 
his policy. Tradewise asked Mr B to send  them  his V5 (log book).  Tradewise then discovered 
that the recovery truck was registered as a standard van on the V5 and not as a recovery 
truck. Tradewise said that also meant the vehicle  had been modified from a normal  van into 
a recovery truck. Tradewise revoked the fully comprehensive cover from the recovery truck 
and substituted it with third party  only cover. As a result, Mr Bs claim for damage wasnt 
processed. Mr B complained, but Tradewise didnt uphold it.
Mr B didn't  think that was fair so he brought his complaint  to us. One of our adjudicators  
looked into the complaint. She felt that Tradewise hadnt done anything wrong. As Mr B 
didnt agree with our adjudicator, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
My provisional decision was issued on 3 June  2019.  I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im intending to 
uphold this complaint.  Ill explain why
the recovery truck not being registered
The question the sales advisor asked Mr B was is it registered as a recovery 
vehicle? I think  the question could have been  clearer. The question could have 
been: is it registered  on the V5 (or log book)  as a recovery  vehicle?  I think the 
question asked as it was could have led to confusion in that Mr B may have thought 
he was being  asked if the vehicle was registered  with his business as a recovery 
truck.
I understand Mr B took out the policy shortly after he bought the recovery  truck. He 
told us that on buying  it he completed his section of the V5, but the document was 
kept by the seller who sent it in to be processed by the DVLA. As a result, Mr B said 
he didnt see how the vehicle was registered  on the V5.
Mr B bought the recovery truck as it was, as a recovery truck. He didnt buy it new as 
a standard van nor did he modify it himself. His belief was that it wasnt  modified but 
Ref: DRN53208752it was manufactured  as a recovery truck. Given his belief, I can understand why he 
might have thought  it was registered as a recovery truck on the V5. Thats  because  
when a new vehicle  is registered for the first time,  its type and specifications are 
recorded on the V5. So if Mr Bs belief was that the vehicle was manufactured as a 
recovery truck, and as it was a recovery truck  when he bought  it, I think his 
reasonable held belief  would have been that it was registered as a recovery truck.
Finally, the Statement  of Fact (SOF) document that was sent to Mr B said at the top 
of it Here is the information you have supplied. But that document made no mention 
of the discussion  regarding the vehicle  being  registered as a recovery truck, or that if 
it wasnt the policy would revert from fully comprehensive to [third party only] . The 
purpose of a SOF document is to highlight to the policyholder the important 
information they have given to the insurer which has been  used to set the premium 
and the terms of the policy. And it warns that if any of the information is incorrect,  
there could  be consequences  such as a claim being declined or the policy being 
cancelled. It also urges  the policyholder to immediately correct  any inaccuracies. 
Given the information about the recovery trucks registration was crucial, I think  it 
should have been contained in the SOF, but it wasnt.
For completeness, its worthy of note that after Mr B was told by Tradewise that the 
vehicle wasnt registered as a recovery truck on the V5, he had the V5 amended.  He 
sent a copy of the V5 to Tradewise showing the vehicle registered as a recovery  
truck. On receiving that, Tradewise have confirmed that subject to the vehicle being  
in a roadworthy condition and all other terms and conditions, full cover will be 
provided. 
modifications to the vehicle
The second  issue  Tradewise had with the vehicle was that it had been modified. 
During the sales call when the sales advisor asked Mr B if it had been modified he 
said it hadnt. That information was also contained  in the SOF which Mr B didnt 
correct. Mr B has told us that the vehicle hadnt been modified.  I think he said that 
because he had an honest held belief that the vehicle was manufactured as a 
recovery truck, so Im not surprised that he told Tradewise the vehicle hadnt been 
modified. As Ive said earlier,  he didnt buy it new and he didnt  have it modified 
himself, so I can understand why he felt the vehicle had always  been  a recovery  
truck, as opposed to a standard van that was later changed into a recovery truck.
I think if Mr B knew or suspected the vehicle was modified he would have told 
Tradewise rather than put himself and his business at risk, or risk losing the large  
premium he paid for the policy. I dont think Mr B could be expected  to give 
information that he didnt know or suspect. I therefore intend to uphold this complaint.
After finding out the vehicle was not registered  on the V5 as a recovery truck  and that 
it had been modified, Tradewise revoked the fully comprehensive cover from the 
vehicle and they didnt process Mr Bs claim for damage. Mr B has since rectified the 
first issue  by having the V5 changed to show the vehicle  is now registered as a 
recovery truck. But the issue with the vehicle being modified remains and cannot  be 
rectified. And as far as Im aware the policy is still valid until September 2019. 
Tradewise have said that if the vehicle  is repaired and becomes roadworthy, and 
provided all the other terms and conditions are met, that they would continue to cover 
the recovery truck, but only on a [third party] basis.
Ref: DRN53208753What I intend to require Tradewise  to do is to process Mr Bs claim  for the October 
2018 accident under the terms  of the policy on the basis  that he had fully 
comprehensive cover. I also intend to require Tradewise to continue to cover  the 
recovery truck on a fully comprehensive basis for the remainder of the policy term.
The parties were invited to comment on my findings. Mr B agreed with my provisional 
findings. Tradewise  said:
Mr B is in the motor  trade and the policy is a commercial one, if he was unsure about 
what the sales advisor meant, it was his responsibility to ask for clarification.  Mr B 
did have a copy of the V5 before the incident happened and so the information  was 
there for him to query. 
Although the Statement of Fact document didnt say that a vehicle not registered as a 
recovery truck would  only be covered by third part insurance, the sales advisor did 
tell Mr B that during the call. The Statement of Fact did say that a modified  vehicle 
would only be covered third party.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, my findings remain  the 
same. But I would like to respond  to the additional  comments as follows:
For the reasons  given  above, I think Mr B held a genuine belief that the recovery  truck 
wasnt modified, but was manufactured as a recovery  truck, which  is why he said it wasnt 
modified. And because  of that belief,  if he understood  the sales  advisors question to be a 
reference to the status of the vehicle on the V5 log book, I can understand why he said it 
was registered  as a recovery truck. But I do think the sales advisors question could have 
been clearer.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold this complaint and require Tradewise Insurance  
Company Limited  to process Mr Bs claim for the October 2018  accident under the terms of 
the policy on the basis that he had fully comprehensive cover. And to continue cover  on the 
recovery truck on a fully comprehensive basis.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 July 2019.   
Mehmet Osman 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5320875