K821x#15complaint
Mr N complains that R. Raphael & Sons Plc (Lyk) didnt  refund £2,000  in good time which 
ruined his family holiday. 
background
Mr N opened a prepaid Lyk currency card before  his holiday. Mr N made  number of deposits 
to load funds onto his card. On 31 July 2018  he tried to pay £2,000 onto it but it was returned 
to his account because it wouldve taken his card balance over the maximum  allowed.  Mr N 
attempted to add another £2,000 onto his card on 1 August 2018  but that didnt go through  
either. Instead of being returned to Mr Ns current account there  was a delay. 
The funds werent  returned to Mr N before he and his family left for their holiday.  During  
Mr Ns time away  he tried to sort the problem out with Lyk a number of times  in an attempt  to 
get his money  back. But Mr N didnt receive  his refund until after he returned  from the 
holiday. 
Mr N complained and said that Lyks delay  in refunding the £2,000 meant his holiday of a 
lifetime was ruined.  Mr N says he and his family  werent  able to do everything they wanted 
and didnt visit attractions  theyd planned  to see. Mr N complained to Lyk and asked it to 
cover the cost of flights so he could take his family  back to visit the attractions theyd missed. 
Lyk didnt agree but did offer Mr N £800 because of the trouble and upset  the delayed  refund 
had caused. 
Mr N referred  his complaint to this service and said he wanted Lyk to cover the cost of 
another holiday so he and his family  could  visit the attractions they missed.  An investigator 
looked at what  had happened  but didnt think it would be fair to ask Lyk to pay for another  
holiday. The investigator thought Lyks offer was fair but recommended that it add 8% 
interest to the £2,000 refund that was delayed. Mr N didnt accept  the investigators view and 
asked for his complaint to be appealed. As a result, the complaints been  passed to me to 
make a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr N has given us a very detailed submission  setting out what happened.  As a result, Ive 
been reasonably brief above. I hope  he wont take it as a discourtesy that I havent referred 
to everything hes said and have focused  on what I think are the key issues  here. And Im 
conscious that the circumstances  of what happened are broadly agreed by all parties. 
The second  payment of £2,000 Mr N tried to load onto his Lyk card wasnt refunded  to him 
for around  three weeks which meant  he didnt have that money available  whilst on a holiday 
of a lifetime with his family. Mr N says the absence of that £2,000 meant his holiday was 
ruined. 
My role here is to look at whether the proposed settlement fairly reflects the impact of Lyks 
mistake on Mr N. Ive thought carefully about  what Mr Ns asked  for but I dont think  telling 
Lyk to cover  the cost of a return holiday so he and his family can visit the attractions they 
missed out on is proportionate to the error it made. 
Ref: DRN56592182I asked Mr N to provide copies of his bank and credit card statements for the period he was 
away. I wanted to get an idea of whether Mr N had other options while he was waiting for his 
payment to be returned. 
The statements  show  Mr N had other  funds  available  to him whilst on holiday. Mr Ns credit 
card statement shows he had around  £1,000 left before reaching his credit  limit after the car 
hire was paid. And the bank statements show Mr N had a balance  of around £900  while  he 
was away. I appreciate using all the funds  from both accounts wasnt what Mr N wanted, but 
I have to take into account  that he had other funds available that were broadly in the region 
of the amount retained by Lyk.  
I agree  the delay  in receiving the refund  did impact  Mr Ns holiday and plans. But I have  to 
take into account that whilst Mr N and his family werent able to do everything they wanted, 
they were still able to go on holiday and use the services they paid for. Lyk has offered £800 
and Im satisfied that fairly reflects the disappointment caused by being unable to do 
everything Mr N had planned. Im not persuaded that telling Lyk to cover  the cost of sending  
Mr N and his family  on holiday again is a fair way to resolve this complaint. 
The investigator recommended  Lyk pays 8% interest on the £2,000  while it wasnt in Mr Ns 
possession and I think thats reasonable. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint and direct  R. Raphael & Sons Plc to pay Mr N 
£800. I also direct R. Raphael & Sons  Plc to pay Mr N 8% interest on the £2,000, from the 
date it was received  to the date it was refunded  to his bank account.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 June  2019.
Marco Manente
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5659218