K822xcomplaint
Mr H complains about the transfer of assets  from Barclays Bank Plc trading as Barclays 
Stockbrokers to the new Smart Investor  platform.  
background 
In a Final Response Letter dated  July 2018, Barclays said:
The stock transfer had taken place, bar two stocks, which will remain in his account 
because they dont have a value  and they arent tradable, and cant be transferred to 
the new platform.
Its arranged for a statement of account  to be sent. 
Markers had been set up on Mr Hs account  which caused the transfer delay and 
wouldve restricted withdrawals, buys and transfers, but it shouldnt  have restricted 
his option to transfer out.  
Documents were misplaced and the transfer  was delayed by three months. 
Mr H had initially been offered £250  compensation for trouble and upset caused by 
that point. But he wanted his fees waived in addition to a further £500 compensation. 
In light of this it was increasing his offer of compensation to £350 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused.  
One of our investigators  considered the complaint and thought it should be upheld.  In 
summary, he said the compensation for distress and inconvenience  was fair and reasonable, 
but should include interest payment for the cash  transfer which Barclays  agreed with. 
Mr H disagreed with the investigators view. He thinks another  0 should  be added to its 
offer. He also feels like hes wasted his time referring his complaint to us.  He feels  hes 
been treated badly  by Barclays and it can get away  with doing whatever it likes.  
Having spoken  with Mr H, our investigator  asked Barclays if it would consider increasing its 
offer. Barclays refused  saying the £587.29  it had already made,  comprised of £350  
compensation it offered with its FRL, and £237.29 interest on the cash  transfer  was fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. 
Our investigator having considered the position  didnt feel the compensation should  increase 
by another £150. He noted  Mr H was asking for £3,500  compensation for trouble and upset,  
but this sort of amount  would only be awarded in the severest of cases.   
Mr H disagreed with the outcome and asked  for an ombudsmans  decision.  
As no agreement has been reached the matter  has been referred to me for review.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusion for much the same reasons. Im 
going to uphold this complaint. 
Ref: DRN54843282But before I explain  why, I think its important for me to recognise Mr Hs frustration and 
strength of feeling  about this matter.  He has provided detailed submissions to support  the 
complaint, which  Ive read and considered carefully. However, I hope he wont  take the fact 
my findings  focus  on what I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail, as a 
discourtesy.
The purpose of my decision isnt to address  every  single point raised. Its also not my role to 
be a consumer champion or to regulate or penalise a business because its made a mistake. 
Thats the role of the industry regulator  the Financial Conduct  Authority  (FCA). So I hope that 
this will help explain why we take the approach we do. 
My role is to consider the evidence  presented  by Mr H and Barclays,  and reach  what I think 
is an independent,  fair and reasonable  decision  based on the facts of the case. In deciding  
whats fair and reasonable, I must take into account the relevant law, regulation and best 
industry practice, but Im not bound by this. Its for me to decide, based on the information  
Ive been given, whats more likely than not to have happened. 
Because Barclays has upheld this complaint, the only issue for me to consider is redress. On 
the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Mr H says I think  the offer of £587.20  
compensation comprising £350 for its error and delays caused,  plus £237.29 interest on the 
cash transfer that should have been  made sooner, is broadly fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances.  
The key question at the heart of this complaint is whether or not additional compensation is 
due. On balance  I dont think that it is. 
In respect of the delay, despite  what Mr H says, Im aware that transfers can take up to 12 
weeks. Although I dont think Barclays deliberately set out to mislead Mr H, it should  have 
perhaps managed  his expectations better, and set out realistic time scales  in the 
circumstances. 
Im aware from having dealt with similar complaints against Barclays  it has said that any 
payments received on the account  after the transfer  being completed can take up to 90 days  
to be transferred to the new provider. And during this process  the account will be in a 
"Closing" status  but Barclays will monitor the account for 90 days,  which will allow  any 
payments to be made on the account.
Barclays accepts that overall it fell short  of the standard Mr H could expect. I dont think 
theres any dispute about the trouble he experienced in relation  to the incorrect  address and 
late transfer. 
Primarily this is for Barclays failure  to communicate with Mr H effectively; failing to make  
matters clear when it should have,  despite his attempts to get to the bottom of the matter.  
Despite what Mr H says about  his losses, on the face of the evidence and on balance  Im 
unable to safely say hes suffered  any additional  losses and in the circumstances I just cant 
justify £3,500 compensation. 
Im sorry  if Mr H feels that the redress is insufficient and hes just wasted his time referring 
the complaint  to us. Every case has to be considered  in light of its individual facts and 
redress  has to be proportional  and in accordance with what  is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances, which I think the amount offered  is. 
Ref: DRN54843283I appreciate Mr H will be disappointed with my decision, but in the circumstances, Im unable 
to give him what he wants. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
I instruct Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay £237.29 interest on the cash  transfer, in addition  to 
the £350 compensation it offered for trouble  and upset. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 April 2019.
Dara Islam
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5484328