K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
January 2004.  Mr T says Canada Square Operations  Limited, previously Egg, mis-sold him 
the PPI.
background
Mr T bought  the policy in January 2004 at the same time as taking out a credit card. The 
sale took place  online.
For ease of reference, Ill refer to Egg as Canada  Square Operations throughout this 
decision.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr T disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, so 
the complaint  has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ts case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why below.
I think Canada Square Operations  made  it clear  that Mr T didnt have to take out the PPI and 
that he chose  to take it. I say this because Ive seen screen shots of Canada  Square 
Operations online credit card application  process,  which sets out what Mr T wouldve seen 
at the time he took out the PPI.
These show that Mr T would  have  had to select yes or no for the PPI, before completing  
the online credit card application. Based  on the screen shots provided, I think  both options 
were given equal prominence. Canada Square  Operations has also provided us with a copy  
of its own internal application report,  which it says captures  the information Mr T would have 
entered, as well as the options  Mr T wouldve selected, during the application process.  This 
shows that Mr T selected yes for the PPI. So, based on what Ive seen, I think its more  
likely than not Mr T would  have understood that the PPI was optional.  And I dont think he 
would have selected the PPI if he didnt want to take it out.
Canada Square  Operations didnt recommend the PPI to Mr T so it didnt have to check  if it 
was right for him. But it did have to make  sure Mr T got the information he needed  to decide 
if it was right for him. 
Its possible the information Canada Square  Operations gave Mr T about  the PPI wasnt as 
clear as it should have  been  particularly about  the things it didnt cover. But Mr T chose to 
take out the PPI, so it looks like he wanted  this type of cover.  Based on what Ive seen of his 
circumstances at the time it doesnt  look like he was affected by any of the exclusions to or 
limits on the PPI cover, such as pre-existing medical  conditions  so it would have been 
useful for him if something went wrong.  It also looks like the PPI was affordable. 
Ref: DRN53254772Mr T has told us he would have received six months full pay followed by six months half pay 
from his employer if he was too unwell to work.  Hes also told us that he would have 
received redundancy pay from his employer in the event he was made  redundant. Mr T says 
this shows he didnt  need the PPI as his existing work  benefits  were very good.  
Having thought about what  Mr T has said about his sick pay, I dont think  this means he 
wouldnt have found the policy useful. I say this because the PPI would  have paid out in 
addition to any sick pay Mr T would have received from his employer and would have paid 
out for up to 12 months. The PPI also would have  paid a benefit  if Mr T was made  
redundant. This would  have enabled  Mr T to use any redundancy payment he received from 
his employer to help cover any other financial commitments he might have had. So overall,  I 
think Mr T could have  found the policy useful if he ever fell on hard times and I dont think 
that any better information would have put him off from taking out the policy.
Based on what Ive said above, I dont think the PPI was mis-sold. Which  means  Canada  
Square Operations doesnt have to pay back  all of the cost of the PPI to Mr T.
But Canada Square Operations  has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr T because:  
Canada Square  Operations got a high level of commission  and profit share (more than 
50% of the PPI premium)   so it should  have  told Mr T about that. Because Canada 
Square Operations didnt tell Mr T, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Canada Square Operations has paid back  the amount of commission 
and profit share that was above  50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this 
case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Canada Square  Operations Limited does not have to 
pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr T.
But Canada Square Operations  Limited  does have  to pay back to Mr T any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  I understand it has already 
done this, so I dont  award any further compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 September  2019.
Margaux Stride-Noble
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5325477