K821x#15complaint
Mrs M complains that Metro Bank Plc wont refund two payments totalling  £5,500  made from 
her account,  which  she says she didnt authorise.
background
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint in April 2019,  which  forms part of this final 
decision. 
In my provisional decision,  I said I was minded to uphold Mrs Ms complaint and intended 
asking Metro Bank to refund the amount taken from her account.  I invited both parties to 
provide any further  information they wanted  to add by 19 April 2019.
Both Metro  Bank and Mrs M agreed  with my decision. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both of the parties  have  agreed with my decision,  and neither has provided any further  
evidence or arguments  for consideration, I see no reason to depart  from the conclusions  set 
out in my previous provisional  decision.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I direct Metro Bank to:
-Refund Mrs Ms current account  with £5,500;
-Refund any fees or charges Mrs M may have incurred on her current  account that 
directly resulted from the withdrawal of the disputed payments;
-Pay interest on that amount at the account interest rate, from the date of the 
withdrawals to the date of settlement.  If Metro Bank  deducts  tax from the interest  
element of this award, it should provide Mrs M with the appropriate tax deduction  
certificate; and
-Pay Mrs M a total of £300  compensation (including the £50 already offered) in 
recognition of the distress and inconvenience caused  by Metro Banks handling of 
the matter
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 May 2019.
Jack Ferris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN56889492COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mrs M complains that Metro Bank Plc wont refund two payments totalling  £5,500 made from her 
account, which she says she didnt authorise.
background
In October 2017, Mrs M was the victim of a scam known as smishing (which is where fraudsters 
send an SMS  text message to a customer as though it has come from their bank). Its not in dispute 
that what happened was an act of fraud. So I have used  the term fraudster throughout  to refer to the 
third party involved. 
Mrs M held a current account with Metro Bank. On 31 October 2017,  she received a text message 
from the fraudster at 12:27pm that appeared on her phone  as though it had been  sent from Metro 
Bank. The message  said:
Hello, Did you try to use your Debitcard at 12:20 for 800 GBP, If yes, reply Y. If no, please call 
XXXXXXXX or XXXXXXXX
The above message joined  a thread of previous SMS messages Mrs M had received from Metro 
Bank in the past, so she believed it was a legitimate communication from the bank. As Mrs M didnt  
recognise the transaction, she called the number provided in the message  at 12:28pm, and says that 
she was given  the same automated options as when she normally calls Metro Bank. Mrs M also says 
that the hold music was the same, so when she got through  to the fraudster, she believed  she was 
speaking to a staff member of the bank.  
Mrs M says the fraudster told her that three separate transactions were pending  on her debit card, but 
had not yet been processed. Mrs M was told that if she hadnt made these transactions, then shed  
need to confirm three lots of eight digit one-time passcodes in order to cancel  them.
Whilst talking to Mrs M, the fraudster was able to access her online  banking facility. Metro bank say 
that in order to access her account via online banking, the fraudster wouldve had to have  known Mrs 
Ms 12 digit customer  number, 3 digits from her security number and 3 letters  from her password.  
Metro Bank have been unable to determine how these details were compromised. And Mrs M hasnt 
been able to tell us whether  she was asked for this information or not during her telephone call with 
the fraudster.  
Whilst in Mrs Ms online  account, the fraudster set up the account  details for a new payee, which 
generated an SMS text message containing a one-time passcode (OTP) that was then sent to Mrs 
Ms mobile  phone. The message said:
Your Metro Bank one-time passcode to setup a new payee  is XXXXXXXX. If you did not setup  a new 
payee, then please call us on XXXXXXXX
This message  was sent three times to Mrs Ms mobile phone, and the fraudster asked her to provide 
the three separate codes provided  in each text message.  Mrs M gave the OTP to the fraudster as she 
still believed she was talking to a staff member of Metro Bank, and because  she wanted to stop the 
transactions the fraudster had told her about. The fraudster then explained  that these  transactions  
had since been cancelled, and that no further action was required. Three  payments totalling £7,500 
were then transferred  out of Mrs Ms account  to three new payees. 
Shortly after her phone call with the fraudster, Mrs M checked her online banking and realised that the 
money had been transferred out of her account.  Metro Bank called Mrs M at 13:34pm  as their internal 
fraud prevention  measure  had highlighted one of the transactions, at which point  she informed the 
bank that her account  had been hacked. 
Ref: DRN56889493Below is a list of the relevant  transactions and other relevant events:
Date Time Event Amount
31/10/2017 12:27 Mrs M received a text message that looked as though it 
came from Metro Bank
31/10/2017 12:28 Mrs M called the number  given  in the text message
31/10/2017 12:31 The fraudster made a failed attempt  to login  to Mrs Ms 
online banking
31/10/2017 12:33 The fraudster successfully logged on to Mrs Ms online 
banking
31/10/2017 12:37 New payee created  (payee one) and Metro Bank sends 
Mrs M an OTP by text message
31/10/2017 12:41 Payment of £3,500 sent to payee  one £3,500
31/10/2017 12:42 New payee created  (payee two) and Metro  Bank sends 
Mrs M an OTP by text message
31/10/2017 12:42 Payment of £2,000 sent to payee  two £2,000
31/10/2017 12:45 New payee created  (payee three) and Metro Bank 
sends Mrs M an OTP by text message
31/10/2017 12:45 Payment of £2,000 sent to payee  three £2,000
31/10/2017 12:48 Failed login attempt by Mrs M
31/10/2017 12:49 Failed login attempt by Mrs M
31/10/2017 12:51 Mrs M logs in to her account
31/10/2017 13:34 Metro Bank call Mrs M as they suspect fraudulent 
activity
Total: £7,500
Mrs M told Metro Bank that she neither recognised, nor authorised any of the three payments detailed 
above. Metro Bank were able to prevent the third payment  of £2,000 from leaving her account, but 
they were unable  to retrieve the remaining  £5,500 as it had already  been transferred out. However, 
Metro Bank were able to recover £2.59 from the receiving  account,  although it doesnt appear that this 
has been applied  to Mrs Ms account.
Metro Bank refused to reimburse the remaining £5,500 to Mrs M on the basis that she had acted 
grossly negligent by inadvertently  giving  out her online banking security details and her one-time  
passcodes. But Metro  Bank  did acknowledge that their service had been poor at times, as theyd  
failed to call Mrs M when  they said they would,  and they also gave her misleading information  about  
whether shed  get her money back. So Metro Bank offered £50 compensation  in recognition of the 
poor service Mrs M had received.
Unhappy with this outcome, Mrs M brought her complaint to this service.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. When considering  whats fair and reasonable I am required to take 
into account;  relevant law and regulations; the regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of 
practice; and where  appropriate  what  I consider to have  been good industry practice  at the relevant 
time.
relevant considerations
Metro Bank is a Financial  Conduct Authority (FCA) regulated firm, and was carrying out regulated 
activities. As such, the FCAs overarching  Principles for Businesses apply including  the requirement  
to pay regard to the customers interests and treat them  fairly (Principle 6).
Ref: DRN56889494The withdrawal from Mrs Ms account was made in October 2017. So the relevant legislation is that 
set out in the Payment Services Regulations 2009 (PSRs). I think these sections of PSR 2009 are of 
particular relevance here:
Consent and withdrawal of consent
55. (1) A payment transaction is to be regarded  as having been authorised by the payer for the 
purposes of this Part only if the payer has given  its consent  to
(a) the execution of the payment transaction; 
Obligations of the payment service user in relation  to payment  instruments
57. (1) A payment service  user to whom  a payment  instrument has been issued must
(a)use the payment  instrument in accordance with the terms and conditions governing its 
issue and use; and
(b)notify the payment  service provider  in the agreed manner and without undue delay on 
becoming aware of the loss, theft,  misappropriation or unauthorised use of the payment 
instrument.
(2) The payment service  user must on receiving a payment instrument take all reasonable  steps to 
keep its personalised security features  safe.
Evidence on authentication and execution  of payment transactions
60. (1) Where  a payment  service  user
(a)denies  having authorised an executed payment transaction; or
(b)claims that a payment transaction has not been correctly executed,
it is for the payment service  provider to prove that the payment transaction was authenticated, 
accurately recorded, entered in the payment service providers accounts  and not affected by a 
technical breakdown or some other  deficiency.
(2) In paragraph (1) authenticated means the use of any procedure by which a payment service 
provider is able to verify the use of a specific payment instrument, including  its personalised  security 
features.
(3) Where a payment service user denies having authorised an executed payment transaction, the 
use of a payment instrument  recorded by the payment service provider  is not in itself necessarily 
sufficient to prove either that
(a) the payment  transaction was authorised by the payer; or
(b) the payer acted fraudulently or failed with intent or gross negligence to comply with regulation 57.
Payment service providers liability for unauthorised payment transactions
61. Subject to regulations  59 [Notification  of unauthorised  or incorrectly  executed payment 
transactions] and 60, where an executed payment  transaction  was not authorised  in accordance with 
regulation 55, the payment  service provider  must immediately
(a) refund the amount of the unauthorised payment transaction to the payer; and
(b) where applicable,  restore the debited payment  account to the state it would have been in had the 
unauthorised payment  transaction  not taken place.
Payers liability for unauthorised payment transaction
Ref: DRN5688949562. (1) Subject  to paragraphs (2) , the payer is liable  up to a maximum of £50 for any losses 
incurred in respect  of unauthorised payment transactions arising
(a) from the use of a lost or stolen payment instrument; or
(b) where the payer has failed to keep the personalised  security features of the payment  instrument 
safe, from the misappropriation of the payment instrument.
(2) The payer is liable for all losses incurred  in respect of an unauthorised payment transaction where 
the payer
(a) has acted fraudulently;  or
(b) has with intent or gross  negligence failed to comply with regulation  57.
consent
Regulation 55 says that the payer must give consent,  and it must  be given in the form,  and in 
accordance with the procedure, agreed between the payer and its payment service  provider. The 
payment services directive itself (which  PSR 2009 implements) says In the absence  of such consent, 
a payment transaction shall be considered to be unauthorised.
But neither PSR 2009  nor the FCAs 2013 guidance on PSR 2009 provide a definition  of consent.
I therefore  think it is fair, when considering  whether consent was given, to apply the common 
definition of consent, which is to give permission  for something to happen.
gross negligence
Whether a customer has acted with gross negligence is something  that can only be assessed on a 
case by case basis, taking into account all the circumstances.  The term is not defined  in PSR 2009 
nor in the first Payment Services Directive. However, recital 72 of the second Payment  Services 
Directive provides as follows:
In order to assess possible  negligence or gross negligence on the part of the payment service user, 
account should be taken  of all of the circumstances. The evidence and degree of alleged negligence 
should generally  be evaluated according to national  law. However, while the concept of negligence  
implies a breach of a duty of care, gross negligence  should mean more than mere negligence,  
involving conduct exhibiting a significant degree of carelessness; for example, keeping the credentials 
used to authorise a payment  transaction beside the payment instrument in a format that is open and 
easily detectable by third parties
Reflecting this, the FCA, in its document setting out its role under  the Payment  Services Regulations 
2017, says:
 we interpret  gross  negligence to be a higher standard than the standard of negligence under  
common law. The customer needs to have  shown  a very significant degree of carelessness.
Although neither of these  is directly relevant to this complaint, theyre  of value as a relevant 
consideration in the absence of contemporaneous interpretative guidance, and because  they inform 
the meaning  of a concept  that has been in place  for some time (in the Banking Code).  
When considering gross  negligence in a commercial contract context, Mance J in Red Sea Tankers  
Ltd v Papachristidis (The Ardent)  [1997] 2 Lloyds Rep 547, 586 said:
If the matter is viewed according  to purely  English principles of construction,  Gross negligence is 
clearly intended to represent something more fundamental than failure  to exercise proper  skill and/or 
care constituting negligence as a matter of ordinary  language and general impression, the concept  
of gross negligence seems  to me capable  of embracing not only conduct  undertaken with actual 
appreciation of the risks involved, but also serious  disregard of or indifference to an obvious risk.
Ref: DRN56889496Negligence is often referred to as a failure  to exercise  reasonable care, but as I have described above 
gross negligence suggests a lack of care that goes significantly beyond  ordinary negligence. So I 
have to consider whether Mrs Ms actions fell so far below the standard  of a reasonable person that it 
would be fair to say she failed with gross negligence to keep her personalised security details  safe or 
to comply with the terms and conditions of the account.
the terms and conditions  of Mrs Ms account
Metro Bank has provided a copy of the terms and conditions that applied  at the time the transfers 
were made from Mrs Ms current account. The terms that are of particular relevance in this context 
are:
5.2 Keeping  your security information safe
You will be responsible for any instructions given by you, or anyone  authorised to act on your behalf, 
from the time that you successfully pass through security to the time that you leave the relevant 
service. It is your responsibility to keep details of your cards and security details, including PINs, 
security numbers, access codes or passwords, safe and to make sure they cannot be used by anyone 
else or for fraudulent purposes. For example:
 you must not reveal your security details  to any other  person; 
 you must not respond to an email asking for your security details, even if it looks like the email is 
from us (we will never send you an email  like this so you should report  this to us at 
phishing@metrobank.plc.uk); 
I also consider  section  eight to be relevant to my consideration of this case. It outlines:
8.1Transactions you didnt authorise
We will be responsible for any payment transaction that you did not authorise, unless:
you have acted fraudulently;
you allowed another person to use your card, PIN or other security details who is not authorised by 
you;
you suspect your chequebook or cards have been stolen or lost (or intercepted before being 
delivered to you) and you deliberately or with gross negligence have not told us;
you have revealed to someone else, or written down, your PIN number or other security details 
used for online, mobile and telephone banking;
you didnt tell us that your mobile phone which is registered for SMS updates or mobile banking 
has been stolen;
you allow someone else to use your mobile phone or personal computer;
you change your mobile phone number, email address or other details which we use to contact you 
and do not update us;
(in the case of a cheque) you failed to take reasonable care when writing the cheque; or
you have entered the incorrect details when making a payment.
We will issue you with an immediate refund if you tell us that you did not authorise a payment 
transaction, unless the facts suggest that we may not be responsible for it and that it is appropriate for 
us to investigate the transaction further. We will investigate the transaction and decide as quickly as 
possible whether we are or may be responsible. You should tell us as soon as you notice any 
suspicious or unauthorised activity on your account in line with the section on Telling us about 
problems early...
Ref: DRN56889497If we issue you with a refund, we will pay you the amount of the unauthorised transaction and any 
resulting interest and charges applied to your account. If we have investigated the transaction, we will 
make sure that you do not suffer any loss because of the delay in reaching our decision.
If we then prove that we are not in fact responsible for an unauthorised transaction, we will explain to 
you how we have reached this decision and we may take from your account the amount of any refund 
or other payment we have made to you.
key questions
I think  the above relevant  considerations mean that, if the transactions  Mrs M disputes were  
unauthorised, it would  be fair and reasonable for Metro  Bank to refund  the full amount taken, unless, 
with intent  or gross negligence,  Mrs M failed to comply with the terms and conditions of the account 
and the obligations  set out in Regulation 57.
Metro Bank responded to Mrs Ms report of the scam in a letter dated 29 November  2017,  when they 
said:
The monies  were  paid away in reliance of the correct security information being provided, 
and in such circumstances, we can assume that we are dealing with you, in accordance with 
our terms  and conditions.
The beneficiary was created, and account transfers made,  using your online banking on 
31.10.2017, where  the following would have had to be input:
oYour 12 digit customer  number
o3 digits  from your security number
o3 digits  from your Password
A one-time passcode would  have  also been  sent to your mobile, to enable the creation of the 
new beneficiary.
In the circumstances,  it is our position that it was reasonable for us to assume  that the disputed 
transaction was either authorised by you or, given  the above,  that you have not taken  adequate  care 
of your security details, contrary to our terms and conditions (5.2), as such we are not obliged to 
provide a refund  on this occasion.
I think,  therefore, that there are two key questions relevant to my consideration about what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances:
1.Were the disputed transactions authorised by Mrs M? and;
2.If they werent, can Metro Bank demonstrate that Mrs M failed with intent or gross negligence 
either to comply with the terms and conditions of her account or to keep her personalised 
security details safe?
Though there is naturally some overlap of events when answering these questions, I will approach 
them in this order.
were the disputed transactions authorised by Mrs M?
On the balance of evidence, Im not persuaded that Mrs M authorised these transactions.
It isnt clear how the fraudster was initially able to gain access to Mrs Ms online banking. But the 
sequence of events suggests she was likely  tricked by some  means  into divulging her security 
information and login details.  I can see from the online banking log, for example,  that Mrs Ms account 
was accessed a few minutes after shed called the fraudster,  and that it was accessed using a 
different IP address (which  Metro Bank say Mrs M had never used  before) at 12:33pm, which  Mrs M 
says she has no recollection of. And it was at this point the money was taken from her account. 
Ref: DRN56889498The timing of the point in which the fraudster accessed Mrs Ms account  suggests  its likely  they were 
not in possession of her login details  prior to the call. So I think its most likely  that Mrs M was asked 
for her online banking login details to enable the fraudster to access her account while she was on the 
phone. It may be that the fraudster simulated a security verification process,  for example,  to gather 
what they needed  for the online login. And given  that Mrs M believed she was talking to the bank, I 
dont think she can be said to have acted unreasonably by responding to the fraudsters requests for 
information in the circumstances,  which was all towards the end of Mrs M protecting her account and 
trying to strop payments being made, rather than authorising them.
Mrs M has acknowledged  that she did inadvertently  give the fraudster the OTPs. This was a crucial 
step in the scam taking  place. Without this step,  new payees couldnt have been created, and so the 
payments could not have been sent by the fraudster.  But, I dont think  it would be fair to conclude that 
by disclosing the OTPs, Mrs M was consenting to the payments  being made from her account. As Ive 
said above, consent means giving permission for something to happen. It follows that in the context of 
payment transactions,  consent  requires the payer to have  knowledge that a payment transaction  will 
be executed. So an account  holder who is unaware  a payment is being  made  cant  rightly  be said to 
have given their consent  to make  a payment.
There is no evidence  that suggests Mrs M knew a payment was being made  from her account  on 31 
October 2017. On the contrary, she believed  that the fraudster was helping her to prevent certain 
transactions being made that she hadnt authorised. So on balance,  I dont think  Mrs M consented  to 
or authorised  a transaction to be made from her account.
So, my starting  point here is that it wouldnt be fair and reasonable  for Mrs M to be held liable for the 
transactions  which I think its more likely than not were unauthorised  unless she failed with 
intent or gross negligence to comply with the terms and conditions of her relationship  with Metro  Bank 
and the obligations  set out in the PSR 2009.
did Mrs M fail with gross negligence either to comply with the terms and conditions of the 
account, or to keep her personalised security details safe?
The principal obligation relevant to this case is Mrs Ms obligation to take all reasonable steps to keep 
safe the security  features of the account.  The account terms and conditions explain what this means 
in practice. I think Mrs M was under an obligation not to reveal her security details, including internet  
banking details and OTPs, to any other person. So she did fail in her obligations in that sense. But its 
not enough to say Mrs M failed with intent or gross negligence simply because she shared the security 
details of her account, as I also need to consider the circumstances in which those details were shared. 
As Ive outlined above, I think its likely  Mrs M was tricked into giving  her login  details to the fraudster  
over the phone. She was then tricked by the fraudster into handing over three OTP codes,  which  
allowed three new payees to be created.  And so in the circumstances, I dont think Mrs M deliberately 
shared her security  details with the fraudster. Ive gone on to consider the actions Mrs M took here, 
and whether what she did fell so far below  the standard of a reasonable person that it would be fair to 
say she failed  with gross  negligence to keep her personalised security details  safe or to comply with 
the terms and conditions of the account. However, on the balance of evidence, I dont think it would  
be fair and reasonable to say that, in falling for these tricks and in failing to keep her security details 
safe, Mrs M was acting grossly negligent.
Its important to take into account all the circumstances when  considering whether  an individuals  
actions amount to gross negligence.  Smishing  scams such as the one experienced by Mrs M are very 
sophisticated, and its likely the fraudster used a range of persuasive techniques known as social 
engineering to trick,  deceive and manipulate Mrs M into carrying out the actions that she did.
The fraudster was able to make Mrs M believe shed received an alert from her bank by spoofing 
Metro Banks phone number, and sending  her a text message that joined  previous genuine messages 
shed received from the bank.  So I dont think she had any reason to believe that the fraudsters text 
Ref: DRN56889499message wasnt genuine.  The message made Mrs M believe that she had to act quickly  in order to 
protect her bank account, and indeed, she called  the number provided by the fraudster one minute  
after the text message  was received. 
Mrs M has explained that when she called  the number,  everything was exactly as it usually  is when 
she calls her bank. She said the automated telephone menu options were  the same, and even the 
hold music was the same.  So I also dont  think she has any reason to believe that the person she was 
speaking to wasnt from Metro Bank. 
Ive thought about Mrs Ms actions in the context of the circumstances described above. And I do not 
think that, at the time, Mrs M thought  anything other than that the actions she was taking were to 
prevent unauthorised  transactions  from being processed and leaving her account.  I dont consider  this 
to have been  Mrs M disregarding or acting with indifference towards the risk of her bank account  
being compromised and money being stolen. I believe she was actually under  the opposite 
impression that if she didnt do as the fraudster asked, then she risked losing her money. 
Mrs M says that she did provide the OTP codes  to the fraudster. The fraudster had convinced her that 
the codes were needed  in the process of preventing  various pending transactions from being 
processed. And I wouldnt  expect Mrs M to know what Metro Banks  processes are for cancelling a 
pending payment, or to necessarily question what she was being asked to do  as she genuinely  
believed she was working with their bank to protect her money.
On balance, I dont think anything happened  to break the spell Mrs M was under at the time. And Im 
not persuaded  that her actions fell so far below what a reasonable person would do in the 
circumstances to amount  to gross negligence. I think in similar circumstances, a reasonable person 
wouldve acted in the same way that Mrs M did here.
warnings
Metro Bank submit that they have put in place a number  of measures  to raise  general awareness  of 
the risk of fraud amongst their customers  such as specific warnings  about  not disclosing  security 
details that they say Mrs M wouldve had to click on and read in order to log on to her online banking.
Typically, I think  many  account holders would engage with Metro Banks  efforts to raise awareness  of 
scams, which will help to prevent some  instances of fraud.  But Mrs M had no reason to suspect that 
the person she was speaking to on 31 October 2017 was suspicious because  of the accompanying 
spoofed and genuine texts. And not remembering the warning displayed on her online banking,  
which she may or may not have read in the past,  when she was under the influence  of a sophisticated 
scam does not, in my view, mean that Mrs M was grossly negligent. 
other considerations 
Mrs M has explained the impact this event has had on her and the distress and inconvenience it has 
caused. This can largely be attributed  to the actions of the fraudsters, but I also have  to consider 
Metro Banks handling of the matter.
I can see that Metro  Bank failed to respond to Mrs M and contact  her when they said they would, 
despite giving her these reassurances.  I can also see that she had to chase Metro  Bank on a number 
of occasions, and was given contradictory information about  the fraud invesitgation process  and how 
long this would take, which wouldve only added to the stress  she was under having been a victim of 
fraud. Mrs M was also given false hope by one of Metro  Banks branches,  where she was told that 
she would get her money back on the same day, despite being later told by another  agent that it could 
take up to 40 days, and then eventually  being told that shed be getting nothing back at all. 
Metro Bank acknowledged that their service had fallen below an acceptable standard at times, and 
offered £50 compensation. But considering  the circumstances and the impact Metro Banks  handling  
Ref: DRN568894910of the matter had at a time of extreme stress  and worry, I do consider that further compensation ought  
to be paid.
In addition to Metro  Banks handling of the matter, I also have to take into account the impact of their 
decision not to refund Mrs M her money in the first place, which wouldve only added to the distress 
she experienced  as a result  of worrying about losing such a large  amount of money. And having  
considered all the circumstances,  I think a further £250  in recognition of the distress and 
inconvenience caused  would be fair compensation.
Finally, I havent been made aware of any particular  plans Mrs M had with the money that was stolen 
from her account, so I only intend asking Metro Bank to pay interest on this amount at the account 
rate. However, if Mrs M did have any particular plans with the money, then she should let me know 
before the date specified  at the end of this decision.  
putting things  right
For the reasons  given  above, I intend to uphold  Mrs Ms complaint as I do not think it was fair and 
reasonable for Metro  Bank  not to refund the amount  taken from her account.
I intend  to direct Metro Bank to:
-Refund Mrs Ms current account with £5,500;
-Refund any fees or charges Mrs M may have  incurred on her current account that directly 
resulted from the withdrawal of the disputed payments;
-Pay interest on that amount at the account interest rate, from the date of the withdrawals  to 
the date of settlement.  If Metro Bank  deducts  tax from the interest element  of this award, it 
should provide Mrs M with the appropriate tax deduction certificate; and
-Pay Mrs M a total of £300 compensation (including  the £50 already offered) in recognition  of 
the distress and inconvenience caused  by Metro Banks handling of the matter
Ive noted that regulation  62 of the PSRs  2009  suggests that Mrs M could have been liable  up to a 
maximum of £50 for losses incurred as a result of unauthorised payment transactions. But the terms 
and conditions that applied to Mrs Ms account dont make any provision for Metro  Bank to withhold 
up to £50. As Metro  Bank  hasnt reserved this right and its terms indicate  that it will pay the amount of 
an unauthorised transaction if it does decide to refund a transaction,  Im currently of the opinion that it 
would be fair and reasonable for it to refund  the full amount of these unauthorised transfers.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  given  above, I intend to uphold  Mrs Ms complaint and direct Metro Bank to calculate  
and pay compensation as set out above.
Ref: DRN5688949