K821x#15complaint
Mr N complains that Bank of Scotland  plc wrongly advised him to invest too much money in 
an unsuitably risky stocks and shares  ISA in 2005,  and failed  to make him aware of these 
risks.
background
Mr N complained that BoS had not made him aware of the risks posed by the investment. He 
said the advisor pressured him to increase his proposed monthly sum from £25 to £50 and 
offered to increase his student overdraft to make  this possible.
BoS upheld his complaint, accepting he should not have taken any risk with his money but 
said its calculations  based on how much he would have earned via a risk-free savings 
account  showed he had not suffered a loss.
Mr N did not accept this and said he had various  debts  due to taking out this unsuitable 
investment and incurred  unnecessary interest payments on credit cards and his student 
loan.
An adjudicator at this service  felt BoS had not used a fair comparator when assessing  Mr Ns 
potential losses. For reasons he outlined, he felt Mr N was able to take some risk with some  
of his money and so compensation  should be based  on a low risk formula.
BoS did not agree, saying that Mr N himself  had strongly implied he had not wanted to take 
a risk with his money. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The advisor initially recorded that Mr N was happy with an adventurous investment risk with 
these sums,  eventually recommending a slightly lower risk investment based on a three-out-
of-five classification. There  is no dispute that BoS advice posed  too much  risk to Mr Ns 
money given Mr N was a 19 year old student  and had just £30 a week net disposable 
income after essential expenditure.
I have therefore  had to consider whether Mr N wanted, and shouldve  been advised, to take 
a small risk with this money  (as the adjudicator said) or no risk at all as BoS now believes.
I can understand why BoS came to the conclusion that Mr N should not have taken any risk 
with this money given  he was a student with apparently modest levels  of income. But, in fact, 
it has presented considerable evidence to demonstrate that Mr N had a range of sizeable 
deposit accounts and that he began making other regular savings commitments  on top of 
this one, in 2007 and again in 2008  (one of which was for £250 a month).
All this strongly suggests he had far more assets and income generation than the vast 
majority of students. It also suggests  he had a commitment to making money,  if possible,  
from investments.
Ref: DRN59443852Given this I suspect Mr N was looking  to invest this money in some sort of risk-based 
product (even if this may not have been wise) and therefore if the advisor had recommended  
a more low/cautious  risk product Mr N would have agreed to this.
I therefore dont  believe it is fair to compare the returns he got via this unsuitably risky 
investment with the Bank of Englands  bond rates i.e. a standard  deposit account. I feel, on 
balance, that the adjudicators proposed redress formula is more  suitable.
I therefore instruct BoS to compare the return Mr N received when he encashed this 
investment with what he would have got if he had put the money in a suitably low risk 
investment. To do this it should  use the low risk formula recommended  by this service.  That 
is, an equal combination of the returns as shown by the Bank of Englands bonds of 12 to 17 
months maturity and those recorded by the FTSE UK Private  Investors Income  Total Return 
Index. 
If this shows a loss, it should pay this and add 8% simple interest per annum to this figure 
from the date of encashment to the date of settlement of this complaint.
I have considered Mr Ns argument  that this unsuitable investment  which  he said he 
couldnt surrender  when  he would  have wanted to in 2008  resulted in him incurring 
unnecessary interest charges. But from what Ive read about  his other assets and savings 
plans, I am not persuaded that this investment prevented him from paying off debts if he had 
wanted to do so. 
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and instruct  Bank of Scotland plc to pay compensation as outlined  
above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 May 2019.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5944385