K820x#14complaint
Miss P complains  that Barclays Bank  UK PLC closed her bank  accounts  without notice  and 
unfairly placed a Credit  Industry Fraud Avoidance System (CIFAS) marker against her 
name. Miss P wants Barclays  to remove the marker  and pay compensation for the trouble 
and upset she was caused by Barclays closing  her accounts.
background
Miss P had a current and savings account with Barclays. 
On 18 July, a total of 17 payments amounting to nearly £1,700.00 were paid into Miss Ps 
current account. 
Within an hour of the payments coming  into the account, £1,700 was withdrawn using an 
ASD cash machine. A further £30.00 was withdrawn from the account  about an hour later at 
an ATM. Both withdrawals  were  made  using Miss Ps bank card and PIN.
Soon after the withdrawals had been  made from Miss Ps account, Barclays  was contacted 
by another bank, which I will refer to as bank B, who said their customers  hadnt authorised 
the 17 payments  into Miss Ps account. And that they had been the victim of a scam. 
Following this notification  Barclays blocked  Miss Ps accounts. 
On 19 July 2018 Barclays spoke to Miss P about  the fraudulent credits. Miss P said she 
didnt know anything about the money  that was paid into her account  on 18 July 2018. She 
said shed lost her bank card and that someone must be using her account for fraudulent  
purposes. And said shed reported what had happened  to the Police.  Following this Barclays  
allowed Miss P to withdraw some cash from her account and make  a bill payment.
On 26 July 2018, Miss P opened  another  bank account so that she could continue  to pay her 
bills and receive her wages into an account  which wasnt blocked.  
On 3 August  2018 Barclays wrote to Miss P to let her know it had decided to close her 
accounts immediately.  And it told her she needed to make alternative banking 
arrangements. Barclays also recorded a CIFAS marker against Miss Ps name. In response 
to the closure  letter Miss P visited a Barclays  branch and transferred her account balance  to 
her newly opened  bank account. And she complained to Barclays  about  the CIFAS  marker.
On 31 August 2018, Barclays  spoke to Miss P about the circumstances of the activity on her 
account and reviewed what had happened. Miss P told Barclays that she had health 
problems and suspected her card had been taken by two women whod  recently befriended 
her and visited her home. Miss P explained  that the individuals would have known enough 
personal details,  such  as her date of birth, which was needed to make  the ASD withdrawal.  
As a result of what Miss P told Barclays  it decided  to remove the CIFAS marker. But it said it 
wasnt prepared to reopen Miss Ps accounts.
Unhappy with this response Miss P brought her complaint to this service. She says the 
immediate closure of her accounts caused her financial problems. She says several direct 
debits werent paid. And she wants Barclays to pay her compensation for the trouble this 
caused her. 
Ref: DRN57487262An investigator looked into Miss Ps complaint. She thought Barclays  was unfair when  it 
applied the CIFAS marker. She said Barclays  hadnt  carried out an adequate investigation 
into what had happened and didnt have enough  information to record  the marker against 
Miss P. So, she said Barclays should  pay Miss P £25 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by the maker being  present for about a month. 
Miss P disagreed. She says because Barclays closed her accounts without notice she 
struggled financially  and was left in quite  a bit of debt. She wants more  compensation. 
Barclays didnt accept  it had done  anything wrong  when it applied  the CIFAS marker. And 
said it had only removed  it as a gesture of goodwill once it had a better understanding of 
Miss Ps circumstances and what had happened.
As no agreement could be reached  the matter has come to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusions as the investigator. 
CIFAS marker
Barclays says it applied  the CIFAS marker  because bank B said its customers didnt 
authorise the payments into Miss Ps accounts  in other words  she received fraudulent 
funds. So, Ive looked at whether Barclays was fair to apply the marker, based on the 
evidence it had, the investigation it carried out. And what  the rules say about applying such  
markers.
CIFAS guidance says the business  must have carried out checks  of enough  depth  to meet  
the burden of proof set by CIFAS,  which at that time was that Barclays needed to have 
enough information to make a formal complaint to the police or other  relevant  law 
enforcement agencies. And that any filing should be for confirmed cases  of fraud, rather  than 
mere suspicion.  
Having looked  at whats happened  here, I havent  seen any evidence that Barclays  
contacted Miss P at the time and asked  her for information about  the 17 payments made to 
her account.  I think Barclays shouldve contacted Miss P at the time as this wouldve given 
her the opportunity to explain the circumstances  surrounding  the payments into her account. 
And allow her to provide information  about  who she suspected had taken and used her card. 
Ive looked at Barclays contact notes and I can see that Miss P was calling and emailing the 
bank to try and provide an explanation. But I havent  seen any evidence that Barclays  did 
anything in response to the information  Miss P provided until 31 August 2017, when it 
decided to remove the CIFAS marker.  I think if Barclays had contacted Miss P at the time, 
she wouldve been able to explain more about the activity on her account. And what she 
knew about the payments. Barclays wouldve also had the opportunity to make  enquiries 
with other  banks, if necessary, regarding the payments into Miss Ps account. And explore 
the possibility  that someone  else had taken Miss Ps card and made the withdrawals  as 
Miss P has suggested.
So, in this case, when I weigh everything up, I dont  think Barclays carried out sufficient 
checks to satisfy the burden of proof  required  to apply  the marker. And I agree with the 
Ref: DRN57487263investigator that it was unfair for Barclays to apply to place a marker against Miss Ps name 
in these circumstances. 
Miss P has told the investigator that as a result of the CIFAS marker being  applied  she 
wasnt able to get another bank account easily. But Miss P hasnt provided any evidence to 
show that this was the case. On the contrary,  I can see she was able to open  an account 
with another bank on 26 July 2018.  So, Im satisfied that Miss P was unable to make  
alternative banking  arrangements due to the CIFAS  marker.
Miss P says shes suffered a great deal of distress  and upset because  of the marker being 
applied. And that she had to continually call Barclays  to explain things. I can see that 
Miss P spent time making several  phone calls and sending emails  to Barclays  to try and 
have the marker  removed. And explain what had happened. So, I can see that this issue has 
caused her some trouble and upset. And I consider that the circumstances here are such  
that Miss P is entitled to some compensation for what  took place. I agree with the 
investigator that Barclays should pay Miss P £25 compensation for the trouble and upset 
caused to her. In making this award  Ive kept in mind that Barclays has removed the marker 
and it was only present  for about  a month.  And Ive not seen any evidence that this caused 
Miss P any financial loss. 
account closure
Miss P says because Barclays  closed  her accounts immediately, she is now behind in bill 
payments and is struggling financially. She says this has caused her a great deal of stress 
and anxiety. And she wants Barclays to pay her £1,000 compensation.
The terms and conditions  of Miss Ps account,  which both Miss P and Barclays had to 
comply with, say that Barclays  could  close the account immediately under certain  
circumstances. So, Barclays is entitled to close the account as it seems  its already done on 
3 August 2018.
I know Miss P has said the closure of her accounts led to her going into debt and that direct  
debits werent paid. But from looking at her account statements, it seems she received her 
wages around  the 26th of each month.  And I can see that her regular direct  debits and bill 
payments had already been  paid from her current account before her accounts were closed. 
on 3 August 2018. Ive also kept in mind that Miss P transferred  the entire balance of her 
Barclays accounts to her new bank account, which shed  opened  in July.
So, Im satisfied that by 3 August 2018, Miss P had set up a new account (in addition  to 
other accounts she held) and from looking at her account activity, I cant  see that there were 
any regular payments due in and out of the account  until after the new  account had been 
set up. So, Im not satisfied that the account closure  caused Miss P financial difficulties and 
led to her falling  behind in bill payments. 
In summary,  whilst I acknowledge  Miss Ps frustrations  with the situation relating to the 
closure of her accounts. And that the accounts being closed impacted on her. I dont think  
Barclays failed to properly  follow its own procedures. So, I cant say Barclays has done 
anything wrong  when it closed Miss Ps accounts and Im not going to ask Barclays  to do 
anything more.
Ref: DRN57487264my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained I uphold Miss Ps complaint  in part, and direct  Barclays Bank 
UK PLC to pay Miss P £25.00 for the trouble and upset caused by applying  a CIFAS marker.
I do not uphold  Miss Ps complaint  about the closure  of her accounts. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 February  2020.
Sharon Kerrison
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5748726