K820x#14complaint
Miss M has complained about the market value settlement U K Insurance  Limited  (UKI) paid
for her car when she made  a claim under her car insurance policy.
background
Miss M was unfortunately involved in an incident in March 2019 so she made a claim to her
insurer, UKI.
UKI said it wasnt economical to repair Miss Ms car. So it paid Miss M a market value of
£2,370. UKI took a deduction  of half of the estimated costs to repair damage it said was
already done to Miss Ms car before the incident.
Miss M complained to UKI. She said the market value it paid her was too low. She didnt
believe it had taken  into account the lower  than average mileage her car had for its age. And
she said the recovery agent had caused  further  damage to her car. Miss M wanted UKI to
pay a settlement in the region of between £5,000 and £7,000.
UKI said it took into account the mileage of Miss Ms car and had reached its valuation
correctly.
Miss M asked us to look at her complaint. Our investigator explained that we dont decide a
valuation. But we can look at whether  an insurer reached its valuation reasonably and in line
with the policy.  He looked at the four main motor  trade guides  to see if UKI had reached its
valuation in a reasonable way. He thought UKI should increase the valuation to the average
of the four trade guides  which was £3,528.50. And he recommended  UKI pay Miss M £50
compensation for the distress  and inconvenience  it had caused  her.
Miss M said the investigators recommendation was significantly  below  her expectations.
UKI disagreed. It said we havent been consistent  in our approach. It believes one of the
valuations is out of kilter with the others  and so should be disregarded when deciding an
average. And it said we havent  considered the fact that UKI was entitled  to take a deduction
for pre existing damage.
I issued a provisional decision on 12 June 2019.  I thought the valuation UKI had decided 
was reasonable  as it took into account pre existing damage on Miss Ms car.
UKI accepted my provisional decision. Miss M didnt  agree. In summary she doesnt agree 
that she tried to claim for pre existing damage. She accepts that there was some bodywork  
to be done  but Miss M said her car was serviced regularly and she owned  the car from 
new. Miss M says she based  her claim on buying  a similar  replacement car.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I understand Miss M is unhappy with the 
outcome. But I remain  of the view that UKI acted  reasonably. So my final decision is along 
the same  lines as my provisional decision.  
UKIs policy defines market value as the cost of replacing your car with another  of the
Ref: DRN58275742same make and model and of a similar  age and condition at the time of the accident  or loss.
We have a long standing approach to valuation complaints. We think its generally fair for an
insurer to look at all of the main motor  trade  guides  rather than rely on just one  in order  to
provide a fair average  valuation.  The guides are based on likely selling prices  for the time of
loss and include the make, model,  age, condition and mileage.  So we think  they are
generally more reliable than advertised  prices which can vary widely and tend to be a
starting point to negotiate a price downward.
UKI is correct to say that we usually disregard a valuation if it is out of kilter with the rest. In
this case, the valuations  ranged as follows: £3,225, £3,250, £3,600.00 and £4,039.
UKI believes we should  disregard the valuation of £4,039. But as the gap between the
lowest valuation and the mid range valuation is about  the same  as between the mid range
and the highest valuation,  I think its fair to include all valuations when deciding an average
here.
So, the average of the four guides  comes to £3,528.50.
However, the engineers total loss report and photos - which  Miss M has seen - identified 
several areas of damage to Miss Ms car which it says was old. So this damage wasnt  
caused by the incident.  Miss M said that the damage is unknown  to her. But I think its 
reasonable for UKI to rely on the engineers  professional  opinion  of what he identified  as 
new and old damage. We dont  think its fair for an insurer to deduct the full cost to repair  pre 
existing damage  from a valuation on a second hand  car. This is because its generally 
accepted that an older car will have some signs of wear and tear. 
Im not disputing what Miss M says  that before the incident  she made sure her car was 
regularly serviced. However,  Ive looked at the photos provided  by UKI of the pre existing  
damage and Im satisfied  that the condition  of Miss Ms car wasnt  good   which is the 
condition the trade  guides  are based  on. The engineer described the condition of Miss Ms 
car as between poor and fair.
The engineer estimated  that the costs to repair the pre existing damage came to £2,111.96.
But UKI reduced this by just over half to £1,240.  Our general approach is that its fair for an
insurer to deduct  50% of the estimated costs to repair pre existing  damage  from a valuation.
After all, the condition of Miss Ms car immediately before the loss will have had an effect on
its desirability  to a potential buyer  and therefore its value.
So I think the final valuation UKI paid Miss M of £2,370  is within the range of reasonable 
as its a little more than the average  valuation we came to of £3,582.50 - £1,240 for pre
existing damage.
Miss M is unhappy that UKI hasnt  considered  her concerns that the recovery agent caused
new damage to her car when it was collected after the incident.  She believes this had an
impact on the valuation it gave. But theres nothing in the engineers  report  to show me that
UKI made any deduction for damage  in the area Miss M mentioned and provided photos of.
So I dont  think Miss M has been  prejudiced here.
Miss M was unhappy that she was due to be charged storage charges  for her car a month
after the date of the incident. UKI said it moved Miss Ms car to free storage. So I understand
she hasnt been  charged anything here.
Ref: DRN58275743I know Miss M is disappointed with my decision. And I understand that being  involved in an 
incident is an upsetting experience  particularly when it wasnt  Miss Ms fault. But based on 
what Ive seen, Im not upholding  this complaint because I think UKI has acted reasonably 
and in line with the policy.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 August 2019.  
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5827574