K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that Nationwide  Building Society  wrongly returned  a cheque unpaid,  even 
though he had transferred sufficient funds to cover it.
background
Mr H had two current accounts  with Nationwide. At the relevant time,  one of those accounts 
had a balance  of more than £20,000; the other had a balance of a few hundred pounds.  On 
26 December 2018 Mr H wrote a cheque for £10,000 to assist someone with a property 
purchase. Unfortunately, he used the wrong chequebook  that is, the one for the account 
with the lower balance.  
On 3 January  2019 Nationwide returned the cheque  debiting  and re-crediting  Mr Hs 
account on the same day. Also on 3 January Mr H made a transfer  of £10,000  from his other  
current account, with the intention  of covering the cheque. 
The following  day, 4 January, the beneficiarys bank  wrote to its customer  to say that the 
cheque had been returned by Nationwide. The cheque  was stamped Refer to drawer. 
Mr H says the cheque  should have been  paid, and that Nationwides  decision not to pay it 
has caused him embarrassment and financial loss. He pointed out that he made a transfer to 
cover it on the morning of the same day it was returned; there were sufficient funds in other 
accounts, and Nationwide  could have moved them; Nationwide should have invited the 
beneficiary to re-present  the cheque, not just marked  the cheque  refer to drawer.    
Nationwide didnt agree  with Mr H. It said that the cheque had already been processed by 
the time he transferred money to cover it. Mr H referred the matter to this service, but our 
investigator was broadly  in agreement with Nationwide. Mr H therefore asked that the matter 
be referred to an ombudsman  as the final stage in our process. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I have however reached broadly the same 
conclusions as the investigator did, and for similar  reasons. 
In writing the cheque, Mr H was, in effect, instructing Nationwide  to pay the beneficiarys  
bank so it could  then credit their account and to debit the Nationwide  account  on which the 
cheque was drawn. Nationwide wasnt however obliged to follow those instructions if there  
were insufficient funds in the account to cover it. And, until Mr H made a transfer on 3 
January, there werent sufficient funds.  
Mr H says Nationwide should  have waited until close  of business on 3 January before 
returning the cheque.  I accept that by that time the account  balance was sufficient to cover 
the cheque. But Nationwide says,  and I accept, that the decision to return the cheque would 
have already been taken. Normal  practice would be to process  cheques  overnight. So, by 
the time Mr H had arranged the transfer,  its likely that the decision had already been taken 
not to pay the cheque  and the process to return it put in train. 
Its possible that that process could have been stopped by manual intervention, had Mr H 
contacted Nationwide to explain what had happened. I dont accept though that Nationwide  
was under any obligation to contact Mr H of its own accord. 
Ref: DRN54043292Nor do I accept that Nationwide  should have taken it upon itself to transfer  funds to cover the 
cheque. It says it had no right to do so. I dont entirely agree on that point. It could have  paid 
the cheque, expecting to create an overdraft,  and then moved money  to cover that overdraft. 
But that was a right, not an obligation;  and it was a right Nationwide had only once an 
overdraft had been created, not one it could exercise to avoid that happening.  
Mr H says as well that the cheque should  have been marked  Return  to drawer  please re-
present  so the recipient could simply take it back to their bank. As Ive explained  though, 
the decision to return the cheque had been made before Mr H made the transfer on 3 
January. There was no reason at that point to think the outcome would have been any 
different had it been re-presented, and so I dont think Nationwides handling of the cheque 
was unreasonable. In any event, there  seems  to be no reason why Mr H couldnt have 
explained to the beneficiary what had happened and to arrange either a replacement  cheque 
or payment by some  other means.  
Ultimately, I have to decide what I consider to be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances. This complaint arose  because Mr H made an error and drew  a cheque on an 
account with insufficient funds to cover it. Thats unfortunate and entirely understandable.  
But Im afraid I dont believe it was for Nationwide to step in and protect Mr H from the 
consequences of that error.      
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont require Nationwide Building Society  to do anything  further  to 
resolve Mr Hs complaint. Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required 
to ask Mr H to accept or reject my decision before 20 September 2019.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5404329