K821x#15Complaint
Mr B has complained that The Royal Bank  of Scotland  Plc (RBS) has unfairly  declined  his 
claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA).
Background
Mr B entered into an agreement on 20 August  2007 to purchase  membership  at the 
Club Salina Wharf (SW), a holiday club in Qawra, Malta. The terms of the agreement  
defined Mr B as Purchaser and said:
BISHOPS TRAVEL LIMITEDand  BISHOPS MANAGEMENT 
LIMITED(hereinafter called The Vendors) agree to sell and Purchaser agrees to 
purchase Membership at the SALINA WHARF and the Vendors agree to procure 
membership for the Purchaser to the SALINA  WHARF, all of which  is subject to the 
terms and conditions stated herein  and on the reverse side hereof.
It stated that the purchase price was £16,500 of which £12,600 was provided by Mr B giving 
up an existing membership agreement  and the balance of £3,900  was paid by credit card. 
The agreement states OCCUPANCY COMMENCING 2008 and it was set to expire on 
31 December 2025.
On Mr Bs agreement, it says:
All payments to be made in favour of First National  Trustee  Company  Ltd., and sent 
to [address].
The agreement is signed by Mr B and by a representative of Bishops Travel  Limited  and a 
representative of Bishops  Management Limited.
I have seen a copy of Mr Bs credit  card statement showing  that on 20 August 2007  there  
was a transaction of £3,900 and the description says it was paid to:
FIRST  NATIONAL TRUST (C QAWRA
In 2016 SW was dissolved and Mr B was not able to use the holiday accommodation under 
the agreement  he had, nor was his membership transferred to a different holiday club that 
SW said he could join. So he asked  RBS to refund to him the full purchase price as he felt 
RBS was jointly liable for the breach of contract under s.75 CCA.
But RBS turned down Mr Bs claim as it said the way the agreement  was set up and paid for 
meant s.75 CCA  did not apply. It said that provision only meant RBS was liable if the 
purchase price had been paid to the supplier of the service. But payment was made to 
First National  Trustee Company Ltd. (FNTC)  and not to Bishops Travel  Limited  and 
Bishops Management  Limited, so RBS did not think it needed to pay anything to Mr B. 
Unhappy with its response, he brought his complaint to this service.
At first someone at our service  said they thought s.75 CCA did not apply as there  was not 
the right type of link between SW and FNTC. But then another investigator looked at the 
complaint again  and came to a different conclusion. She thought FNTC was receiving 
payment on behalf  of SW, so there was the right type of link. She also thought there was a 
connection between  FNTC and Bishops  Travel  Limited as a director  of one was also a 
Ref: DRN59491982shareholder of the other.  The investigator  went on to say she thought  there was a breach of 
contract and RBS needed to make a payment to Mr B.
RBS disagreed and asked  for the complaint  to be looked at by an ombudsman.   
Having reviewed the complaint I concluded  that RBS could be held jointly  liable under 
s.75 CCA.  I set out my reasons on that issue only in a first provisional decision, so that both 
Mr B and RBS had the opportunity to respond. I indicated that if, after considering  any 
further arguments, I came to the same  conclusion I would go on to determine  whether RBS 
had fairly  assessed  the claim.
Mr B agreed with the conclusions of my first provisional decision, but RBS disagreed. It set 
out several arguments why it disagreed with my analysis in that decision, so I issued  a 
second provisional decision to address those arguments. I explained that I had come to the 
same conclusion that Mr B was able to make  a claim against RBS for breach of contract 
under s.75 CCA, so I went on to look at that claim. I thought it was not in dispute that there  
had been a breach of contract  and, as RBS were  jointly liable under s.75 CCA, I concluded 
that it needed to pay Mr B compensation. I assessed that as £8,085, plus interest.
RBS said that, although  it did not accept my conclusion that s.75 CCA applied  to Mr Bs 
complaint, it was prepared to settle the complaint.  It offered to pay Mr B the sum that I had 
provisionally directed.  
Mr B said he would like RBS to pay more interest than I had I had thought  it needed to and 
asked me to consider that part again. He agreed  with my calculation that £8,085 was owed 
for the breach of contract.  
As Mr B and RBS have  not reached an agreement, I need to issue  a final decision on this 
complaint. I informed both parties  of this and neither had anything  further  to add.
My Findings
Im required  to determine complaints with regard to what is, in my opinion, fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the case. And when doing so, Im required by 
DISP 3.6.4 R of the FCA Handbook to take into account:
(1) relevant:
(a) law and regulations;
(b) regulators rules,  guidance and standards;
(c) codes of practice; and
(2) (where appropriate)  what  [the ombudsman] considers to have been good  industry  
practice at the relevant time.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments again,  I have  come  to the same 
conclusions as those  I reached in my two provisional decisions. I will set out my reasons 
again in full.
Ref: DRN59491983How Mr B paid for his club membership
Mr B paid for the membership by giving up one club membership  and then paying  a further 
£3,900 using his RBS credit card. But it was not as simple  as RBS paying  Bishops Travel 
Limited and Bishops Management Limited and then Mr B paying back RBS.
There was a network of parties in the background of the agreement  into which Mr B entered. 
Under his agreement to purchase membership at SW from Bishops Travel  Limited  and 
Bishops Management  Limited, he had to make  payment in favour of FNTC. Mr B paid for 
that using a credit card issued to him by RBS. So in the background there were  various other 
arrangements operating:
i. a sum was paid into FNTCs bank account by a merchant acquirer. A merchant 
acquirer is a business that sits between  the business that issues  cards  in Mr Bs 
case, RBS  and the business  that takes payment from the card holder  in Mr Bs 
case FNTC. There  is an agreement between the merchant  acquirer and the business 
that takes payment from the card holder for the merchant acquirer to make the 
payment after a card is presented  and a separate agreement  for the card issuer  to 
pay the merchant  acquirer in turn; 
ii. RBS sent a statement to Mr B asking him to pay back the amount that had been paid 
to FNTC under the rules of his credit  card agreement;
iii. there is also likely to have  been an agreement or some other course of dealing  
between FNTC and Bishops Travel Limited and Bishops Management Limited about 
what happened to the money  that was paid to FNTC;
iv. and Bishops Travel  Limited and Bishops Management Limited provided club 
membership to Mr B.
I have not seen the agreement between FNTC and Bishops Travel Limited and 
Bishops Management  Limited. But it is clear that there is a network of arrangements 
between a number  of parties  (Mr B, RBS,  FNTC,  Bishops  Travel  Limited  and Bishops 
Management Limited, and a merchant acquirer),  so I need to consider how those 
arrangements worked and whether  it means RBS have any liability  under s.75 CCA. 
From the arrangements  set out above,  I do not think it would have been clear  to RBS what 
Mr B was purchasing when he made  the transaction. But I do not think that necessarily 
makes a difference  most credit providers do not know much about the identity of the party 
who receives a payment,  rather they just pay money  into an account under an arrangement 
of the sort detailed  above. So I need to look at how the courts have considered  these types 
of arrangements.
Ref: DRN59491984What the law says
s.75(1) CCA states:
If the debtor  under  a debtor-creditor-supplier  agreement falling within  section 12(b)  
or (c) has, in relation to a transaction financed by the agreement,  any claim against 
the supplier in respect of a misrepresentation or breach of contract, he shall have a 
like claim against the creditor, who, with the supplier,  shall accordingly be jointly  and 
severally liable to the debtor.
s.12(b) CCA states that a debtor-creditor-supplier (D-C-S) agreement is a regulated  
consumer credit agreement being:
a restricted-use credit agreement which falls within section 11(1)(b) and is made  by 
the creditor under pre-existing  arrangements, or in contemplation of future 
arrangements, between himself and the supplier.
An agreement is a s.11(1)(b) restricted-use credit agreement if it is a regulated CCA 
agreement used to finance  a transaction between the debtor and a person (the supplier) 
other than the creditor . 
Finally, under s.187(1)  CCA: 
A consumer credit agreement shall be treated as entered into under pre-existing 
arrangements between a creditor and a supplier if it is entered  into in accordance 
with, or in furtherance of, arrangements previously made between [the creditor and 
the supplier, one of them  and an associate  of the others or an associate of one and 
an associate of the others].
There are two cases that set out the courts  approach that are of assistance. 
In The Office of Fair Trading v. Lloyds TSB Bank  Plc [2006]  EWCA Civ 268 (the OFT case) 
the Court  of Appeal  decided that s.75 CCA liability  could arise  in a four party  agreement  
where a merchant acquirer was involved  as well as a creditor  and supplier. Secondly,  it was 
decided that s.75 CCA  liability applied to transactions entered into abroad.
By way of background, the Court noted that the use of merchant  acquirers and credit  card 
operating networks  meant often suppliers  and credit card providers did not know the identity 
of each other to any meaningful degree. From  the consumers point of view, they were 
unlikely to know whether or not a merchant acquirer was involved.  And, whether or not a 
merchant acquirer was involved, the relationship  between the creditor and supplier was 
essentially the same;  each benefits  from the involvement of the other in a way that makes it 
possible to regard them as involved  in something akin to a joint venture (Lord  Justice 
Waller, at paragraph 55)
Lord Justice Waller, at paragraph 64, held:
The word arrangements is capable  of carrying a broad meaning and in a statute 
which elsewhere displays  a high degree of precision in its choice of language must 
have been deliberately chosen by Parliament with a view to embracing a wide range 
of different  commercial structures having substantially the same effect. The judge 
relied on Re British Slag Ltds Application  [1963] 1 WLR 727 , particularly the 
Ref: DRN59491985comment of Wilmer L.J. at 739 that, Everybody knows  what is meant by an 
arrangement. As she recognised, that case was concerned with very different  
circumstances under different legislation, so one must be careful not to place too 
much reliance on it. Nonetheless, as we said earlier,  [Counsel  for Lloyds] had 
difficulty in resisting the conclusion  that even where merchant acquirers are involved 
there are arrangements  in existence  between  the credit card issuer and suppliers 
who have agreed  to accept its card. Moreover, we find it difficult to accept that 
Parliament would have been willing to allow some consumers to be disadvantaged  
by the existence of indirect arrangements when other consumers were protected  
because the relevant arrangements were  direct.
Bank of Scotland v. Alfred Truman (A Firm)  [2005] EWHC 583 (QB)  (the Truman case) 
also considered  liability under the CCA. Here the bank  had a merchant services agreement  
with the firm, Alfred Truman  the bank operated as a merchant acquirer as discussed 
above. The firm acted  for a business, Topkarz, which  sold cars but could not accept credit  
card payments. The firm took the payments on its behalf. When  Topkarz became insolvent, 
its customers made s.75 CCA claims and their card issuers repaid them, the bank repaid the 
card issuers  and, finally, the bank  claimed  against  the firm.
The Court held that there was a direct contractual  relationship between  the purchasers  and 
Topkarz for the purchase of a car and there was a contractual  relationship between Topkarz  
and the firm. But the Court held there  was no direct  contractual relationship between the 
purchaser and the firm. The Court held the firm did not act as a stakeholder, rather it acted 
as Topkarz agent  for processing payments.
The key parts of the judgement that dealt with the relationship between Topkarz  and the 
card issuer  are at paragraphs 95 to 98 of the judgement of HHJ Iain Hughes QC, where it 
was held:
95. Apart from the decision of Gloster J. neither counsel nor I were able to discover 
another case directly  on the point.1 In my view it does not matter that the card issuers 
had no direct contractual or other relationship with Topkarz or that the card issuers 
had no idea of the existence  of Topkarz. The firm as merchant was plainly  within the 
scheme and the contractual arrangements between Topkarz and the firm were 
adequate, in my judgment, to link Topkarz by a spur to the same scheme. As 
Gloster J. commented (at para 23) the word arrangements should  be understood 
and construed  in its ordinary and popular  sense and there  is evidence  of a deliberate 
intention on the part of the draftsman  to use broad loose language. It follows  that a 
restricted construction would be contrary to the scheme of this part of the 1974 Act.
96. I am conscious  that it ought not to be too easy for a merchant  to avoid the 
chargeback system. If a scheme with a third party supplier allows a merchant to 
argue that there are no arrangements between the card issuer and the supplier, 
then the card holder has no rights under [s.75 CCA]  because there  would be no [D-
C-S] agreement.  An important element of consumer protection would be at risk.
1 The judge  here was referring to the judgement  of Gloster J when the OFT case  was considered in 
the High Court, see [2004] EWHC 2600 (Comm)
Ref: DRN5949198697. However, I recognise that there are a number  of problems with my conclusion.  
Where is the line to be drawn? At what point does the nexus evaporate  and a 
relationship become too tenuous even for the broad, loose  language  of this part of 
the 1974 Act?
98. In my view this is a problem that will have to be resolved on a case by case  basis  
and is not really susceptible to solution by the application of a statement of general 
principle. This is how related problems associated with travel  agents and the like
are resolved.  The provider of the services (for example  a tour operator) may become 
insolvent. Whether or not the card issuer (creditor) is liable will depend upon the 
precise contractual arrangements between  the card holder (debtor), the travel agent 
(merchant) and the provider of services.
Having considered the law as set out above, I think the questions  I have to consider are:
what is the nature of the relationship between Bishops Travel Limited and Bishops  
Management Limited and FNTC?
what is the transaction that Mr Bs credit card was used to finance?
who was the supplier under s.11(1)(b) CCA?
is the agreement  a restricted use credit agreement under s.11(1)(b)  CCA?
are there pre-existing arrangements between the supplier (or an associate of it) and 
RBS such that there is a D-C-S  link under s.12(b) CCA?
The parties and the agreements between  them
Following the terminology  set out above, RBS is the creditor   it is the business that issued 
the credit  card used  and provided the credit for Mr B to use.
Mr B is the debtor, the person who borrowed the money using the credit card.
Some of the terms of the agreement Mr B entered into are set out in the above  background. 
He entered into an agreement  with The Vendors  Bishops Travel Limited and Bishops 
Management Limited (I will refer to them both as the Vendors for the rest of this decision, 
although in some documents they are also referred to as the Founder  Members). And in the 
PURCHASE AGREEMENT CONDITIONS (the Conditions)  it makes  plain that the 
Vendors are the Sellers,  so they are the parties  that supplied  club membership to Mr B.
The Conditions go on to say the Vendors  will cause to be issued to Mr B a Holiday  
Certificate 21 days after payment is received in full. And that if Mr B wanted  to cancel he 
could do so within ten days of entering the agreement by writing to FNTC and SW.
Under the Conditions,  Mr B agreed to be bound  by the Club Constitution and the Deed of 
Trust. 
There is a document  called the Salina  Wharf constitution (the Constitution). It defines a 
number of parties to the various agreements. It defines the Club as SALINA WHARF,  the 
Company as Bishop  Travel Limited,  the Management Company as Bishop Management 
Ltd, the Founder Members as the Company and the Management  Company  and the 
Owning Company as Bishop  Title Ltd. It also defines the Ordinary Members as members of 
the Club other than the Founder Members.  The Constitution refers  to Bishop Travel Ltd and 
Bishop Management  Ltd rather than Bishops Travel Ltd and Bishops Management Ltd. 
Ref: DRN59491987Having looked  at all of the documents  available, I am satisfied this is an error, rather  than 
referring to different, similarly named entities.
Under the constitution it says the duties of the Vendors are to procure and grant to the 
Owning Company rights of occupation  at Salina Wharf and to transfer the shares in the 
Owning Company to the Trustee, who would hold the shares  for the benefit  of the club 
members. And the Trustee was to realise the assets  of the Club when it was wound  up after 
31 December 2025 and distribute the proceeds  in the way set out in the Constitution.
The Constitution also says that the Company (Bishops Travel  Limited) declares that where it 
has entered into a contract for the sale of a Membership  Certificate  and has received the full 
price for such contract, it will be deemed  to be holding such membership Certificate in trust 
for the purchaser  thereof.  It also makes clear that the Company (Bishops Travel Limited)  as 
initial holder  of all membership Certificates  shall issue to members Membership Certificates.
I have seen a copy of Mr Bs Membership  Certificate  and it makes  clear that the Vendors  
grant membership to the Club to the person named on the certificate  and grant the right to 
occupy an apartment  to the person who has paid to BISHOPS TRAVEL LIMITED the 
appropriate purchase price (receipt whereof is hereby acknowledged). I think  this wording is 
important and I will explain why below.
There a document  called SALINA WHARF DEED OF TRUST (the Deed of Trust) and is 
between the Vendors and FNTC. This sets out how FNTC holds the share capital of the 
Owning Company for the benefit of SW members.  But it does make clear  that even though 
trust property may have  been passed  to FNTC under the Deed of Trust, it was still for the 
Vendors to grant rights  of occupancy.
The questions identified earlier
what is the nature of the relationship between Bishops Travel Limited and Bishops  
Management Limited and FNTC?
In my first provisional decision, I concluded  that FNTC acted as a payment processing  agent 
for the Vendors  for this transaction.
In response RBS said but there was no evidence  of a common law agency agreement 
between the Vendors and FNTC. The Deed of Trust showed that FNTC  owed fiduciary 
obligations to Mr B and therefore could not legally act as agent  for the suppliers  who were 
the counterparty to the timeshare purchase. 
In my second provisional decision  I came to the same conclusion,  but I will set out my 
reasoning from both decisions in full.
The relationships between Bishops Travel Limited and Bishops Management Limited and 
FNTC (and the various other parties) are not clear from the actual purchase agreement  Mr B 
signed  the relationships and arrangements between them  are set out over a number  of 
documents and in quite technical language. It is not clear whether Mr B would have had 
sight of these documents before he entered  into the agreement or, if they were available,  
whether he read them. I think  the relationships are somewhat opaque and I would not expect 
any ordinary consumer to understand  them before  they agreed to become members of SW  
in any event, I am not sure these documents explain why payment was made to FNTC. 
Ref: DRN59491988But I actually think the nature of the relationships at the time Mr B signed the membership  
purchase agreement  and used his credit  card are straightforward.
Mr B entered into an agreement to purchase  membership at SW. SW was not a separate 
company or legal entity in its own right. Mr B acquired membership of SW and right of 
occupation from the Vendors. This is shown in the conditions, which say the Vendors will 
within 21 days after payment in full is received from the Purchaser, cause to be issued  to 
the Purchaser  a Holiday Certificate. And Mr Bs membership certificate effectively works as 
a receipt as it acknowledges that he has paid the appropriate purchase price to Bishops  
Travel Limited, one of the Vendors   it does not refer to FNTC. This was an agreement 
between Mr B and the Vendors. 
I cannot see that Mr B entered  into any contractual  relationship with FNTC. At the point of 
sale he did not receive a service or anything else from FNTC   it was the Vendors who 
provided Mr B with the membership certificate  and rights to occupy an apartment. I am not 
convinced that Mr B ever entered  into a contractual relationship with FNTC, even if FNTC  
was holding share capital on behalf of SW members  under the Deed of Trust.
Mr B entered into a contract with the Vendors. FNTC took payment and passed it on without 
offering any service to Mr B. So for these  reasons,  I think that FNTC acted  as a payment 
processing agent for the Vendors  for this transaction.
I have also considered whether FNTC owed Mr B any fiduciary duties and, if it did, whether 
that meant  it was not able to act as a payment processing agent for the Vendors.
As set out above, the Vendors had to issue a Holiday Certificate to Mr B within 21 days  of 
receipt of payment. So, at the time of payment, Mr B did not have a certificate  and it was 
only once the payment  was received by the Vendors that a certificate confirming his 
membership was issued.  
FNTC held the share capital of the Owning Company for the benefit of the club members. 
But it was the Vendors who granted Mr B membership  of the Club and a right to occupy an 
apartment when  the appropriate  purchase price was paid to BISHOPS TRAVEL  LIMITED  
(one of the Vendors).
At the time Mr B made  his credit card payment, he was a potential beneficiary  under any 
trust, but he did not become a beneficiary  until the payment was made to the Vendors and 
the holiday certificate issued. So I think,  at the time payment was made, FNTC were acting 
in the capacity of a payment processing agent  and not as a trustee.
Even if FNTC  owed  any fiduciary duties to Mr B at the point  that it took payment, I do not 
think that precluded  it from acting  as an agent to take payment for the Vendors. I accept that 
normally FNTC  cannot place itself in a position  such that its duty to any beneficiaries  of the 
trust conflicts with its own interests.  But under Clause 17 of the Deed of Trust, FNTC  was 
expressly allowed  to act as banker for the Vendors and, under paragraph 4(a) of Schedule  1 
to the Deed of Trust, FNTC did not have to account  for any profits made when doing so. So 
even if there  was a conflict between  any fiduciary  duties FNTC owed Mr B at the time he 
made payment and it acting as a payment agent,  I think the clauses referred  to expressly 
allow FNTC  to process the payment in the way it did. 
Ref: DRN59491989In conclusion, I cannot see that FNTC did anything other than process the payment on 
behalf of the Vendors   for example,  FNTC  did not advertise, market  or have any dealing  
with Mr B before he bought the timeshare or offer any service  of any kind to Mr B at the time 
of the transaction. And, importantly, if FNTC did provide anything  to Mr B as a trustee, this 
happened after the sale took place.  
So for those reasons I think FNTC  did act as a payment processing  agent for the Vendors at 
the time Mr B used his credit card.
what is the transaction that Mr Bs credit card was used to finance?
Above I have set out why I think at the time payment  was made  by Mr B, FNTC  were acting 
as a payment  processing agent  for the Vendors.
Mr B entered into an agreement with the Vendors to buy membership of SW and rights of 
occupation. That was the transaction for the purposes of s.11(1)(b) CCA.
who was the supplier under s.11(1)(b) CCA?
I cannot see that Mr B was buying anything from FNTC or that there was any contractual 
relationship between him and FNTC. And the right to occupy an apartment  was only granted  
to Mr B after he paid Bishops Travel Limited,  not FNTC. 
So it follows  I think the supplier for the purposes  of s.11(1)(b) CCA must  have  been  the 
Vendors, Bishops  Travel  Limited and Bishops Management Limited, as they were the only 
parties that could grant rights of occupancy.
is the agreement  a restricted use credit agreement under s.11(1)(b)  CCA?
I do not think it is in dispute  that the agreement was a restricted  use credit agreement  as 
Mr B could only use his card with card-approved merchants. But for the avoidance of doubt,  I 
think this is a restricted use credit  agreement. 
are there pre-existing arrangements between the supplier (or an associate of it) and 
RBS such that there is a D-C-S  link under s.12(b) CCA?
In my first provisional decision, I concluded  that there were the arrangements in place that 
meant RBS could be held jointly liable as set out in s.75 CCA.  
RBS responded  to say it disagreed with the conclusions I reached in my first provisional  
decision. In summary,  it said the required arrangements  for there to be a D-C-S relationship  
under section 12(b) CCA did not exist and it disagreed with my analysis of the relevant case  
law in my first provisional decision.
RBS thought that I placed too much weight on the Truman  case and said it is a questionable 
authority that may not be decided in the same  way if argued  again today. RBS said this as it 
was decided before the judgment in the OFT case and thought it was difficult to reconcile 
with the later Court of Appeal authority. 
Ref: DRN594919810RBS said there is nothing in the Court of Appeals reasoning that supports the position that 
the necessary  arrangements  existed in the Truman case, noting  there  is a difference  
between inserting a merchant  acquirer  into a three party D-C-S relationship  and there still 
being the necessary arrangements and finding that a fifth party who is not part of the credit 
card schemes, who does not accept credit cards  and who is unknown  to the creditor, is also 
part of the same arrangements.
RBS advanced  three  arguments why it felt the decision in the Truman case was wrong. It 
said:
1.it goes against  the sensible, ordinary meaning  of the word  arrangements;
2.from the customers view there is a clear distinction between a four-party and five-
party structure as a party other  than the supplier takes  the payment and appears on 
the credit  card statement; and
3.there is a clear difference in the commercial nature  of the relationship as the creditor 
cannot be seen  as involved in something  akin to a joint venture  with a party it does 
not know exists.
Further, RBS said it had no arrangements with the Vendors in Mr Bs complaint  the 
arrangements were between it and FNTC  through the merchant acquirer and card schemes. 
It said its awareness of the Vendors and its relationship with them is important  to the 
outcome of this complaint. It pointed out that under  the OFT case  it does not matter that a 
creditor is not aware of the existence  of a supplier as there is an agreement  to reimburse the 
supplier for payments taken through the card schemes and arrangements  in place.
RBS argued that this is a different situation  to that in place in Mr Bs complaint. In a four-
party structure the creditors are aware  that they will have arrangements with many suppliers 
who sign up to the credit card schemes through merchant acquirers, even if the creditors are 
not aware of the identity of the suppliers at the time the agreement  is entered into.2 But here,  
RBS had no arrangements  with the Vendors,  only with FNTC.  It accepted there was likely to 
be some  agreement between the Vendors  and FNTC that benefitted the Vendors,  enabling  
them to take card payments. But RBS was not a party to those agreements.
RBS was concerned  that if I found  there were sufficient arrangements between it and the 
supplier it could lead to the removal  of s.75 CCA protection for credit  card payments. It said 
this as s.187(3)  CCA provides that arrangements  shall be disregarded as pre-existing  
arrangements if they are arrangements  for the making, in specified  circumstances,  of 
payments to the supplier by the creditor, and the creditor holds himself out as willing to 
make, in such circumstances, payments of the kind to suppliers generally. RBS accepted  
that suppliers who accept credit cards  are a limited  class, so it was not holding itself out as 
willing to make payments  to suppliers generally. But this would no longer be the case if all 
suppliers were brought into the scheme  by a side agreement,  as it would mean  virtually  
anybody could accept  credit cards.
In my second provisional decision  I came to the same conclusion,  but again, I will set out my 
reasoning from both decisions in full.
2 see s.11(4) CCA
Ref: DRN594919811I have identified above the two leading judgments  on the issue of the meaning of 
arrangements in s.12(b) CCA. The second  of those, the Truman  case, was decided before 
the Court  of Appeal  issued its judgment in the OFT case, but it was not referenced  or 
overruled by the Court of Appeals judgment.
In the OFT case, it was held that the word arrangements was capable  of carrying  a broad 
meaning. And in the Truman case it was held that it does not necessarily matter  if the card 
issuer did not have a direct contractual or other relationship with the supplier. If the party  
that took the payment  was within the card payment  scheme, the arrangements between  the 
supplier and the party that took the payment could  be adequate to link the supplier by a 
spur to that scheme.
The judge  in the Truman  case commented that it would have to be decided  on a case by 
case basis whether the relationship between the supplier and the party that took the 
payment was too tenuous  to be an arrangement  under the act. I think  the relationship 
between the Vendors and FNTC in Mr Bs complaint was very similar to that of Topkarz  and 
Alfred Truman   both FNTC and Alfred Truman were processing payments for the suppliers 
without offering any other services in the transaction.
For the reasons  set out above, I think FNTC  and the Vendors were  closely  connected as 
FNTC acted as the Vendors agent for processing  payments in the transaction  in issue.  
Although I have not seen a copy of any contract  between FNTC and the Vendors, I think  it 
highly likely  there was a contractual relationship between them. I say that as FNTC was 
receiving payments on the Vendors  behalf  and this was expressly mentioned in the contract  
between Mr B and the Vendors. So I do not think the relationship between the Vendors and 
FNTC was too tenuous.
Applying the principles  set out in the judgments  to the relationships between the parties as 
set out above,  I think the connections  between FNTC  and the Vendors meant the Vendors 
were linked, by a spur, to the scheme  such that there was a D-C-S link established. I think  
RBS could be held jointly liable as set out in s.75 CCA.
I have also considered RBS submissions  that I placed excessive weight on the Truman  
decision and the reasons  why it thought  it was a questionable judgment.  
The judgment in the Truman  case was not considered  by the Court of Appeal, nor cited in 
argument, in the OFT case. Nor has it been considered by a higher court in any other  cases 
I am aware  of and there  are no other  conflicting  judgments that I have  been  referred  to. So 
under the rules I must  follow, including DISP  3.6.4 R, I must  take into account the judgment 
in the Truman case. 
RBS pointed to paragraph 64 of the judgment in the OFT case which is set out in full above. 
RBS noted that in the OFT case, the Court  of Appeal had to determine whether the 
arrangements in a four-party structure were  sufficient for s.75 CCA liability,  so it argued this 
dealing with the word arrangements  did not have direct applicability  to Mr Bs complaint.
But the effect of a five-party structure was considered in the Truman case. I have read RBS 
argument and I accept that there  are differences  in reasoning between  the two judgments,  
which is unsurprising as they considered slightly different things. But both judgments 
highlight the importance of s.75 CCA as a measure for consumer  protection  and the broad  
nature of the term arrangements. 
Ref: DRN594919812In the Truman case, at paragraph  95, HHJ Iain Hughes QC said that the word 
arrangements should be understood and construed in its ordinary and popular sense and 
there is evidence of a deliberate intention on the part of the draftsman to use broad loose  
language. It follows  that a restricted  construction  would  be contrary  to the scheme  of this 
part of the 1974 Act. This echoes  paragraph 64 of judgment in the OFT case. I do not agree 
that extending arrangements in the CCA sense to five-party structures, as happened in the 
Truman case, goes against the sensible or ordinary meaning of the word   in Mr Bs case 
there was a set of arrangements as set out above  that links RBS and the Vendors.
RBS also said that for a consumer like Mr B, there was a clear distinction  between a four-
party and five-party structure  as a party other than the supplier takes the payment and 
appears on the credit card statement. It also argued that there  is a clear difference in the 
commercial nature of the relationship as the creditor  cannot be seen  as involved in 
something akin to a joint venture with a party it does  not know exists.  But I think this had 
already been considered at paragraphs of the Truman  case  detailed above.  HHJ Iain 
Hughes QC held that Topkarz was linked  by a spur to the main scheme, but also said that it 
would have to be decided on a case by case basis of when the relationship  [between the 
parties] become  too tenuous even for the broad, loose language of this part of the 1974 
Act:
In other  words, the relationship between creditor and the supplier could be too remote  for 
s.75 CCA  to apply.  I think RBS lack of knowledge  of the Vendors is likely to be a relevant 
consideration when deciding whether the relationship between them is too remote. But I also 
note that the Bank of Scotland was not aware  of the existence of Topkarz  in the Truman 
case, in a similar way to RBS knowledge in Mr Bs complaint.  
Although a consumer  may be aware  of the fifth party  in a five-party  arrangement,  it is 
unlikely the consumer appreciates the effect  of that partys involvement. I think this is 
significant as s.75 CCA  is a consumer protection measure and it was recognised as such  in 
the passage of the judgment in the OFT case set out above. Lord Justice Waller held that in 
his judgement arrangements must  have been  chosen by Parliament to embrace a wide 
range of different commercial structures  having substantially the same effect and that it was 
difficult to accept that Parliament only meant  to extend protection to consumers where the 
arrangements were direct.
HHJ Iain Hughes QC thought about  the effect in a five-party agreement  and held, at 
paragraph 96 of the judgment  in the Truman case, that if arrangements were not found in a 
case such as Truman, an important  element of consumer  protection would be at risk.  In 
conclusion, I think the case law does  show that s.75 CCA protection  should be applied in 
cases such as the Truman case, even though the commercial relationship  between  the 
parties is different  in a three, four or five-party arrangement. I think  the two judgments I have 
referred to are consistent in the approach to what arrangements mean for the purposes  of 
the CCA.  It follows, I dont  agree I have  placed  excessive weight on the Truman judgment.
RBS said that if there was liability under  s.75 CCA in a situation such as Mr Bs, it would lead 
to s.75 CCA protection being lost for all credit card payments  under  s.187(3)  CCA.  This was 
considered by the High Court in the OFT case before it reached the Court of Appeal. In that 
judgment the Court considered that suppliers who accepted credit cards were  a limited 
class, compared  to suppliers that accepted cheque guarantee  cards,  which could be 
accepted by anyone.
Ref: DRN594919813With a cheque guarantee card, a creditor is holding themselves out to make payments 
generally to anyone who accepts cheques, so I can see how that would not be a limited  
class and therefore s.187(3) would apply.  But with a situation such as Mr Bs, a supplier 
would still need  to have an arrangement of some  kind with a business  such  as FNTC.  It is 
plain that this is a larger  class of potential suppliers than the class of suppliers with direct  
agreements with creditors or merchant acquirers, but I think  the suppliers still fall within a 
limited class. 
In conclusion and for the reasons set out above, I think RBS could be held jointly liable 
under s.75 CCA. But I also need  to consider  whether they should be held liable.
What I think is fair and reasonable
In my first provisional decision, I explained  why I thought it was fair and reasonable to 
impose s.75 CCA liability on RBS in Mr Bs complaint.
RBS disagreed and said to hold it jointly liable would not be a proper  exercise of my fair and 
reasonable jurisdiction.  It pointed out that the Vendors were not part of the card scheme  and 
did not have to meet any of the qualification  under that scheme. RBS was not aware of the 
Vendors existence until it received Mr Bs complaint and it said it had no recourse against 
the Vendors through the credit card scheme  rules in place.
Having considered its arguments, in my second provisional decision  I came  to the same 
conclusion that it was fair and reasonable to impose  liability. Again, I will set out my 
reasoning from both decisions in full.
I think it is fair and reasonable for RBS to be held responsible  for any breach of contract  by 
the Vendors as set out in s.75 CCA.  I think  so for broadly the same reasons as set out in the 
judgment in the OFT case. I do not think it mattered that RBS did not know the identity of the 
Vendors as, due to the networks  of arrangements  detailed above, I do not think RBS would 
often know the identity of the suppliers its customers enter into agreements with or the 
nature of those agreements. Further, the role of a merchant acquirer extends any uncertainty 
further. I also think it is fair for liability to be imposed as, whether the arrangements between  
RBS and the Vendors was through a direct contractual  link or through a spur, I think the 
arrangements were made for the benefit of both parties  Mr B was able to purchase 
membership of SW from the Vendors and RBS was able to lend the money  for this. 
As explained above, I must take the law into account, but I do not need to follow it if I thought  
it led to an answer that was not fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint. 
I have set out my thoughts on the legal position and I think  a court,  applying  the two relevant 
judgments, is likely  to say that RBS is liable under s.75 CCA. Having considered everything 
in this case I also think it would be fair and reasonable to follow the law and hold RBS jointly  
liable for the Vendors misrepresentations or breaches  of contact. 
The CCA puts in place  a joint liability between a creditor  and supplier for a suppliers 
misrepresentation or breach of contact. On any view, this is an important  and far reaching 
piece of consumer  protection,  meaning consumers  are able to pursue remedies against  their 
credit card issuers where it may be more difficult for them to pursue the suppliers. The 
practical effect of this legislation  shifts the task of getting the supplier to pay monetary 
compensation from the consumer/debtor  to the creditor. And it is understandable why this 
leads to a fair outcome, as often the arrangements in place between creditor  and supplier  
means it is significantly easier to reclaim funds.
Ref: DRN594919814RBS accepted, as it must do, the Court of Appeals judgment in the OFT case. It pointed to 
two factors that it says weighed heavily in the reasoning:
from a consumers point of view, they would be unable to distinguish between  a 
three-party and four-party transaction,  with there being no impact on their transaction  
with the supplier; and
from a creditor and suppliers point of view, the commercial relationship between the 
creditor and supplier  was essentially  the same under both three-party and four-party  
transactions, both benefit in a way that makes it possible  to regard them as involved 
in something akin to a joint venture.
RBS has said it would  not be fair to impose such a liability in this case  as there is a clear 
distinction from a consumers point of view between a four-party  and five-party  structure and 
it cannot be seen  to enter into a joint venture with a party  it does not even know exists  and is 
not part of the card scheme. I disagree.
Mr B decided to join a timeshare scheme supplied by the Vendors. He spoke with its 
representatives and paid, partly using a credit card, to join SW. Nowhere in the evidence I 
have seen did Mr B ever speak with or deal with FNTC or anyone acting on its behalf before 
he decided to join SW. The first time he was aware of FNTC was after he agreed to pay for 
SW membership  he made  payment  to FNTC  under  the terms of that membership 
agreement.
From Mr Bs perspective  he was making  a payment to purchase membership of SW  I have 
no doubt that he did not turn his mind to who the various parties were and the agreements 
between them. I have  seen no evidence Mr B was aware of the potential legal effect there  
was on his rights under  s.75 CCA by paying FNTC  rather than the Vendors directly.  I think  
most reasonable consumers would simply assume  they paid whoever it was they gave their 
credit card to and not think about  the legal structure behind that transaction,  whether it be in 
a supermarket, franchised fast-food restaurant or to a timeshare provider.
I accept there is a difference between a four-party and five-party structure and, if Mr B read 
the contract  before signing, he would  have been  aware he was paying FNTC. So he would 
have been aware  he was not paying the Vendors directly. But I do not accept this means to 
follow the law and impose a s.75 CCA  liability would not be fair or reasonable. S.75 CCA 
provides important consumer protection and I do not think  many reasonable consumers are 
aware of the legal background   for example,  I do not think any credit card providers 
proactively make their customers  aware of this protection and how it works. And I do not 
think it would  fair to remove that protection because Mr B could, or should, have known he 
was paying FNTC and not the Vendors. 
I think it is fair to impose a s.75 CCA liability from RBS perspective too. I think  the creditor 
and supplier can still be seen to be entering into a joint venture. This is clear  in a three-party  
structure where there is a direct arrangement between the creditor and supplier  the 
supplier takes payment  directly from the creditor  and both parties are in contractual relations 
with each other.
In the OFT case it was held that this also operated in a four-party  structure. So due to the 
arrangements between the creditor  and supplier it was fair to impose s.75 CCA  liability, even 
though the creditor may well not know the identity of the supplier or choose  to do business  
directly with them.  
Ref: DRN594919815I accept that there is a difference between a four-party and five-party structure. In both the 
creditor will not know the identity of the supplier  due to parties in the middle. But in a four-
party structure the arrangements between the supplier and creditor are put in place via the 
card scheme. That means there will be a level of assurance that, as the supplier  has been 
accepted onto the card scheme  via a merchant acquirer, they will have met various 
qualifying criteria. It also means the creditor  will have direct recourse against the supplier 
through that card scheme.
In a five-party scheme there are not such direct arrangements via the card scheme,  instead  
the arrangements are as described  in the judgment  in the Truman case, where  it was said 
the supplier was linked, by a spur, to the scheme. Clearly the scheme rules do not apply to 
the supplier as they are not a party to those rules, nor have  they been vetted by a merchant 
acquirer as fit to join the scheme.  And I understand  why RBS said it would not be fair to 
impose a liability  in those circumstances.
However, I think it would  be fair in Mr Bs case.  RBS, accepting the judgment in the OFT 
case, would  be seen as entering  into a joint venture with FNTC if it were the supplier of the 
timeshare to Mr B. But in those circumstances RBS would have no knowledge of FNTC  or its 
business, but still be treated as entering into a joint venture. I do not think  the situation is that 
different when a fifth party is added,  by a spur, to the card scheme.  RBS essentially has the 
same level of knowledge of the contract entered into, whether it be with the party  taking 
payment or the supplier, and I think it is fair that it is treated  as entering into a joint venture 
with the supplier. 
RBS pointed to the fact that it cannot recover anything from the Vendors under the card 
scheme. I do not know what RBS was able to recover  through the card scheme, or any other 
method, from the Vendors. I note that the Truman  case considered whether Bank of 
Scotland was able to recover anything from Alfred Truman, so it may be that RBS is able to 
recover something from FNTC or the merchant  acquirer following a similar route. But 
s.75 CCA  liability is not dependant  on the creditor being able to recover  from the supplier, 
rather it switches the risk of recovery from the debtor to the creditor.
It is not my role to determine whether, in Mr Bs complaint, RBS would be entitled to recover 
anything through  the card scheme  or any other way. It is my role to determine Mr Bs 
complaint based  on what  I consider to be fair and reasonable,  taking into account the law. 
And for the reasons set out above, I think it is fair to impose a joint liability on RBS under 
s.75 CCA.
Other matters
I will also briefly  deal with the investigators findings that there was a connection between  
FNTC and Bishops Travel Limited   she found that a director  of FNTC  (secretaries) Limited 
was also a shareholder of Bishops Travel Limited.  
In some circumstances  an agreement between a creditor and supplier can be treated as 
entered into under pre-existing arrangements if the agreement is with the suppliers 
associate (s.187 CCA). Associate is defined in s.184 CCA and in this complaint it would 
have to be shown  that the same person was a controller of both FNTC and one or both of 
the Vendors. I cannot see that the person  our investigator referred to was a director of 
FNTC, rather  he was a director of a company FNTC  (secretaries) Limited that appears  to be 
linked to FNTC (it shares a number  of officers). In any event, I do not think  being a 
Ref: DRN594919816shareholder of a company gives the required degree of control. So I do not think there was 
sufficient connection  between FNTC and Bishops Travel Limited such that they were 
associates.
Was there a breach  of contract?
Mr B entered into the timeshare agreement on 20 August 2007. The total cost was £16,500 
with £3,900 being paid by Mr B using  his RBS credit card. Under the agreement  Mr B was 
entitled to use an apartment at SW for two weeks every year between when he entered  into 
the agreement  and 31 December 2025.
SW informed its members that the club would be closing early  in December 2016 and it gave 
Mr B three options  to transfer to one of two other  timeshare providers or to cancel the 
agreement without a refund.  Mr B agreed to transfer to another timeshare with an agreement  
to pay the annual maintenance fee. But this transfer  never happened and SW closed on 
31 December 2016. Since then Mr B has not been  able to use the timeshare at SW or any 
agreed alternative.
I do not think it is in dispute  that there  has been  a breach of contract  Mr B has not been  
able to use the service  he paid for. And I cannot  see that there  was any effective variation as 
Mr Bs membership  was not moved  across to the other timeshare and no alternative 
agreement was put in place. It follows, for the reasons set out above,  that I think RBS are 
jointly liable to Mr B for this breach.
I think Mr B has been able to use the timeshare from when he bought SW membership to 
31 December 2016  3,422  days. But he has not been able to the use the accommodation 
from 1 January 2017 to 31 December 2025  3,287  days. In other words, for 49% of the 
agreed contract period.
I think RBS should  pay Mr B £8,085 (49% of the purchase price) for the time he has not 
been able to use the timeshare. It should also add interest on this amount at the rate of 8% 
per year simple.3 I disagree with our investigator  about the period of time this interest should 
cover  our investigator felt interest  should  be applied  from the date of the timeshare 
purchase in 2007.  This interest  is compensatory,  so it is designed to compensate  a 
consumer for the time they are out of pocket. Given that, I think the earliest such  interest  can 
run from is the date of the breach  1 January 2017. So RBS should pay interest from 
1 January 2017 to the date of settlement.
Mr B has asked  for RBS to pay 8% interest  from 1 January 2017 to 31 December 2025 as 
that was when the agreement should  have come  to an end. I understand why Mr B would  
like this, but I think it should run to the date of settlement. 
The full purchase  price was paid in August 2007  and, had everything gone  to plan, he would 
not have received any refund, but he would have been able to use the timeshare until 
31 December 2025. Until the timeshare closed Mr B was able to use it in the way expected,  
so he was not out of pocket  in short,  until 31 December 2016 he got what he paid for. But 
after then he was not able to use the timeshare in the way expected. I think he needs to get 
a proportion of what he paid back and, as the interest award is compensatory, it needs to be 
added from when he should have been paid (1 January  2017) to when he gets paid (the 
3 RBS must by law take tax from this, but it should provide Mr B a certificate showing how much tax 
has been paid if he asks for one
Ref: DRN594919817date of settlement). After RBS has made payment, Mr B will no longer be out of pocket and 
therefore it no longer  needs to pay any interest. 
My Final  Decision
For the reasons  set out above, I think section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 is relevant 
to Mr Bs complaint. I uphold Mr Bs complaint and direct The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc to 
pay compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 August 2020.
Mark Hutchings
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN5949198