K820x#14complaint
Mr M has complained that the total loss settlement U K Insurance  Limited (UKI)  paid him for 
his car is too low. Mr M made  a claim under his car insurance policy.
background
Mr M was involved in an incident in February 2019  and he reported it to his insurer,  UKI.
UKI said it would  settle Mr Ms claim  as a total loss because it wasnt  economical to repair 
his car. UKI said the market value for Mr Ms car was £900.  Mr M wanted to keep his car, so 
UKI deducted a salvage fee of £90. 
Mr M complained to UKI as he said the valuation was too low. But UKI said it had reached 
the valuation using the motor trade  guides in line with the policy - and so it said it had acted 
reasonably. 
Mr M asked  us to look at his complaint. He said he recently changed the gearbox and 
battery on the car and thought UKI should have paid more to reflect  these changes. 
Our investigator explained that we dont  decide  a valuation. But we can look at whether the 
insurer reached its valuation in a fair and reasonable way. He checked the motor trade 
guides and found that the settlement UKI had paid Mr M was within  the range of the guides. 
So he didnt think UKI needed to do any more.  
Mr M didnt  agree. He believes his car would be worth more  if he were to sell it because of 
the replacement  gearbox and battery.  So hed like an ombudsman  to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont intend to uphold 
it. Ill explain why.
Mr Ms policy with UKI says that the most it will pay in the event of a claim is the market  
value of his car at the time of loss. It defines market value as the cost of replacing your car 
with another of the same make and model and of a similar age and condition  at the time of 
the accident or loss.
We have a long standing approach to valuation disputes. As the investigator explained, we 
dont decide a valuation. We find the main motor trade guides are a reliable  source for an 
insurer to use when  deciding a valuation. The motor trade guides provide average  valuations 
based on likely selling  prices. And they can provide a valuation for the same make, model,  
age, condition and mileage as Mr Ms car. 
We find they are more reliable than adverts  as adverts  tend to range widely.  And they arent  
usually the actual selling price  as sellers tend to leave room in the price  for negotiation. In 
other words, the advertised price tends  to be higher than the agreed selling price.
Ref: DRN50760812We checked the four main motor trade  guides  taking into account the actual mileage of 
Mr Ms car - which was lower than average. And the valuations are based on a car like 
Mr Ms in good condition. A car in good  condition would be one that has working parts. So 
for this reason, I dont think the fact that Mr M recently replaced the battery and gearbox  
makes a difference. These are changes that form part of the upkeep of a car so that its 
roadworthy. 
The motor  trade guides  ranged from £685  to £1,175.  As UKI paid Mr M a market  value of 
£900, I think this was reasonable as its within the range. 
I understand Mr M will be disappointed with my decision. But I think UKI settled his claim 
reasonably and in line with the policy. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 May 2019.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5076081