K820x#14complaint
Mr T complains that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax,  failed to tell him that he could 
change his mortgage product to one with a better  rate.
background
Mr T has a residential mortgage with Halifax and a family member  lives in the property. In 
2010 he applied  for and Halifax provided him with its consent to allow him to rent out the 
property, so the mortgage ran on a consent-to-lease  (CTL)  basis. 
Mr T has recently  learned that Halifax changed its policy  in 2016 and, because its a family 
member living in his property, he could have changed his existing mortgage product to a 
second home loan.  He says that Halifax should have told him about this but it didnt do so. 
He believes that he has paid interest at a higher rate because  of this and asked Halifax to 
refund the difference.
Halifax says that it did have a change of policy in 2016 when it introduced second home 
loans. But it wasnt its responsibility to tell Mr T that he could  change  his product. It does 
accept that it gave Mr T wrong  information in 2018  when it told him that a CTL form was 
never needed and it has offered to pay £100 for this.
The investigator didnt  think that this complaint should be upheld.  She said that it was for Mr 
T to contact Halifax if he wanted  to change his mortgage product.
Mr T didnt  agree. He thought Halifax could have  contacted all of its customers with a CTL to 
tell them  about  the new policy.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr T transferred his mortgage to a three year fixed rate product in 2010.  At the end of the 
term it reverted to a tracker. At the time Mr T was renting the property to his brother and he 
applied to Halifax for its consent  to let his property.  I have  reviewed  the application and Im 
satisfied that he told Halifax that the tenant in his property  was an individual.  Halifax  didnt 
need to know  who was living in the property so it didnt know  it was a family relative. I do 
accept that, at the time, Mr T thought the tenancy would be for three  years. But Halifaxs 
records show that it agreed to provide the CTL on an indefinite  basis.
Mr T says that he contacted Halifax again  in 2013, possibly because the three year fixed rate 
term ended  at the end of that year. It told him that he couldnt switch  to a new mortgage 
product whilst the property was being  let, so the mortgage reverted to the tracker  rate. The 
rate of interest, at that time, was lower than the fixed rate Mr T had been on. He says he 
contacted Halifax  again in 2016 to ask for additional borrowing but was again told that he 
couldnt change  his mortgage  because  the property was let. He tried to add his relative to 
the mortgage account but Halifax wouldnt allow this either.
Halifax says that in 2013 it stopped offering specific CTL products. In September  2016 it 
changed its policy so that if a customer wanted  to let a property to a family member  it could 
offer a second  home loan.  Mr T suggests  that when Halifax  introduced  this in 2016 it should 
Ref: DRN51204522have contacted him. If it had done so he says he wouldnt have paid as much interest. He 
also says that Halifax  had the chance to tell him about the change when he contacted  it 
about additional borrowing. 
I have checked  Halifaxs records and these dont show  that Mr T contacted  it in either  2013 
or 2016. Whilst I have  no reason to doubt  Mr Ts recollection I cant safely say that Halifax  
made any mistake. As his mortgage  was sold on a residential basis (not as a buy to let) I 
consider that, as Halifax had stopped providing  CTL products, this is why he wasnt able to 
switch to a fixed rate product  while  he was letting the property in 2013. Even though  Mr T 
says his discussions in 2016 should  have been the opportunity for Halifax  to tell him about 
the second home loan policy I consider these were about additional  borrowing  and Halifax 
wasnt able to help because Mr T didnt meet its affordability criteria at the time.  I also cant 
be sure whether those  discussions took place before or after the change in Halifaxs  policy.  
Furthermore, I cant say for certain  that Mr T would have met Halifaxs  criteria for a second 
home loan at that time.
While I appreciate Mr T feels  aggrieved  that he wasnt told about the second home loan,  
ultimately I find that it was his responsibility to monitor his mortgage and to contact Halifax  if 
he wanted to make changes. Im sorry to disappoint him, but I cant reasonably expect a 
lender to contact  its customers every  time it introduces a new product.
Halifax accepts that it did give Mr T wrong  information when  he contacted it about this 
matter. It has already paid him £100  for its poor service. I consider  this to be fair in the 
circumstances and I dont  require it to do any more.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 February  2019.
Karen Wharton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5120452