K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that AXA France IARD (formerly trading as Financial Insurance Company 
Limited) mis-sold  payment protection  insurance  (PPI) to Mrs G. AXA didnt actually sell the 
policy, but it has taken  responsibility for the sale. So Ill refer to it as the seller. 
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out in 1998 to cover  a store credit account. It 
looks likely Mrs G was sold the PPI by phone,  some  time after the account was started. 
However theres not much information about the sale, which isnt surprising given that this 
was over twenty years ago.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  be upheld. Mrs G disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive considered what Mrs G has said, but Ive decided  not to uphold her complaint.  This is 
because:
 Mrs G has said she wasnt  aware  of the PPI being added. AXAs  records  say that the 
PPI was sold by phone some time after the account started, and I think  thats likely to 
be right. There is no recording available of that call  which isnt surprising as this 
happened so many years  ago. But I dont have any evidence to show  that AXA didnt  
make clear Mrs G had a choice about  taking PPI. Without stronger evidence I cant  
fairly say the PPI was sold unfairly  in this way. 
 It doesnt seem that AXA recommended the PPI as being particularly suitable for 
Mrs Gs individual needs. This means it didnt have to check if the PPI fitted her 
circumstances. It would  have  been for Mrs G to decide whether it was suitable.
 However AXA did need to give Mrs G clear and fair information, so she could make an 
informed choice.  And I dont have  clear evidence it did do this properly  I dont know  
how much  detail  the adviser actually gave on the phone. So Ive thought  about  whether 
better information is likely to have made a difference. But in Mrs Gs circumstances at 
the time, even  if shed  been given all the necessary information, I dont think  its likely  
to have made a difference to her decision.  (This is assuming she was given a choice  
which I accept she says she doesnt think happened.) I say this because its fairly likely 
that the PPI could  have paid out for longer than her full employer sick pay lasted. And it 
would have been in addition to any employer sick pay or redundancy pay; and she 
could have kept any savings in reserve for longer. Also it doesnt  look like shed have 
been affected by any of the significant exclusions in the policy.  So, overall, the PPI is 
likely still to have seemed potentially useful.
Ref: DRN55347852my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding Mrs Gs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 January 2020.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5534785