K821x#15complaint
Ms P complains  about Aviva Insurance Limiteds  handling of her property insurance claim.
background
In March 2018, Ms P notified Aviva of a claim after an escape  of water in her home. Aviva 
accepted the claim. As the property wasnt habitable, Aviva agreed to cover the cost of 
alternative accommodation, and Ms P moved  out. 
Drying was delayed  because there were no electrics in the property  due to the escape  of 
water. Ms P therefore arranged for a temporary  electrics board to be installed, and the 
electrical supply to be reconnected so that drying  could take place. Unfortunately,  Avivas  
contractor apparently accidentally damaged the temporary electrics, so these needed  to be 
fixed. Also, the kitchen tiles were  found to contain  asbestos, so needed to be removed 
before drying  could  start.  
At the end of June 2018, the drying had completed. A drying certificate was issued, but this 
was on the basis  that there were pre-incident damp problems and the property  couldnt  be 
declared dry because the conditions of the property allowed ongoing ingress  of moisture.
Meanwhile, Aviva decided it didnt want to carry  out repairs due to the pre-existing damp 
issues, and so it advised Ms P it would arrange a cash settlement. Aviva therefore  asked 
Ms P to arrange her own quote  for the repairs. 
Ms P obtained a quote, however the two parties  couldnt agree on a cash settlement. Ms Ps 
builder had quoted her £6,550 for the repairs, but Avivas surveyor  thought the repairs  would 
only cost £785.55.  
After the property had been dried,  Aviva  thought  Ms P could move back  home  once the 
electrics were reconnected,  and it asked her to arrange this. However,  Ms P said she 
couldnt have  the electricity  reconnected because she firstly needed a wall restored that had 
been damaged  by the escape of water (the electricity supply was attached to that wall). As 
she and Aviva couldnt agree on a cash settlement, she said she couldnt move  forward  with 
the repairs. Aviva didnt agree and stopped paying  for Ms Ps alternative accommodation on 
27 July 2018.  
In light of the disparity between the two figures quoted for the repairs,  Aviva arranged  for a 
loss adjuster to carry out a desktop review. The loss adjuster  thought  the repairs would cost 
£2,914.59. This was Avivas final offer, however Ms P turned it down. 
Ms P complained to Aviva about  its cash settlement offer. She also thought  it should  have 
kept paying for her alternative  accommodation  until October 2018, as this was when she 
returned home. 
Aviva didnt increase  its cash settlement, however it did offer to send out another  surveyor  to 
provide a quote. It offered  Ms P £400 compensation for delays in obtaining its revised figure 
of £2,914.59. Unhappy with Avivas  response, Ms P brought  a complaint to this service. 
Our investigator recommended the complaint  be upheld. She thought Avivas cash  
settlement ought  to be increased, and also thought Aviva should pay for Ms Ps alternative 
accommodation costs  until October  2018.
Ref: DRN56298132I issued a provisional decision on 30 June 2020.  My provisional findings were:
Cash  settlement
As there were damp issues at the property which pre-dated the escape of water,  Aviva  
wasnt prepared to have  its own contractors carry out the repairs,  as it couldnt guarantee 
that those repairs  would  be effective and long-lasting. It therefore decided  to offer a cash  
settlement instead.  I think that was reasonable. The issue I need to decide is whether 
Avivas cash settlement offer of £2,914.59 was fair. 
Ms P has provided a quote  from her own contractor (Mr M) for the repairs.  He said the 
repairs would cost £6,550, and this included the cost of repairing three  walls that he thought  
had been damaged by the escape of water. 
Our investigator didnt  think Aviva  should  pay for the cost of repairing the three kitchen walls, 
as she thought those repairs were needed because of the pre-existing damp  in the property. 
I disagree with our investigators conclusions on this point. Ill explain why.
Ms P arranged for a chartered surveyor to carry out an inspection  in July 2018, before any of 
the repair works had started.  The surveyor addressed all of the damage and he thought  the 
damage to the kitchen  walls had been  caused by the flooding from March  2018. 
In contrast  to this, Avivas surveyor thought  the repairs to the walls were needed because of 
pre-existing damp problems, rather than the escape of water. However, I cant  see that hes 
provided any explanation as to why he thought that, whereas Ms Ps surveyors  report 
commented on the affected walls.
On balance, I find greater  weight ought  to be placed  on the opinion of Ms Ps surveyor.  His 
explanation was more detailed than that of Avivas  surveyor. I also note that Avivas  
surveyors job description is that of a Surveyor  Contracts Manager. I therefore  assume  he 
isnt a chartered surveyor, and so isnt as highly qualified as Ms Ps surveyor. 
Based on Ms Ps surveyors report, Im satisfied the kitchen walls needed to be repaired 
because of the escape of water,  rather than the pre-existing damp problems.  
Avivas estimate of £2,914.59 didnt include the repairs  to the kitchen walls, and was based 
on the rates that its own contractor would have  charged it. However, as Aviva chose to cash 
settle the claim, I find it should have based  its offer on the amount it would cost Ms P to have 
the repairs. Because of this, and as Im satisfied the repairs to the kitchen walls should be 
included in the settlement, I intend to require Aviva to pay the full £6,550 quoted by Ms Ps 
contractor for the repairs. 
Aviva should  also cover  the cost of removing the radiators from the kitchen so the wall 
repairs could be done. Furthermore, I understand Ms P incurred costs as a result of moving  
the electricity supply so the relevant kitchen wall could be replaced, and then the electricity  
unit restored. Given that Ive found  the kitchen walls were damaged by the escape of water,  I 
think Aviva  should also cover the costs of this. 
As Ms Ps surveyors  report has led to an increase to the cash  settlement, I also intend  to 
require Aviva to reimburse  her for the cost of this report. 
Ref: DRN56298133Replacing the kitchen units
Ms Ps surveyor also commented  on the damage to Ms Ps fitted kitchen. He said the fitted 
units had been  damaged  because they were supported on the wet floor, and that the bases 
had become rotten and the units had dropped  as a result.
Aviva didnt think the escape  of water had caused  the damage  to the kitchen, so it arranged 
for its own inspection to take place. I see that inspection noted the cupboards  were  splitting 
at the joints, and the join of the worktop  was swollen. It was also noted there was vast pre-
incident staining on the units, but it couldnt  be determined if the rust on the hinges was 
incident related  or not. 
Avivas inspection doesnt seem to have made  a finding on whether  or not the kitchen had 
been damaged  by the escape of water. If the kitchen needed to be replaced  because of the 
pre-incident staining  alone, then I wouldnt require Aviva to cover  this. But given there  was 
evidence of water damage, and Ms Ps surveyor thought the fitted units  had been  damaged  
because of the escape of water,  I think Aviva should cover the cost of replacing the kitchen.
Alternative accommodation
Aviva thought Ms P could  move back into her property once the electrics were  fixed.  
However, Ms P said she couldnt fix the electrics until a wall was repaired.  
Like the investigator, I dont think Ms P caused  any unnecessary  delays throughout the 
claim. Its apparent from the correspondence Ive seen that Ms P was keen to start repairs  
and move back into her property. The electrics couldnt be reinstated  until the wall to which 
the electricity supply was attached was repaired.  Unfortunately, because  the parties couldnt 
agree on a cash settlement amount, there  were  delays  to the repairs starting.
Given that Ive found Avivas cash settlement  was too low, and that the damage to the 
kitchen walls ought to have been included  in the settlement,  I agree with our investigator that 
Aviva should  cover  Ms Ps alternative accommodation costs until she returned  home.  
Handling of the claim
Aviva accepted it had caused delays in reviewing its initial offer.  It paid Ms P £400 
compensation for that. I think  that was reasonable for that delay. 
Ms P feels she was caused  additional  distress by Avivas handling of the claim prior to that. 
Ive taken into account her explanation about this, and I think Aviva did cause Ms P 
inconvenience and upset throughout the claim. It appears Avivas  contractor  contributed to 
the delays in drying the property, and I also think there was unnecessary pressure placed on 
Ms P to return  to the property before the repairs were  done and her property was habitable. 
Taking all of this into account,  I think a further £250 compensation would be appropriate.
Further issues
Ms Ps contents were damaged by the escape  of water,  but she hadnt received a settlement 
from Aviva  for those items. 
Whilst Ms Ps complaint was with this service, Aviva offered to pay £1,474.50 for the 
damaged contents.  This was based  on the photos Ms P provided of the damaged contents, 
Ref: DRN56298134and her loss list which  said her estimated loss was £1,474.50. Im satisfied this was fair, and 
I see Ms P has confirmed her acceptance of this offer.
I asked both parties to provide any further comments  they wished to make before I made a 
final decision  on the matter. 
Ms P confirmed her acceptance of my provisional  findings, and didnt  have any further 
comments. 
Aviva said it was disappointing that Ive found it needs to pay for clear  betterment for pre-
existing damp issues. It also says its surveyor is qualified on matters  relating to damp. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Aviva says its disappointing Ive found  it needs to pay for betterment for pre-existing damp 
issues. 
I accept there were pre-existing damp issues at the property. However, the evidence from 
Ms Ps surveyor supports that the damage  Im requiring Aviva to cover was attributable  to 
the escape of water  incident. That means Aviva is liable to cover the cost of those  repairs,  
which need to be effective. If Ms P gains some  betterment as a result,  then I dont think itd 
be fair for Aviva to make  a deduction for this.
Aviva says its surveyor is qualified on matters relating to damp, and that my comment  that 
he wasnt qualified to make those decisions is a little insulting. 
I should point  out that I didnt say in my provisional  decision  Avivas  surveyor  wasnt  qualified 
to comment on damp.  I said that Avivas  surveyor isnt as highly qualified as Ms Ps surveyor 
(who is a chartered surveyor). To clarify - as there were two experts who had a difference  of 
opinion on the matter, I thought greater weight ought  to be placed on Ms Ps surveyors 
opinion, as the more highly qualified  out of the two. Ms Ps surveyor also gave a more 
detailed explanation than Avivas surveyor. 
I therefore remain satisfied that Aviva  ought to pay the redress  that I set out in my 
provisional decision, and for the same  reasons. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Aviva Insurance  Limited  to do the 
following:
Increase its cash settlement. This should cover the £6,550 repair  quote,  plus the cost 
of removing and replacing the radiators, plus the cost of replacing the kitchen, plus 
any costs incurred  in moving the electricity supply. Aviva can deduct any cash 
settlement amount  it has already  paid in this respect. Interest should be added at the 
rate of 8% simple per annum from the date of loss to the date of settlement .
Ref: DRN56298135Reimburse Ms P for the cost of her surveyors fee. Interest should be added at the 
rate of 8% simple per annum from the date she paid the invoice to the date of 
settlement.
Reimburse Ms P for the alternative accommodation costs she incurred between 
27 July 2018 and the date she returned  home in October 2018, in line with the 
remaining policy terms and limits. Interest  should  be added at the rate of 8% simple 
per annum from the date/s she paid the invoices to the date of settlement.
Pay Ms P £1,474.50  for her damaged  contents if it hasnt already done so. Interest 
should be added at the rate of 8% simple per annum from the date of loss to the date 
of settlement. 
Pay Ms P additional compensation  of £650 (less any amount already paid in this 
respect).
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 August 2020.
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
ombudsman
 If Aviva considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income  tax from that 
interest, it should tell Ms P how much  its taken  off. It should  also give Ms P a certificate showing this if 
she asks for one, so she can reclaim  the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate. 
Ref: DRN5629813