K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that Instant Cash Loans Limited  (trading as The Money Shop) didnt do 
enough checks before  it lent to him.
background
Mr H borrowed  £300 from The Money Shop  on 13 February 2017. The loan was due to be 
repaid with six instalments of £73.88. Mr H repaid the loan on time on 31 July 2017.
Mr H says he doesnt believe The Money Shop carried out credit  checks before it lent to him. 
He says if it had done  so, it would have seen he had other short-term borrowing and a poor 
credit score. Mr H says it was irresponsible for The Money Shop to have  lent to him.
The Money Shop says its checks showed  repayments were affordable, it had no concerns 
about any issues with other lenders and it didnt  think Mr H was reliant  on the borrowing.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend the complaint should be upheld.  He was satisfied  The 
Money Shop did enough checks before approving  the loan and found it to be affordable.
Mr H responded to say, in summary, that if The Money Shop couldnt provide results  of a 
credit check,  then it must  be fair to say it didnt perform one. So, he said, The Money  Shop  
cant have lent responsibly as his credit  file showed defaults and other short-term borrowing.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Money Shop was required to lend responsibly. It should have made checks to make 
sure Mr H could  afford to repay the loans  before  it lent to him. Those checks needed  to be 
proportionate to things such as the amount Mr H was borrowing, and his lending  history.  But 
there was no set list of checks The Money Shop had to do.
When Mr H applied for his loan from The Money  Shop  it asked him for information about his 
income and expenditure. He told The Money  Shop  his monthly income was £1,600 and his 
regular expenditure was £716. Given Mr Hs monthly repayments  were under £75, I cant  
conclude The Money Shop was wrong to find the loan was affordable  to him.
I acknowledge what Mr H says about  the information  on his credit file and I cant see that 
The Money Shop carried out a full review  of his credit record.  The only evidence  The Money 
Shop has provided  with regard to a credit  check is one which  validated Mr Hs identity.
But The Money  Shop  didnt  have  to do a full credit  check. Im satisfied the checks it did went  
far enough as this was his first loan and repayments  were  a small proportion of his income.
That said,  even if The Money Shop  had carried out a full credit check, I cant see anything  on 
Mr Hs credit file that should  have  prompted  The Money Shop to carry out further checks  or 
to decline his application. I can see it would have shown one default, but as that was well 
over a year before his application,  I dont consider The Money  Shop  should have done 
anything differently. Similarly, Mr Hs credit file didnt  show any other  outstanding  short-term 
loans in February 2017  the previous one reported  was repaid in January  2015.
Ref: DRN55902332So, in summary,  Im satisfied The Money Shop did enough checks and was not irresponsible  
to lend Mr H the money.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 April 2019.
Amanda Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5590233