K820x#14complaint
Mrs S complained about how Aviva Insurance Limited handled  her claim under her motor  
insurance policy.
background
After her car was damaged in an accident, Aviva decided that it was uneconomical to repair.  
They offered  her its market value,  taking into account what they said was its pre-accident 
damage .But Mrs S didnt agree that her car was uneconomical to repair, or that its 
pre=accident damage was as bad as Aviva said. She wanted to keep her car, so they paid 
her £1,745, less its salvage value.
She was also unhappy  at how Aviva  handled  her claim. She said they hadnt given her 
enough information at various stages of the process, and had misrepresented matters.
Aviva accepted that their customer service could have been better and they offered her 
compensation of £100 for that and a payment for loss of use of her car while they decided  if 
it was repairable. But they maintained that they were right to decide about  her cars market  
value, and that it was uneconomical to repair.  The investigator didnt  recommend  that her 
complaint should  be upheld.  He thought  that Aviva had offered a fair and reasonable 
settlement. Mrs S didnt  agree and so her case has been referred  to me to decide.  
my findings 
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Mrs Ss car insurance policy says that they will pay her cars market  value at the time of the 
loss. The investigator  explained our approach regarding complaints about  car valuations. We 
dont decide what  the market value  of a car is; we merely consider whether or not the insurer 
has reached a fair and reasonable amount having  regard to the valuations  in the trade 
guides, as well as any other evidence the parties may provide. That evidence might  include 
advertisements detailing  the sale prices of similar  cars, but we bear in mind that cars usually 
sell for less than the advertised price. 
The investigator checked that Aviva  valued  Mrs Ss car in accordance  with our guidance, 
taking into account  its model, additional features and the actual mileage.
Aviva at first estimated her cars market value at £3,312, but that was before having  seen  the 
car, and they did say that value was subject to inspection. After  Avivas approved repairing 
garage (Avivas garage) inspected it they said that, because of its condition, a combination  
of accident damage  and pre-accident damage, it wasnt economical to repair. 
But Mrs S disagreed. She said Avivas two garages gave different views on this, and her car 
was still driveable  as both a garage  mechanic and the car recovery service drove it and said 
it was repairable. Also her car had passed all MOTs and there was no mention of the pre-
accident damage. 
It seems  that Avivas first garage thought the car was uneconomical to repair, but Mrs S 
disagreed. So Aviva sent it to another garage authorising them  to repair  it up to 100% of its 
market value. But that garage too declared  it uneconomical to repair after inspection.  
Ref: DRN55401572So Aviva had their technical  engineer inspect it too. He confirmed the garages view, 
because there was extensive pre-accident damage. That included  damage to the bodywork, 
and a suspension misalignment. The cost of repairing  the pre-accident  damage was about 
£3,300, and for the accident  repair £2,400.  
Aviva decided that they would deduct  50% of the pre-accident  damage repair  cost from Mrs 
Ss cars market value.  Because pre-accident damage does affect  a cars market value, we 
think thats reasonable. 
Mrs S says she couldnt afford to have her car inspected again to counter  Avivas engineers  
view, but shed been told it was driveable  and repairable. Thats  not in dispute,  but just 
because a car is repairable doesnt  mean  that an insurer is obliged  to repair  it. And they 
have to repair it to a safe and roadworthy  condition, particularly when a car has had an 
official salvage marker put on it. 
Aviva are entitled under her policy to decide  if it is not cost effective  for them  to repair  it. And, 
given that the accident  repair costs for the accident  were more than her cars s revised 
market value, I dont  think it was unfair of them to do that.  
Aviva have produced  garage estimates  and their engineers report,  and we dont  interfere 
with the engineer's professional estimation of the required repair  costs.  
Additionally the investigator found the MOT from 2 May 2018 which showed that her car had 
failed for a series  of concerns,  which were dealt with, then passed its MOT the next day. The 
advisory notice refers to both of the cars front tyres being worn  close to the legal limit and a 
rear tyre was heavily  worn  on the inner edge, and I think  this supports the engineers report  
about suspension misalignment. Mrs S thinks that insurers  should be required  to ensure car 
repairs are as low as possible but, as the investigator explained to her, its not in insurers  
interest to inflate them. 
Aviva did pay Mrs S £580 for the loss of use of her car from when the claim was raised to 
when Aviva decided  her car was uneconomical to repair,  plus £21.80 for the loss of interest 
due to the delayed payment, and £100  for the distress and inconvenience caused by their 
delays and poor communication. I think that this is fair of them and does reflect the 
inconvenience to her.I do see that she feels unhappy about the situation, and its unfortunate 
that she has lost the use of her car and is finding  this limiting, but I think that Aviva have 
valued her car in a fair and reasonable way and so I dont ask them to do anything else. 
my final decision
For the reasons,  Ive given above  its my final decision that I dont uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 March  2020.
Rosslyn Scott
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5540157