K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs N have complained that Paratus AMC  Limited obtained a possession  order  over 
their property on the grounds  that Mr and Mrs N had not been communicating with them.
Mr and Mrs N are also unhappy about the way Paratus has dealt  with a refund of charges 
following a previous ombudsmans decision.
Finally, Mr and Mrs N are unhappy that Paratus  hasnt answered their emails.
background
Mr and Mrs N have a mortgage  with Paratus which has been in arrears for a number of 
years. In 2013  Paratus obtained a suspended  possession order  over the property due to 
arrears on the account Mr and Mrs P have raised a number of concerns, both with Paratus 
and with us.
Mr and Mrs N brought  a previous complaint to us on which an ombudsman  issued a final 
decision on 22 March 2018.  The ombudsman  ordered Paratus to refund the fees detailed in 
the final decision (a total of £295), and to pay Mr and Mrs N £700 compensation for distress 
and inconvenience.  Mr and Mrs N accepted the ombudsmans decision in full and final 
settlement of that complaint.
Mr and Mrs N complained  to us in May 2018  that Paratus hadnt responded to their emails. 
The complaint was sent to Paratus so it could respond.  On 4 June 2018  we wrote to Mr and 
Mrs N explaining this. We said that Paratus should give its final response within eight weeks,  
and if Mr and Mrs N still werent  happy (or if they hadnt heard from Paratus), they would 
need to contact us within  six months of the final response. Paratus issued a final response 
letter on 31 July 2018, giving Mr and Mrs N six months from the date of that letter  to bring  
their complaint to us. 
On 1 July 2019 Mr and Mrs N contacted us again. They  said that the ombudsmans award  of 
a refund of fees did not include interest.  Paratus issued a final response letter on that 
complaint dated  23 August 2019 in which it agreed  to refund interest  totalling  £413.40  and 
pay £100 compensation.
Mr and Mrs N also told us that they were unhappy about the possession  order, saying that 
Paratus had obtained this unlawfully. And they raised again their concerns about Paratus 
apparent failure  to respond to their emails. 
An investigator looked at the complaint. He noted Mr and Mrs N hadnt referred their 
complaint about  Paratus  ignoring their emails  within six months  of the final response letter. 
Because Paratus  didnt  consent to us looking  at the complaint,  and there were no 
exceptional circumstances  to explain the delay,  he thought this part of the complaint was out 
of time.
The investigator also explained that a court  had granted the possession order and so he 
wasnt able to comment further on this.
As far as the interest refund  was concerned, the investigator was satisfied  that this  and the 
compensation of £100 for trouble and upset  was fair.
Ref: DRN55847022Mr and Mrs N asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. They  accept they are out of 
time for bringing the complaint about  Paratus not replying to their emails. But they want to 
raise a new issue  about  solicitors costs added to their mortgage account.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached broadly the 
same conclusion as the investigator,  for the same reasons.
I will not be revisiting any of the issues that were the subject of the previous final decision 
dated 22 March  2018. Mr and Mrs N accepted that decision and so it became legally binding  
on them  and Paratus.  
I also note that Mr and Mrs N have accepted  they are out of time for bringing  their complaint 
about Paratus  not replying to their emails. I confirm I agree with the investigators  findings 
that Mr and Mrs N left it too late to complain  to us about this. Im also satisfied there were no 
exceptional circumstances  to explain the delay.
As far as the possession order  is concerned, if Mr and Mrs N are unhappy about this, they 
will need  to appeal the possession order in the court which granted  it. I have no power  to 
overturn or interfere with an order made by a court. I would suggest  Mr and Mrs N take legal 
advice before embarking on any appeal of the possession order.  Im not upholding this part 
of the complaint.
Ive looked at the interest refund offered by Paratus. Im satisfied that a refund of £413.40 for 
interest charged on the fees which the previous  ombudsman ordered should be refunded  is 
fair and reasonable. Im also satisfied that £100  compensation is appropriate for any trouble 
and upset Mr and Mrs N may have been caused.  Because Im satisfied that this is fair 
redress for this part of the complaint  Im not going  to order Paratus to do anything  further.
Finally, I note Mr and Mrs N want to complain about  solicitors fees added  to their account. I 
cant consider this as part of this complaint because it is a new issue and Paratus is entitled  
to be given the opportunity to respond  to the complaint. Mr and Mrs N will need to raise  a 
fresh complaint with Paratus about this matter. If they are unhappy with Paratus response, 
they can ask us to look at the complaint.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint  because Im satisfied  that the redress  of 
£413.40 offered  by Paratus AMC Limited and the compensation  of £100 is fair and 
reasonable. I simply leave  it to Mr and Mrs N to decide if they want to accept  it in full and 
final settlement of their complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs N to 
accept or reject my decision  before  13 June  2020.
Jan OLeary
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5584702