K820x#14complaint
Miss S complains  about the way Inter Partner  Assistance SA handled her request for 
assistance under her travel insurance policy.
Miss Ss mother Mrs S has brought the complaint to us on her behalf. 
My references to IPA include its agents. 
background
Miss S was travelling with friends  in a European country when  she unfortunately had an 
accident and fractured her ankle. She was a teenager at the time and this restricted her 
ability to arrange  hotel accommodation when  her friends left to continue  their trip. 
Mrs S called IPA for assistance under Miss Ss travel insurance policy. She was very 
unhappy with its response to Miss Ss situation. She and her husband both spoke  with IPA 
about their concerns. They  arranged for their son to fly out to accompany Miss S home. 
They complained about the way IPA had responded to the assistance request. 
IPA accepted that its overall service wasnt good  enough. It said sorry and offered 
compensation totalling £750 to Miss S. But Mrs S said this wasnt enough.  Mrs S had had an 
anxiety attack during  the period Miss S was abroad, which she said was due to IPAs 
handling of the situation. She claimed  compensation both for her and for Miss S. 
Our adjudicator said IPA should have given  Miss S a better service, as it had acknowledged.  
But she thought  £750 compensation was fair and reasonable. She explained that we 
couldnt award compensation for Mrs Ss anxiety attack, because Mrs S wasnt eligible to 
complain to us in her own right. 
Mrs S didnt think the compensation payment was enough, as it didnt  penalise  IPA. She 
asked our adjudicator  to listen  to the telephone calls between  her and IPA during the period 
that Miss S was abroad saying that IPA had been  rude and obstructive to the extent that it 
caused her to have  an anxiety attack. Our adjudicator explained that although shed listened 
to the calls they didnt change her opinion. The complaints now come to me for review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am sorry  to hear of Miss Ss accident abroad and I hope she has recovered.  Its clear  that it 
was a very stressful time for the whole family. 
IPA has accepted that its handling of Miss Ss claim for assistance was poor. It has 
apologised and offered her £750  compensation. I think £750 compensation is fair and 
reasonable. Ill explain why and in doing so Ill focus on the issues  that I think  are central to 
this dispute.
As our adjudicator has explained  I cant make an award  of compensation to Mrs S because 
she is not a policy holder  and in turn she is not an eligible complainant under the rules 
I must follow.  These rules  are set out in the Financial Conduct Authoritys Handbook and are 
Ref: DRN54720442called the DISP rules. Specifically, I refer to DISP 2.7.6 which explains the rules about 
eligible complainants.  
I am sorry  to hear that Mrs S had an anxiety attack severe  enough that she was taken to 
hospital with a suspected  heart attack. But ultimately  I cant make an award  to her even if 
she could show that it was IPAs call handling   rather than the overall stress of the situation 
- that had caused  her to have that anxiety attack.  
IPA was entitled to assess whether Miss Ss claim was covered under the policy. So it was 
properly able to ask for a medical report and for evidence of Miss Ss travel dates. This 
wasnt unreasonable but IPA accepted  it should also have  asked for the hospital details at 
the outset. 
IPA offered  Miss S what is called non-financial  assistance while  it assessed  the claim. 
I think this was reasonable but as IPA itself accepts it should have done more  to arrange 
accommodation for Miss S who was injured  and had already  checked out of her hostel. 
Miss Ss family arranged the hotel  for her and her brother and they shouldnt  have had to do 
this. IPA accepts it should have updated  Mrs S even  when work was going on in the 
background and it should  have given Mrs S its contact  information at the outset. 
I think IPA should  have assessed  the medical  report more  carefully  than it did. It wrongly  
said Miss S had sprained rather than fractured her ankle. It should have arranged  for a 
proper translation  of that report. IPA accepts  that it was clear  that medical curtailment of her 
trip was necessary  given her injury  and the active holiday she was on. The repatriation 
arrangements that it made werent  suitable because of the distance to the airport both 
abroad and in the UK. 
Miss Ss family were very proactive and arranged for her brother  to fly out and escort her 
home on a suitable  flight. During  conversations with IPAs assessment team  it was clear staff 
members werent aware of her brother joining her, and IPA accepts they should have known 
that. The family made their own arrangements to bring Miss S home  within three days of her 
injury because she needed surgery. They shouldnt have had to do this. But I think it would  
always have taken a similar length  of time for IPA to assess  the claim and make  the 
arrangements - even  if IPA had been efficient.  I dont  think  its fair to make any additional 
award for Miss Ss pain and suffering, over and above that caused by her accident.
I know Miss Ss family are concerned about IPAs  response to her situation given her age 
and she was on her own after her friends  moved  on. IPA has apologised. It has said it 
should also have  contacted her on her return to the UK to ask how she was. 
My awards are not designed  to punish a financial business for doing something wrong. 
Rather I look at the impact on the consumer for its shortcomings. In this case  I think IPAs 
poor service did cause Miss S material inconvenience and distress  at an already difficult 
time for her. But I think her circumstances  and IPAs shortcomings  were fairly reflected in its 
offer of £750 compensation. This is at a level that I think amounts to a substantial award and 
I think is a fair and reasonable offer. 
For completeness I should say that Miss S is able to reject  my final decision and if she does 
so then the decision is not binding  either  on herself or on IPA. That means  shes  able to take 
any other legal  remedies open  to her should she choose to do so. 
Ref: DRN54720443my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained I think that Inter Partner Assistance  SAs offer of £750 
compensation is fair and reasonable compensation so I dont require it to do anything more  
to resolve this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 September 2019.
Amanda Maycock
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5472044