K822xcomplaint
Mr M has complained about Zurich  Insurance PLC. It provides the insurance for the small 
block of flats where Mr M lives. It handled  a water  leak claim made  by the housing company 
which manages the block, and Mr M feels it caused delays which cost him money as well as 
caused him inconvenience.
background
Mr M became aware in August 2018 of a leak which was affecting his flat. The housing 
company needed  to repair it. Zurich was contacted and it initially  inspected the damage 
before the leak was repaired. At that stage it felt the damage was relatively limited   
essentially requiring some  minor remedial repairs such  as stain  block  and painting. However, 
it later became clear  that damage  was still occurring and the leak wasnt fixed until 
18 October 2018.
Zurich stripped and began to dry Mr Ms flat. But in December a leak was found in the water 
cylinder closet, and it was also noted  that water was still transferring from the flat above. It 
was 9 January  2019 before Mr Ms flat was declared  dry. It was March 2019  before all but 
snagging issues remained to be resolved.  Mr M ended up returning from abroad and 
finishing the work himself  during a weeks leave  in April 2019. 
At the time of the leak Mr M had been  intending to let his flat from early January 2019. But it 
was still his main place of residence at the time work began and, due to the on-going repairs, 
through to mid-February 2019. Mr M wasnt offered  alternative accommodation until January 
2019, and then Zurich only allowed this for a couple of weeks,  with a further few days stay at 
the end of January 2019. Mr M has said that Zurich has since  paid him for laundry and food 
costs for the period  his home was uninhabitable.  Once Mr M completed repairs,  he let his 
home within a few weeks.
Mr M complained to Zurich, he felt it had prevented him from letting his flat earlier  and had 
caused him a lot of distress and inconvenience because  it hadnt  dealt with the 
reinstatement of his home in a timely manner. He said work had been poor, causing him to 
finish it, and that some  issues and/or costs remained  outstanding.  In a final response Zurich 
said it would  consider the outstanding issues. It accepted there  had been about  a month of 
delays and offered  to pay Mr M £1,200,  broken down as £900 for one months lost rent and 
£300 compensation.
Mr M wasnt happy. He didnt think Zurich needed time to consider the outstanding issues  
further. In any event he sent it further  information,  at which point he was told his claim and 
complaint were closed  and he should contact this service  if he remained unhappy. Mr M did.
Our investigator felt £1,200 compensation for one months delay was fair and reasonable. 
He felt as Zurich had agreed to consider the outstanding issues, he couldnt comment on 
them. But he did check  with Zurich it was still considering  these. Zurich  said it was. Mr M 
said hed been  asked to send it evidence  again  (which he did), and then heard  nothing more.
Mr M was also unhappy with our investigators understanding of what  had happened. Mr M 
said he had never  been  offered alternative accommodation  this had only been provided  
when hed asked  for it. He felt there  had been  much more of a delay than one month.  His 
complaint was passed to me to decide. 
Ref: DRN50270312Having reviewed matters  I issued a provisional  decision in which I noted that when  Mr M 
complained to Zurich,  he did raise  the outstanding issues. I felt that Zurichs response  to only 
consider them wasnt reasonable  it could have answered them.  I said that I hadnt  seen  
that itd resolved those issues since. So I felt it was fair for me to consider them and went on 
to say what I felt Zurich needed to do in respect  of each issue.  I also said I felt Zurich did 
delay by more  than one month which prevented Mr M renting his flat, so I thought  it should  
pay more to compensate  Mr M for lost rent. 
In reply Mr M provided  some more detail about some  of the outstanding issues Id given my 
view on. But he didnt  object to the rest of my findings. Zurich  was unhappy with my findings. 
It set out detail to explain  why it felt that what it had done to date was sufficient and nothing 
more was due or owing from it. Ive reviewed the relevant responses against my initial 
findings set out below in italics.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
delay
I said provisionally: 
I appreciate  that Mr M thinks Zurich delayed from September  2018  onwards. But Im mindful 
that the leak needed to be fixed and the upstairs  flat needed to dry before Mr Ms property 
could be successfully dried. And whilst  Mr M thinks the leak in the cylinder closet  was minor, 
Ive seen that the moisture levels  in that area were higher than elsewhere. So whilst I do 
think Zurich couldve done more and acted more  quickly between  18 October 2018 (when 
the leak was repaired) and December 2018  (when  the impact of the upstairs flat and the 
cylinder leak were identified), I dont  think its failures during that time really impacted the 
progress of the claim overall.  
But the property  was found to be dry on 9 January  2019. And looking at what remedial 
repairs were needed  I cant see any good  reason why a properly organised reinstatement  
programme shouldnt have completed  by the end of that month.  This was a small flat, there 
was some plastering and re-decoration to do, it was not a complex or time consuming job. 
Or it shouldnt have been if it had been  managed properly, but from the limited  detail Zurich 
has provided it seems it was barely managed  at all.
Zurich disputed that it had caused  delays or failed to manage the repairs, particularly in 
respect of the period from 9 January  2020  onwards. Ive considered what Zurich  has said but 
it shouldnt have taken  four days for a drying  certificate to be issued and the visit arranged 
for 15 January 2020 should  have  been  organised properly. Those failures  alone  caused a 
delay until 29 January 2020.  I remain  of my provisional view that there was no good reason 
for the repair programme  to last as long as it did and that matters, at this time, werent 
managed in a reasonable manner by Zurich.
lost rent
I said provisionally:
Ref: DRN50270313Mr M has shown  his flat might  have let for £850-£875,  and that from going onto the market it 
would likely  take 7  10 days for a tenancy  to be secured. Allowing a short  time for snagging 
and the 7  10 period for arranging a tenancy, I think, if Zurich had managed the 
reinstatement properly, Mr M should have been  able to let his flat from 15 February 2019.
Mr M has said his flat was let from 1 May 2019, and at a value of £825 per month. That 
value across a period  of two and a half months is £2,062.50. Zurich has paid Mr M £900 as 
compensation for lost rent already. I think it should now pay him the difference  remaining of 
£1,162.50. And on each  amount of rent which  makes up the total sum lost, which  Mr M 
should have received but didnt, it will have to add interest* from the date Mr M should have 
received it until settlement  is/was made.
Zurich has said that all works bar some  minor  snagging, which, in its view, wouldnt have 
prevented the flat being marketed, were  completed  by 22 February 2019  so this was the 
date Mr M could  and should  have put the flat on the letting market.  It also said it had offered  
to have its contractors  complete the snagging  work,  or Mr M could  have employed  his own 
contractors to complete  the work  before  his return to the country in April.
When the property  could reasonably have been marketed for letting is debatable. But Im not 
persuaded, given  the extent of necessary snagging   which included fitting a toilet and 
stripping the lining paper in the sitting room, filling in holes  and then re-papering  a tenancy 
would likely  have been secured before work was completed.  I havent  seen any clear offer 
from Zurich to Mr M to complete the snagging work   but I do see that, towards the end of 
March, Zurichs contractor was disputing  the extent of work outstanding.  I can understand 
why Mr M had concerns  about this contractor completing work especially as he was out of 
the country.  Similarly Im not sure it would  be reasonable to say Mr M should have found and 
vetted his own contractor  and allowed them to do the work. All whilst he was out of the 
country. I remain  of the view, as stated provisionally, that Zurich reasonably needs to 
compensate Mr M for lost rent for the period 15 February 2019  until 1 May 2019.
alternative accommodation and upset
I said provisionally:
Zurich has paid £300 for upset. But from what Ive seen I dont think  it ever fully understood 
that Mr M had to live in his uninhabitable property for more than a month  before any 
alternative was arranged. It seems that only happened due to Mr Ms insistence, and was 
only arranged for a short period. 
I think its also important that Mr M was still in recovery at this time from a knee operation.  
His mobility was somewhat limited  and I note that Mr M was asked and expected to move  
large items from his kitchen to allow the strip out work to be undertaken.
I also see that Mr M had some inconvenience  when the contractors changed his locks.  
There was also, as Ive mentioned  above, some poor management and miscommunication 
which caused issues such as delays but also at least one appointment had to be 
rescheduled.
I can understand why Mr M became frustrated  with the progress of work as February and 
March came around without the property being  fully reinstated. I see Mr M decided  to travel  
home from working abroad  to finish the work himself. Ive dealt with his actually doing the 
Ref: DRN50270314work and the cost of his flight in my section below on outstanding issues/costs. But I accept 
that to have to rearrange things to allow himself  to do this was inconvenient and frustrating. 
Overall, I think £300 compensation for everything  Mr M suffered as result  of Zurichs failures 
during this claim is not fair and reasonable. I propose to make it pay a total of £750.
Zurich said it had arranged alternative  accommodation for Mr M in November and he had 
stayed in accommodation through to January. It said it had moved items for Mr M and he 
had acknowledged  this in an email. It said it had done more  than was needed to in respect  of 
resolving concerns Mr M had about  the keys to his property. Zurich  said if Mr M did indeed  
choose to travel home from abroad to complete  snagging issues,  that was his choice (it feels 
Mr M may have been coming home at that time anyway).
There is no contemporaneous  file data showing Mr M was in alternative accommodation 
from November 2018 until January  2019. He has always  denied  even having been offered 
somewhere else to live as early as November. There is a contemporaneous email from Mr M 
dated 2 January 2019 which talks about a few days hotel accommodation having been  
organised at that time and which was providing him with some  temporary relief from living  in 
the flat and staying with friends. And the loss adjusters report  from 7 January 2019 says 
alternative accommodation is required with Zurich having currently  placed  Mr M in a hotel. 
I remain of the view that Zurich let Mr M down in respect of alternative accommodation.
Zurich may well, at some  point, have  arranged a removal  service  for some items.  But it was 
white goods Mr M told us he was expected to move from the kitchen and the 
acknowledgement Zurich has quoted to us, which  it says came in an email from Mr M, only 
refers to large furniture  items in the sitting room being moved  for Mr M. Ive not seen 
anything to make me doubt Mr M felt he had to move large appliances.
I think that Mr M and Zurichs views  on what happened in respect  of the keys vary quite a lot. 
And theres  little contemporaneous detail to inform me more  conclusively in this respect. In 
any event, even if Zurich  went above and beyond (as it says) to resolve this issue, that 
doesnt make up for other failures  which occurred such as poor communication and missed 
appointments.  
Ive explained  above that I think it was reasonable for Mr M to not want  Zurichs contractor to 
complete the snagging work   and that it wasnt reasonable for him to find his own contractor 
and allow  them to complete all the work whilst he was out of the country. So Mr M would 
have needed to return to either find and oversee the work, or to do it himself. And whilst 
Zurich has suggested  that Mr M may have been planning to return to the UK in April 2019 in 
any event, for a visit or such like, that seems no more than pure speculation.  
Having reviewed the complaint and this section  of my provisional findings in light of Zurichs 
objections, Im not minded to change anything. I remain of the view that Zurich caused  Mr M 
a lot of distress and inconvenience and that to make up for everything it put him through a 
total of £750 compensation is fairly and reasonably due.
outstanding issues/costs
I said provisionally that these could be summarised  as follows:
Replacement locks and keys  receipts  provided  to Zurich for locks,  £10 for keys
Replacement kitchen worktop and towel rail  worktop £77.96,  towel  rail not declared
Ref: DRN50270315Replacement bookcase and fire  bookcase not declared, fire and surround £2,358
Damaged clothes   cost not declared
Mr Ms return flight  cost not declared
Mr M completing  works  evidenced by a contractors quote for £860
Locks and keys
I said provisionally: Zurich said it would pay a reasonable price  for replacement locks.  Mr M 
sent it evidence  of his outlay. Neither  party shared this with us. In the absence  of evidence 
as to Mr Ms actual cost, I think £50 is a reasonable sum. Mr M did get a key cut which cost 
him £10. I think Zurich should pay him £60. As it doesnt seem  in doubt that Mr M paid for his 
locks to be changed, Im going to say Zurich  should  pay interest on the sum of £50 as well 
as the £10 for the key to be cut, from the date the spare key was paid for  11 April 2019.  If 
either party wants to argue  for more or less, or a change in the date interest is to be applied 
from, Ill need to see relevant  evidence to support their argument  in response to this 
provisional decision.  
Zurich has said, and Mr M has agreed , that payment  for the locks  and keys,  totalling 
£131.50, was paid to Mr M in September 2020. So I wont require Zurich to make a further 
reimbursement in respect of these items. But I note that Mr M first sent Zurich proof 
regarding this outlay  in March 2019  and Ive seen no good  reason for Zurich not reimbursing 
it until eighteen months later. I remain of the view that Zurich should  pay interest on the 
settlement. So Im going to say Zurich should pay Mr M an amount equivalent  to interest  on 
the sum of £131.50 from 11 April 2019 until reimbursement was made in September  2020.  
Worktop and towel rail
I said provisionally: the former was damaged, the towel  rail was removed for work to be 
done. Neither was replaced by Zurich. Im satisfied Zurich should  reimburse  Mr Ms costs for 
these, plus interest* from the date Mr M paid for them until settlement  in made. For me to 
award the cost of the towel rail in my final decision though Ill need to see evidence of this in 
response to these provisional  findings, otherwise Ill only make Zurich pay for the worktop.
Zurich has said, and Mr M has agreed, that it paid Mr M £97.96  in settlement for both these 
items in September 2020. Therefore, as with the settlement for locks and keys,  I wont  
require Zurich to make a further reimbursement of these costs.  Differently  though to my 
findings on locks  and keys, I cant be sure when Mr M provided proof of his replacement 
purchases to Zurich. That said I note he sent other  documents  as soon as he obtained them. 
And that he has chased Zurich for payments since, with it having been  the party delaying 
resolution. I also know the flat was re-let by 1 May 2019. So Im going to require Zurich  to 
pay interest to Mr M on the sums  he paid for the above items, from 1 May 2019 until it 
reimbursed his outlay  in September 2020. I think using  the 1 May 2019 as the starting date 
for interest  is fair because Im satisfied  that, by then, Mr M had incurred that outlay and 
Zurich had most likely  had a reasonable chance to reimburse it, but hadnt done so.  
Bookcase and fire
I said provisionally: Mr M said the bookcase  was damaged. I havent seen evidence of this, 
or its cost to repair/replace. Im not currently minded to make Zurich  pay for this. Mr M said 
he chose to replace  the surround, so doesnt  expect Zurich to contribute to that, but that the 
fire was damaged  by dust from the work. I havent  seen any evidence of this, nor do I see 
that Mr M provided evidence or sought  assistance  from Zurich about this before he replaced 
the fire. So Im not going to ask Zurich to pay anything for these two items.
Ref: DRN50270316Neither party responded in respect  of the bookcase. Regarding the fire Mr M said he has no 
evidence from the fitter about the damage  to the fire, only photos  showing the area was 
damp and hed acted quickly to replace it without  waiting to try and deal further with Zurich,  
which, in his view,  would  have caused  a delay. 
I appreciate Mr M felt he had to act  but in doing  so he prevented Zurich from being able to 
assess the fire. Mr M did say the fire was suffering from dust and corrosion. But a photo 
taken after the fire was removed, showing that the area around and under the fire was damp, 
doesnt evidence  that the fire itself was damaged beyond repair due to either dust or 
because it had corroded due to damp. My view on these items hasnt changed, Im not going  
to make Zurich pay for them.
Damaged clothes
I said provisionally: Im not going  to make Zurich pay for these. Ideally Mr Ms items  should 
have been removed to storage during late October 2018, once Zurich realised the leak had 
only just been  stopped  and strip-out works  as well as drying was required.  But Mr M says the 
clothes were damaged  by long-term damp, and the fact the leak was on-going for so long 
before it was resolved wasnt Zurichs fault. So Im not going to ask Zurich to pay anything  
for Mr Ms damaged clothes.
Neither party objected. My provisional findings havent changed. 
Flight
I said provisionally: Mr M took action to mitigate  his and Zurichs loss from not being able to 
rent the property.  If Mr M provides me with evidence of his flight  and its cost in response to 
this provisional decision,  Ill likely make Zurich reimburse  it, plus interest* from the date Mr M 
paid for it until settlement  is made.  If I dont  see proof of this, I wont make any award.
Zurich said it feels it isnt responsible for Mr M having come  back to do work and so 
shouldnt have to reimburse his costs.  Mr M explained that he had driven home from France, 
including a ferry crossing in his journey, rather than flying. He gave some explanation of his 
mileage for the journey  and showed his cost incurred for the ferry.
Ive answered Zurichs  objection on liability for this elsewhere in my findings. I noted  Mr Ms 
journey involved  300.5 miles of driving  in addition  to the ferry crossing. I told both parties 
I thought Zurich should pay Mr M the HMRC rate for the 300.5 miles travelled  by car and 
£154.00 plus interest*  from 25 March 2019  until settlement is made, to reimburse his cost for 
the ferry crossing. Neither party objected to this settlement. Therefore, and as I think its a 
fair and reasonable way of resolving  this issue, Im going to make an award in this respect.
Mr M doing the work
I said provisionally: Mr M did complete work.  So I cant reasonably  make  Zurich pay him 
what it would  have  cost him had he used a contractor to do that. But Mr M had a cost in 
terms of his own time and effort, as well for any materials.  Im prepared  to say Zurich should 
pay him £300 to compensate him for completing  this work. I wont be asking Zurich to pay 
interest on this sum as its a purely compensatory amount.
Zurich has said, and Mr M has agreed, that it had paid Mr M £1,089.48 for the cost of works.  
I think that adequately compensates Mr M for any outlay or inconvenience he had. Im not 
going to require it to pay anything more.
Ref: DRN50270317my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  I require Zurich Insurance PLC to pay Mr M:
£1,162.50  as reimbursement for lost rent.
In line with my comments above, an amount equivalent to interest*  on the rental  amounts 
that should have been obtained between 15 February to 30 April 2019 until settlement 
is/was made.
£450 as further compensation  for upset (making total compensation paid for this £750).
An amount  equivalent  to interest*  on the sum of £131.50, applied  from 11 April 2019  until 
reimbursement of this sum was made in September 2020.
An amount  equivalent  to interest*  on the sum of £97.96, applied  from 1 May 2019 until 
reimbursement of this sum was made in September 2020.
An amount  to reimburse  Mr Ms mileage costs for driving  300.5  miles  to get home,  using 
the HMRC rate.
£154 as reimbursement of the ferry cost,  plus interest*  from 25 March 2019  until 
settlement is made.
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the amounts  specified and from/to the dates stated. If Zurich 
Insurance PLC considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs  to take off income tax from any interest  due to Mr M, it 
should tell him how much  its taken off. It should also give Mr M a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim 
the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 September  2021.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5027031