K821x#15complaint
Mr D complains that Amtrust Europe  Limited  declined his gadget insurance claims. My 
references to Amtrust  include its agents.
background
Mr D took out gadget  insurance in May 2018. The policy schedule shows  the gadgets  
insured as a laptop and headphones. Mr D lost both items while  travelling and submitted 
claims for each. He sent several pieces of information to Amtrust in support of his claims, 
including a screenshot of his iCloud account listing all his devices, both old and current.
Amtrust declined the claim. It said the serial  number for the laptop Mr D had given when  he 
took out the policy was different to the one on the iCloud screenshot.  Mr D told it hed 
mistakenly given the serial number for an old laptop that hed previously made  a theft claim 
for with another insurer. Amtrust said the laptop Mr D claimed for hadnt been registered  on 
the policy so wasnt covered.
Mr D complained to us. He said hed made a genuine error in giving the wrong serial 
number, both laptops were the same make and model and hed selected the wrong one by 
mistake. He also said Amtrust hadnt  given a reason  for declining  his claim for the 
headphones.
Our investigator thought Mr D had made a genuine  mistake about the laptop serial number. 
Hed asked Amtrust about Mr Ds headphone claim and it said there  was no serial number 
registered on the policy for the headphones  so they weren't  covered. Our investigator 
thought the policy schedule did show the number for the headphones. He recommended 
Amtrust reassess the claims as if the correct serial numbers had been provided.
Amtrust disagrees and wants an ombudsmans  decision. It said Mr Ds iCloud account 
showed he owned multiple' laptops. It queried  whether it was expected to provide cover on 
all of them  until Mr D decided which he needed  to claim for. It also said the number on the 
policy schedule for the headphones was a part number that applied  to the retailer, not the 
serial number.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I uphold this complaint.  Amtrust must reassess the claims  for both the laptop  and 
headphones as Ive detailed below.  Ill explain  why.
I accept the policy is clear that to be covered under this policy  the gadget(s) must be 
registered on the schedule of insurance.  The laptop  top and headphones are registered but 
not with the relevant serial  numbers,  which is what the schedule requires. So on a strict  
interpretation of the policy terms Mr Ds claims arent covered.
However, Im persuaded that Mr D did make  a genuine error in providing  the serial  number 
for his laptop. When Amtrust queried  the different serial number, Mr D explained the error 
and sent Amtrust details  of his claim for the stolen  laptop from the insurer  at the time. 
Amtrust hasnt shown any evidence that the stolen  laptop  is still in Mr Ds possession.
Ref: DRN58518822Mr D's now given Amtrust the correct serial number for the lost laptop. I dont think Mr D had 
anything to gain by providing  his stolen laptops serial number. I dont think its a way to 
possibly claim for multiple laptops as Amtrust seems to suggest.  Mr Ds iCloud account 
doesnt show he has multiple laptops. It shows the laptop that was stolen, the lost laptop  and 
a laptop that looks to be owned by someone  else.
A fair and reasonable outcome is for Amtrust to reconsider the claim for the laptop, as if the 
correct serial number had been provided originally, in line with the remaining policy  terms 
and limits.
It would have been fair for Amtrust to have told Mr D why it declined  the claim for the 
headphones, and for it to have been clearer  to our investigator about the number that was 
registered on the policy schedule. Amtrust has now told us the number registered is a part 
number for the retailer, not the serial  number. It's never raised that issue  with Mr D or given 
him the opportunity to provide the headphones  serial number or any information  around why 
he gave the other number. So it must give Mr D that opportunity and reasonably  reassess 
the claim for the headphones.  
If the parties  cant reach agreement about  the claim for the laptop and/or headphones after 
the reassessments Mr D can ultimately make  another complaint to us.
Our investigator suggested Amtrust  pay interest  if the claims succeed.  I havent  made  that 
order as I cant presume  the claims will succeed. Amtrust may want to consider adding  
interest if either/both  of the claims are successful.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I require Amtrust Europe Limited to:
reassess Mr Ds claim for his laptop, as if the correct  serial number had been 
provided originally, and in line with the remaining policy terms and limits, and 
reassess Mr Ds claim for his headphones  in line with the remaining policy  terms and 
limits.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 March  2019.
Nicola Sisk
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5851882