K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs R had a premier  account at HSBC  UK Bank Plc. They  complain that soon after 
they agreed to take a product fixing the interest  rate on their mortgage for five years,  with an 
early repayment charge,  HSBC informed them that they didnt qualify for premier banking  
because it had changed the rules.
HSBC said they must  have Mr Rs salary  paid into the account. He told it that they no longer 
wished to use HSBC  under  those terms. But HSBC said that if they decided to exit the bank 
and pay off the mortgage taking it elsewhere they would  be charged additional costs for 
early repayment.
To resolve  their complaint  Mr and Mrs R want either to either remain premier  account 
holders or be able to exit their mortgage with HSBC without incurring an early repayment  
charge.
background
On returning from 17 years living overseas, Mr and Mrs R took out a mortgage with HSBC. 
There was a two-year fixed  interest mortgage  product. Two years  later in April 2016 they 
returned to HSBC to check out their options. The HSBC adviser said she could give them a 
premier account, they didnt need  to pay any salary  into it. They  took a further two-year  fixed  
interest product.
Two years later in May 2018  they reviewed their options again and decided to take a five-
year fixed  interest product. Like most  such products this provides for a charge to be made if 
the mortgage is redeemed early, for example as a result of the borrower transferring to 
another lender.
Mr and Mrs R say that straight after they signed  and were  locked in, they received a letter 
from HSBC informing them that they werent eligible for premier  banking, and that HSBC 
would close this account and replace it with a standard  one. Mr and Mrs R say this is 
unacceptable and not fair behaviour.
On their complaint  to HSBC it said they didnt  meet the criteria for premier  banking. These 
included having  an income mandated into HSBC. Mr and Mrs R had said they were unhappy 
because when they converted to premier  banking in 2016, HSBC  had advised it wouldnt be 
an issue that Mr Rs salary  wasnt  credited  to the premier account. However at that time the 
eligibility criteria  were  different.  Customers  had to have a minimum salary  but this didnt 
need to be credited into their HSBC account.
Mr and Mrs R then brought their complaint to this service but our investigator didnt 
recommend it be upheld. He said the premier account was opened  in March 2016. HSBC  
had changed the eligibility  criteria  in September 2016. The new criteria  required customers 
to pay their annual income  into the premier account. 
The investigator said HSBC had written to Mr and Mrs R on 26 July 2018 giving them notice  
to follow  the criteria or be downgraded to a current account. It said this letter being sent to 
Mr and Mrs R after they had just taken a new mortgage product was purely coincidental. It 
was a mass  review and all affected  customers were sent correspondence at around the 
same time. The investigator  said that having a premier  account wasnt  a condition of, nor 
Ref: DRN53017812was it connected  to, Mr and Mrs Rs mortgage. Therefore this correspondence  wouldnt have 
been sent to them because they had just taken  a new mortgage product.
The investigator could  also see that at the time of applying  for the premier  account Mr and 
Mrs R had signed a declaration which stated:
 If I no longer meet  the premier criteria my account will be converted  to a HSBC bank 
account.
Mr and Mrs R didnt believe this was a fair outcome and asked for an ombudsman to look at 
the case. They said that after they had signed  up for a further five years,  HSBC  had only 
then decided to make the change and remove them from the premier account. This wasnt  
professional or acceptable behaviour. It was unfair bullying tactics.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Paragraph 12 of the personal banking terms and conditions says that HSBC  can make 
changes to eligibility requirements  at any time.  So it was entitled to change  the criteria  for 
having a premier account. 
But Mr and Mrs Rs case is that HSBC unfairly changed the criteria just after theyd  taken a 
five-year fixed interest product in May 2018.  It changed the rules after locking them  in.
HSBC says it changed the premier  account criteria for all its customers, and then it reviewed 
those premier account customers who didnt meet the new criteria.  This procedure had no 
connection with Mr and Mrs Rs mortgage.  
I cant see that Mr and Mrs R were  singled  out in the way they allege. It seems  to me that the 
changes which HSBC  made to its eligibility criteria applied  to everybody who had, or wanted 
to have, premier banking. Im not persuaded that HSBC  applied changes to its premier 
banking criteria intending by unfair  bullying tactics to discourage one account holder, 
Mr and Mrs R, from remortgaging with another lender. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  8 June 2019. 
Edward Callaghan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5301781