K820x#14Complaint
Mr S complains that Provident  Personal Credit Limited (trading as Satsuma Loans) lent 
money to him that he couldnt afford to repay.
Background
Based on the information, Satsuma Loans  provided Mr S with two loans,  one in March 2018 
and one in May 2018.
Mr S says that adequate checks werent  carried out before the loans were  provided. He says 
the loans were unaffordable.   
Satsuma Loans  says that all applications for loans go through  full credit worthiness and 
affordability assessments using both internal and external data. It says that the information 
gathered before the loans  were  provided to Mr S suggested they were affordable.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold this complaint. He said that given the size of the first loan and 
what was apparent about Mr S circumstances at the time he didnt think it wouldve been 
proportionate for Satsuma  Loans  to ask Mr S for the amount of information  needed  to show  
the lending was unsustainable. He did think  that before the second loan was provided  
Satsuma Loans  should have asked  for more information but said that based on what  he had 
seen he didnt think this would have shown that the loan was unsustainable. 
Mr S didnt accept our adjudicators view. He said his claim was the same  as claims he had 
made against other short term loan providers and that these had been  upheld.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.
Satsuma Loans  needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Mr S could repay the loans in a sustainable  manner. These checks  could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Satsuma Loans should  fairly and reasonably  
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer.  These factors  
include:
the lower  a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet  a 
higher repayment  from a particular  level of income);
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing  may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
Ref: DRN51694682There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Satsuma Loans was required to 
establish whether  Mr S could sustainably repay his loans - not just whether the loan 
payments were affordable on a strict  pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC), defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  
repayments on time, while meeting other  reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont  be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ss complaint. I note Mr S comments  about other 
complaints he has had upheld but each case is treated on its individual merits and my 
decision is based on what I consider fair and reasonable  given the circumstances of this 
specific complaint.
Mr S was provided with the first loan in March 2018. This was for £400 repayable over 12 
monthly instalments  of around £66 per month.  At the time, Mr S income was recorded  as 
£1,950 and information gathered on his expenses  initially suggested he had a disposable 
income of over £1,000 but this was revised down to around £880. As this was Mr S first loan 
from Satsuma Loans  and given the size of the repayments compared  to his income, I find 
that the checks carried out were sufficient. These didnt raise concerns about  the affordability  
of the loan and so I do not find that I can say this loan shouldnt have been provided.
The second  loan was for a much larger amount (£800) and was provided while  the first loan 
was still outstanding. Therefore the repayments  under both loans  need  to be considered.  
The second  loan was repayable over 12 months with monthly  repayments  of around £133 
bringing the total monthly repayments  under  both loans  to around £200. By the time of the 
second loan, Mr S declared income had increased. Information was gathered  on Mr S 
expenses and a credit check was undertaken. 
Again I find these checks were reasonable and as these didnt suggest  the loan was 
unaffordable I do not find that I have  enough  to say this loan shouldnt  have been provided. 
Overall, I do not find that I have  enough  to say that these two loans shouldnt have been  
provided.
Ref: DRN51694683My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 January 2020.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5169468