K821x#15complaint
Mrs H through her relative  Mr H complains that Aviva Insurance Limited acted unfairly  and 
unreasonably in relation to a boiler service and care insurance policy. They want Aviva  to 
pay for the costs of a new boiler.
background
Mrs H had a boiler service and care insurance  policy with Aviva, and the boiler was 
inspected in October 2018  by Avivas engineers to check that it was fit to be covered by the 
policy. The boiler  passed the check.  But in December 2018,  the boiler broke and Avivas 
engineer said that it was dangerous and condemned it. The gas supply to the entire property 
was also cut off as Avivas engineer said that it wasnt  possible to isolate just the boiler. 
Mrs H had to heat the property using electric  heaters and to cook on camping stoves, which  
meant she suffered  financial  loss. She then instructed  an independent engineer  who isolated 
the broken boiler from the propertys  gas supply (Mrs H said he did this very quickly and 
easily) and installed a new boiler. 
Mrs H complained to Aviva, saying that its engineers passed  a dangerous boiler as fit in 
October 2018 and then left her family without gas in December 2018.  She also complained  
that she didnt  have any faith in its staff to fit a new boiler, which  was why shed paid the 
independent engineer to do the work. Aviva said that the boiler shouldnt  have  been  
approved as fit in October 2018  and paid £250  compensation, together with a refund  of the 
£60 excess fee paid by Mrs H and the insurance premium (as the boiler shouldnt have been 
covered by the policy in the first place).
Mr H complained to us on Mrs Hs behalf.  Mrs H pointed out that shed had to buy electric 
heaters while  the entire gas supply was shut off unnecessarily  by Aviva.  The investigator 
talked to Aviva about its standard  response  when a customer  was left without heating and 
was told it would supply  heaters or contribute towards the cost of a heater. The investigators 
view was that the terms and conditions of the policy said that if the boiler was found to be 
beyond economic repair or obsolete (as Mrs Hs had been) in the first six months of the 
policy, the cover could be changed to exclude  the boiler and in some circumstances a refund 
of the premium given.  She thought Avivas refund of the excess  fee and premium  was fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances, but it didnt  need to cover  the costs  of the new 
boiler as it wasnt covered  by the terms of the policy.
The investigator said that engineers were best qualified to decide  whether the entire  gas 
supply needed  to be shut off, and Mrs H agreed  at the time according to the notes of the 
engineer made at the time. But she said that Aviva  shouldve  left Mrs H some temporary 
heating as it was winter and in line with its own internal policies. The investigator said Aviva  
should pay for the heater Mrs H bought (£39.99),  but nothing further as the policy excluded 
Aviva from paying for the costs of running  temporary heaters. She thought that £250  
compensation for the trouble and upset  suffered  by Mrs H was fair and reasonable.
Ref: DRN58937172Mr H disagreed. He didnt accept that the boiler  was obsolete as he could get parts  and said 
Aviva should  pay for the costs of the new boiler  as its staff couldnt  be trusted by Mrs H; he 
suspected that the boiler couldve been repaired economically. Aviva  also disagreed; it said 
that it shouldnt  pay for Mrs Hs electric heater and said that the insurance policy only 
provided heaters  if its engineer couldnt attend  on the same day or the next day, but its 
engineer attended the day after the boiler  broke  down. The investigator pointed out to Aviva  
that its staff had told her that when the gas supply was shut off, heaters were generally  
supplied; Aviva said that the member of staff had given  irrelevant  information  and the 
wording of the policy itself took priority. The investigator also told Mr H that it was clear  that 
the boiler shouldnt have  passed the October  check, and therefore could be reasonably  
considered as beyond economic repair.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs Hs insurance  policy  covered emergencies and incidents affecting her central  heating, 
plumbing, drainage  and electrics (amongst other things), which was why Aviva sent an 
engineer when her boiler stopped working properly in December. The policy  also says that 
theres a £60 excess fee for each claim.
Theres no dispute that the boiler  shouldnt have passed the check in October, but I have to 
consider what wouldve  happened if things had gone as they shouldve.  Mrs Hs boiler 
wouldnt have been covered and when the boiler  broke, I think  its more likely than not that 
she wouldve had to pay for a new boiler (as her independent engineer replaced, rather  than 
repaired, the boiler). 
And the terms and conditions of the policy make  it clear that if the boiler broke beyond 
economic repair  or became obsolete in the first six months, it would be removed from the 
policy and a refund of premiums may be given.  By allowing  Mrs H to end the policy, and 
refunding the excess fee and premiums, this is what Aviva has done and I think  its fair and 
reasonable. It isnt required  to pay for a new boiler due to the terms and conditions and 
because a new boiler was likely to be required in any event. Whether or not Mr H is able to 
get parts is irrelevant  as the boiler shouldnt have been covered by the policy  in the first 
place and it sets out what  happens if the boiler  breaks down in the first six months.
But Aviva left Mrs H without  any heating, despite telling the investigator that its usual policy  
is to supply temporary heaters or pay the reasonable  costs  of the consumer in buying such 
heaters. In this case, I think that the fair and reasonable outcome is that Aviva  pays for 
Mrs Hs electric heater. Avivas engineer shut off the whole gas supply, rather  than isolate 
the boiler (despite it being possible as the independent engineer  managed to do so). The 
policy covers the situation when the boiler is broken  and an engineer  is delayed;  it doesnt 
cover the situation  when  the engineer shuts  down  the entire gas supply. The investigator 
asked Aviva what happens in such situations  and was told it would supply or pay for 
temporary heating.  And I also think if an engineer shuts down the entire  gas supply in winter, 
its fair and reasonable for a customer of a home emergency policy  to expect some 
assistance.
Ref: DRN58937173I think its fair and reasonable for the cost of Mrs H buying one electric heater to be paid by 
Aviva in the circumstances (£39.99).  I also note that the policy excludes Aviva  from paying 
for the costs of running  temporary heaters. I think this is fair and reasonable as Aviva was 
trying to contact Mrs H about the next steps  and she resolved the situation herself promptly.
In relation to the point about  the engineer shutting  off the entire gas supply,  rather than 
isolating the boiler, I dont have  an independent  report about this, but note that the 
independent engineer did manage to isolate the boiler. While Avivas engineer says Mrs H 
agreed, it isnt clear  if there was a detailed discussion at the time about  alternatives.  Mrs H 
was clearly willing to try to manage without gas, but Im not persuaded from the evidence 
from Aviva  that she had to do so. But I think this is a point best considered when looking at 
compensation for trouble  and upset.
Money never  truly compensates for trouble and upset. I think  Mrs H was caused upset by 
Avivas failure to accurately identify the state of the boiler in October 2018, and 
inconvenienced by the entire gas supply being shut off. I dont accept Aviva was at fault for 
not paying for a new boiler so Mrs Hs upset  about this shouldnt  receive  compensation. I 
think in all the circumstances  £250 compensation is fair and reasonable.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint  and Aviva  Insurance Limited should pay 
Mrs H £39.99. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask 
Mrs H to accept  or reject  my decision before  11 August 2019.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5893717