K820x#14complaint
Mrs U complains about the service she received from the Nationwide Building Society 
(Nationwide) when she asked for help in getting money back on a transaction she felt she 
was overcharged  for.
background
In April 2019 Mrs U applied online, through a third party company (E), for two visas  to allow  
her to visit Turkey. She saw that the cost of the visas would be $20 per visa, but when she 
came to the end of the application process it did not say what the final overall cost would be. 
Mrs U assumed that she would be paying  the $20 cost for each the visa and so went ahead 
with each transaction paying for each visa separately and using  her Nationwide  credit  card.  
When she looked at her account she saw that she had been  charged £76.23  per visa.
Mrs U contacted Nationwide  who said that E had provided the service  she had asked for and 
so declined to make a chargeback claim. And with regard  to a claim under Section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act, as each transaction she had made was outside of the £100 - £30,000 
financial limit a claim could not be made. So Nationwide did not believe it had done anything  
wrong and it rejected her complaint.
Mrs U was unhappy with Nationwides  response and so an investigator from this service  
looked into the complaint but didnt  think  Nationwide  had done anything  wrong.  Mrs U 
disagreed with that view and so the matter  has been passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I will not repeat the investigators 
summary of the background  to this complaint because it is accurate  and full and I want to 
avoid repetition.  But, if it appears that I havent mentioned something it is not because I have 
ignored it, but because  I dont think  its relevant  to the issues I have to decide.  
My decisions  are based on the evidence in front of me. Where such evidence  is incomplete, 
inconclusive or contradictory, I am bound to reach a decision on the balance  of probabilities 
 in other words,  I consider what is more  likely  to have happened in light of that evidence  
and the wider circumstances of the case.  
When Mrs U contacted  Nationwide she asked for their help. Nationwide  considered both a 
chargeback and a potential  claim  under  Section 75. The former is a process by which some 
disputes are resolved between card issuers and merchants  under the relevant card scheme.  
Credit card providers dont need  to start a chargeback, but generally we say its good 
practice for it to try one if theres  a reasonable prospect of success. Nationwide  considered  
that E had provided the service Mrs U had asked for, namely  the provision of each visa. That 
is sufficient for Nationwide to believe, reasonably, that a chargeback  dispute  wouldnt be 
successful so under the terms of the scheme it didnt have to pursue it. So, I think that was a 
reasonable conclusion to reach in the circumstances. 
In certain circumstances, section 75 gives a consumer an equal right to claim against the 
supplier of goods or services, and the provider of the credit,  if theres been a breach of 
contract or misrepresentation by the supplier. But there are financial limits.  For each 
transaction complained about  the value of the transaction has to be within  £100  - £30,000, 
Ref: DRN56906122and in Mrs Us case each  transaction was not. I appreciate  that the combined total of her 
transactions was over £100, but it is the transaction amount  which is the critical figure.
I also appreciate that Mrs U says she was not told of the overall cost of the service  and 
made the assumption that the cost would be $20 per visa. So it seems to me that Mrs U 
decided to complete  the transaction without verifying  what the true cost would be, and that is 
unfortunate. I, like our investigator  cannot therefore say that she has been  overcharged  
since she was never  given it would seem  an initial  price.
What I need to decide is whether the Nationwide have acted fairly and reasonably in how it 
dealt with Mrs U. I must of course make it clear that the role of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service is to resolve individual complaints and to award redress  where  it is appropriate so to 
do. I do not perform  the role of the industry regulator, and nor do I have the power  to make 
rules for financial businesses, punish them,  or direct that they change their processes.  This 
is not a court  service and my aim is to ensure  that a fair and reasonable outcome  has been 
achieved. 
I think we have an unfortunate situation  here, but I do feel that Nationwide dealt with Mrs U 
fairly and explained why they were unable to help her. So Im not satisfied that Nationwide  
have treated Mrs U unfairly,  and so Im not upholding her complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I do not uphold the complaint against Nationwide  Building  
Society.
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs U to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 November  2019.
Jonathan Willis
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5690612