K821x#15complaint
Mr R has complained J.P. Morgan Europe Limited, trading as Post Office Card Account,  
wont refund  him for cash withdrawals he didnt authorise in 2016  and 2017 totalling £19,320.
Mr R is represented in this complaint by his nephew, Mr C.
background
In 2017 Mr R got a friend from his church to help him complain  to J P Morgan (JPM)  about  
his Post Office Card Account. A lot of money  had been taken out of his account which hed 
not authorised.  JPM sent back a final response  dated 20 October 2017 saying they believed 
Mr R had given his card and PIN to someone. As this was contrary  to the terms and 
conditions of the account, they wouldnt refund him.
Mr R had lost more  than £19,000 from his PO card account. This had been his life savings: 
taken from his account by a neighbour. This person had aggressively  withdrawn  lots of 
money  mostly at cash  machines  at very regular  intervals. Mr R hadnt used his account in 
this way as he tended  to only withdraw cash over the counter  at two bank branches.  He 
generally withdrew £300 or thereabouts in cash  every fortnight. Hed never been comfortable 
using his card and PIN and this had exacerbated as his health had declined.
Mr C discovered  in 2018 that Mr R was in a very difficult  financial situation. He couldnt  meet  
his regular bills and was starting to get worrying letters about his debts with potential  
enforcement action. Mr C then discovered  what  had caused this situation.  Mr C, on Mr Rs 
behalf, brought his complaint to the ombudsman  service in August 2018.
JPM disputed our power to consider Mr Rs complaint. More than six months had passed  
since JPM had sent Mr R their final response. Mr C shared information about Mr Rs health. 
Hed been diagnosed with Alzheimers disease  and vascular dementia in October  2018 but 
his health had been declining for a period before that. He was particularly having  difficulty  
with detail. 
As our investigator wasnt able to get JPM to agree, an ombudsman  completed a decision 
on whether our service  had jurisdiction. I confirmed what  happened  to Mr R amounted  to 
exceptional circumstances  and therefore our service could consider Mr Rs complaint.
Our investigator then went on to consider  the merits of Mr Rs complaint.  He felt it wasnt  fair 
or reasonable to say Mr R had acted grossly  negligent because  of his health. He asked JPM 
to repay  the disputed  transactions  along with 8% simple interest. He also felt JPM should 
pay Mr R £200 in compensation.
JPM disagreed with this outcome. They reminded us Mr R had breached  his terms and 
conditions by keeping  his card and PIN accessible to a third party. They  also questioned why 
the investigator had mentioned cash machine withdrawals from 2015 as the original 
complaint had only referred to withdrawals from 28 July 2016.  They  confirmed theyd placed 
a block on Mr Rs account from September  to December 2016. When  they notified  him of 
this, it should  have alerted him to what was going  on.
JPM asked an ombudsman to consider  Mr Rs complaint.
Ref: DRN55972872I completed a provisional decision on 23 June 2020. I also upheld the complaint but felt 
Mr Rs regular costs needed  to be taken into account. This meant I was asking JPM to 
refund a reduced amount.
JPM accepted  this outcome. Mr C, on Mr Rs behalf didnt. He disagreed with my 
calculations which suggested  Mr R would have  used some of the disputed  funds for living  
expenses. He believed Mr R was using less money  than Id calculated and submitted further 
evidence to show from March 2016 to March  2017 Mr R was withdrawing an average of 
£400 a month.
I shared Mr Cs calculations with JPM asking them for further comments. I received none.
I now have all I need to complete  the final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive taken Mr Cs comments  into account 
when reviewing the issues again.  Ive referred  to these  below where  I believe its 
appropriate. 
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance  and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
The Payment Services Regulations primarily  require banks to refund customers if they didnt 
make or authorise payments themselves. Certain  other circumstances do apply  specifically 
in this type of case whether the customer was grossly negligent in looking after their card 
and PIN  but nothing else thats had a marked impact on the decision Im making here.  So 
when we look at whether  a bank has acted fairly in rejecting someones fraud  complaint,  one 
of the things we consider is whether the customer made  the transactions  themselves or 
allowed them to be made. If they did, then we generally wouldnt ask the bank to refund 
them. We then go on to consider whether the customer has acted in a manner that could be 
seen as grossly negligent.
So to help me decide what happened, Ive looked at the evidence of the transactions, as well 
as what both JPM and Mr C, on behalf of Mr R, have told us. 
Firstly I can see the timeline of events, each  partys testimony and how the transactions  
were made were covered in our investigators  view of 3 April 2020.  I dont intend to repeat 
everything that was said there. I will, of course,  refer to those aspects which form the basis  
of my decision. I can reassure Mr R and JPM Ive read the file thoroughly  and considered all 
the issues raised.
The following  summarises what Ive considered:
A friend of Mr R first raised his dispute with JPM in October  2017.  Her written 
testimony of what happened matches  the evidence Mr C has given us. This laid out 
the details of the dispute.
It shows Mr R regularly withdrawing  cash himself  and then becoming reliant on a 
neighbour for assistance when he became unwell.
Ref: DRN55972873Reviewing Mr Rs statements  which both Mr C and another friend of Mr Rs 
annotated  I can see Mr R predominantly withdrew  cash  from his JPM account by 
visiting one of two branches on a regular basis. He often withdrew about £200 on a 
fortnightly basis as demonstrated  by statements from March  2016 to March  2017.
Our investigator mentioned 22 cash machine withdrawals made between 
October 2015 and March 2017  which JPM questioned. These totalled £4,500. In fact 
our investigators view makes  it clear these withdrawals are not in dispute. I believe 
these were authorised  by Mr R. He either  specifically gave his card and PIN to his 
neighbour to make  withdrawals on his behalf  or made some of these himself.
That doesnt mean, however, that Mr R authorised the almost  daily withdrawals of 
about £250 that started on 28 July 2016,  and again on 14 January 2017.
I see no reason to doubt  the testimony that Mr Rs neighbour once realising the 
amount of pension  remaining in Mr Rs JPM account decided  to defraud  Mr R. He 
was often in and out of Mr Rs home  and knew where Mr R kept his card and PIN. 
Mr R needed this close as he was unable to remember the PIN himself. I rather think 
the neighbour would have easily recalled the PIN and wouldnt have needed  this, 
whilst I believe  he did separately pinch Mr Rs card.
This theft and deception were reported to the police. As is often the case  in similar 
cases, the police decided to take no further action. That, however, doesnt impact the 
decision I am making here.
I can see JPM noticed the change in the pattern of withdrawals and took action to 
block Mr Rs account.  They wrote to notify  him. Im also aware Mr R wrote  to unblock 
the account (although there  is a proviso  to this as noted  below).
Although it would be another two years  before Mr R was diagnosed with memory 
issues which meant he had difficulty understanding concepts, I think its more than 
likely this problem existed  much  earlier. Ive seen  nothing  to show JPM took further 
steps to explain  exactly why theyd blocked his account but only the steps he could 
take to unblock this.
If, as I believe, Mr R was unsure what a change in the regular pattern of withdrawals 
meant, I suspect he never  actually  understood JPM thought someone else may have 
been using his account without  authorisation. JPMs contact notes  dont suggest  they 
carefully explained this to Mr R or gave him any tips about looking after his card and 
PIN.
I know there were a number of phone calls but I also cant say for sure whether these 
were carried  out by Mr R, or the neighbour purporting to be him.
The test under the PSRs isnt whether there was an opportunity for the card and PIN to be 
compromised; rather whether the payment services user (Mr R in this case)  authorised  these 
transactions. Its not my role to decide how someone else could have got hold of Mr Rs PIN, 
made these  transactions or to investigate who that potential  fraudster may be. Although in 
Mr Rs case I believe the perpetrator is known.
However I do need to believe there are scenarios which explain how someone could have 
used Mr Rs card and PIN without his consent.  I believe I have explained how this could 
have happened  above.
Under the Payment  Services Regulations,  we can consider the issue  of the relationship 
between the account-holder, Mr R, and the person making the transactions. In this case Ive 
considered whether Mr R authorised his neighbour to act as his agent: to look after his 
finances; and make transactions on his behalf. This could amount to granting that person his 
apparent authority to carry out those  transactions he subsequently disputed.  I dont believe 
this is the case here as I believe  from Mr Rs conversations with Mr C and his friend from 
Ref: DRN55972874church, we understand what transactions were specifically authorised. Theres also no 
indication the neighbour had any wider involvement in Mr Rs finances.
I have also considered whether Mr R acted grossly negligently or with intent . But in light of 
the explanations of what may have occurred,  I dont think there is enough evidence to say 
this was the case. Mr R was in his own home and kept his card close by. His card was used, 
without consent  by his neighbour and replaced. I suspect wherever Mr R had put his card  
even if itd been in a drawer in another room  the neighbour if he was determined would 
have been able to get hold of it. I dont believe in these  circumstances  Mr R was acting in a 
grossly negligent  manner.
And it certainly wouldnt be right as JPM suggest that by not reading his statements, Mr R 
was acting grossly negligently.
In my provisional decision I wasnt sure £4,500 would have been sufficient money for Mr R to 
live on for a period  of 18 months. Having looked at his normal usage   which  was 
withdrawing £200 every fortnight or so  I think over that period Mr R may have used nearer 
£8,000 based on the evidence Ive considered. 
Ive shared Mr Cs calculations with JPM who have not disputed them. In any case  its clear  
they accepted the principle that Mr R had not authorised transactions  by accepting  my 
provisional decision.
JPM will need to repay  the money  that was taken out of Mr Rs account  without  his authority. 
I believe this would  be £19,320  the disputed transactions  between 28 July 2016 and 
15 March 2017.  They can reduce that amount by £3,500 which I believe is money  Mr R 
would have needed for living expenses  during  that period based on evidence  of his normal 
use.  
I will be asking  JPM to add 8% simple  interest to £15,820 until the date of settlement. 
Normally we ask financial institutions to date this from the date of original withdrawal but this 
wont be so easy in this case as Ive asked JPM to reduce the overall amount to be repaid. 
So I shall be asking them to date this from 14 January 2017, when disputed  withdrawals re-
started after the block on Mr Rs account. Neither  party objected  to this suggestion when I 
completed the provisional decision.
Neither party objected  to my decision to award no compensation  to Mr R so Im satisfied this 
is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my provisional decision is to instruct  J.P. Morgan Europe Limited, 
trading as Post Office  Card Account, to:
Ref: DRN55972875Refund £15,820 to Mr R for transactions he didnt make  or authorise; and
Add 8% simple interest  to that amount from 14 January 2017 to the date of 
settlement.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 September  2020.
Sandra Quinn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5597287