K820x#14Complaint
Mr S complains that Scottish Widows Limited closed his pension  policy  without his consent.  
background
Mr S held a stakeholder pension plan with Scottish Widows. It appears  that both Mr S and 
his employer made regular contributions to the plan.
The terms and conditions  for the plan set out:
You must take benefits  before your 75th birthday.
Unfortunately, due to an error on Scottish  Widows  part, it continued to accept  payments  into 
the plan after Mr S reached his 75th birthday in 2014. 
In early 2018, Scottish Widows wrote  to Mr S about  his pension savings. It explained that his 
pension plan had reached the end of its term in 2014, when hed turned 75 years. It said 
that, as no instructions had been received from Mr S at the time, the policy  had continued.
As the value  of the pension pot was less than £10,000, Scottish Widows sent Mr S a cheque  
for the value  of the policy, plus simple interest of 8% per year from the date he turned  
75 years  in 2014, to the date of calculation.  It also offered Mr S up to £500  to pay for 
independent financial  advice if he wanted  advice on what to do with his pension pot. 
In June 2018 Scottish Widows wrote  to Mr Ss employer. It said:
We received payments  into the above  employees pension after they turned 75. Our pension 
terms dont allow payments past that age, so we shouldnt have accepted that money. Were 
sorry for our error.
It explained that it would be refunding all employer and employee  contributions  made since 
Mr S turned 75 years in 2014.  It also said it would add 8% simple  interest, per year,  to 
compensate Mr S and his employer for its error.
Mr S didnt think Scottish Widows was treating him fairly and he complained.
Scottish Widows  apologised for its error and paid Mr S £500 for the trouble and upset this 
matter had caused. It also explained that it couldnt reinstate Mr Ss pension plan as it had 
been closed in line with the terms and conditions which Mr S had agreed to when he took 
out the policy. 
Mr S wasnt  satisfied with Scottish  Widows response  as he felt it had not addressed  the 
points he had raised. Mr S said he had phoned  and asked it to provide a response on two 
key points:
-he wanted to know how the requirement to take pension  benefits by age 75 met the 
requirements of the Equality Act 2010; and
-he also said that Given that your company continued to accept monthly premium 
payments for 3.5 years  after I reached the above age then it must, by default  and in 
accordance with natural justice allow me to continue paying premiums.
Scottish Widows  did not respond  to this letter promptly and Mr S chased it several times for 
a response. 
Ref: DRN58152932As Mr S hadnt received  a response to the points he had raised, he brought  his complaint to 
this service. 
Our adjudicator said he felt Scottish Widows had made a significant error when it allowed 
Mr S and his employer to continue to pay into his pension past age 75. But he said he felt 
Scottish Widows  had acted correctly when it became aware of the issue.  He noted that the 
terms and conditions for Mr Ss plan set out that benefits must be taken by age 75 years.  As 
this was the case, he said he didnt  agree that it should have allowed Mr S to continue to 
make payments into the plan after it discovered  its error.
He said he felt the £500 Scottish Widows had already paid Mr S was fair and reasonable for 
the trouble and upset this matter had caused.
Mr S didnt agree. He provided more background  to his complaint  and asked for his 
complaint to be determined by an ombudsman.  He said his view was that the amount 
awarded does  not properly  recompense  for what you described  as a significant error."  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think Scottish  Widows  needs to do more than it has already done to 
resolve this matter. Ill explain why.
I can see that Mr S has noted  our adjudicator described Scottish Widows error  as 
significant. This service determines complaints on their individual  merits. Its not our role to 
fine or punish  businesses for any errors or failings  that is the role of the industry regulator, 
the Financial Conduct Authority.
It is not in dispute  that Scottish Widows made an error. It allowed Mr S and his employer to 
continue to make payments into Mr Ss pension plan after he turned 75 years, despite the 
terms and conditions of the plan setting  out that Mr S had to take the benefits by age 75.
What is in dispute is whether the £500 Scottish Widows has paid Mr S, in addition  8% simple  
interest per year on his pension pot from age 75 to the date of payment and 8% simple  
interest per year on the premiums paid (by Mr S and his employer) after age 75 is sufficient.
Where a business makes  an error, as Scottish Widows has done here, this service usually 
looks to put the customer back  in the position they would have been  in had the error not 
been made.
If Scottish  Widows hadnt made  an error Mr S would  have had to take the benefits from his 
plan by his 75th birthday. As Scottish Widows set out in its letter to Mr S dated 15 January 
2018, if Mr S didnt want to take his pension pot as a lump sum (net of tax) he could transfer 
his pension pot to another  provider,  or use it to buy an annuity.  But Mr S wouldnt have been 
able to continue  to fund the plan with Scottish  Widows. As this is the case I cant reasonably 
say that Scottish  Widows should have allowed him to continue with the plan after it 
discovered its error.
Ref: DRN58152933Awards made for trouble and upset by this service are intended  to compensate  a customer 
for the inconvenience  and distress they have suffered as a result of the business failure. Its 
my role to assess what is appropriate  in a particular case.
There are no rules  about how much a business  should pay in a particular situation.
The amount  of the payment should reflect a number of factors;  the customers  personal 
situation and any vulnerabilities which might  have heightened their worry and upset;  the fear 
that their money or assets might be lost; the length of time the problem lasted; the impact on 
a customers life and the amount of time they have had to spend  trying to resolve the issue 
complained about.
I can see that Mr S chased Scottish  Widows several  times  for a response to the points he 
had raised. But I must take into account that it had already explained to Mr S, in its letter  
dated 15 February 2018, that he couldnt continue with the plan as he was over the age of 
75 years.
Having carefully considered all that has been said and provided  I think  the £500 Scottish 
Widows has paid Mr S, plus the 8% simple interest per year on his pension pot from age 75 
to the date of payment and 8% simple interest  per year on the premiums he paid after age 
75 is fair in the circumstances  of this complaint.
my final decision
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2019.
My decision  is that I think the compensation Scottish  Widows  Limited  has already paid Mr S 
is fair in the circumstances of this complaint. I dont think  it needs  to do any more to resolve  
this matter.
Suzannah Stuart
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5815293