K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that Tesco Underwriting Limited  charged him too much for his home 
insurance in 2015 and 2016.
background
Mr Ms home  insurance policy started  in April 2007.  Originally it was underwritten  by another 
insurer and it transferred to Tesco Underwriting at the April 2011 renewal with a premium of 
£357.07. The policy renewed annually until Mr M received an invitation to renew  in April 
2016 for £492.62. Mr M thought this was very expensive  so he went  online to see whether 
he could get cover elsewhere  for less money. He found an online policy with Tesco for just 
over £100.  He telephoned Tesco, and after a discussion about his needs,  he declined the 
renewal hed been offered and took out a new policy for £180.41.
Mr M then reviewed  what hed been charged at the 2015 renewal - £372.58  and the year 
before that which was £258.72. 
Mr M complained to Tesco. He said his usual practice of trusting it to provide him with the 
best terms possible had clearly been  an error because it had overcharged him in 2015 and 
tried to overcharge him in 2016. 
Tesco looked into Mr Ms complaint but didnt think itd done  anything wrong. It said it sent 
out renewal documents each year three weeks before the renewal date so he had the 
chance to consider whether to renew or not. It said the new policy  it had provided him with 
was a new product  itd recently launched and which was rated differently to his old one.
Unhappy with the outcome of Tescos investigation, Mr M complained  to this service. Our 
adjudicator looked into his complaint and recommended that it was upheld.  He thought 
Tesco shouldve made Mr M aware in 2013  when it launched the new policy that an 
alternative was available. He said Mr M would then have been able to make an informed 
choice about whether  renewing was the best option  for him. Our adjudicator didnt think 
Tesco had treated Mr M fairly so he recommended it make him a partial refund of his 2013, 
2014 and 2015 premiums.  This totalled £388.29 and was made up of the difference  between 
those annual premiums  and the cost of the new policy Mr M secured. 
Mr M agreed  with our adjudicators findings  but Tesco didnt.  It said thered always been 
alternative types of policy available  and the price  of each varied according to the cover 
provided. It also said new policies often had discounts applied which meant  the price was 
often lower than an existing policy. It said the renewal premiums itd offered Mr M had been 
calculated in line with its pricing model. Tesco asked for the complaint  to be referred for an 
ombudsmans decision. 
I issued a provisional decision not to uphold this complaint in September  2019.  I made  the 
following provisional findings: 
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
Ref: DRN59365782This complaint is against Tesco Underwriting Limited which  took over as the insurer of 
Mr Ms policy at his 2011 renewal. So although  Mr M took the policy out in 2007, I cant look 
at anything to do with his policy before Tesco Underwritings  involvement in 2011. 
Mr M paid the following  premiums at each  annual renewal: 
2011 - £357.07
2012 - £344.61
2013 - £258.72
2014 - £298.22
2015 - £372.58
2016 - £492.62  (renewal  declined)
Its important  to understand that this service  doesnt  normally assess whether a price is too 
high to cover  a particular  risk. Thats for the insurer to decide based  on its appetite for risk 
and its business  requirements more generally. So we wont normally say whether a product 
represents good value for money.  We generally  accept that insurers can charge what  they 
like for insurance so long as they act fairly.  In simple terms, that means that they should 
apply their chosen pricing model consistently provided the consumer has flexibility  to shop 
around and change insurer if they wish.  Im satisfied thats the case here. 
I can understand why Mr M might  think that Tesco has overcharged  him in 2015 and 
attempted to overcharge  him in 2016. It must have been very disappointing to find that if he 
hadnt contacted it, he could have  paid about  £300  more than he needed to in 2016. But its 
for Tesco  to decide  how much  it wants to charge Mr M for his home insurance, based in 
part on the risk it thinks  there  is of him needing to make a claim and its wider commercial  
requirements. 
Tesco isnt obliged to explain to its customers in detail how its priced its policies. But it does  
have a duty to ensure they are sent renewal offers a reasonable amount of time before the 
policy renews so they have the chance to shop around or discuss the price with Tesco  if 
theyre unhappy. And I can see thats what Mr M did at the 2016  renewal. Its for consumers, 
assuming they are able to effectively engage with the insurer, to decide whether they want  to 
pay for the cover theyre offered at the price theyre  offered. The price  offered to Mr M by 
Tesco was clearly unacceptable to him so he went online to look for other  quotes  and found  
a cheaper branded Tesco policy.  
I cant ignore that Mr Ms annual premium was less than that charged in 2011  for the 2012, 
2013 and 2014 policy years. In 2015 it increased  by about 4.5% on the 2011 price.  When  it 
increased again at the 2016 renewal  invite  (by 38% of the 2011  price)  Mr M took action by 
declining the renewal and going online and finding  an alternative policy. As he didnt do so 
before this point,  the premiums offered  particularly when they were  decreasing   mustve 
been acceptable to him. 
The fact that Mr M was able to obtain a different cheaper policy  from Tesco doesnt make 
the price offered by Tesco at renewal unfair. Its for individual insurers to assess how much  
they want to charge in order to cover a particular persons risk. Tesco didnt make any claim 
to Mr M to offer the cheapest insurance  available.  Its explained that the two policies were  
rated differently and that impacted the prices Tesco charged for the cover  offered. 
I appreciate this provisional decision  will come as a disappointment to Mr M but I cant fairly 
conclude that Tesco has treated him unfairly in the way it calculated his 2015  and 2016 
Ref: DRN59365783renewal prices. It has been able to show us that it calculated his premiums in line with its 
pricing model so Im satisfied that Mr M hasnt been singled out in any way or treated any 
differently from any other Tesco customers.  Im afraid I cant  share  with Mr M the pricing 
information that Tesco has given me because its commercially sensitive, but Id like to 
reassure him that Ive checked it very carefully  and am satisfied his premiums from 2011 to 
2016 were calculated in line with Tescos  own internal pricing criteria. 
 
The insurance market  is a highly competitive one and new policies typically  include 
significant discounts in order to attract new customers  that is even the case where  different 
products are offered by the same insurer. But that in itself isnt necessarily unfair.  Renewing 
home insurance can involve a bit of time and effort to get the best terms. People who take 
the time to shop  around often end up paying less. But I dont think Tesco should have to 
compensate Mr M for this in the circumstances of his complaint.
 
Tesco hasnt  commented on what I said. Mr M replied  to say that he disagreed with my 
provisional findings. He said:
I hadnt considered  his complaint  in full;
He referred to the Financial Conduct  Authoritys  2015 review  into insurance  pricing  and 
the rules that were  implemented after that in 2017.  
That one of the new 2017  rules  stated that firms  were required to identify customers  that 
had renewed their policies  more  than four times  and encourage them to shop around.
That the reason  the new rules came into force was to ensure customers were treated 
fairly. So its naturally  implied that some  firms prior to 2017 werent treating customers  
fairly and that Tesco was one such firm.
Tesco hadnt told him to shop around.  He lacked information  to make an informed 
decision. 
He was abused  and misled by Tesco.
I shouldve ignored the premiums  from 2011-2014 as they never formed part of his 
complaint. Any price fluctuations between these dates hed assumed were due to 
commercial forces.
His complaint is also about the large  price  increase between the 2014 and 2016 
renewals. There was an increase in price of over 90%.
He was unfairly penalised  by Tesco for being  a loyal customer.  He is still paying 
considerably less than the renewal price offered in 2016;
He trusted Tesco to provide him with a service that suited his needs.  Even  the 2011 
premium was over twice as much  as he is paying  now.
The case  was returned to me for a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I appreciate  the comments  Mr M has 
provided in response  to my provisional  decision  but they havent persuaded me to change 
my mind. Ill explain  why.
I did consider all of Mr Ms complaint  in full  before making my provisional findings. In his 
response to those findings  Mr M said hed also highlighted within his complaint that his usual 
practice of trusting  Tesco to provide  him with the best terms possible was an error. Mr M 
says my summary of the complaint was incomplete. The complaint summary section at the 
start of the decision is only intended  to very briefly summarise what  the complaint is about 
Ref: DRN59365784and who it is against. I specifically referred  to this element of Mr Ms complaint within  the 
background section  of my provisional  decision.  
I am, of course, aware of the industry  regulators  review into insurance pricing in 2015 and 
the new rules that were  implemented in 2017  following that review. Mr M is correct  that the 
rules  since 2017 - require firms  to inform customers whove renewed more  than four times 
that they may benefit from canvassing the market. But those rules cant  be applied  
retrospectively. Mr Ms complaint concerns his 2015  and 2016  renewals which  occurred 
before the rules  were implemented. There has long been a regulatory  requirement for firms 
to treat its customers fairly and, whilst I acknowledge  Mr Ms strength of feeling  about this 
issue, I explained in my provisional  decision  why I didnt think Tesco  had treated him 
unfairly. Unfortunately for Mr M, nothing he has said has caused  me to change  my mind.  
When this service looks at complaints about  insurance pricing  we take into account the 
customers journey with the insurer  as a whole. I appreciate  that Mr M hadnt complained 
about the premiums  he was charged  between 2011 and 2014. I can see that they went down 
until 2013 and increased only slightly in 2014  (but was still lower than the 2011  price). Mr M 
says he assumed the (downward) fluctuations in price were the result of commercial forces.  I 
assume that because they went down he was content with the price  offered. 
But, as I said in my provisional decision, the decision about what  price to charge is the 
insurers to assess taking  into account the risk it are being asked to take on and other  
commercial requirements (number  of claims, administrative costs etc.). Tesco never claimed  
it offered the cheapest cover available.  There was a price increase at the 2015 renewal of 
25% on the 2014 price. And whilst  the price went up by 32% at the 2016 renewal Mr M took 
action. He didnt  accept the price  he was offered by Tesco. He chose to shop  around. 
That he did doesnt  make  the price  offered  (and declined) unfair. Its for Tesco to decide how 
much it wants  to charge  Mr M for his home insurance. Mr M thought  this was too much for 
the cover  and service  offered and chose to decline the invitation.  
As I said in my provisional decision,  I cant reasonably  conclude  that Tesco  has treated Mr M 
unfairly in the way it calculated his 2015  and 2016  renewal prices.  It has been able to show 
us that it calculated his premiums  in line with its pricing model so Im satisfied that he hasnt 
been singled  out in any way or treated any differently from any other  Tesco customers.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 November  2019.
Claire Woollerson 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5936578