K821x#15Complaint
Mr F brings  this complaint as the owner  of a business  which, for the purposes of this 
decision, I shall refer to as A.  
Mr F complains, in summary, that Barclays Bank UK PLC wrongly  allowed a third party to set 
up a bank account for A on terms which enabled that third party to make  payments  totalling 
in excess of £250,000 from the account  which Mr F claims  should  not have been made.  
Background
Mr F held a personal and a business  account  with Barclays. Subsequently, a partnership  
account was opened  with Mr F and the third party named as the partners. Mr F says, and 
Barclays accepts, that he was not present  when  the account was opened  with the banks 
position being that because Mr F was an existing customer  he did not need to be there.
Barclays further considers  that it was entitled  to open the account in the way that it did because 
the signature on the account application  form matched  the signature it held for 
Mr F. But Mr F disagrees;  he does not consider  that the signature  on the form matched his own.
There does not, however,  appear to be any dispute that Mr F knew the new account had 
been opened. Rather, he says he wanted  the account to be established so that he was the 
only person permitted to set up new payments  from it. So, Mr Fs position  is that  because 
the bank set the account up wrongly  the third party was able to make payments which 
Mr F did not know  about and which he had not authorised. Furthermore,  because  the third 
party disguised the payment beneficiaries (which appeared on the bank statements), Mr F 
was not alerted to them for a considerable period. By the time the position came to light, 
Mr F says that incorrect and unauthorised payments totalling over £250,000 had been made 
from the account  which,  in effect, he considers the third party  paid to himself.
Barclays did not accept  that it had made a mistake. But it offered Mr F £200 to reflect  the 
inconvenience arising from its delay in properly  identifying  and looking into the complaint  in 
addition to the £110 it had previously paid when Mr F had earlier  raised his concerns. Mr F 
did not accept  that  but, recognising the relevance  of compromise, he indicated  he would 
be prepared to settle the matter if he received a refund of legal  fees of around £10,000.
Our investigator took the view that there were shortcomings in the way Barclays  had opened 
the account  chiefly  because she did not consider there was enough similarity between the 
signature on the account application form purporting to be Mr Fs and the signature the bank 
already had for him. She therefore  concluded that Barclays had not done enough to ensure 
Mr F knew about the setting up of the new account.
However, the investigator did not consider Barclays should be held liable for the transactions 
made by the third party. She explained that money  was transferred into the account  by As 
clients, and then transferred out by the third party  with Mr F saying he subsequently repaid 
the affected clients. The investigators  overall conclusion was that Barclays should pay Mr F 
an extra  £500,  on top of earlier payments totalling £310, to reflect the inconvenience he had 
been caused in respect  of the way the partnership  account had been  opened.
Barclays agreed to the investigators recommendation, but Mr F did not accept it as a fair 
resolution to his complaint. So it has been  referred to me for review and determination.
Ref: DRN59552542My findings
Ive considered the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint.
First of all, I agree with the investigators principal  conclusion about the account-opening 
process  because I share her view that the signature on the account application form 
purporting to be Mr Fs did not bear enough  resemblance to the signature the bank already 
had for him for the bank to have accepted it.  
However, it seems clear that Mr F nevertheless knew about the new account at the time; he 
accepts that he wanted  a new account,  albeit on different terms. So Im unable  to accept that 
the fact the account was opened led, of itself, to Mr F experiencing a financial loss. Instead, 
whats more relevant are two inter-linked points:
-the authority Mr F believed he had given to the third party  in respect  of the account   
specifically, whether or not the third party was entitled  to make payments to new 
beneficiaries; and
-whether or not Mr F might reasonably  have  identified the payments sooner, 
notwithstanding how they were described  on bank statements.
The investigator noted that the bank provided  conflicting information about whether  or not a 
party to an account  can have limited authority along the lines suggested by Mr F. However,  
my view on this is not quite the same as the investigator  because  there  is a difference  
between who is a direct  party to an account,  and who is authorised  to take certain actions on 
an account (especially  online).  In this case, the third party was a direct party  to the account  
so, in my view, it is unlikely ever to have been  the case that the third party  would have had 
any restrictions on operating the account  unlike, for an example, an employee who might  
be given limited online access.  
Moreover, and given the nature of As business, I consider it fair to conclude that Mr F  
bearing in mind that the bank expressed  the third party as a partner in the business on the 
account  ought reasonably to have  known he would have unrestricted access  to operate  
the account. I acknowledge Mr F has said that, when he saw the account statements, he 
identified that the third party was (wrongly) expressed as a partner  although  he says that 
was some time after the account had been  opened,  and after the payments had been  made.  
That was in part because  Mr F says the third party doctored some statements before he 
saw them  (although I dont accept that the bank can fairly be held accountable for any such 
doctoring). But more broadly, there  remains  the question of why Mr F did not see, or 
otherwise scrutinise,  the statements earlier than he did. On his own evidence,  if he had done 
so he would had the opportunity to correct  any apparent error by the bank  at least  relating 
to the third partys status, if potentially less so about the payments themselves.
I take Mr Fs point about how the transactions were described on the bank statements, and 
acknowledge his point  that the inter-bank transfer  system did not (and, for the time being, 
still does not) use beneficiary names as its underlying basis.  He has explained that, on 
seeing transfers (including  round amount transfers) to, for example,  HMRC  he was not 
alerted to the possibility of anything being amiss.   
Ref: DRN59552543Its clear from this, though, that Mr F did see at least some  bank statements  which, as 
Ive already set out, expressed the third party as a partner in the business. Indeed, Mr F has 
said to me very recently that he knew the money was going  out of the account  and believed 
it was going to HMRC.   But,  after careful  consideration, Im not persuaded by the totality of 
this argument   because,  on balance, I consider it reasonable  to conclude that the proprietor 
of a business (especially a bookkeeping business such  as A) might have known about, and 
indeed cross-referenced,  such  payments and, as a result, identified any discrepancies 
relatively quickly.
The scale  of Mr Fs claim is considerable  it exceeds £250,000,  yet he has said that, in the 
absence of receiving  a payment of that order, he would be prepared to settle for a figure  of 
around £10,000. I do appreciate what he says about  mediated settlements, but the variance  
between the two sums is very considerable. I also note that the investigator asked Mr F to 
provide an itemised  schedule of the payments he disputed, but he did not do so  instead 
saying that, in effect, it was all (or most  of) the payments  that had been made from when the 
account was first opened. In noting all of this I draw no conclusion about Mr Fs underlying  
claim or stated losses; rather,  my comments relate  back more to my earlier point about his 
not having noticed that anything was amiss until over £250,000 had been paid out in the way 
that it was.  
In conclusion, therefore, and for the reasons Ive set out, I do not consider that the overall 
evidence is strong enough to lead me to conclude that it would be fair or reasonable to hold 
Barclays liable to Mr F in the way he has claimed.  Notwithstanding any shortcomings in the 
banks account-opening  process, as outlined above,  I do not accept they led directly to Mr F 
experiencing such a significant financial loss. I have therefore come to the same overall 
conclusion as the investigator did; Barclays should pay Mr F some compensation for any 
inconvenience he might  have experienced arising from the way in which the account  was 
opened, which I consider the investigator  assessed  fairly at £500. Beyond  that, I do not 
consider it would be appropriate  for me to uphold the remainder of Mr Fs complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mr Fs complaint in part  but only to the extent  of 
requiring Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay him compensation of £500, as set out above.  
I make  no other order or award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F either  to 
accept or reject my decision  before  30 November  2019.
David Millington
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN5955254