K821x#15complaint
Mrs L says Northern Bank Limited  mis-sold  her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
Mrs L applied for a credit card in branch in May 1994 and the PPI was also sold at this time. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld. Mrs L disagreed, so the 
complaint was passed to me to look into afresh.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account here.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ls complaint. Ill explain why.
When selling  the PPI to Mrs L, Northern Bank shouldve made it clear the policy  was 
optional. It also shouldve  got Mrs Ls agreement to take it out. Mrs L says she was not 
aware the PPI was optional. As the credit card and PPI were  taken out during a meeting I 
dont know what was discussed. Where I have limited information about  a sale, I have to 
decide what I think is more likely  based on the information and evidence  I have seen.
Northern Bank has given us a copy  of the credit  card application which  was completed at the 
time following Mrs Ls discussions  with the advisor. The form isnt very clear,  but based  on 
what I know about how Northern Bank  sold PPI and what I can see on the form it looks  like 
there is a separate section within the form about PPI. Within  this I can see a tick has been 
placed next to Yes . There is also an option  below this to select  No. I dont know  what was 
discussed at the time Mrs L took out the card, but I wouldve expected Mrs L to read over 
this application  and query anything before signing  it. 
So based  on the evidence Ive been provided,  I think its most likely Mrs L knew  at the time
that the PPI was optional and that she decided to take it. But I can understand why she 
might not recall this now, as the sale took place many years ago.
Northern Bank advised Mrs L to take out the policy. So it shouldve  made sure the policy  was 
right for her. Based  on what Ive seen of Mrs Ls circumstances at the time the PPI was sold,  
I think it was. I say this because:
Mrs L appears to have been  eligible  for the policy.
Based  on what Mrs Ls told us about her circumstances at the time of sale she 
wouldnt have been affected by any of the things the policy didnt  cover   like known 
health issues or unusual employment  arrangements. So there was nothing to stop 
her claiming the full benefit of the policy if shed needed to.
Mrs Ls told us she wouldve received some sick pay from her employer. The PPI 
couldve been of use to Mrs L as it wouldve paid 10% of the outstanding balance on 
the card for up to 12 months  if she couldnt work  due to illness  or if she was made 
redundant. This wouldve  been  on top of any sick pay she wouldve got, meaning  she 
wouldve been able to use this for other  everyday  living  expenses.
Ref: DRN51776082I havent seen  anything to suggest the PPI wasnt affordable  to Mrs L. And as the 
premium was paid monthly,  she could  have cancelled the policy  at any time if 
anything in her circumstances changed.
As well as checking the policy  was suitable for Mrs L, Northern Bank also shouldve  given  
her clear  information about the policy so that she could make a proper choice  about  whether 
or not to take it out. I dont know what steps  Northern Bank took to do this and its possible 
some things werent explained  as clearly as they shouldve been. But I dont think clearer  
information wouldve  changed Mrs Ls decision.  I think shed still have bought  it. I say this for 
the same  reasons I think the policy was suitable  for her.
Ive also thought about everything Mrs L has said but these points dont  change  my decision.
Which means Northern Bank doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs L.
But Northern Bank has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs L because:  
Northern Bank got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium) - so it should have told Mrs L about  that. Because Northern Bank  didnt tell 
Mrs L, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Northern Bank  has paid back the amount  of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think  that is fair in this case.
I understand that Northern Bank  has made a payment to Mrs L for commission which it has 
then revised. Northern Bank should  be in touch  with Mrs L with more details about this if it 
already hasnt been.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Northern Bank  Limited does not have to pay back  all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mrs L.
But Northern Bank Limited does  have to pay back to Mrs L any commission and profit share 
it got that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already paid some of 
the commission and profit share  to Mrs L but it should pay her anything extra it now 
calculates she is due.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs L to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 December  2019.
Chandni Green
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5177608