K822xcomplaint
Mr O has complained about poor customer service received from Countrywide Principal 
Services Limited in relation to a remortgage  on his residential property, a BTL mortgage  on a 
new property and a further advance on a BTL property he already  owned.
background 
In 2018 Mr O remortgaged his residential  property through Countrywide in order  to raise  
money towards the purchase of a BTL property (which I will call BTL1).  He also needed to 
raise funds by taking a further advance on a mortgage on another BTL property (BTL2).
Mr O made  a number of complaints about  the service hed received from Countrywide:
he wasnt told about the early repayment charge (ERC) hed have to pay to his 
existing lender on redemption of the mortgage  on his residential property;
he needed to raise £20,000 from the remortgage  but only received £10,500;
he only wanted to purchase BTL1  if he didnt need to use his own funds;
he wasnt aware an application for a further  advance had been made on BTL2;
he wasnt told about the fees for the further advance on BTL2;
the main mortgage  was BTL2  on a two-year fixed rate, but the further advance  was 
on a five-year fixed rate;
his signature was used without his consent.
Countrywide acknowledged that it had made  some  errors, but didnt accept it was 
responsible for all the issues Mr O had complained  about. It offered compensation of £1,497, 
which comprised a refund  of its fee of £747,  waiving a final fee due of £250,  plus 
compensation for trouble  and upset of £500.
Mr O didnt accept this, so he brought his complaint to us. An adjudicator  looked  at it. She 
thought the compensation  wasnt sufficient.  Countrywide agreed to refund the fee he had to 
pay on the further advance on BTL2  an additional £1,825.  In total, the compensation 
offered was £3,322.
The adjudicator thought  this was fair and reasonable, but Mr O didnt agree and asked for an 
ombudsman to review  the matter.  He said he had to use £12,000 of his own funds to 
complete the purchase of BTL1. He wants to be put back in the position  he was in before he 
took any advice  from Countrywide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ordinarily we would  have  no jurisdiction to consider a complaint about the arrangement of 
BTL mortgages, as these  are unregulated  and so not covered by our rules. But as the BTL 
mortgages were all part of the same  set of transactions as the remortgage on the residential  
mortgage (which is a regulated activity),  the arrangement of the BTL mortgage and the 
further advance  on an existing BTL mortgage  fall within the category of activities which are 
ancillary to a regulated activity. 
Ref: DRN58671692Because of this, I am able to consider the transactions for BTLs 1 and 2 as part of this 
complaint. If there had been no remortgage  of the residential property, then we wouldnt 
have been able to consider a complaint about the arrangement of the BTL mortgage and 
further advance.
But I must explain that for BTL mortgages,  Mr O is considered  a commercial customer, 
rather than a consumer.  The protections offered by the regulator to consumers do not apply  
to the arrangement of BTL mortgages.  Nevertheless, Mr O is entitled to receive a reasonable 
level of service in relation.  Countrywide has acknowledged that its service  fell short on this 
occasion.
Its not disputed  that Countrywide made  errors. But its not responsible for all the issues  
about which Mr O is unhappy. As he was entering  into a commercial  venture to buy a 
second BTL property, Id have  expected Mr O to have made enquiries about the ERC from 
his residential lender.  This is particularly so as Mr O said he was assured by Countrywide 
that there  was no ERC, but he knew  there was one. 
Given this, Im satisfied it was Mr Os responsibility to ascertain from his existing lender what 
the ERC  was on his residential mortgage.  Thats not information which would have been 
available to Countrywide. Im satisfied  Mr O could  have found this out before  embarking on 
this series of transactions. 
Countrywide also wasnt to blame  for the rental values on BTL1 affecting the loan amount 
and loan-to-value  for the mortgage on it. I also agree with what Countrywide said in its final 
response  that before  exchanging contracts  Mr O would, or should, have been made aware 
by his solicitors how much  he was borrowing and how much  hed need to provide from his 
own resources to complete the purchase. This was a commercial transaction and so it was 
up to Mr O to decide the level of funds he was prepared to commit to it before exchange  of 
contracts.
With regard to the further advance on BTL2,  Countrywide has acknowledged it didnt keep 
Mr O fully informed about this while it was going  through. But Im satisfied the lender would 
have sent Mr O an offer document  so he would, or should, have been aware of the term of 
the fixed rate on the further advance. 
Mr O says Countrywide scanned his signature onto documents  for the further advance, 
without his knowledge or consent. Countrywide  disputes this. Im unable  to determine from 
the available  evidence which of these scenarios is correct. But I see Countrywide has 
agreed to refund the fee for the further advance, which I think  is fair and reasonable.
Mr O has told us that he didnt know what he was signing. But as Ive said above, this was a 
business transaction where he was buying  a BTL property for investment purposes.  So it 
was up to Mr O to carry out his own due diligence as a commercial borrower before he was 
committed to the purchase.
Mr O says he wants to be put back in the position  he was in before he took advice from 
Countrywide. In other words, he wants the residential re-mortgage unwound and his 
previous mortgage  reinstated, the mortgage on BTL1 unwound and the purchase  cancelled, 
and the further  advance  on BTL2 to be cancelled.  But even if I agreed with Mr O this should  
be done (which  I do not), its not possible to un-purchase BTL1  and return the property  to 
its former  owner.
Ref: DRN58671693Overall Im satisfied the compensation offered  by Countrywide is fair and reasonable. In the 
circumstances, Im not going  to order it to pay anything further.
my final decision
My decision  is that, in full and final settlement  of this complaint, Countrywide Principal 
Services Limited must pay Mr O the following compensation:
a fee refund of £747
a refund of the product fee of £1,825  on BTL2;
£500 compensation for trouble and upset.
In addition, Countrywide Principal Services Limited has agreed to waive a fee of £250  due 
on BTL1.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 March  2019.
Jan OLeary
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5867169