K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs H say Bradford & Bingley Plc (B&B) mis-sold them a payment protection  
insurance (PPI)  policy.
background and summary to complaint
Mr and Mrs H bought  the policy in 1990  at the same  time as taking out a mortgage. They  
applied for the mortgage and PPI policy in a meeting. 
The policy provided  cover  on Mrs H for accident, sickness  and unemployment   subject to its 
exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay  £275 a month towards Mr and Mrs Hs 
mortgage balance  in the event of a successful claim. B&B says it cost £13.75  a month  at the 
time. At the time unemployment claims were limited  to 24 benefit payments for any one 
period of unemployment but there wasnt an equivalent  limit on the number  of months for 
which the accident and sickness benefit could be claimed.
At the time,  Mrs H was employed  in the health  sector and had been with her employer for 
ten years  or more. She has told us she was entitled to at least six months sick pay but less 
than twelve months and wouldve also received redundancy pay. She has said she was in 
good health at the time of the sale. Mr H was self-employed with, according to the mortgage 
application form, income of less than a third of Mrs Hs.
B&B has sent us a screenshot to show that the mortgage account closed in 2002. 
Mr and Mrs Hs representative has made lengthy  and substantial  representations on their 
behalf. I will not restate them all here,  but I have read and considered them  all carefully. In 
summary, Mr and Mrs Hs representative says:
B&B failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on handling 
PPI complaints under DISP App 3, it should be presumed Mr and Mrs H wouldnt have 
taken out the policy  and the complaint should be upheld. Mr and Mrs Hs representatives 
believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a successful 
claim meant  the policy was of inherently poor value  as shown by the low claims ratio. 
The common law duty of utmost  good faith means  B&B should have told Mr and Mrs H 
about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means B&B should have explained the 
significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mr and Mrs H and the impact 
they would  have had on their chances  of making  a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is generally 
someones biggest ever long-term  transaction  cover would stop just at the time it would 
be most needed; and
Ref: DRN51558832The information Mr and Mrs H received was misleading. These  policies were  promoted 
as providing peace  of mind, but the number of exclusions  and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and had a chance to 
provide their responses  to the adjudicators  opinion. Mr and Mrs H disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion for several reasons.
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Hs. I dont intend to set that 
out in much detail  here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Hs complaint.
This sale took place  in 1990 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2002. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at the time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
Ref: DRN51558833I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like B&B at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take the ABI Code  and these 
other publications into account  when  deciding, what is in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of Mr and Mrs Hs case. 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, contract  (including the express  and implied duty on professional advisers to give 
advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence; the law relating to the utmost  duty of good 
faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness). 
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   the Office of the Building Societies Ombudsman  
in this case  might  have  been expected to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Building  Societies  Ombudsmans terms of reference  the Ombudsman  
was required to decide complaints by reference to what  was, in his opinion, fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so B&B 
was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were guidance 
when considering Mr and Mrs Hs complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If B&B gave advice,  whether it advised  Mr and Mrs H with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for them,  given their needs 
and circumstances.
-Whether B&B gave  Mr and Mrs H sufficient,  appropriate and timely information to enable 
them to make an informed  choice about whether to take out the policy,  including  drawing 
to their attention  and highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading  way  the main 
provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and exclusions.  
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of 
Mr and Mrs H, I must then go on to consider whether and to what  extent Mr and Mrs H 
suffered loss or damage and what  I consider  would amount to fair compensation for that 
loss or damage.
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr and Mrs H 
and B&B,  Ive decided  not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Hs complaint. Ive set out my reasoning 
below.
did Mr and Mrs H know they had a choice?
B&B had to make  it clear that the PPI policy was optional.  Mr and Mrs H have said they had 
no interest in PPI and it was just included it as part of the package with their mortgage. But 
Ref: DRN51558834Mr and Mrs Hs mortgage application form had a separate PPI section with spaces  to mark 
to say whether  they required cover for accident  and sickness only or also for unemployment. 
There was also a space  to mark if they didnt  require cover at all. Mr and Mrs Hs form, which  
they signed, was marked to indicate  they required accident, sickness and unemployment 
cover. The form was also filled in to say Mrs H was to have all £275 of the monthly benefit.
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mr and Mrs H knew the policy  was 
optional and they agreed to take it out without undue pressure. 
did B&B  provide advice?
Both B&B and Mr and Mrs H agree that advice wasnt  provided  during this sale.  
This means  B&B didnt  have to check if the PPI was suitable for Mr and Mrs H. Instead, it 
had to give them sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable them to make an 
informed choice about whether to take out the policy, including  drawing to their attention and 
highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading  way  the main provisions of the policy and 
significant limitations and exclusions. 
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not Mr and Mrs H were given a broad description of what 
the policy was intended to cover  (that is that the policy would protect  their payments if Mrs H 
was unable to work  through accident, sickness or unemployment) and of the approximate  
costs. Ive reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely Mr and Mrs H would have  
taken out the policy  without any sense  of what the policy  was for and of how much the 
premium might be. Also I think Mr and Mrs H knew what  the monthly benefit amount was, 
because it was entered on their mortgage  application form. The form also indicated  Mrs H 
wouldnt be covered  for known medical  conditions that may become subject to a claim nor 
would she be covered for impending unemployment.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  B&B gave sufficient 
information about the actual cost or about the other  exclusions  or limitations  before 
Mr and Mrs H agreed  to take out the policy.
So I dont  think B&B gave Mr and Mrs H sufficient, appropriate and timely information  to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take out the policy,  including 
drawing their attention  to and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading  way  the main 
provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and exclusions.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr and Mrs Hs representative has raised a 
number of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like 
Mr and Mrs Hs. Ive considered these carefully  and summarised them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr and Mrs Hs representative considers to be 
Ref: DRN51558835poor value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business rather than 
the insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr and Mrs H about the limitations  and exclusions,  it should have gone further 
and explained  the significance of them  to them.
Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Hs representatives views on this. The duty of utmost 
good faith in insurance law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose 
material facts and not to make material misrepresentations.  While I cant be certain what a 
court would say  I think its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer  
having to disclose the claims ratio information or explaining the significance of the limitations 
and exclusions in the way Mr and Mrs H have suggested. And taking into account  the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude that B&B ought to have done either. 
what effect did B&Bs  shortcomings have  on Mr and Mrs H? To what extent did 
Mr and Mrs H suffer  loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that B&B didnt  do all it should  have done when it sold this policy  to Mr and Mrs H. 
So Ive gone  on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude they 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not 
Mr and Mrs H would  have still taken out the policy had B&B done  things  properly. 
Mr and Mrs H say they would not have taken  it out and believe I should  presume  this to be 
the case given  the significant failings identified above. Ive considered the representations  of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
As this was a non-advised sale, Mr and Mrs H had to weigh up in their own minds the cost of 
the policy against the benefits offered and the potential  consequences if they didnt insure  
against the risk of Mrs H being unable to work. 
As Ive found above, Mr and Mrs H chose to take this policy  out. So I consider that its 
reasonable to conclude  they had some  interest  in the benefits offered by this type of 
insurance. But they made this decision based on incomplete information. So what they 
thought they were getting is not exactly what they got. The extent to which  this differed is a 
relevant consideration when determining if Mr and Mrs H have  suffered any loss or 
detriment.
I think the information Mr and Mrs H were given about the basic  monthly benefit amount was 
clear. I also think  Mr and Mrs H were told Mrs H wouldnt be covered for impending  
unemployment and known medical  conditions  that may become subject to a claim,  because 
their mortgage application  form said so. But the information about other aspects of the 
policy, such as other  limitations, exclusions and cost, wasnt  as clear as it shouldve been.
Although I consider it more likely than not that Mr and Mrs H knew  they would have to pay 
something for the policy, it doesnt appear B&B told them the exact premium  at the point 
they applied for the policy. Having said that, it seems likely Mr and Mrs H would have been 
told the cost before the policy started  and they paid for the policy for a number of years, so if 
the costs were significantly at odds  with their expectations at the point of sale,  its possible 
they might  have raised that with B&B at the time, or reconsidered their decision.
Ref: DRN51558836Overall, I am not persuaded Mr and Mrs H would have found the cost unacceptable  if they 
had been given the exact figure during  the meeting in which  they agreed to the policy.
The policy excluded claims relating to illness for which Mrs H had symptoms before the start 
date, any recurring injury or illness returning  in the first twelve  months and illness or injury  
resulting from something medically treated in the twelve  months  before  the start date. But in 
the light of what  Mr and Mrs Hs application form told them  about the policy excluding known 
medical conditions,  I think  Mr and Mrs H likely had an understanding of the general nature of 
the policy medical exclusions such that more  detailed information about  this wouldnt have 
significantly affected their view of the benefits to them of taking the policy.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr and Mrs H thought they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mrs H 
wasnt a permanent employee; and
For unemployment the policy protected payments for up to 24 months, rather  than 
the remaining  term of the mortgage.
I do accept that there is a possibility the limitations  or exclusions above might well have  
caused Mr and Mrs H pause  for thought  and may well have caused them to conclude  that 
the policy wasnt as good as they thought and they might have decided not to proceed. The 
limitations on the cover, when coupled with the other shortcomings in this sale, might  have 
dissuaded some  consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs H from 
taking out the policy.  
But, the evidence  about Mr and Mrs Hs circumstances at the time of sale shows  that the 
policy wasnt fundamentally wrong  for them. Mrs H was eligible  for its benefits and it 
provided cover that, despite its limitations  and exclusions, couldve proved  valuable to 
Mr and Mrs H should the insured  risks have become a reality.  I also havent seen any 
evidence to suggest Mrs H wouldve been caught by any of the significant exclusions   
Mrs H didnt have any pre-existing medical  conditions and was in permanent employment. 
So, I think she still had some good reasons to take the policy  out.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions, or place  any additional 
restrictions or more onerous  evidential  requirements in the event of a claim on those 
grounds than would have applied to any other  disability claim. And I think its unlikely 
Mr and Mrs H would  have expected to make a disability  claim for Mrs H on the policy  without 
first providing some  evidence  to support that claim.
B&B may not have  told Mr and Mrs H that any claim they made for Mrs H for unemployment  
would be limited to a 24 month period.  This may have differed from what they expected and 
might have hoped for. But Mrs Hs redundancy entitlement was likely significantly less than 
24 months income.
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mr and Mrs H would still have thought a policy that 
paid up to 24 monthly mortgage  payments  would  have been of benefit to them and would 
help them manage the consequences  should Mrs H be unable  to work due to unemployment 
in the circumstances covered by the policy. The policy allowed for multiple claims to be 
made, it could help reduce Mr and Mrs Hs outgoings at a difficult  and uncertain time, ensure 
their home was not placed at risk and might potentially help preserve Mrs Hs redundancy 
money for other use.
Ref: DRN51558837Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs H would still have taken out the policy. It was sufficiently close to what 
its likely  they thought they were  getting and provided benefits that would help them  manage  
the consequences if Mrs H was made redundant, or unable to work through accident  or 
disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely than not that Mr and Mrs H would 
have taken out the policy in any event notwithstanding the limitations  on cover.
Mr and Mrs Hs representatives say the rules  about  how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP 
App 3) make it clear that, where a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr and Mrs H would not have bought the PPI they bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted  
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account 
Mr and Mrs Hs circumstances as detailed above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the 
position Mr and Mrs H found  themselves  in as result of the sale was the same position they 
would have been in had the breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr and Mrs H believe the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), Im only doing  so because I dont consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs H in the position they would have been in if 
they had not bought the policy.
That is because,  while I accept its possible Mr and Mrs H wouldnt have taken out the policy,  
Im satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely  than not that they would  still have 
taken out the PPI had they been  given clear, fair and not misleading information about the 
policy they were buying. So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude B&B should  pay Mr and Mrs H compensation, as that would put 
them in a better position than they would have  been in if everything  had happened  as it 
should have done. 
Im also aware that Mr and Mrs H think B&B misrepresented  the terms of the policy in how it 
described the PPI. While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of B&Bs  
statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why B&B failed to act 
fairly and reasonably was not because  of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
Ref: DRN51558838provided  but because  the overall information  B&B gave Mr and Mrs H, in the way it did, 
was insufficient  to meet the standards  I consider  it fair and reasonable to expect it to have 
met in 1990  when providing information about  an insurance policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs Hs representative says a court  might  take 
if it were to find B&B negligently misrepresented the contract to Mr and Mrs H and about the 
remedy a court might award if it were to find that B&B had been in breach  of its duty of 
utmost good  faith. But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about  what is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mr and Mrs H in a better position than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done.
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  3 August  2019.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5155883