K820x#14Complaint
Mrs K has complained that UK Insurance Limited (UKI) voided two motor  insurance policies 
she held with it unfairly.
Background
Mrs K held two motor insurance  policies with UKI. Mrs K has told us she took out the polices 
through a broker.  
When sending Mrs K renewal documents for both policies UKI asked her to check  the 
information on the policies was correct.  As it didnt  receive a response  from Mrs K UKI 
voided both of her policies  saying  she had made  reckless misrepresentations with the 
information recorded on the policies.
Incorrect information recorded  with UKI included the relationship of the named drivers, her 
occupation, and the number of cars at her property.
Mrs K explained that she had previously asked for one of the policies not to be renewed, and 
that she had not knowingly given incorrect information. She had trusted the broker  and 
provided correct information to him when she arranged the policies.
UKI spoke  to Mrs K after her policies were voided  and as a result  of the information she 
gave in these  calls decided to stand by the decision to void her policies due to reckless  
misrepresentation. Although it did agree a mistake had been made in renewing one of her 
policies and this was corrected.
Our Investigator  considered Mrs Ks complaint and thought UKI had acted fairly in voiding 
her policies. It had shown Mrs K had been reckless in the answers she had provided. Mrs K 
disagreed, she feels  she gave correct information  to the person she believed  to be a 
legitimate representative of UKI and doesnt  feel she should be penalised.
As Mrs K didnt agree  this complaint has now been  passed to me to decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under the Consumer  Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA) Mrs K
had a duty to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when buying her policy.
And for UKI to take any action it would need  to show that she didnt do that and made whats
known as a qualifying misrepresentation.
Mrs K had two polices voided with UKI. I will call these  policy  A and policy B.
On policy  A Mrs Ks occupation was recorded  as an Audiologist, it was recorded that there 
were 9 cars in the household, and a named driver was recorded as her partner.
On policy  B Mrs Ks occupation again showed as an Audiologist, that there were 9 cars at 
her home and that the named driver was her partner, but a different name was recorded.
Ref: DRN54772452Mrs K has explained that the information was incorrect  and that the broker  must have given 
incorrect information to UKI. While she was an Audiologist  in the past,  she hadnt worked in 
that role for many years  and has never owned  9 cars. The named driver  on policy A was her 
brother, and the named driver on policy  B was her son.
Mrs Ks explanation at this point seems reasonable, but UKI then had further  conversations 
with Mrs K about the information that had been  recorded. I have  listened  to the available  call 
recordings myself.
I can confirm that in a call Mrs K had with UKI she confirmed she was an Audiologist  and 
that the named driver on policy  A was her partner. Mrs K did then go on to explain she was 
now a teacher and a carer, and the named  driver on policy  B was her son. Mrs K also 
confirmed she had checked the information  recoded on her polices was correct when she 
received them.
In a second call with UKI Mrs K confirmed she had not checked her documents  when  they 
were received, and that the named driver on policy A was her brother not her partner.
Mrs K has since provided evidence of her being  a teacher, and messages between herself 
and the broker  when she was arranging the policies. But I dont  think  this information  shows  
she wasnt reckless in her answers.
In the calls Mrs K had directly with UKI she gave  incorrect  answers,  that corresponded with 
those given when  the policies were  originally taken out. The questions asked were clear  and 
not misleading, yet the answers provided by Mrs K were  incorrect.
Under CIDRA a qualifying  misrepresentation is either deliberate or reckless  or careless.  UKI
had to show Mrs K knew:
I. the information was untrue or misleading or she didnt  care whether or not it was 
untrue or misleading, and
II. she knew that the matter to which the misrepresentation related  was relevant to the 
insurer, or did not care whether  or not it was relevant to the insurer
If UKI was able to show this, it would be entitled  to void Mrs Ks polices and retain the 
premiums.
As during the follow up calls Mrs K had with UKI she initially said she had checked  her 
documents when  they were received, that her partner was the named driver on policy A, and 
that she was an audiologist I think UKI has shown Mrs K made a qualifying 
misrepresentation and it made a fair decision to void both polices and retain  the premiums.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 July 2020.
Ref: DRN54772453Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5477245