K820x#14complaint
Mr C and Mrs C say HSBC UK Bank  Plc (HSBC)  mis-sold them  a payment protection  
insurance (PPI)  policy.  
background and summary to complaint
Mr C and Mrs C bought  the policy in 2001  at the same time as taking out a mortgage. They  
applied for the mortgage and PPI policy in branch.  
The policy provided  cover  for Mr C for accident, sickness,  and unemployment  subject to its 
exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay  £600 a month towards Mr C and Mrs Cs 
mortgage balance  in the event of a successful claim. At the time,  it cost £35.64 a month. 
In 2004 Mr C and Mrs C took a further  advance by way of an equity release loan and the 
policy cost increased  to £47.52 and gave them increased cover of £800  a month.
At the time,  Mr C was a self-employed carpenter. As a self-employed  person he wasnt  
entitled to any sick pay and he didnt have any other means of repaying the mortgage should  
he be unable  to work. Mr C said he was in good  health at the time of the sale.  
HSBC has sent us screenshots to show that the mortgage account closed in 2006. 
Mr C and Mrs Cs representative has made lengthy  and substantial  representations on their 
behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr C and Mrs Cs representative says:
HSBC failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr C and Mrs C 
wouldnt have taken  out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr C and 
Mrs Cs representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means HSBC should  have 
told Mr C and Mrs C about the poor value;  
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means HSBC should  have explained  
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mr C and Mrs C and the 
impact they would have had on their chances of making a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
Ref: DRN57124272The information Mr C and Mrs C received was misleading. These  policies were  
promoted as providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations 
on the scope of the cover meant  this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr C and Mrs C disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion for several  reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr C and Mrs Cs. I dont intend to set 
that out in much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr C and Mrs Cs 
complaint.
This sale took place  in 2001 before the sale of general insurance products like this became 
regulated by the FSA in January 2005.  So the FSAs and the FCAs overarching principles 
for businesses and insurance  conduct rules (ICOB and ICOBS) are not applicable to this 
complaint; nor is the FCAs Perimeter Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2006. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance 
Code for private  customers   the GISC Code. 
This sale was made during a period  of industry  self-regulation by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC).  It published the GISC Code, which  set out minimum standards  of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling  insurance, including  PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
HSBC, selling insurance at this time:
Ref: DRN57124273The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
While not all intermediaries  who sold PPI at the time were a member of the ABI or GISC, I 
consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like HSBC  at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take these codes into account 
when deciding, what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Mr C and 
Mrs Cs case.
There was also the Mortgage Code which was a voluntary code followed by subscribing 
lenders and mortgage intermediaries. While predominantly about  mortgage related matters, 
it also included some insurance related commitments. 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Banking  
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Banking  Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman  was 
required to decide  complaints by reference  to what was, in his opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances   and that the Ombudsman was required to observe any applicable 
rule of law or relevant judicial authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
HSBC was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were  
guidance when  considering Mr C and Mrs Cs complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If HSBC gave advice,  whether  it advised  Mr C and Mrs C with reasonable care and 
skill  in particular,  whether  the policy was appropriate or suitable for them,  given 
their needs and circumstances. 
Ref: DRN57124274-Whether HSBC gave Mr C and Mrs C sufficient, appropriate and timely information to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take out the policy,  
including drawing  to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions of the policy  and significant  limitations  and 
exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr C 
and Mrs C, I must then go on to consider whether and to what  extent Mr C and Mrs C 
suffered loss or damage and what  I consider  would amount to fair compensation for 
that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr C and Mrs C 
and HSBC, Ive decided not to uphold Mr C and Mrs Cs complaint. Ive set out my reasoning 
below. 
did Mr C and Mrs C know they had a choice?
HSBC had to make  it clear that the PPI policy was optional. 
Not all the paperwork is available. Thats  not unusual given the time that has gone  by since 
the sale, as businesses arent required  to keep records  indefinitely. However, from the 
records still available I can see the Mr C and Mrs C had a discussion with the representative 
and following that discussion  only Mr C took out the policy. It looks to me as if Mr C and Mrs 
C engaged with the process and confirmed to the representative their financial priorities. 
From the records it seems Mr C confirmed he would struggle financially if he was unable  to 
work as a result of long-term  sickness or accident.  On balance it doesnt seem  likely that Mr 
C and Mrs C would have  been obliged to proceed  with taking out the PPI as part of their 
mortgage package. I think its likely they were  given choices- the notes indicate that some 
other products offered  were refused after theyd  been discussed. Mrs C did not choose to 
take out any cover-  this also leads me to think its likely choices were  made.
The premiums for the PPI would have been taken separately. Its unlikely  the PPI would  
have been presented as part of the package  if it was paid for separately.  And if Mr C and 
Mrs C wanted to raise any queries about  the cover they could have done so at any time. I 
havent seen evidence they did this.
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mr C and Mrs C knew the policy  
was optional and they agreed  to take it out without undue pressure. 
did HSBC provide  advice?
Mr C and Mrs C said no advice was given to them. HSBC  say this was an advised  sale. I 
can see from the paperwork that notes were taken during the meeting  and it looks to me 
likely that a tailored  recommendation  was made  to Mr C and Mrs C for PPI after considering 
Mr C and Mrs Cs circumstances. So, I will look at this sale as if it were  an advised  sale. This 
placed more responsibility on HSBC for how it sold the policy.
This means  HSBC had to advise Mr C and Mrs C with reasonable care and skill, in particular  
whether the policy  was appropriate or suitable  given their needs and circumstances.
the advice
Ref: DRN57124275While I dont know what was discussed  in the meeting, the documentary evidence suggests  
that HSBC took some  steps to establish  whether the policy was a suitable recommendation 
for Mr C and Mrs C. The adviser had information  about some of Mr C and Mrs Cs financial 
circumstances as part of the mortgage application. But although  a demands and needs 
statement was completed to try and establish whether Mr C and Mrs C had a need  for the 
policy  by asking  questions about their wider circumstances such  as their existing means  
I dont think it did enough to ensure the PPI was suitable. For example, I cant  see that 
Mr Cs medical  conditions  were  discussed.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded HSBC  did all it should have done 
to determine whether  the policy was suitable  for Mr C and Mrs C given their circumstances. 
So Im not persuaded HSBC advised  with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded HSBC did all it should have done to make  sure the policy  was 
suitable for Mr C and Mrs C, I do think its more likely than not that the policy was ultimately 
suitable for them. In reaching that conclusion  Ive taken into consideration:
-Mr C met the eligibility criteria  for the policy.
-I think Mr C and Mrs C had a need for the policy  Mr C was the main wage earner 
and it seems likely Mr C and Mrs Cs finances would  be put under strain if he was not 
working. As a self-employed  person  he would  not have received any sick pay if he 
was unable to work  due to illness and wouldnt have received redundancy benefits. 
He also told us they didnt have any savings  they could  fall back  on. The policy  would 
have helped Mr C and Mrs C manage  the consequences if Mr C was unable to work.
-Although Mr C and Mrs C say they were  financially stretched at the time,  Ive seen 
nothing else to suggest the monthly cost of the PPI wasnt affordable.
 
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mr C and Mrs C. 
Mr C has told us he was self-employed, but this policy didnt preclude him from 
claiming as a self-employed person and didnt likely make it more  difficult to make  a 
successful claim  as a self-employed person than it would have done if hed been 
employed. And he hasnt  told us about  any pre-existing medical conditions that could 
affect his ability  to claim. There were also no additional restrictions on cover for 
mental health or back problems.
-While  the policy would  only pay benefits  for a maximum of 12 months for each claim 
for disability and unemployment, it still provided useful cover given Mr C and Mrs Cs 
circumstances.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  HSBC gave Mr C and Mrs C sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable them to understand what HSBC 
was recommending to them and make  an informed decision about whether to follow that 
advice and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr C and Mrs C were given a broad description  of 
what the policy was intended to cover  (that is that the policy  would protect their payments if 
Mr C was unable to work through accident,  sickness or unemployment)  and of the 
approximate costs. I have  reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely  Mr C and 
Ref: DRN57124276Mrs C would have taken  out the policy without  any sense  of what the policy was for and of 
how much  the premium might be.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  HSBC gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost or about  the exclusions or 
limitations before Mr C and Mrs C agreed to take out the policy.  
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr C and Mrs C, Im not persuaded 
HSBC did enough  to present information  about  the policy it was recommending  in a way that 
was fair and reasonable to them. Im not persuaded HSBC gave Mr C and Mrs C all of the 
information they needed about the policy to make an informed  decision about  whether to 
follow the recommendation  and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr C and Mrs Cs representative has raised 
a number of general  points  in regards to the requirements on a business  when providing  
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr C and 
Mrs Cs. Ive considered these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr C and Mrs Cs representative considers to 
be poor value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business rather 
than the insurer.  
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr C and Mrs C about the limitations  and exclusions,  it should have gone further 
and explained  the significance of them  to them. 
Im not persuaded by Mr C and Mrs Cs representatives views on this. The duty of utmost 
good faith in insurance law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose 
material facts and not to make material misrepresentations.  While I cant be certain what a 
court would say  I think its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer  
having to disclose the claims ratio information or explaining the significance of the limitations 
and exclusions in the way Mr C and Mrs C have suggested. And taking into account  the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude that HSBC ought to have done either. 
what effect did HSBCs shortcomings have on Mr C and Mrs C? To what extent did Mr 
C and Mrs C suffer  loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that HSBC  didnt do all it should  have done when it sold this policy to Mr C and 
Mrs C. So I have gone on to consider  whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude  
Mr C and Mrs C suffered  loss and damage  as a result. To answer this, I must decide  
whether or not Mr C and Mrs C would have still taken out the policy,  had HSBC done things 
properly. 
Ref: DRN57124277While Im not persuaded HSBC took the steps  it should  have  done  to establish whether the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Mr C and Mrs C, I have found that the policy  was 
ultimately suitable for them.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr C and Mrs C have suffered 
loss or damage in this case primarily depends on whether,  if HSBC  had explained  things 
properly, Mr C and Mrs C would have acted  differently, or whether they would have taken  
out the policy in any event.
Mr C and Mrs C say they wouldnt  have  taken it out and believe I should presume this to be 
the case given  the significant failings identified above. Ive considered the representations  of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mr C and Mrs C had some  interest  in taking out 
payment protection insurance. By this I mean when HSBC advised  them  that there was a 
suitable product,  they could buy that would protect their mortgage payments in the event  
they were unable to work because of accident, sickness  and unemployment, they concluded 
they wanted that product.  But they made  that decision  based on incomplete  information, 
meaning what they thought they were  getting  is not exactly  what  they got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr C and Mrs Cs circumstances 
at the time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for them.
Although I consider it more likely than not that Mr C and Mrs C knew  they would have to pay 
something for the policy, it doesnt appear HSBC told them the exact premium at the point 
Mr C and Mrs C applied for the policy. Having said that, it seems likely  Mr C and Mrs C 
would have been told the cost before the policy started and they paid for the policy for a 
number of years, so if the costs were  significantly at odds with their expectations  at the point 
of sale, its possible they might have raised  that with HSBC at the time, or reconsidered  their 
decision.
Overall, Im not persuaded Mr C and Mrs C would have found the cost unacceptable if they 
had been given the exact figure during  the meeting in which  they agreed to the policy.
In addition, Im not persuaded  HSBC  made  clear  exactly what  Mr C and Mrs C would get 
back in return in the event they made  a successful claim. But I think  its unlikely Mr C and 
Mrs Cs expectations about  what the policy would pay in the event of a claim (an amount 
sufficient to meet their mortgage  payment) were  significantly different to what the policy 
actually did.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr C and Mrs C thought they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions for which treatment had 
been given or diagnosis  had been made or investigations commenced during the 12 
months immediately before the start date. It also excluded any chronic or continuing 
Ref: DRN57124278medical condition  or disease from which Mr C knowingly suffered on the start date of 
the policy; 
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr C 
wasnt a permanent employee but this did not apply to self-employed  people;
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Mr C and Mrs C pause for thought  and may well have caused them to conclude the policy 
wasnt as good  as they thought and they might have  decided not to proceed.  The limitations 
on the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might  have dissuaded  
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr C and Mrs C from taking out the 
policy. 
The evidence about Mr Cs circumstances at the time of sale shows  that the policy  wasnt 
fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. He was eligible for its benefits and it provided 
cover that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable  to Mr C and Mrs 
C should the insured risks have become a reality. Although Mr C was self-employed when  
the PPI was taken  out, it wouldnt have been  any harder for him to make  a claim if he 
became unemployed than someone who was permanently employed.  And I havent  seen 
any evidence to suggest he wouldve been  caught  by any of the significant exclusions. So I 
still think Mr C and Mrs C had some good reasons to take the policy out.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Mr C and Mrs C 
would have expected to make a disability claim on the policy  without first providing some 
evidence to support  that claim.
To make a disability claim, Mr C needed  to be unable to do his normal  paid work  as certified 
by a doctor.  I dont  think this is likely  to be too different to what he would have expected to 
make a claim. So it seems unlikely  he would have thought hed been  able to make a 
successful claim  if they were still working,  whether that be in his normal  job or any other job. 
HSBC may not have  told Mr C and Mrs C that any claim they made  would be limited to a 12-
month period.  This may have differed from what they expected and might have hoped for  
but they didnt have  any other means to fall back on. 
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mr C and Mrs C would still have thought a policy 
that paid up to 12 monthly mortgage payments would have been of benefit  to them and 
would help them manage the consequences  should Mr C and Mrs C be unable to work  in the 
circumstances covered by the policy. The policy allowed for multiple claims to be made, it 
could help reduce their outgoings at a difficult and uncertain time and ensure their home was 
not placed at risk.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr C and Mrs C would still have taken out the policy. The policy was suitable for 
them, was sufficiently close  to what its likely  they thought they were  getting and provided 
benefits that would help them manage  the consequences if Mr C was redundant, or unable 
to work through accident or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more  likely than not 
Ref: DRN57124279Mr C and Mrs C would  have taken out the policy in any event notwithstanding the limitations  
on cover.
Mr C and Mrs Cs representatives say the rules  about how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP 
App 3) make it clear that, where a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration, so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr C and Mrs C would not have bought the PPI they bought unless, in the 
particular circumstances  of the complaint, there is evidence to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr C and 
Mrs Cs circumstances as detailed above,  I consider it reasonable to conclude the position 
Mr C and Mrs C found themselves in as a result of the sale was the same position they 
would have been in had the breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr C and Mrs C believe the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr C and Mrs C in the position they would have been in if 
they had not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that they would not have taken  out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that they would still have 
taken out the PPI had they been  given clear, fair and not misleading information about the 
policy they were buying. So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude HSBC should  pay Mr C and Mrs C compensation, as that would 
put them in a better position than they would have been in if everything had happened as it 
should have done. 
Im also aware that Mr C and Mrs C think HSBC misrepresented  the terms of the policy in 
how it described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court might conclude some  
of HSBCs statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why HSBC 
failed to act fairly and reasonably was not because of what  it did or didnt say in the 
information it provided  but because the overall  information HSBC gave Mr C and Mrs C, in 
the way it did, was insufficient  to meet the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to 
expect it to have  met in 2001 when providing information about  an insurance policy. 
Ref: DRN571242710Ive also thought about the approach Mr C and Mrs Cs representative says a court  might  
take if it were to find HSBC negligently misrepresented  the contract to Mr C and Mrs C and 
about the remedy a court might award  if it were to find that HSBC  had been in breach of its 
duty of utmost  good faith. But this doesnt persuade me to alter my conclusions  about what 
is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of the complaint  including what  I think  is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mr C and Mrs C in a better position than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done. 
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  11 April 2021.
Nicola Woolf
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5712427