K821x#15complaint
Mr Bs complaint against MBNA Limited (MBNA) is that its holding him liable for a series of 
disputed transactions  that he didnt make or authorise.
background
Mr B held a credit card account with MBNA. From January  to August 2018 his account  was 
used to set up and service two continuous  payment authorities (CPA) for online adult 
entertainment services  totalling £1,246.40 over the period.
On 1 September 2018, Mr B noticed  these transactions. He says hed recently moved 
house, and intended to use some  of the sale proceeds to clear  the balance  on his MBNA 
card. So he logged into his account to find out how to make a payment, and saw what had 
been happening. He said this card account  hadnt  been used by him for some time, although 
there were two standing  payments for services that hed set up some years  before. And this 
was why he hadnt noticed anything  sooner.
He didnt recognise to whom the CPAs were  being paid, so tried to find out by contacting the 
merchants. He eventually  realised theyd been  subscriptions for adult websites. He said hed 
never subscribed to these  sites, and hadnt  authorised any of the payments.
On 7 September 2018 he raised  a fraud claim with MBNA. It carried out an investigation and 
concluded that the evidence indicated that nobody  else other  than Mr B could have set up 
the payments,  and it didnt look like typical  fraud. It declined his fraud claim, and told him it 
would be closing his account.
Mr B was very unhappy.  He stated it wasnt so much  about the money  concerned, but the 
fact his credibility had been called into question by MBNA, whom hed happily banked  with 
for many years. He wanted  his name  to be cleared.
As the parties couldnt  agree, the complaint  was brought to our service.  
Our Investigator  looked  carefully  at the evidence, and sought further information from both 
parties. She concluded  that she didnt think it was likely that Mr B had been involved in the 
transactions. And as it hadnt been proven that hed given  his authority for them, MBNA was 
obliged to refund him. She also noted  Mr Bs concerns  about  his credit rating, and confirmed 
that MBNA  hadnt  reported anything against him.
MBNA didnt  think this was fair. It explained  why it had found that it was more likely than not 
that Mr B had been involved  in setting up the subscriptions. It also questioned why hed 
taken six days to report the fraud after finding  out about  it. It didnt think  it was likely that a 
fraudster would set up an arrangement like this where there was no financial benefit. 
MBNA asked for an ombudsmans review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN56495092Having done so, Im in agreement with our Investigator that this complaint should  be upheld,  
and that MBNA should accept Mr Bs fraud claim and issue him a refund. 
I know my decision will come as a disappointment  to MBNA, and Id like to explain why I 
think its fair to both parties.  
Mr Bs case  rests on his belief that while working  abroad  on his laptop,  and using  at times 
public WIFI, his security  details were hacked  and used  to set up these subscriptions. Hes 
shown us that another credit card he held was taken over at the same  time, and fraud  
attempted, but that the card providers fraud alert systems managed to prevent any financial 
loss on that occasion.
I can understand why MBNA reached  the conclusion it did, but I dont think  given everything 
Ive seen that this was right. It says,  among other  things, that:-
The subscription was signed up to using  Mr Bs correct initials,  a former correct  
postcode, and his email  address;
The card CVV was used to set up the initial payments;
The IP address  this was done from was an overseas city, where  Mr B confirms  he 
was working at the time;
Mr B was shown to have accessed  his account statements online before 1 
September 2018, yet he didnt notice or report the disputed transactions  then;
There was no financial gain to a fraudster;
It wasnt a typical  fraud pattern; and 
It was strange that Mr B took from 1 to 7 September  before reporting  the fraud.
Our Investigator  has dealt with each of these submissions, and I agree  with her position.  To 
briefly re-cap;-
If Mr Bs laptop had been hacked into, as he suspects, then all of the information needed to 
set up the subscriptions  in January  2018  would have been  available  to the hacker. And this 
would explain why the IP address was for the same location Mr B was working from. 
She didnt  agree that Mr B should  have noticed  the subscriptions coming  from his account 
on the occasions he accessed  his online banking. When he did, he was doing so for specific  
purposes, and hed already admitted that he had a couple of existing  continuous payment 
authorities on that account.  So its not unreasonable that he might have either not noticed,  or 
thought they were those pre-existing payments. 
She didnt  disagree  that this didnt follow a regular fraud pattern, but didnt think this itself 
was enough to say that Mr B had authorised the payments. 
And she accepted  Mr Bs explanation for the 6-day  delay from discovery to reporting,  as hed 
moved house; had family and work issues to deal with; and needed to find time to make  the 
report. 
As our Investigator helpfully outlined, a customer in a distance contract (payments not made  
in person  but over the phone or online) is generally not liable for payments they didnt 
authorise. And I dont agree with MBNA, for the reasons set out above, that theres  sufficient 
evidence to show that Mr B did give his authority.  
Ref: DRN56495093Mr Bs testimony has been  consistent  throughout. Hes said hes not asking for MBNA  to 
reinstate his account. But hes hurt and offended at being made  to look like the perpetrator  of 
a crime when hes in fact the victim.
Well never know for sure exactly  how this happened, but I dont think  the most likely culprit 
is Mr B. I think his story  is credible, and in particular I find the fact that another  of his credit 
card accounts was hacked at the same  time at his MBNA one, although  any loss was 
prevented. 
I think its possible that Mr Bs details were obtained and used fraudulently.  I havent  seen 
enough evidence  to convince me that he himself  set up these payments, so I think  MBNA 
needs to refund him. 
I note, as our Investigator did, that MBNA  hasnt recorded any negative  information  against 
Mr B in respect of this incident. If thats  since changed, then Id expect any such information 
to be deleted.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. In order to resolve matters, Im asking MBNA 
Limited to:-
Refund £1,246.40 to Mr B;
Refund any interest and charges applied to the account in respect  of this amount; 
and
Remove any adverse  information that might  have  been recorded against him as part 
of the fraud investigation and account  closure.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 June 2020.
Ashley L B More
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5649509