K820x#13complaint
Mrs R complains that Bank of Scotland  plc, trading as Halifax  (Halifax), mis-sold her a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mrs R took out a monthly premium PPI policy with Halifax during a branch meeting in 2004  
in connection  with a loan.  The policy covered Mrs R for disability for up to 60 months and 
unemployment for up to a maximum of 12 months per claim.  It also provided life cover.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Mrs Rs complaint.
Mrs R didnt agree with the adjudicator  and so the complaint  has been passed to me to 
consider.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Rs case.
Having done that, Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Rs complaint.
I have looked  at the policy document  and am satisfied that Mrs R was eligible for the policy  
at the time of sale.
Mrs R says she was told that she had to take out PPI to get the loan.  I dont know what was 
discussed at the time. So its possible she was told this. But I can see from the loan 
agreement that there  is an option  to either accept or refuse PPI, both given equal 
prominence. So, it looks like she would have known she had a choice.  The box to take out 
PPI has been  marked, indicating that she wanted  it. Also the cost for the loan and the PPI 
are set out separately. So, all in all, I think it is more  likely that Mrs R was aware that the 
policy was optional.
Halifax accepts it advised Mrs R to take out the policy.   So it had to make  sure the policy  
was suitable for her. Looking at Mrs Rs circumstances, I think it was suitable for the 
following reasons:
-From  what Mrs R says, she would  have received between 6 and 12 months pay from 
her employer  if she was off work because of accident or sickness.  But the policy  
would have paid out for longer than this as it would have met her loan repayments  for 
up to 60 months if she was off work sick.  Also it would have paid for up to 12 
months for an unemployment claim.  Mrs R also says she had savings. But she could 
have used this money  to meet  her other  living expenses rather  than paying her 
monthly repayments. So I still think the policy provided useful  cover  for her. 
-I cant see that Mrs R had any particular  need to keep the costs down and so the 
cover appears to have  been affordable for her.
Ref: DRN59906792-As it was a regular  premium policy, Mrs R wouldnt  have lost out financially if she 
wanted to cancel the policy.
-Mrs R doesnt appear  to have been  caught by any restrictive terms or exclusions in 
the policy.  For example,  she didnt  have any unusual  employment arrangements  or a 
pre-existing medical condition at the time of taking  out the PPI.  And  I note that 
Mrs R made  two successful claims on the policy.
-I have also looked at whether or not the information given to Mrs R at the time of the 
sale was clear, fair and not misleading  so that she could make a proper choice 
whether or not to take the policy.
I dont know  what information was given at the time the policy was sold.  But  I note 
that the terms and conditions  were  sent out to Mrs R after the meeting.  So  I dont 
know if she did receive  enough information  about the policy at the time she decided 
to take it out. So, its possible there may have been information  failings by Halifax.
But even if Mrs R had been given better  information about the policy,  I dont  think  
there was anything that would have put her off taking it.  I say this for the same 
reasons why I think the policy was suitable for her.
Based on the above I am unable to uphold Mrs Rs complaint.
Ive also thought about the commission Mrs R paid Halifax on her PPI  and whether Halifax  
treated her unfairly.
Halifax has told us that the commission for Mrs Rs PPI was less than half of what  she paid 
for each  premium. Weve  looked at how Halifax has been working this out and based on 
what weve seen it looks like its right  Mrs Rs commission was less than half the cost of 
the PPI. As thats the case, I dont think it needed  to tell her about the commission  so I 
dont think Halifax treated her unfairly. This means it doesnt need to pay Mrs R back any of 
the commission she paid for the PPI. 
my final decision
I dont uphold Mrs Rs complaint against  Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 April 2019.
Catherine Langley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5990679