K821x#15complaint
Mr B has complained that Indigo Michael  Limited  (trading as Safety Net Credit (SNC)) didnt 
carry out sufficient affordability checks before granting him a Safety Net facility.  Mr B also 
says that SNC shouldnt  have continued  to raise his credit limit when it shouldve  been 
aware these increases were not affordable for him.
 
background
Mr B approached SNC  for a Safety Net facility in May 2017. This was a running credit  
account where a consumer could either  request funds up to their credit limit, or funds would 
be deposited into their bank account  once  their account balance fell below  a safety net 
amount of the customers choosing. 
Mr B was initially  given a facility with a £350  credit  limit in May 2017. His limit was then 
increased incrementally until it reached £1,000 in January 2018.
One of our adjudicators looked  at Mr Bs complaint. She thought the checks SNC carried  out 
before granting  this facility were proportionate.  However, the information SNC had available  
to it suggested  that Mr B wouldnt  be able to afford to sustainably repay the facility.  
The adjudicator could see that SNC hadnt categorised  Mr Bs income correctly, which led it 
to believe that his income was significantly higher than it actually was. It also seems  that 
SNC took money  from a binary  trading  platform into account, which also inflated Mr Bs 
income. 
The adjudicator could also see from SNCs credit check that Mr B had been  a regular user of 
short term lending and had active  credit  repayments each month  of around £700. So the 
adjudicator concluded Mr B wouldnt  be in a position to sustainably  meet  the repayments he 
was committed to making, and so the facility shouldnt have been provided.  
Mr B appears to have  agreed with the adjudicators recommendation. 
However, SNC didnt  respond to the adjudicators assessment. So I dont know  what  it thinks  
about it. 
No agreement was reached,  so the case has now been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice  at the time the loans were  offered.
Having carefully thought  about everything  Ive been  provided with, Im upholding Mr Bs 
complaint in full and Ive explained my reasons  for doing so below. 
Ref: DRN57657972the relevant regulations in place  at the time Mr B was given his Safety Net facility 
I think it would be helpful for me to start by explaining that SNC  gave Mr B this facility when it 
was regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). And the relevant regulatory rules 
in place at the time were set out in the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) section of 
the FCA Handbook of rules  and guidance.
Section 5.2.1(2) of CONC set out what a lender needed to do before agreeing to give a 
consumer a loan of this type.  And it says a firm had to consider the potential for the 
commitments under  the regulated credit agreement to adversely impact the customers 
financial situation  as well as the ability of the customer  to make repayments  as they fall due 
over the life of the regulated credit agreement, or for such  an agreement  which  is an open-
end agreement (like Mr Bs Safety Net facility) , to make payments within a reasonable 
period.
CONC 5.2 also includes some guidance  on the sorts  of things a lender  needs to bear in 
mind when considering  its obligations  under CONC 5.2.1.  Section 5.2.4(2) says a firm 
should consider  what  is appropriate in any particular circumstances dependent on, for 
example, the type and amount of credit  being  sought and the potential  risks to the customer.  
The risk of credit not being sustainable directly  relates to the amount of credit  granted and 
the total charge for credit relative to the customers financial  situation.
And CONC 5.3 contains further guidance on what  a lender should bear in mind when 
thinking about affordability. CONC 5.3.1(1) says In making the creditworthiness assessment 
or the assessment required by CONC 5.2.2R (1), a firm should  take into account more than 
assessing the customers ability to repay the credit ..
CONC 5.3.1(2) then says The creditworthiness assessment and the assessment required 
by CONC 5.2.2R (1) should include the firm taking reasonable steps to assess  the 
customers ability to meet repayments under  a regulated credit  agreement in a sustainable 
manner without the customer incurring financial difficulties or experiencing significant 
adverse consequences..
In practice all of this meant that a lender  had to take proportionate steps to ensure a 
consumer wouldve been able to repay what they were borrowing in a sustainable  manner 
without it adversely impacting on their financial situation. Put simply the lender  had to gather 
enough information so that it could make an informed decision on the lending.
Although the guidance  didnt set out compulsory checks it did list a number of things a lender 
could take into account before agreeing to lend. The key thing was that it required a lenders 
checks to be proportionate.  And any checks  had to take into account a number of different 
things, such as how much was being  lent, and when that was due to be repaid.
But to be clear, Mr B wasnt given a payday  loan where he had to repay all of what he 
borrowed plus the interest due when he next got paid. He was given a facility where there  
was an expectation  that hed repay what he borrowed plus the interest due within  a 
reasonable period of time,  and at the start of the facility the minimum payment Mr B wouldve 
been expected to make was around £20 per month. CONC doesnt set out what  a 
reasonable period of time is. So I think its important  to note that a reasonable period of 
time will always be dependent on the circumstances  of the individual case. 
Ref: DRN57657973Ive kept all this in mind  when thinking  about whether SNC did what  it needed to before 
agreeing to Mr Bs Safety Net facility. As explained,  Mr B was given  what was an open-
ended credit facility. So overall I think that this means the checks  SNC carried out had to 
provide enough information for it to be able to understand whether Mr B would likely be able 
to service and then repay this facility within a reasonable period of time.
SNC says it reviewed Mr Bs bank transaction data for the 90 days prior to the facility being 
approved. And having done so, it says it was satisfied Mr B wasnt experiencing difficulty in 
meeting his existing  commitments. So therefore,  it was likely he would be able to afford the 
payments he was committed to making.  
SNC also carried out credit checks before the facility was provided,  and it has provided us 
with the results.  At the time of the facility  being  approved it was aware of some adverse 
information recorded with two credit  reference agencies. The information SNC saw indicated 
that Mr B had debts  of around £8,300 and had taken  and repaid 16 payday loans. In 
addition, it also was given  information  which suggested his monthly credit commitments  
were around  £720.  
I dont think this information on its own wouldve automatically led to SNC declining  Mr Bs 
request for a facility. But I do think, based on the combined results of its review  of Mr Bs 
banking transactions  and the credit check,  that SNC couldnt  reasonably  have believed  he 
would be able to maintain  the facility he was offered. In short, what SNC hasnt done  is react  
to the information that it saw in either Mr Bs bank  statements or the credit  check results.  
In this case, SNCs checks showed that at times substantial sums of money were being  
transferred from the account it was reviewing to a binary option account and another bank  
account. This meant that while it was aware  of Mr Bs regularly salary, SNC also says that 
his average monthly  income during this period was well over £5,000 per month. I think, 
having looked at the bank statements, that SNC hasnt categorised some of the incoming 
payments into the account correctly, and Ive explained why below. 
Mr Bs actual  monthly income was nowhere  near £5,000 per month. What appears  to have 
happened, in this case, is that Mr B was trading binary options and so there are a number of 
debits and credits into his account. For example  in April 2017 Mr B received credits from the 
binary trading  account of £3,700 yet in the same period sent nearly  £4,000 to his trading 
account. And it seems  that the credits have been counted towards Mr Bs income
Based on what I can see in the statements,  it seems  to me that SNC has counted  the binary 
options credits as income and it shouldnt have done this. Because there was no guarantee  
that Mr B would be successful in his trades  and therefore make  a profit, indeed based on the 
information SNC had available it seems  that Mr B was spending more each month to on this 
trading then he had coming in. So in these circumstances it wasnt fair to count these credits 
as income because the credits werent  guaranteed.   
So by counting the binary transfers as income,  this has had the effect of artificially  increasing 
Mr Bs actual  income. As from the bank  statements  it seems  that Mr Bs monthly was fairly 
stable, and didnt  significantly  change from month  to month. And this therefore, had an 
impact on SNCs  assessment as to whether Mr B could afford the facility. 
Ref: DRN57657974It therefore follows that the amount  of disposable  income that SNC believed  Mr B had was 
also incorrect. SNC has told us that it believed his disposable income, at the point the facility  
was approved, was around £1,500 per month. But, SNC ought to have  realised this wasnt 
correct, because the review of the bank statements wouldve highlighted a significant  
amount of expenditure for the binary options  and the fact that Mr Bs apparent  disposable 
income was actually higher than his salary.  And at times, Mr B is also regular using betting 
websites as well. 
Overall, taking into account what SNC saw when making the decision to provide the facility, I 
dont think, that the facility shouldve been given. Mr B was regularly using betting website, 
spending significant sums on binary  options  trades  and was borrowing significant sums from 
short terms lenders.  Indeed  in the month before the facility was approved,  Mr B had repaid 
close to £1,000 to other short term lenders. All of this information was available  to SNC and 
had it correctly categorised his income, then it wouldve realised that Mr B was having 
problems managing his finances and it shouldnt have provided  the facility.   
It therefore follows that because I dont think SNC shouldve provided Mr B with the initial 
credit limit, that all credit limit increases  shouldnt  have  happened either. This is especially 
so, considering that Mr B continued  to spend money  on binary option trades, and started  to 
become more reliant on short  term payday  loans. And during the time that SNC was 
monitoring the facility,  it was aware that at various points Mr B was regularly borrowing from 
at least 10 different short term lenders, and at times he was spending a significant portion of 
his income each month repaying these loans   at least £600. 
Overall, and for the reasons  Ive given above,  I think Mr B has lost out as a result  of SNCs 
actions.
what SNC  should do to put things  right
To put things right for Mr B, SNC  should:
remove any unpaid  interest fee and charges  from the current outstanding  balance and 
then refund  all the interest and charges applied to Mr Bs Safety Net facility ; and
add interest at 8% per year simple  on the above interest and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement ;
then deduct from the above refund any unpaid principal that remains due. If the above  
refund is sufficient to repay what Mr B owes, then the remainder of the refund should  
then be paid directly  to Mr B. 
If, however, the refund above isnt sufficient to repay any outstanding principal, then 
SNC and Mr B should try and come  to a mutually agreeable repayment plan in order  to 
repay what  is owed. But Id remind SNC of its obligation to treat Mr B positively and 
sympathetically. 
remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Bs credit  file as a result of this facility 
having been given to him.
HM Revenue & Customs requires SNC to take off tax from this interest. SNC must give 
Mr B a certificate  showing  how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Ref: DRN57657975my final decision
For the reasons  given  above Im upholding  Mr Bs complaint. 
Indigo Michael Limited should pay Mr B compensation  as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 December  2019.
Robert Walker
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN5765797