K820x#14complaint
Mrs and Mr H complain that Bank  of Scotland  plc, trading as Halifax (Halifax)  hasnt 
refunded them enough money,  despite agreeing that it shouldnt  have sold them an URCA 
packaged bank  account (PBA).
background
In May 2019, Halifax accepted that it shouldnt have sold Mrs and Mr H the URCA PBA and 
calculated what it owed  them. It worked out that they had paid around £1,200 in account  
fees, but had saved  around £1,800 on the costs  associated with their overdraft. This was 
because they had operated the account  almost always within the agreed overdraft, and the 
key benefit of the URCA was a fee-free and interest-free agreed  overdraft. It therefore  paid 
them a small amount in relation to the usual simple interest  charges  that would form part of a 
refund.
Mrs and Mr H didnt think that was fair, as they said that they believed the overdraft came 
free. An adjudicator looked into their case and didnt think that Halifax had done anything 
wrong or needed  to pay them more. They didnt accept that and asked an ombudsman to 
look at their complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive considered all the available  
evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances 
of this complaint. Ive followed our usual approach  to considering PBA complaints, 
which everyone can read on our website.
Im not upholding Mrs and Mr Hs complaint, and Ill explain why.
Mrs and Mr H havent argued  with the calculations Halifax has carried  out, and I have seen 
nothing to suggest they are wrong. Their  concern  is about  the fairness of Halifax being able 
to deduct the savings  they made, because they say they thought the overdraft facility  was 
free, and that they object  to the fact that, where a refund may have been due, [they were] 
told after the event  that [they] will not receive  it.
In fact Mrs and Mr H are correct, the overdraft  facility  was free  because they had an 
URCA. They paid the URCA account  fee mainly  for that specific benefit, without which,  their 
overdraft would have  cost them about 50% more than it actually did. This wouldnt be the 
case for all URCA  customers, but Mrs and Mr H have confirmed to me that their situation 
was such at the time that they needed  the overdraft and wouldnt have been able to keep the 
account in credit. So, they would have had to use an overdraft  regardless.
My role is to make directions that will put customers back into the position  they would have 
been in had a business not made a mistake. So, if Mrs and Mr H had not been sold the 
URCA by Halifax,  they would have still used the overdraft facility but would have paid more 
for it  as they would  not have had the benefit of the interest free overdraft benefit  provided 
by the URCA.  Technically, therefore,  to put Mrs and Mr H back in the position  they would 
have been without the URCA, they could be said to owe Halifax money.
Ref: DRN56226152Halifax is not asking  for that, and I would not consider it to be fair or reasonable if it did. But I 
also can find no reason  to direct Halifax to pay Mrs and Mr H anything  extra.  I, of course,  
understand that it must  have  been disappointing  to learn that the mis-sale was agreed  by 
Halifax, but no substantial  pay out was to follow. But it is clear  that, in their circumstances, 
Mrs and Mr H saved a considerable amount of money as a result  of Halifaxs  mistake.  
Consequently, they have  not suffered a financial loss and it follows that I do not uphold this 
complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I do not uphold this complaint and Halifax  doesnt need to do 
anything.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  15 July 2020..
Siobhan McBride
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5622615