K821x#15complaint
Mr T complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC dealt unfairly with his claim under Section 
75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974  (section 75). 
background
Mr T purchased some roller doors for his garage using his Tesco credit card. The purchase 
price was £1700.
The roller doors didnt  work properly and Mr Ts attempts  to resolve matters with the 
merchant were unsuccessful. He contacted  Tesco to make a claim under  section  75.
Tesco asked  Mr T to provide a report on the roller doors. Mr T obtained a report  but Tesco 
didnt accept its validity. It asked Mr T to obtain a further report from a VAT registered  
company. 
Mr T has said that he lives rurally and hasnt been able to find a VAT registered  company 
who is prepared to travel  a long way to provide a report without  the promise  of extra work. 
Hes unhappy that Tesco didnt make him aware  that he needed  a report from a VAT 
registered company  in this first place because  hes already incurred the cost of one report.
Tesco has said it tried to contact the author of the report  provided by Mr T but hasnt been 
able to speak  with him. It says it has been unable  to find any information regarding the 
author through internet searches, and that because  it hasnt been able to verify the 
credentials of the author  it cant accept the report.
Our investigator upheld  the complaint. She said she had no reason to doubt the validity of 
the report provided by Mr T and that she was satisfied, based on the contents of the report 
that the garage doors werent of satisfactory quality at the point of supply. She also felt that 
Tesco couldve handled  the claim better  and recommended that Tesco refund the purchase  
price of the doors  together  with the costs of installation and the cost of the report obtained by 
Mr T.
Tesco didnt  agree that it should have accepted the report. It said it had been unable  to 
validate the credentials of the author and that it had acted correctly in questioning this. 
Tesco said that the merchant who supplied the doors hadnt been involved in the installation.  
It referred to information which it had received  from the merchant  which said that the side 
tracks had been  installed  too close to the roller,  causing the doors to jam. Tesco said it had 
relied on this information  as evidence that there was no fault with the doors. It said it was Mr 
Ts responsibility to show otherwise and it didnt agree that a report from an unidentified third 
party should  supersede the findings  of a verified company selling garage doors.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under section 75, Mr T has a like claim against Tesco as he does against  the merchant for 
breach of contract and/or misrepresentation. For the purposes of section 75, a breach  of 
contract is where the merchant fails to do what the contract says it must, either  expressly or 
by implication. For example, there is a breach of contract where goods that have been paid 
for arent supplied, or where they arent up to standard.
Ref: DRN52615222The way in which this service approaches section 75 is to look at what  happened and 
assess whether there are grounds for a successful claim  under section 75.
Mr T says that the doors dont close smoothly and are always getting stuck. He says he 
asked the merchant to inspect  the doors but didnt receive a response.
Mr T has provided  an independent report which concludes that there  is a fault with the doors 
and that they were  poorly manufactured and not of satisfactory quality. Tesco  doesnt  accept  
the report because  it hasnt been able to verify the credentials of the author. It wants  Mr T to 
obtain a further report  fro a VAT registered company.
Ive looked at the independent report. Whilst I accept that Tesco  might  have concerns about 
being unable  to contact the author, this of itself doesnt mean that the report  isnt authentic or 
reliable. Mr T has provided a receipt to confirm that he paid for the report  so I dont doubt its 
authenticity.
Ive taken into account the information which Tesco received from the merchant. Ive got 
concerns as to how the merchant is able to comment on the problem with the doors. Based 
on the information Ive seen, I cant see that the merchant has carried out an inspection  of 
the doors, so I cant give weight to the assertion that it was clear to our technical engineer 
the side tracks were  too close to the roller,  causing  the door to jam. If Im wrong about that 
and the merchant has inspected the doors,  then I dont  think  the merchants opinion can be 
viewed as independent. 
As Ive said,  I accept that Tesco  had concerns but I think  it couldve handled the claim better. 
If Tesco wasnt satisfied with the report provided by Mr T it couldve arranged for an 
independent report  to be obtained from an expert who satisfied  its criteria.
On the balance of evidence,  Im persuaded that the doors werent of satisfactory quality at 
the point of supply. This is a breach of contract.
The independent report says that a repair would cost more than the original cost of the 
doors. Therefore,  I think Mr T should receive  a refund. To put him back  in the position he 
was in as if the breach of contract hadnt occurred means refunding  the installation  costs as 
well as the purchase price.
Ref: DRN52615223my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint.  Tesco Personal Finance PLC must:
Arrange for the garage doors  to be removed  at no cost to Mr T
Refund the purchase price
Refund the installation costs
Refund the cost of the independent inspection
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 February  2020.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5261522