K820x#14complaint
Mr F says Bank of Scotland  Plc, trading as Halifax, mis-sold him a payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy. The policy was taken out in 2002 when Mr F applied for a new credit  
card. 
background
One of our adjudicators has already told Mr F that they didnt think his mis-sale complaint 
should be upheld.  Mr F asked for an ombudsmans final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.  
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Fs mis-sale  complaint.
Mr F says he was told to take out the cover  and was given no choice. However,  weve seen 
a few similar cases to this and as a consequence, we now know  quite a bit about how the 
processes normally worked  and the type of paperwork that was used during the course of 
these particular sales. We know, for example, that consumers usually spoke  with a Halifax  
adviser to discuss their requirements and as a result  of that discussion a credit agreement 
was then drawn up for the consumer to check and sign.
We were sent a copy of Mr Fs agreement and I can see a box about PPI was selected on 
the form. We know the sale was carried out in a branch, so I think  the PPI being chosen in 
this way would have been done as a result  of the conversation Ive mentioned above. Mr F 
also signed the agreement, so I think this shows he asked for the cover.
Halifax concedes this was probably an advised sale. This means it had a duty to make  sure 
the PPI was suitable for Mr F. I think it was.
This is because I think Mr F was eligible for the PPI and I dont think that hed have been 
caught by any of the major exclusions we tend to see in these policies. The monthly cost of 
the policy was 78p per £100 of the outstanding  balance which  was comparable with similar 
policies I know were  sold around that time.  Ive got no evidence to suggest this was 
unaffordable for Mr F. 
Mr F says he got sick pay with his job at the time. Ive thought carefully about this and taken 
account of what  Mr F has said. But Im afraid this doesnt necessarily mean the PPI wasnt of 
any use. In the event  of a successful claim, the PPI could have paid out 10% of his 
outstanding credit card balance for up to a year. So having very carefully considered 
everything Mr F has told us, overall I think  the policy was suitable for him.
Halifax also had a duty to make  sure the information it provided was clear enough for Mr F to 
make an informed decision. He says it wasnt  and I obviously cant  say he was told 
everything he should have been told. But as Ive said, I think there would have been a 
discussion about the policy and how it worked.  I also think Mr F would have been given 
something explaining the policy rules.
Ref: DRN53169822Ive also thought about the commission Mr F paid on his policy and whether Halifax  treated 
him unfairly.   Halifax has told us that the commission for Mr Fs policy was less than half of 
what he paid for each premium. Weve  looked at how Halifax has been working this out and 
based on what weve seen it looks like its right  Mr Fs commission  was less than half the 
cost of the policy. As thats the case,  I dont  think  it needed  to tell him about  the commission 
and so I dont  think Halifax treated him unfairly. This means it doesnt need  to pay Mr F back 
any of the commission  he paid for the PPI.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Fs complaint about the mis-sale. I dont 
direct Bank of Scotland  Plc to do anything more.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 February  2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5316982