K821x#15complaint
Mr S has complained TSB Bank  plc wont refund  him for transactions he didnt make from 
his accounts.
background
Mr S held both an under-19s and a cash ISA account with TSB.
On 16 July 2018 Mr S noticed a transaction for £130 had been made from his current  
account which he hadnt made.  He called TSB. They  wouldnt agree to refund the money.  
They could see the transaction had been  made using their app on another device. They 
couldnt see how someone would know Mr Ss user name, password and memorable 
information.
Mr S brought his complaint to the ombudsman  service.  Our investigator reviewed the 
evidence. Mr S told us he only ever accessed  his account using the app on his mobile  
phone. And he accessed this using his fingerprint. Our investigator thought Mr S was 
credible and couldnt understand why hed have  brought  a complaint to us for a reasonably 
small amount. He also noted TSB had never  completed an investigation  into where the funds 
from Mr Ss account had gone.
Overall he believed Mr S hadnt  made or authorised  the transactions.  That included the 
transfer from the ISA to the current account  which enabled the payment for £130 to be 
made. He asked TSB to refund the money along  with paying Mr S £100 for the 
inconvenience caused.
TSB refused to do this. They believed Mr S couldnt  show how his memorable details had 
been compromised. They  asked an ombudsman  to consider this complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive come to the same 
conclusion as our investigator  and for roughly similar reasons. Ive already confirmed this to 
be the case to TSB. Ill explain  further.
The Payment Services Regulations primarily  require banks to refund customers if they didnt 
make or authorise payments themselves. Certain  other circumstances do apply  specifically 
in this type of case whether the customer was grossly negligent in looking after their card, 
PIN and online  banking details  but nothing thats  had a marked  impact  on the decision Im 
making here.  So when  we look at whether a bank has acted fairly in rejecting  someones  
fraud complaint, one of the things  we consider is whether the customer made the 
transactions themselves or allowed  them to be made. If they did, then we generally  wouldnt 
ask the bank to refund  them.
So to help me decide what happened, Ive looked at the evidence of the transactions, as well 
as what both TSB and Mr S have told us. Ive also asked further questions of Mr Ss 
representative  his father  in light of TSBs refusal  to accept the payments were not made 
or authorised by Mr S.
Ref: DRN59159102Firstly I can see the timeline of events and how the transactions were made were 
comprehensively covered in our investigators view of 31 July 2019. I dont intend  to repeat 
everything that was said there. Except to say Im satisfied Ive reviewed the complaint 
thoroughly.
I think the following  issues are relevant to this complaint:
The disputed transactions were carried  out on another device. Mr S only has one 
mobile phone and thats what he uses to access his TSB app.
TSBs  evidence shows this other device accessed Mr Ss account  also using a TSB 
app  quite a few times prior to the transaction on 16 July. But they only logged in 
and didnt carry out any transactions. This access was always at different  IP 
addresses to those that were registered when  Mr S accessed  his TSB app.
This certainly suggests that Mr S wasnt carrying out these logins or making the 
payments in dispute on 16 July.
This means I need  to consider how someone  could have known Mr Ss login details. 
There are alternative  scenarios which Ive considered. For TSB to say there  was no 
point of compromise suggests they didnt review  this case  thoroughly.
Around this time Mr S was getting  phone calls from someone purporting to be from 
TSB. These were  calls made  on numbers related  to TSB. This had been reported  to 
TSB by Mr S.
This wouldnt  be massively surprising as this was the time TSB had difficulties with a 
data breach. I appreciate what TSB has told me that by the time of the transaction  on 
16 July this had been resolved, but I doubt  if that stopped fraudsters trying their luck.
So I can immediately see a situation where someone purporting to be from TSB was 
calling Mr S trying to find out his login details. I cant be certain whether Mr S ever 
shared any details but TSB has never said Mr S was grossly  negligent  or shown how 
he could have been.
I have considered that possibility but dont think  that even if he did share data  and 
theres no evidence  he did  Id view as him having  done  that with a serious 
disregard to any risk. Hed have  considered  himself talking to TSB from a TSB 
number so I can appreciate what may have occurred.
TSB say the same device was accessing Mr Ss account before 16 July and doesnt 
understand why a fraudster would do this. As our investigator explained not every 
fraudster is part of an organised criminal gang.  In my experience  fraudsters can 
behave in a random manner.
Ive also noted  that at various times the third party was logging  onto Mr Ss account, 
he had limited funds  present. There was never  very much  in Mr Ss account and I 
wonder whether someone was waiting  for things  to change. By the time they got to 
16 July whoever was accessing Mr Ss account  thought things were  unlikely  to 
improve so used  all the money  in his account.
It is disappointing TSB never found  out what happened to the funds transferred out of 
Mr Ss account. This means we are missing an essential piece of evidence which 
could have shown  to TSBs satisfaction  that Mr S hadnt done  this.
Its not my role to decide how someone else could  have  got hold of Mr Ss banking  details, 
made these  transactions or to investigate who that potential  fraudster may be. But I do have 
to be satisfied that there are scenarios how this could have taken place. In this case I believe 
there are a few scenarios  how this could have happened.
Ive also noted  Mr S has been  consistent and credible in his testimony. I need to take this 
into account. TSB has been  dismissive of the idea that Mr S brought his complaint to our 
Ref: DRN59159103service and has waited  a while for a resolution  just for £130 and that this reinforces his 
credibility. I dont agree.  Mr Ss father has confirmed that this isnt unsurprisingly  about  the 
money but about demonstrating that his son didnt do what  hed been accused of.
Taking all the evidence into consideration I see no reason to doubt Mr Ss evidence he didnt 
make or authorise these transactions. Ive also considered whether Mr S was grossly 
negligent and I dont believe he was.
Mr S has told us of the distress this caused  him at the time. He was left with virtually  no 
money in his account and his bank didnt believe he was telling the truth. I consider it fair and 
reasonable TSB pay him £100 for the inconvenience  caused.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is to instruct  TSB Bank  plc to:
Refund Mr S £130 for the transaction he didnt make from his account on 16 July 
2018;
Add 8% simple interest to this amount from 16 July 2018 until the date of settlement; 
and
Pay Mr S £100 for the inconvenience cause.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 March 2020.
Sandra Quinn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5915910