K820x#14complaint
Mr Ms complaint is about two loans he took with Gain Credit  LLC,  trading as Lending 
Stream. Mr M says these  loans were unaffordable.
background
Lending Stream provided Mr M with two instalment loans between August and September  
2012, as detailed below.
The most recent adjudicator wrote to Mr M and explained why she didnt think Lending 
Stream was wrong  to give him loans 1 and 2. The adjudicator  explained that for both loans 
Lending Stream had gathered an appropriate amount of information and the loans were  
affordable based  on what  Mr M told them. Mr M did not agree with this view. 
As no agreement could be reached, the case was passed to me  an ombudsman   for a 
final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also considered  the law, any relevant 
regulatory rules and good industry practice at the time the loans were offered.
Having carefully thought  about all of this, I dont  think Lending Stream  has treated Mr M 
unfairly or that it should  pay him compensation. I know this will come  as a disappointment to 
Mr M and Id like to explain  why I think this is the case.
Mr M was provided with two high-interest  loans, intended for short-term use. So Lending 
Stream needed to make sure that it didnt provide them irresponsibly. In practice, what this 
means is that Lending Stream needed  to carry out proportionate checks to be able to 
understand whether any lending was sustainable for Mr M before providing it.
Our website  sets out what we typically think about  when deciding  whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what  it does to verify that 
information  in the early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low, or the 
amount lent was high.  And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater  the risk of 
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So, wed expect 
a lender to be able to show that it didnt  continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
In his complaint  Mr M says the payments for the loans were  too high and he didnt have  
enough time to repay. Mr M also says he was using loans to pay off other loans. Loan Date AmountInstalmentsHighest  Combined 
Repayment
1 31/08/2012 £365 6 £182.50
2 07/09/2012 £135 5 £234.85
Ref: DRN53720452On the other hand Lending Stream says that it carried out adequate checks   by gathering 
details of Mr Ms income and expenditure. And based on this Lending Stream  says it didnt 
see anything to alert it to any sustainability or affordability issues  for the loans it gave Mr M.
Its important to note that when Mr M took out his first loan with Lending Stream  it doesnt  
seem that he had an existing relationship with them. The first loan was to be repaid over 6 
instalments of around £182.50. Mr M had told Lending Stream that his monthly  income was 
around £2,000.  Loan 2 was taken  out whilst loan 1 was still running  but was for a smaller 
amount. And together it meant that Mr M was going  to have to repay around £234  per 
month. When Mr M applied for loan 2 Lending  Stream carried  out similar checks as it did for 
Loan 1. And he said that his expenditure was £650. And I cant  see anything to suggest that 
Lending Stream had reason to question the information it had about Mr M.
Looking at the monthly repayments in light of Mr Ms declared disposable income its difficult  
for me to conclude  that Lending Stream was wrong  to decide that the repayments  would be 
affordable sustainably for Mr M. I note what he says about using loans to repay existing 
loans. But I dont think there were signs which shouldve led Lending Stream to do more 
checks and Ive not seen enough evidence to persuade me that it acted irresponsibly in the 
circumstances of this case.
Mr M has also complained about  how he has been treated by Lending  Stream  given his 
financial difficulties. In particular he says Lending Stream sent him loan offers when he was 
having these difficulties. I appreciate this wouldve been upsetting for Mr M. These  offers 
wouldve been automatically sent to Mr M, but I can see that once  Mr M informed Lending 
Stream of his situation it stopped sending them.
Mr M has also complained about  the attempts Lending Stream made to take payment for the 
loans from his account when he was having  financial issues. Again, I can see that once 
Lending Stream was informed of Mr Ms situation  it agreed to stop using its continuous 
payment authority for 30 days  and it agreed  to work with Mr Ms debt management  
company. This seems to a reasonable response  and I wouldnt ask Lending Stream to do 
anything else beyond  this. 
Mr Ms also asked  that we obtain call recordings from Lending Stream.  When  assessing  a 
case we will obtain information which  we think is relevant to the complaint and outcome. As 
the loans were applied for online, this information  wouldnt help us in looking at whether the 
loans were appropriate for Mr M so I havent  asked for the call recordings. 
Overall, I think Lending Stream has done enough  in trying to assist Mr M with his financial 
issues and I wouldnt expect it to do more given the circumstances.
Our service has contacted  Lending  Stream to see if the offer it made to Mr M in its final 
response letter on loan 2 is still available. Lending Stream has confirmed it is, so if Mr M 
wishes to accept this offer he will need  to contact Lending Stream  directly. 
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, I do not uphold this complaint against Gain  Credit LLC.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or
reject my decision  before 4 April 2020.
Ref: DRN53720453Chandni Green
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5372045