K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (MPPI) policy  which 
Mr I and Ms S say Royal  Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) mis-sold to them.  
background
The policy was sold in 2000. It covered Mr I in the event of accident, sickness  or 
unemployment. Ms S wasnt  covered.
One of our adjudicators has already assessed this complaint  and recommended that it 
shouldnt be upheld. Mr I and Ms S disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Having done this, Im not upholding this complaint.
It looks like Mr I and Ms S discussed  their mortgage requirements with RBS and I think  
MPPI was probably also discussed at the same time. This is because  I was sent some 
notes about the sale and its included  in these that Mr I and Ms S wanted to have MPPI. Its 
not clear whether Mr I and Ms S remember this, but I was also shown an MPPI application 
form which Mr I and Ms S both signed. This form was in addition to their mortgage 
application and it shows them asking  for mortgage protection  in relation to Mr I. This MPPI 
application form meant the MPPI  was added  to their mortgage.
I can also see Mr I and Ms S were given  a Mortgage Offer document during  the course of 
the sale. This is an important part of the house-buying process,  so I feel its something they 
would have probably both wanted to read quite carefully. The Offer  says The Borrower has 
instructed the Bank to provide Loanguard with full accident, sickness  and unemployment 
payment protection insurance.
So whilst I accept these events were  quite a long time ago, I think the above things all show  
RBS probably got Mr I and Ms Ss consent for the MPPI. I think  they would have also been 
able to see such a policy was being set up.
Businesses that recommended MPPI as part of an advised  sale had an additional 
responsibility to ensure  it was right for the consumers particular circumstances. Non-
advised sales needed only to ensure  the information provided  was clear enough for the 
consumers themselves to make a decision about  whether  or not they wanted MPPI.
RBS said this wasnt an advised sale. But I dont think the type of sale matters  much to this 
case, because  I think the policy was suitable  anyway.
This is because I think Mr I was eligible for the cover and not caught by any of the 
exclusions we sometimes see in these  types  of policy. Looking  at their circumstances, I can 
see Mr I was the higher  earner so I think this was probably why he was covered.  
Ref: DRN53894802Mr I said his job at the time came  with good  sick pay and other  benefits.  Ive thought about 
this and I understand the point thats  being made. But Im afraid it doesnt necessarily mean  
the policy wasnt of use. I think  their mortgage would have been an important  and a long-
term financial commitment for them and importantly, one which  was secured against their 
home. So I think the consequences of not being able to keep up payments if their income 
suddenly dropped, could have been serious. 
The MPPI on the other hand, was there to help in times of financial uncertainty  and to 
provide support in the event of Mr I not being able to work  or losing his job. It wouldve paid 
a monthly benefit  of around £300 for up to 12 months, in the event  of a successful claim. 
This wouldve been in addition to any other  means  Mr I and Ms S already had in place. 
I think the MPPI was suitable in their situation. 
RBS also needed  to provide information  that was clear, fair and not misleading. I cant  say 
that RBS did everything right or that it told Mr I and Ms S everything it should  have.  But I 
can see the cost was disclosed to them and I think Mr I and Ms S wouldve been  given 
something explaining what and who the policy covered. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. And I dont  direct  Royal  Bank of 
Scotland Plc to do anything further.   
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr I and Ms S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  4 March 2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5389480