K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (MPPI) policy  taken out in 
1989. Mr and Mrs B say Bradford & Bingley  Plc (B&B) mis-sold them the PPI. 
background
Mr and Mrs B applied  to take out a PPI policy with a joint mortgage in 1989. They paid a 
monthly premium for the PPI. 
Even though  this was a joint mortgage, only Mr B was covered by the policy.  At the time of 
taking the policy,  if Mr B has made a successful claim for accident or sickness  it would  have 
paid out the monthly benefit  until he was able to return  to work. In the event of a successful 
claim for unemployment, cover would  have been  provided for up to 24 months.
 
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld.  Mr and Mrs B disagreed,  so the 
complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs B case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why. 
B&B had to make  it clear that the PPI policy was optional  and Mr and Mrs B had to agree to 
take it out. Ive been given a copy of the mortgage application completed at the time and this 
includes a section about PPI. In this section there are different boxes to tick depending on 
the different  types of PPI cover required, along with areas to complete detailing the amount 
of monthly benefit  wanted and who should  be insured by the policy. There  was also a box in 
which to place a cross  to confirm if the PPI was not required. I can see that the Accident, 
Sickness & Redundancy box has been  ticked on Mr and Mrs Bs form and that Mr B has 
been chosen as the insured  person.  If they didnt want to take out the PPI, they could  have 
placed a cross in the no box. Mr and Mrs B have both signed  the overall mortgage 
application form which suggests that they agreed  with everything that had been  entered.
Mr and Mrs B have  said that they were pressured into taking the policy  as it was implied that 
without it they wouldnt  get the mortgage.  Ive thought  about  this carefully but I havent  seen 
anything on the mortgage application  form which suggests  that the PPI was compulsory or 
that not taking  the cover  would impact  the mortgage  application. So without any evidence  to 
show what B&B did to put pressure on Mr and Mrs B to take out the mortgage,  I cant fairly 
uphold on this basis.
So based  on everything Ive seen and been told, I think its more  likely that B&B made 
Mr and Mrs B aware that the policy was optional and that they agreed to take it out, knowing 
they could refuse it if they didnt want it.
B&B has said that it didnt  recommend  the PPI to Mr and Mrs B but they have  told us they 
think they did receive advice. But Mr and Mrs B havent provided  much detail as to why they 
Ref: DRN57838312think B&B recommended  the cover. From my review I havent seen anything to suggest B&B 
took steps to assess Mr and Mrs Bs circumstances with the intention of recommending the 
policy to them. So I think its more likely that B&B didnt recommend the PPI to them.  This 
means it didnt have to check  if it was right for Mr and Mrs B. But it did have  to make sure 
they got the information they needed to decide  if it was right for them. 
Mr B has told us he had an ongoing medical  condition at the time of taking out the PPI and 
so he doesnt  think he should have been  sold the policy.  Having checked  the policy wording, 
I can see that Mr B may have been  prevented from making a claim if it was connected to this 
condition. But I dont think this would have  stopped  him from taking  the policy. I say this 
because Mr B has told us the condition was controlled with medication and it appears it 
didnt impact his daily life. So I dont  think he wouldve expected  to be off work and need to 
claim because  of it. So I dont think hed have made a different decision if the exclusion had 
been clearly pointed out to him.
As Ive mentioned  above, its possible the information B&B gave Mr and Mrs B about the PPI 
wasnt as clear as it shouldve been.  But they chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like they 
wanted this type of cover for Mr B. Based on what Ive seen of Mr Bs circumstances  at the 
time it looks  like it would have been useful for them if something went  wrong. It also looks 
like the PPI was affordable. So I dont think better  information about the PPI would have put 
them off taking out the cover. 
So when taking  everything into consideration, I dont think  that Mr and Mrs B have lost out as 
a result of anything that B&B may have done wrong.
my final decision
For the reasons  stated  above, I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  14 June  2019.
Jenny Giles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5783831