K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs P complain  AXA Insurance UK Plc unfairly declined  Mr Ps cancellation claim 
under their joint travel insurance policy.
background 
After feeling discomfort  for a few months,  Mr P booked an appointment to see his GP in 
mid-January. His appointment was booked for the following week. At that time, Mr and Mrs P 
were planning  on going on holiday around  two months later.  And while Mr P waited to see 
his GP, he continued to plan his holiday and paid for visas  for himself and Mrs P.
Mr Ps GP referred him for some tests,  and they were carried  out a few weeks later. Mr P 
was diagnosed with a medical condition that meant  he was unable to go on his holiday. So, 
Mr P contacted AXA to make a claim for himself and his wife under the cancellation section 
of his policy.
AXA only covered Mrs Ps claim. AXA said Mr Ps claim wasnt  covered because the trip was 
booked after he was told he needed  medical  tests.  And had AXA known at the time, it would 
have told him they wouldnt  cover  a claim related to that medical condition. Mr and Mrs P 
disagreed and brought their complaint to our service.
Our investigator didnt  uphold Mr Ps complaint. She explained the policy  didnt cover  people 
undergoing tests and/or investigations,  unless  AXA confirmed they were  covered. And as 
Mr P hadnt  told AXA about  his tests,  she didnt think it had acted unfairly.
Mr P disagreed with our investigator. He said he wasnt told his condition  was anything  to 
worry about. So he didnt  know  he shouldnt have continued to make arrangements for his 
trip. He also said AXA has the discretion to cover  his claim, and didnt think it was fair AXA 
wouldnt use its discretion  in the circumstances.  Mr P also referred to a case  study in 
ombudsman news. He thought the circumstances were similar to his own.  In that case  we 
said AXA should  settle the claim.
I issued my provisional decision on 13 November 2018. In this I explained that Id I reached 
a different outcome to our investigator.
My provisional decision explained that I didnt consider Mr Ps entire cancellation claim 
should be covered.  However, I intended  to recommend that AXA cover the costs of Mr Ps 
visa. I said this would be a fair resolution  to this complaint. Thats because I wasnt  satisfied 
the costs incurred before Mr P saw his GP, fell within the remit of the policy  exclusion AXA 
had relied on.
Both AXA and Mr and Mrs P had the opportunity to provide further comments and/or 
information for me to consider. AXA agreed with my provisional decision and said it was 
prepared to reimburse Mr P for the cost of his visa. But Mr and Mrs P disagreed  for the 
following reasons:
insufficient weight  had been  put on the case study from ombudsman news;
the emphasis  in bold was the ombudsman stressing words  that would not necessarily 
be read in the same  way as policyholders or members  of the general public;
policy wording quoted in the provisional  decision is different  to the wording  
Mr and Mrs P received from their bank;
Ref: DRN58025122Mr P wasn't prescribed medication, receiving/waiting to receive treatment for surgery, 
tests or investigation as he had no reasonable expectation that he should be waiting; 
Mr Ps email  to his travel  agent  (2 days before his GP appointment) show that he 
booked his trip before his appointment, so the outstanding parts  of the trip should  be 
treated in the same way as his visa; and
my decision should  follow  precedent  set by Cook v Financial Insurance Co. LTD 
[1998]. 
Ive considered the points raised  by Mr and Mrs P. But Im not persuaded to change  my 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im upholding this 
decision, in part. I know this will come  as a disappointment to Mr and Mrs P. But Ill explain 
my reasons  below.
case study published in ombudsman news
As mentioned above, Mr and Mrs P dont  think  I put enough weight on a case  study  
published in ombudsman news. Mr P believes the circumstances  are similar to his own.  
Thats because a different policyholder booked a trip after being referred for tests by their 
GP. Following the tests, the policyholder was unable to travel,  and our service  upheld the 
complaint. However,  my opinion on this point remains  the same. 
The case  studies we publish  can provide guidance to our general  approach  to certain  cases. 
However, I cant ignore  the points I made in my provisional decision. Firstly, the case  studies 
simply give an overview of cases our service has looked into. And while that can be helpful, 
we must decide cases on their individual merits. While there  are some similarities to 
Mr and Mrs Ps case  there are also differences. And my decision, in this case,  has been 
based solely on the information  provided  by both Mr and Mrs P and AXA.
Secondly, previous decisions dont set precedent for future  cases. So it wouldnt be 
appropriate for me to use the outcome of another to determine the way Mr and Mrs Ps case 
should be resolved.  Particularly, as Ive explained, the specific circumstances in 
Mr and Mrs P case and the case study  differ.
policy terms and conditions
In making a decision, Ive had to decide  whether Mr Ps claim falls within  the scope of his 
travel insurance policy. While the policy provides cover for cancellation, not all 
circumstances are covered. And having  read the policy, the applicable exclusion explains 
policyholders arent  covered for:
1. Any Medical condition You have, or have  had, for which  You are taking prescribed 
medication or are waiting  to receive,  or have received treatment (including surgery,  tests or 
investigations) within  the six months  prior to opening Your Premier Account or within six 
months prior to booking  any Trip, whichever is later, unless You have contacted Usand 
We have agreed,  in writing, to cover  You
Ref: DRN58025123Since my provisional decision, Mr and Mrs P have  said I emphasised  certain words in bold. 
And the words that Id stressed wouldnt necessarily be read in the same way as 
policyholders or members  of the general  public. However, the policy  term above,  and used in 
my provisional decision, is a direct quote  from Mr and Mrs Ps policy  booklet. Any words 
written in bold were done so by AXA. These are words with specific  definitions in the policy 
booklet (a copy of the policy booklet was previously sent to Mr and Mrs P by the 
investigator). And in reaching my decision,  Ive reviewed AXAs  use of those specific words, 
and considered them alongside Mr Ps circumstances.  
Initially, Mr and Mrs P told us they hadnt  received  a copy  of their policy terms and 
conditions. But I wasnt persuaded this was a reason to uphold their case,  in full. Their  travel 
policy forms part of the benefits of their packaged bank account. And from the information  Id 
seen, the policy has been in place  for a number of years. My provisional  decision explained  
that I considered Mr and Mrs P had plenty of opportunity  to ask their bank for the policy 
wording before they had cause to make  a claim. In addition to this, I didnt think  it was fair to 
hold AXA responsible if the policy documents werent  sent by Mr and Mrs Ps bank. And my 
opinion on this point  remains  the same.
However, since receiving my provisional decision,  it seems Mr and Mrs Ps position has 
changed. Theyve told me the policy wording Ive quoted differs to the wording they received 
from their bank. Ive not been provided with a copy of policy booklet Mr and Mrs P are 
referring to. I also havent been told of what the differences  are in the policy wording.
However, Ive checked that the policy Ive relied  on was the relevant one at the time of 
Mr and Mrs Ps claim. Its not uncommon  for policy terms attached to packaged bank 
accounts to change over the years. And its most likely thats  whats happened here. Its 
possible Mr and Mrs P werent sent updated  policy documents by their bank. But if that is the 
case, I dont consider its fair for AXA to be held responsible for this.
do Mr Ps circumstances  fall into policy the exclusion?
The exclusion above explains AXA wont cover medical conditions, unless its confirmed its 
willing to do so. And this includes medical  conditions that are yet to be diagnosed. I say this, 
because it clearly mentions medical  conditions where a policyholder is awaiting tests or 
investigations.
Both parties  agree arrangements started to be made  for Mr and Mrs Ps holiday, before Mr P 
was diagnosed with his medical condition. So, in order to reach a decision,  I had to decide, 
at what point I considered  the part of the clause that mentions  tests  or investigations, applies 
to Mr Ps circumstances.
My provisional decision explained that I considered Mr P asked his travel  agent to book his 
flights and hotel after his GP appointment. So I didnt think it would be reasonable to ask 
AXA to pay for anything arranged from this date onwards. Thats  because  during Mr Ps 
appointment, he was told that he was being  referred for tests. And while Mr P may not have 
known the severity of his symptoms, I didnt think it was enough to say AXA should cover his 
full claim.
Mr P disagreed with me on this point.  Firstly,  he said that he took steps to book his holiday 
before his GP appointment. And he shouldnt  be penalised  for the fact his travel agent  didnt 
make the booking until after his appointment. But having looked at the email chain between  
Mr P and his travel  agent, I have to disagree.
Ref: DRN58025124I agree  Mr P emailed his travel agent  two days before his GP appointment. However, this 
email outlined a draft itinerary for Mr and Mrs Ps trip. While the itinerary  was quite detailed  
 not all aspects  of the trip had been  finalised, nor can I see that the cost of the trip was 
agreed. The travel agent responded to Mr P the following day. And this email  they explained 
how they would go about booking the trip. They also asked Mr P if he was happy with what  
theyd outlined and asked him to confirm this, so that they could take steps to contact our 
counterparts and then get back to you with a costing  for the same and get back to you.  
The next email  message  was from Mr P to his travel agent. This was sent in evening of the 
day he saw his GP. Mr P mentions an earlier conversation  with the travel agent and asks 
them to book the flights and hotels. Ive also seen more emails between  Mr P and his travel 
agent making further arrangements  for his trip, on the days  following his appointment.
The content of these emails show Mr and Mrs P trip wasn't booked  until after his GP 
appointment. His email  dated before the appointment simply outlined  some aspects of the 
trip  with the remaining  parts needing to be finalised. So my decision on this point remains 
the same  as that explained in my provisional  decision.
Mr P has also said he doesnt fall within the policy exclusion because  he wasnt prescribed 
any medication, nor was he waiting for tests or surgery. But again, I have to disagree, as 
Mr P was waiting for tests and/or investigations  at the time he booked  his trip. Ive seen  a 
copy of Mr Ps medical records and a letter from his GP surgery.  Both documents and Mr Ps 
own testimony confirm he wasnt diagnosed  during his GP appointment. But given his 
symptoms, the GP made an urgent referral.
Mr P was seen by a locum GP, so I dont know exactly  what  was explained to him about his 
symptoms during his appointment. But I cant ignore the fact Mr P would have known he 
needed to see a more specialised medical  practitioner about his symptoms  when he left his 
GP appointment. And despite being  aware of this, he gave his travel agent permission to 
book his trip.
I consider the policy clearly explains what policyholders should do if theyre  awaiting tests  or 
investigations for a medical condition. And thats contact AXA so it can confirm  whether its 
prepared to provide  cover. Mr P didnt do this. And AXA has told us it would have  told Mr P 
his medical condition wouldnt be covered had Mr P contacted  it. So, I still dont consider 
AXA should  cover the costs  of Mr Ps trip that were  arranged after his GP appointment.
Mr Ps visa
The visa was bought in the days between Mr P booking his appointment, and seeing  his GP. 
Ive considered what AXA intended when  it wrote the policy  exclusion detailed  above. And 
Im not persuaded it intended  to exclude all potential medical conditions.  If it did, I consider it 
most likely the exclusion  would have said this, or at least more clearly.  
People see their GPs for a wide range of conditions and symptoms  varying in severity. And 
Im not persuaded Mr P thought his symptoms  were as serious, as they turned out to be. Ive 
relied on the information provided by Mr Ps GP to reach this decision.  In particular the GPs 
covering letter. This said Mr P had suffered similar symptoms a number of years ago. And at 
that time he wasnt diagnosed with a serious  medical condition.  
Ref: DRN58025125When paying for the visas, Im not persuaded Mr P thought his symptoms  may result in him 
being unable  to travel. And given  his previous medical history, I dont consider it was 
unreasonable for Mr P to think  that. In addition to this, Im not persuaded awaiting a GP 
appointment in Mr Ps circumstances, amounts to awaiting  tests or investigations. 
My provisional decision suggested AXA pay for Mr Ps visa. And having considered my 
reasoning, AXA has confirmed it agrees to reimburse this cost.
precedent set by Cook v Financial Insurance Co. LTD [1998]
Mr P says the judgment in this case is relevant to his own because he given advice,  
treatment or counselling  for his medical condition at the time of booking his trip. Ive 
reviewed the judgement  in this case.  But it hasnt persuaded me to change my decision.
When the judgment mentions advice,  treatment  or counselling it is referring to the specific  
policy wording applicable  in that legal  case. I have to take into account  relevant case  law. 
But Im not persuaded this legal case supports the specific circumstances of Mr Ps case. 
And its for the same  reasons that Ive mentioned above.
So, I still consider  a fair and reasonable resolution  of this case  is for AXA to settle  Mr Ps 
claim for the cost of his visa.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im upholding Mr and Mrs Ps complaint, in part.
To put things right, AXA Insurance UK Plc should settle the part of Mr Ps claim related to his 
travel visa (minus  any applicable policy excess).
AXA Insurance UK Plc should also pay interest  at 8% a year simple from the date it paid 
Mrs Ps claim.
If AXA Insurance UK Plc considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold 
income tax from that interest,  it should tell Mr P how much its taken off. It should  also give 
Mr P a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs  if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  4 February  2019.
Sarrah Turay
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5802512