K820x#14complaint
Miss P complains  that The Mortgage  Works  (UK) Plc (TMW) gave her an incorrect  figure to 
pay to her mortgage account  under  a Release of Property (ROP)  application when  she 
wanted to sell one of her two buy-to-let properties.
background 
Miss P has a mortgage  with TMW. There were three loan accounts  within  that mortgage and 
these were secured  as a portfolio on two properties  she owned.
On 28 June 2018 Miss P phoned TMW as shed had an offer to buy one of the properties  
and she wanted  to discuss a ROP application. Shed been looking at the ROP  application  
process online and wanted to know how much  shed need to reduce the mortgage debt by 
when that property was sold as she was struggling to work it out. The call handler explained 
the difference in the terminology  as Miss P referred  to redeeming her mortgage, and the call 
handler said what she needed to refer to was a ROP as redeeming meant paying off the 
accounts, whereas  she just wanted  to release a property (and therefore had to reduce the 
mortgage debt). 
Miss P was unhappy  to be told a figure couldnt be given over the phone  and that shed need  
to make the application  and a figure would be given in 20 working days  once the remaining 
property had been valued and the application  had been underwritten. Miss P said she 
wanted to know  the figure  so she could decide  whether or not to accept the offer as it was 
under the guide price and couldnt wait all that time before making the decision, but the call 
handler explained that wasnt  possible.
On 21 September  2018 Miss P phoned  TMW again. She said shed filled in the form and 
wanted advice  about the stress rate. It seems  initially Miss P just thought loan one was 
secured on the property  she wanted to sell, but the call handler  explained  the three loans 
were all secured against both properties (as joint security). He went on to give approximate  
balances for the three loans and explained  the third loan had a slightly  higher interest rate so 
it would  make sense to pay that one off first. 
Miss P said she wanted to close loans two and three and said she thought that would be 
about right for the amount she needed to reduce  her mortgage by. The call handler 
explained theyd  have to check once the application was made and the figure  was decided 
upon. Miss P again expressed dissatisfaction about  the application taking 20 working days, 
saying her buyers wanted to complete at the end of September.  The call handler reassured  
Miss P it should be quicker as there were only two properties in the portfolio, and Miss P 
said shed send the application in.
Miss P phoned TMW on 3 October 2018. She said she was chasing a redemption statement 
as they wanted to exchange contracts. The call handler said it wasnt a redemption 
statement that Miss P was waiting for, it was a ROP figure and that would normally take up 
to 20 working days. The call handler  checked  and saw the ROP figure  had been  generated 
and was waiting  to be issued so she arranged  for it to be faxed over to Miss Ps solicitor. The 
figure was just under £133,900.
Just over half an hour later Miss P phoned  back.  She said the redemption  statement was for 
loans one and two whereas she wanted to redeem  loans two and three. She asked a revised 
redemption statement be faxed over to her solicitor  urgently as they needed to exchange  
Ref: DRN55321482contracts. Unfortunately the call handler  didnt check the case notes and simply took Miss P 
at her word that it was a redemption statement that she needed (rather than a ROP figure). 
A redemption statement  was generated showing just over £121,600 was needed to redeem 
loans two and three,  the figure  was given verbally  to Miss P and the call handler  said it 
would be faxed over to the solicitor.
The following  day Miss P phoned as she said the redemption statement  hadnt been 
received and they were due to exchange contracts that day. It was agreed that the statement 
would be faxed over as soon as possible.
On 8 October the revised  ROP letter was sent to Miss Ps solicitor which had the same 
figure of just under £133,900 but instead  said it was to redeem loans two and three, and part 
redeem loan one.
Miss P exchanged  contracts on 10 October, with completion set for a few days later. When 
the solicitor sent over the funds upon completion  they were told it was short as theyd sent 
just over £121,600  rather than the higher amount that was needed for the ROP.
Unhappy with this Miss P raised a complaint.  TMW rejected the main thrust,  but paid £200 
compensation because its agent  didnt check the notes on 3 October  before issuing the 
redemption statement.
Our investigator said that was fair as she thought Miss P wouldnt have done anything 
differently in any event.  Miss P didnt  agree,  and so its been passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  - including the various  phone  calls - and 
arguments to decide  whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances  of this complaint. 
I trust Miss P wont take it as a discourtesy that Ive condensed  her complaint in the way that 
I have. Although Ive read and considered the whole  file Ill keep my comments  to what  I 
think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because  I havent 
considered it but because  I dont think I need  to comment on it in order  to reach the right 
outcome.
Miss P commented on lots of things our investigator said,  but one thing she didnt comment 
on was the fact a correct  ROP letter was issued  to her solicitor  two days before she 
exchanged contracts. Miss P has said throughout that she could have pulled out of the sale 
if shed got the correct  information before exchange of contracts, but this shows the correct  
information had been given. 
She said:
You advise you are not persuaded that I would have renegated on the sale following the 
ROP figures  received after the sale was agreed. May I remind  you, once again, that I am 
well within my rights to withdraw a sale up to exchange of contracts therefore  your 
opinion is subjective  and not based  on material fact when you advise in your email that 
"you are not persuaded that I would have withdrawn from the sale due to the timing of the 
ROP application submitted.
Ref: DRN55321483I agree  that our investigators  opinion is subjective, as is mine.  We have to reach an opinion  
on what we think would  have happened, but didnt. Thats  always  going to be a subjective  
opinion, and by referring her complaint  to us to decide thats what Miss P is asking us to 
give.
Having considered everything, I agree with our investigator that - on balance - its unlikely 
Miss P would have  pulled out of the sale at such a late stage. I say this because Miss P had 
accepted that offer months  earlier without knowing what  the ROP  figure would be. The first 
time she formally  requested a figure was on 21 September saying they were looking to 
complete at the end of September, so it seems matters had progressed to a late stage by 
that point. If the figure was that important to Miss P that she would have  pulled out of the 
sale, then I would have  expected her to put the ROP application in at the time she accepted 
the offer to buy the property so she had all the facts at her disposal.  
Miss P has said:
i received  approximate figures over the phone from TMW in respect of all 3 loan figures 
prior to my ROP application  being  submitted otherwise I would not have provided figures 
on the application form, figures  of which I received over the phone on Friday 21st 
September to redeem  all 3 loans. I then stipulated in the same  conversation  with an 
adviser that it was my intention to only redeem loans  2 and 3. They then confirmed that I 
would be entitled  to redeem loans 2 and 3 only without involving loan 1 so may I suggest 
you listen to that phone call of the morning  of the 21st September.  
Ive listened to the call very carefully. Miss P is right that she was told the outstanding 
balances of each  of the three loans in that call, and that she said she intended to redeem 
loans two and three.  But shes not right that the call handler said she would be entitled to 
redeem loans 2 and 3 only without involving loan 1
The call handler said that loan three  was at a higher interest rate so it would  make  sense to 
repay that first, and if there  was anything left over that could be split over the other loans.  
Miss P said she wanted to close loans two and three and said she thought that would be 
about the right figure. In reply  the call handler didnt  tell Miss P that she could do that without 
involving loan one, instead he said it depended  on what  the figure came back  as, but if it was 
enough to close  those two loans then Miss P could request that. The call handler said many 
times throughout the call that it was all dependent on what the ROP reduction figure came 
back as, and at one point said it might  be higher  or lower than expected.
Having listened  to all the calls at no time was Miss P told she could just redeem loans two 
and three,  nor was she given an estimated  ROP figure.
The ROP letter of 3 October  2018 gave the correct figure; the only mistake was that it said 
the funds would be applied to redeem  loan one and part redeem loan two. The letter  says:
To enable us to release our charge over the above property we require the following 
amount
Please contact  us should you require  the funds to be applied to alternative  loans on the 
mortgage account.
Ref: DRN55321484Within a portfolio account,  all mortgages  are secured across the entire portfolio of 
properties...
When a release of property is considered, we need to ensure that our position after the 
release is unchanged. Currently, with well publicised house price  movements, we 
revalue our security  for our purposes before we can calculate the amount  of capital 
needed to release  the property.
Its clear from this that the figure  is correct  irrespective of which loans the funds will be paid 
to. TMW had no interest in how Miss P wanted to apportion the funds across the accounts, 
all it was interested in was that Miss P reduced  her overall mortgage debt by just under 
£133,900 to ensure TMWs position remained the same.
Its unfortunate that the call handler didnt  check the notes and see Miss P was doing a ROP 
when she phoned  up late on 3 October. Its also unfortunate  that Miss P said a redemption 
figure had been  sent to her solicitor and insisted  she wanted to redeem loans two and three, 
rather than loans one and two, and that part one was staying untouched. 
That might have been what Miss P wanted to happen, but as had been explained to her 
many times it was up to TMW to calculate a figure  it needed Miss P to reduce her mortgage  
debt by. And as that figure was larger than the total outstanding on loans two and three, that 
meant loan one had to be reduced by the remainder. 
Whilst the call handler should  have checked  the notes - and for that TMW has paid Miss P 
£200 compensation  the confusion  was caused  at least in part by Miss P insisting  she 
wanted the wrong thing (a redemption  statement  for loans two and three)  without ever being  
told by TMW that she could do that (without  reducing loan one by the remainder).  Arguably,  
all the call handler did in that call was issue the redemption statement that Miss P asked for.
I must also keep in mind  the conversations Miss P had already  had with TMW   one just 
over half an hour before  she asked for a redemption figure  where it had been  made  clear  
(and she seemed  to understand) she was undertaking  a ROP rather than a redemption, and 
that any mention  of redemption was wrong. It also seems unusual that Miss P and her 
solicitor werent put on notice that something was wrong when the first figure  came  in a letter 
format talking about releasing the property concerned and how to go about  it, whereas  the 
second (and wrong) figure was in a standard redemption statement which looks  and is 
worded entirely  differently.
I acknowledge how frustrating it is when  a business makes a mistake, but mistakes do 
happen. When were  looking  at complaints of this type we consider the appropriate remedy 
is to place the consumer in the position  they would be in if the mistake hadnt happened.  If 
the mistake hadnt  happened, the call handler would have seen Miss P was undertaking a 
ROP application and the underwriter had said the mortgage debt needed to be reduced  by 
just under £133,900. Miss P could never have sold the property and only reduced the debt 
by just over £121,600.
TMW apologised for the call handler  not noticing  Miss P should have asked for a revised 
ROP letter rather than a redemption statement on 3 October and it paid £200  to Miss P for 
that. Im satisfied thats fair in the circumstances and make  no other order  or award.
Ref: DRN55321485my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  My final decision concludes  this services consideration of this 
complaint, which  means well not be engaging  in any further consideration or discussion on 
the merits of it. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask 
Miss P to accept or reject my decision before 16 September  2019.
Julia Chapman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5532148