K821x#15complaint
Mr W says Valour Finance Limited   trading  as Savvy.co.uk (Savvy) - irresponsibly lent to 
him.
background
This complaint is about one instalment loan Savvy provided to Mr W in August 2015.  The 
loan was for £650 and repayable over 12 months.  The monthly repayments were  for 
£108.37. Mr Ws loan is currently outstanding. 
Our adjudicator upheld  Mr Ws complaint and thought the loan shouldnt have been given 
because the information Savvy had gathered about  Mr W showed the loan was unaffordable.   
Savvy disagreed  and said Mr W had provided evidence to show  his living  costs  were  lower 
as he shared them with his partner.  As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally  it has 
been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Savvy needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice  
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Mr W could 
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could consider several different 
things, such as how much was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers 
income and expenditure. In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough  
checks might be reasonable  and proportionate.   
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Savvy should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Savvy was required to establish  
whether Mr W could  sustainably repay  his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Ref: DRN58000372Of course,  the loan payments being  affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and the customer should  be able to make repayments  on time, while meeting 
other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow  to meet  the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.  
Ive carefully considered  all the arguments, evidence and information provided  in this context 
and what this all means for Mr Ws complaint. Having done this, Im upholding Mr Ws 
complaint. Ill explain  why.
I think Savvy ought to have realised that Mr W wouldnt  have been  able to make his 
repayments for his loan sustainably without taking out more lending. I can see Savvy did 
income/expenditure and credit checks on Mr W before it lent to him. And I can see that 
Savvy has provided  its findings from those checks, including  a copy  of the telephone call 
recording between it and Mr W, to us. Having  reviewed all of this, I dont think it shows  Mr W 
was able to repay the loan in a sustainable  manner. 
During the telephone call the advisor for Savvy asked Mr W about his regular outgoings.   On 
the declared information Mr W said during the telephone call, after the repayment of £108.37 
for the loan, Mr Ws disposable income  would have been in minus figures. Which would have 
meant Mr W would have  struggled to meet his repayments  sustainably. On the information 
Mr W has given  them the adviser  concludes the loan is unaffordable.
The adviser also asked  whether Mr W lived on his own. When  Mr W said he lived with a 
partner, the advisor  asked  if it could split the amount  of Mr Ws outgoings and Mr W stated 
he paid for the outgoings and his partner paid for other things. 
So, the Savvy adviser goes on to ask if Mr W has anything that shows Mr Ws partner is on 
the mortgage so she can split the mortgage amount. Mr W provides a copy of a solicitors 
letter which about  the registration  of the property deeds. The advisor takes this as evidence  
that Mr W is only paying half of the amount of his mortgage repayments  and the loan is 
processed. 
Savvy has provided  a copy of that solicitors  letter. Looking  at this, I dont agree that this 
shows anything about how much Mr W actually  pays towards  his mortgage. The letter  just 
proves he owns the property. So I dont think it contradicts  the information Savvy had that 
showed the loan was unaffordable. And I think this has been proven as Mr W hasnt been 
able to repay the loan and a balance remains outstanding. 
putting things right  what Valour  Finance  Limited needs  to do
If Savvy has sold the outstanding debt Savvy should buy this back if Savvy  is able to do so 
and then take the following steps. If Savvy cant buy the debt back, then Savvy  should  liaise  
with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
A) Savvy should add together the total of the repayments made by Mr W towards interest, 
fees and charges on the loan without  an outstanding  balance,  not including anything Savvy 
has already refunded.
Ref: DRN58000373B) Savvy should calculate 8% simple interest*  on the individual  payments made by 
Mr W which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr W originally made 
the payments,  to the date the complaint is settled.
C) Savvy should  remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance  on the outstanding 
loan, and treat any repayments made  by Mr W as though  they had been repayments  of the 
principal on the outstanding  loan.  If this results in Mr W having  made  overpayments then 
Savvy should refund  these overpayments  with 8% simple interest* calculated  on the 
overpayments, from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the date the complaint 
is settled. Savvy should then refund the amounts calculated in A and B and move to step 
E.
D) If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated  in A and B should 
be used to repay any balance remaining on the outstanding loan. If this results in a surplus, 
then the surplus  should be paid to Mr W. However,  if there is still an outstanding balance 
then Savvy should  try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr W. Savvy  shouldnt  
pursue outstanding balances made  up of principal Savvy has already written-off.
E) Savvy should remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ws credit  file in relation to 
the loan. 
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires Valour Finance Limited to take off tax from this interest. Valour 
Finance Limited must  give Mr W a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im upholding  Mr Ws complaint. Valour Finance Limited 
should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 May 2020.
Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5800037