K822xcomplaint
Miss B and Mr H complaint about the way Aviva Insurance Limited  (Aviva) handled their 
home insurance claim.
There have been  several parties involved in this complaint on behalf  of Aviva but for ease I 
will refer only to Aviva  in this decision.
background 
In 2016 Miss B and Mr H had a leak in the downstairs of their home and made a successful 
claim on their home insurance.  Aviva repaired this issue although I note that Miss B and 
Mr H had outstanding  concerns about the work  that had been undertaken.
At the end of 2017 Miss B and Mr H noticed further damp issues  and contacted Aviva.  Aviva  
advised Miss B and Mr H that they would need  to raise a new claim in connection to this, 
which they did as Aviva doesnt think  the second  leak is linked to the first leak in 2016.
A plumber  attended  Miss B and Mr Hs property and confirmed there was leak.  Standing  
water was found under the stairs. Aviva then proceeded with drying  out the property. This 
went on for several months  and around  May 2018 it was confirmed  that the property was dry 
and ready  to be reinstated.
In June 2018 Miss B and Mr H raised  a complaint with Aviva as they were concerned about 
the progress of their complaint. In that complaint they also explained that they believed  the 
property was still damp and that it had caused  health issues  for Miss B and their two 
pedigree cats. They confirmed that they had incurred vet bills as a result of this.
In July 2017 Aviva had appointed new contractors and it was found that the moisture  
readings in the property  were high and so Aviva began drying the property again. This was 
completed in September 2018.  In October  2018  Aviva offered Miss B and Mr H a cash 
settlement in respect of their claim. Mr H responded to say he wasnt satisfied with this, but 
that Miss B was unwell and unable to review the offer at that time.  Aviva sent several  emails  
between October 2018 and August  2019  to progress the complaint, but it seems  that Miss B 
had become particularly unwell by that time and was unable  to respond. So in August  2019 
the claim was closed.
Miss B and Mr H have raised several outstanding issues including:
that the property  still hasnt  been  restored to its pre-claim condition
that the property  was left in a damp condition and that there  was black  mould. Miss B 
says this has caused serious health  issues for her, to the extent that she is now bed 
bound and has had to leave her employment.  Mr H now cares for her. Miss B and 
Mr H also believe  Aviva should consider loss of earning for this.
that the damp and mould have  caused health issues for their two pedigree  cats and 
they have incurred vet bills as a result  of these. Miss B and Mr H also say they will 
continue to incur ongoing costs for vet bills.
Ref: DRN56054962the customer service received during  this claim  in particular, Aviva not taking 
Miss B and Mr Hs concerns about mould  seriously and delays
that Aviva have not considered other incidental costs including the cost of the 
electricity used  during  the drying of the property
Aviva acknowledges that it hasnt handled  the claim as well as it should  have  and while this 
service was investigating Miss B and Mr Hs complaint, it offered a total of £2,050  
compensation for its errors. It is also considering the electricity  cost. And it has carried out a 
more recent  survey and increased the amount it has offered to cash settle the claim.
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld. In short, he said that the claim 
should have been handled better  but that he thought the compensation offered was fair in 
the circumstances. He also said that some  of the issues  Miss B and Mr H were  unhappy  with 
were new issues that hadnt  been  raised  with Aviva and they would need to do this before 
this service can consider  them.
Miss B and Mr H didnt agree so the complaint has been passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
outcome as the investigator.
Miss B and Mr H have raised new concerns, such as electricity costs during this complaint. 
But as the investigator explained, these would need  to be raised  as new issues if Miss B and 
Mr H remain unhappy with Avivas  response. I will only be considering the issues  Miss B and 
Mr H originally raised with us as part of this complaint.
Miss B and Mr H have made a number of detailed points  and Ive considered  all of them.  
But my decision will focus on what I see as the central issues  to this complaint. I dont  intend  
this as a discourtesy, rather  it reflects the informal nature of our service  and my role in it.
restoring the property
Earlier this year Aviva  arranged  for a new survey  to be carried out to assess the cost of 
restoring Miss B and Mr Hs home. As a result of this, Aviva increased its offer to cash  settle  
the complaint,  so it seems the claim is now progressing.
Miss B and Mr H have explained that they would prefer for Avivas  contractors  to carry out 
the works.  But the terms of the policy state  that Aviva can settle a claim by replacing, 
reinstating, repairing or payment. So, as the terms of the policy are clear,  I am satisfied that 
Aviva is entitled to settle the claim by making  a cash payment if it chooses.
If Miss B and Mr H are unhappy with the cash settlement and would like the works to be 
carried out by Avivas contractors, then they will need  to discuss this with Aviva directly   
although it is for Aviva to decide whether it is able to offer this. And if Miss B and Mr H are 
unhappy with the amount offered then they will need  to explain their reasons  to Aviva or 
provide alternative  quotes for Aviva to consider. But if Miss B and Mr H are unhappy with 
any of these issues, they would need to raise a new complaint. They  will also need to raise  a 
Ref: DRN56054963new complaint about the fact this was treated  as two leaks, rather  than one which has 
affected their no claims bonus   as this was something that hasnt been raised with Aviva.
But overall it seems that the claim is now progressing again.
claim handling and customer service
Having reviewed the timeline of events, I think the claim handling  in this case  has been 
particularly poor. There  have been  unnecessary delays, a lack of updates and confusion  
about what is happening.
Miss B and Mr H have had to chase for updates  on several occasions. There  were  times 
where this was unnecessary as the claim was being progressed in the background but 
without being  given appropriate updates, Miss B and Mr H didnt know this.
Miss B and Mr H told Aviva that this claim was affecting Miss Bs health and the health of 
their pets,  so I would  have  expected  Aviva  to treat this as more of a priority and respond to 
their correspondence.  I can see that Miss B and Mr H often sent lengthy  correspondence 
with lists of concerns  and as a result issues were  missed. But as Aviva are the professionals,  
I would have expected them to ensure that they had considered  any concerns Miss B and 
Mr H raised.
There were delays which werent due to Aviva during this case. The property took a long 
time to dry out as more  issues  were discovered  as the claim went on. And when Aviva  
installed industrial dryers,  Miss B got in touch straight away  to say that it was affecting  her 
cats health, so these were changed to less powerful  dryers, which took a longer time to dry 
out the property.  There was also a long period of time where  Aviva  was waiting for Miss B 
and Mr H to provide their comments on the cash settlement that had been  offered. So I dont 
think the length of time taken to progress  this claim is entirely  due to poor claims 
management. But as Ive said above, I think Aviva  could  have  done  more to progress the 
claim in a timely way and make sure Miss B and Mr H were  aware  of what was happening 
during the claim.
the impact of poor claim  handling
Its clear to me that this claim and their living conditions during the course of this claim have 
caused Miss B and Mr H a great  deal of unnecessary stress. Miss B and Mr H say this has 
also caused medical conditions for Miss B and their two cats. I have considered both of 
these points.
Miss Bs health has deteriorated drastically  during the course of this claim. When  the claim 
was submitted, she says she was in employment and while  she had an existing medical 
condition, this hadnt flared  up in several  years. Miss B has explained that she now struggles 
to move from her bed, has developed sores on her head and has become very sick. She 
says that this is due to the damp in the property  which she believes has caused a toxic black  
mould to form. She says that all her sickness can be linked with illnesses associated to 
water damaged buildings  with damp  and mould.
I have considered Miss Bs allegations,  which are very serious. I have looked at the medical 
evidence Miss B has provided but the doctors  and medical professionals  havent confirmed 
that her illnesses are linked to mould  in any way  and in fact seem to suggest that tests  are 
still being carried out to look for other  causes.  Without a diagnosis  or medical opinion stating 
Ref: DRN56054964that that Miss Bs current illnesses were  caused  by mould from the property, I dont think  I 
can hold Aviva responsible for her currently illness.
And Miss B and Mr H havent provided  any evidence to us or Aviva that there  is any harmful  
mould in the property. They have  spoken  to one professional who suggested that this could 
be the cause but from the evidence Ive seen, no report  was produced,  or tests  carried  out to 
confirm that there was any harmful mould. And the professionals appointed by Aviva  appear 
to dispute this and dont  believe there is any reason to carry out further tests. I have seen no 
evidence to suggest that there is harmful mould  in the property other  than Miss B and Mr H 
referring to an informal conversation they had with a third party, so I dont think Aviva needs 
to do anything further in relation to this.
However, while I havent seen any evidence of harmful black  mould,  it is clear  from the 
reports Ive seen that this property  was damp  for a long period of time and the moisture  
levels in the property were particularly high.  And I dont doubt that this has exacerbated 
Miss Bs medical conditions. The reports Miss B has provided from her medical practitioners 
state that her symptoms  have coincided with the damp issues in her home.  And while  I cant 
hold Aviva responsible  for the leak itself,  I think it could have done more  to resolve the damp 
issues in Miss B and Mr Hs home, particularly as they had repeatedly told it that the 
property remained damp and it was affecting their health. And once Miss B started reporting 
that she was becoming unwell,  I think  it would have been sensible to either  discuss a cash  
settlement straight  away so Miss B and Mr H could begin their own restoration works  on the 
property. Or if that wasnt possible, I think it should have considered  offering  alternative 
accommodation to see if that helped Miss Bs medical conditions while  the property was 
drying out.
Miss B and Mr Hs cats have  also become very unwell during  the course of this claim and 
Miss B and Mr H have told us they are currently about £1,000 out of pocket after they have 
made a claim on their pet insurance. Aviva  has said this wasnt caused by the leak in the 
house as the leak was under the floor and therefore  the cats didnt come into contact with 
the water. 
Miss B and Mr H have complained that they will incur ongoing  vet bills and would like Aviva 
to pay for these. But while Miss B and Mr H have told us these conditions  are chronic, there  
is no evidence from a vet that these conditions  wont improve once the house  is repaired and 
there is no longer  damp. And the vet hasnt  been able to confirm  that these issues  were 
caused by the damp in the house.  So I have taken that into account when considering this 
issue. 
While there  is no evidence  to say that the damp issues in the house  caused the cats 
illnesses, the vet has confirmed that the cats were checked when they were  first bought  in 
2017 and they were  healthy with no signs of any pre-existing illnesses at that time. The vet 
has confirmed that the timeline of both cats becoming unwell coincides with the damp issues 
in the house so on balance I do think its likely  that these issues  at least  contributed  the cats 
becoming sick. Having  said that, one of the cats did become unwell prior to the second  leak 
being reported and I cant hold Aviva  responsible  for an issue  it wasnt  aware of. I also have 
to consider that Aviva did offer to cash settle this claim some time ago and it seems the 
delays from that point were caused by Miss B and Mr H, albeit due to Miss B being unable  to 
respond due to illness so I dont think  it would  be fair for Aviva to be held responsible  for any 
ongoing issues from the point it had made an offer which could have been used to rectify  the 
house.
Ref: DRN56054965These cats need to be kept indoors but Miss B and Mr H were  concerned  about their health 
and arranged for a structure to be built to allow them to be outside  in an enclosed  space so 
they were safe.  Miss B and Mr H had this built around February 2018, weeks after reporting  
the second leak to the insurance company. So on balance I think Miss B and Mr H had this 
structure built before they had given Aviva  the opportunity to rectify the new issues.  And they 
had been made aware that these  costs wouldnt be covered by the insurance  company. 
There is no evidence to suggest that this was a recommendation from the vet or that it would 
improve the health of their cats so I dont think the costs incurred for building  this structure 
were the direct result of the condition  of their home at the time  although as responsible pet 
owners I can appreciate  why they would want to have  the structure built.  So I dont think  it 
would be fair to ask Aviva  to cover the cost of the structure.
Aviva has already offered Miss B and Mr H a total of £2,050 compensation for the distress  
and inconvenience,  pain and suffering caused  by its poor handling of this claim. And also for 
the fact that it didnt  do more to resolve  the issues when it was informed that the condition of 
the property was making both Miss B and her two cats unwell.  Taking everything into 
account, I think this offer is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. Aviva Insurance Limited  should  pay 
Miss B and Mr H a total of £2,050 compensation if it hasnt already  done so.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B and Mr H 
to accept or reject my decision before 14 June 2020.
Sara Falzon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5605496