K821x#15complaint
Miss M complains that NewDay Ltd (ND) trading as Aqua engaged in irresponsible  lending  
to her.
background
Miss M says in June  2014 she received her credit card from ND with a credit limit of £250.  
And she says the credit  limit was increased to £550  in November 2014, £1,250 in May 2015,  
£2,250 in September 2015  and finally to £3,500 in March 2017.
Miss M also says her credit limit was increased  several times  despite  her defaulting and 
going over her credit limit on numerous occasions. So, Miss M says she believes this was 
irresponsible lending  and some of her debt should be waived as she shouldnt  have been 
given increased  credit limits.  
ND says as part of its commitment to responsible lending it regularly reviews  how its 
customers are using  its credit cards along  with how they are managing  their other  credit  
commitments. It says it makes  risk based  assessments  to ensure its lending appropriately. 
And it says this type of review may result in either an increase or decrease to the credit limit.
ND also says before increasing a credit limit it sends letters  requesting customers  to ensure 
they can afford repayments of the new limit. It says it allows 40 days for the customer  to 
select to opt out of the credit limit increase. And it says on the basis of its findings its unable  
to uphold Miss Ms complaint regarding irresponsible lending.  
Our adjudicator thought Miss Ms complaint shouldnt  be upheld. 
She said Miss M exceeded her credit limit on a number of occasions  however she didnt go 
over her credit limit by a large  amount at any point and always  brought  it within  the limit once 
she made the monthly payment.  
She said there were  a number of late payments, but Miss M always  maintained her 
payments and regularly made more than the minimum payment. And she said Miss M had 
taken out a number of payday loans prior to her account  commencing  with ND and in 
between the credit limit increases. However the payday loans were being  repaid and her 
payment history on these  loans was good,  as per her credit  report.
Miss M disagreed with the adjudicators conclusions. She said her bank statements show  by 
2017 she was no longer  able to make payments towards her credit  card as every  penny of 
her wages was owed to payday lenders and high interest loans. And she said ND shouldve  
requested bank statements before making  the credit limit increase to £3,500  to confirm how 
she was managing her other debts. 
So, the matters  been referred  to me to make a final decision.
I recently issued my provisional  findings on this complaint. I said theres no specific  list of 
checks a lender must carry out before deciding to offer a credit card account  or to increase a 
credit limit. But the checks do need  to be proportionate to the lending. And I said the 
information Id seen indicated the checks ND carried out both when opening the account, 
and in offering  Miss M credit limit increases up to and including the increase in September 
Ref: DRN546931922015, were proportionate  to the amount involved and that they were  appropriate  in the 
circumstances. 
In view of the financial  information ND obtained  about Miss M when she opened her 
account, and at the time of each  of the credit  limit increases Id referred to, together with her 
successful track record of operating the account,  I was minded to conclude  none of these 
decisions involved irresponsible lending by ND.
I noted Miss M only incurred late fees occasionally in the early operation of her account, but I 
could see she incurred  them almost  every month in the run up to the increase in her credit 
limit to £3,500. And I noted the information Miss Ms given us about the state  of her finances 
at that time, including bank statements.
Taking everything Id seen into account, I was minded  to conclude it wouldve been 
proportionate and reasonable for ND to obtain more  information about  the state of Miss Ms 
finances at that time, such as recent bank statements, before offering her this increase. I 
also noted that Miss M ran into serious  financial difficulties  very quickly  after getting this 
increase. So, I was minded to conclude that NDs decision to increase Miss Ms credit limit to 
£3,500 in March 2017 was irresponsible.
And I was minded  to partly uphold her complaint on this basis.
This was different  from the adjudicators opinion. So, I invited both parties  to comment and 
provide any additional information  for me to consider.  
A copy of my provisional decision is attached  and forms part of this final decision.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In response to my provisional decision Miss M said she was of the view that the increase in 
her credit limit from £2,250 in September 2015 to £3,500 in March 2017 was entirely  
irresponsible. And she said she hoped I would agree that all interest and charges from 
September 2015 to the present time should  be refunded.
ND didnt respond  to my provisional decision.
Ive noted Miss Ms comments. But as indicated in my provisional decision, I think  the checks 
ND carried out both when opening the account, and in offering Miss M credit limit increases 
up to and including the increase in September 2015, were proportionate  to the amount 
involved and that they were  appropriate  in the circumstances. 
Its only the increase  in Miss Ms credit  limit to £3,500  in March 2017  in respect of which  I 
think it wouldve been proportionate and reasonable for ND to obtain  more information about  
the state of Miss Ms finances  at that time, such as recent bank  statements,  before  offering 
her this increase.  
So, this is the only credit limit increase I consider to have been irresponsible. And this means 
its fair for me to require  ND to refund  all interest and charges its applied to Miss Ms 
Ref: DRN54693193account since the credit limit increase  to £3,500  in March  2017;  and remove  all adverse 
information about the account from her credit  file since that increase. 
But I dont think it would  be fair for me to require ND to backdate  the same redress  to the 
September 2015 credit limit increase to £2,250 as suggested by Miss M, as I dont think  it 
was irresponsible  to give her this increase. 
So, I partly  uphold Miss Ms complaint on this basis.
my final decision
I partly  uphold  Miss Ms complaint against  NewDay  Limited. It must:
1. refund all interest  and charges its applied to Miss Ms account since the credit  limit 
increase to £3,500 in March 2017; and
2. remove all adverse information  about  the account  from her credit file since  the March 
2017 increase.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 August 2019.
Robert Collinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN54693194copy of my provisional decision
complaint
Miss M complains that NewDay Ltd (ND) trading as Aqua engaged in irresponsible lending  to her.
background
Miss M says in June  2014  she received  her credit card from ND with a credit limit of £250.  And she 
says the credit limit was increased  to £550 in November  2014, £1,250 in May 2015, £2,250 in 
September 2015 and finally to £3,500 in March 2017.
Miss M also says her credit  limit was increased  several  times despite her defaulting  and going over 
her credit limit on numerous occasions. So, Miss M says she believes this was irresponsible lending 
and some of her debt should be waived as she shouldnt have been given increased credit limits.  
ND says as part of its commitment to responsible lending it regularly reviews  how its customers  are 
using its credit cards  along  with how they are managing  their other credit  commitments. It says it 
makes risk based assessments to ensure  its lending appropriately. And it says this type of review 
may result in either  an increase or decrease to the credit  limit.
ND also says before  increasing a credit limit it sends letters  requesting customers  to ensure they can 
afford repayments of the new limit. It says it allows 40 days for the customer  to select  to opt out of the 
credit limit increase. And it says on the basis of its findings its unable to uphold Miss Ms complaint  
regarding irresponsible lending. 
Our adjudicator thought Miss Ms complaint  shouldnt  be upheld.  
She said Miss M exceeded  her credit limit on a number of occasions  however she didnt  go over her 
credit limit by a large amount at any point and always  brought it within the limit once she made  the 
monthly payment.  
She said there were a number  of late payments, but Miss M always maintained her payments and 
regularly made more  than the minimum  payment. And she said Miss M had taken  out a number of 
payday loans prior to her account commencing with ND and in between  the credit limit increases. 
However the payday  loans were being repaid  and her payment  history on these loans was good, as 
per her credit report.
Miss M disagreed with the adjudicators conclusions. She said her bank statements  show by 2017 she 
was no longer  able to make payments towards her credit  card as every penny of her wages was owed 
to payday lenders and high interest  loans. And she said ND shouldve requested bank statements  
before making the credit limit increase to £3,500 to confirm how she was managing  her other debts. 
So, the matters been referred  to me to make a decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
Im currently  minded to partly uphold Miss Ms complaint, and to require ND to refund all interest and 
charges its applied  to her account since it gave her a credit limit increase to £3,500 in March  2017. Ill 
explain why.
Theres no specific list of checks a lender must carry out before deciding to offer a credit card account 
or to increase a credit limit. But the checks do need to be proportionate to the lending. The 
Ref: DRN54693195information Ive seen  indicates the checks ND carried  out both when opening the account,  and in 
offering Miss M credit  limit increases up to and including the increase in September 2015,  were  
proportionate to the amount involved and that they were appropriate in the circumstances. 
In view of the financial information ND obtained about  Miss M when  she opened her account, and at 
the time of each of the credit  limit increases Ive referred to, together with her successful track  record 
of operating the account, Im minded to conclude none of these decisions  involved irresponsible 
lending by ND.
I note Miss M only incurred late fees occasionally  in the early operation of her account,  but I see she 
incurred them almost every month in the run up to the increase in her credit limit to £3,500.  And Ive 
noted the information Miss Ms given us about the state  of her finances at that time,  including bank  
statements.
Taking everything Ive seen into account, Im minded  to conclude it wouldve  been proportionate and 
reasonable for ND to obtain more information about  the state of Miss Ms finances at that time,  such 
as recent bank statements, before offering  her this increase.  I also note that Miss M ran into serious 
financial difficulties very quickly after getting this increase. So, Im minded to conclude that NDs 
decision to increase  Miss Ms credit limit to £3,500  in March 2017 was irresponsible.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  set out above, but subject to both parties responses to this provisional  decision, Im 
currently minded  to partly  uphold Miss Ms complaint against NewDay  Ltd. To resolve matters Im 
going to ask it to:
1. refund all interest  and charges its applied to Miss Ms account  since the credit limit increase  to 
£3,500 in March 2017; and 
2. remove all adverse information about the account from Miss Ms credit file since the March 2017 
increase.
Robert Collinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5469319