K822xComplaint
Ms E complains  that Indigo Michael  Limited  (trading  as Safety  Net Credit (SNC)) lent to her 
irresponsibly.
Background
The background to this complaint was set out in my provisional decision dated  20 May 2020.  
An extract  from this is attached and forms part of this final decision, so I will not repeat that 
information here.
In my provisional decision I set out why I was minded  to think  that SNC didnt need to do 
more than the offer it made in the final response letter.  I invited both parties to let me have 
any further comments and evidence. SNC  has told us it doesnt have anything further to add. 
Ms E hasnt provided any further  comments.
my findings
Ive once more  considered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither Ms E nor SNC had any further comments for me to consider. I see no reason to 
depart from the findings that I reached in my provisional decision.  
So, in summary,  I dont think it was wrong  for SNC  to have granted  the Safety Net facility or 
the drawdowns Ms E took.  
But, SNC has told us that the offer it made  in the final response  to write off the outstanding 
interest on the facility  (£88.09), leaving any remaining principal for Ms E to pay, is still 
available. As Im not minded  to uphold Ms Es complaint, Im not intending  to ask SNC to 
improve on this offer. And Ill leave it up to Ms E to decide whether she wishes  to accept  this. 
My final decision
For the reasons  given  above, and in my provisional  decision Indigo  Michael  Limited doesnt 
need to do any more than what it has already previously agreed to. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 July 2020.  
Robert Walker
ombudsman
Ref: DRN54901192EXTRACT FROM PROVISIONAL DECISION
Complaint
Ms E complains  that Indigo Michael Limited  (trading as Safety Net Credit (SNC)) lent to her 
irresponsibly.
Background
Ms E was given a Safety Net facility in November  2016. This was a running  credit account  where a 
consumer could either  request funds up to their credit limit, or funds  would be deposited  into their 
bank account once their account balance  fell below a safety net amount of the customers choosing.
The initial credit limit of Ms Es facility  in November  2016  was £290.  The limit was increased to £350 
in January 2017 and then to £440 in February 2017  when Ms E also stopped using  the facility. 
In SNCs response to Ms Es complaint it agreed to write off the outstanding  interest on the facility,  
leaving a balance of £275.29 to be paid. Ms E didnt  accept this offer and brought her complaint to our 
service. Ms E feels  that SNC should return all the interest that she paid and remove the default  from 
her credit file which arose  when  she had repayment difficulties. 
One of our adjudicators  looked  at Ms Es complaint. He thought the checks SNC  carried out before  
granting the facility  were  proportionate, so he didnt  think it was wrong  of SNC to offer it. However, the 
adjudicator didnt think  the final drawdown  on 14 February 2017 shouldve been allowed as he 
thought Ms E had become over reliant on the facility and seemed to be struggling to manage her 
finances.  
SNC didnt agree with the assessment. It considers that the facility  was affordable for Ms E when  
each drawdown was made and that it would have been unfair  to have  withdrawn the credit facility in 
February 2017. SNC told us though that its offer to write  off the outstanding  interest on the facility,  
leaving any remaining principal to pay, was still available. 
Ms E hasnt  responded to the adjudicators assessment.
As no agreement has been reached, the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules 
and good industry practice at the time the loans were given.  Having carefully thought  about everything 
Ive been provided with, Im not intending  to uphold  Ms Es complaint  and Ive explained  my reasons 
for doing so below.
the regulations  in place when Ms E was given the Safety  Net facility
I think  it would be helpful for me to start by explaining that SNC gave Ms E this facility  when it was 
regulated by the Financial  Conduct Authority  (FCA). And the relevant regulatory rules in place at the 
time were set out in the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) section of the FCA Handbook of 
rules and guidance.
Section 5.2.1(2) of CONC set out what a lender needed to do before agreeing  to give a consumer a 
loan of this type. And it says a firm had to consider the potential  for the commitments  under the 
regulated credit agreement to adversely impact  the customers  financial situation as well as the 
ability of the customer to make repayments  as they fall due over the life of the regulated  credit 
agreement, or for such an agreement which  is an  open-end agreement (like Ms Es Safety Net 
facility),  to make payments  within a reasonable period.
Ref: DRN54901193CONC 5.2 also includes  some guidance on the sorts of things a lender needs to bear in mind  when 
considering its obligations under CONC 5.2.1. Section 5.2.4(2)  says a firm should consider what  is 
appropriate in any particular circumstances dependent on, for example,  the type and amount of credit 
being sought and the potential risks to the customer. The risk of credit not being sustainable directly  
relates to the amount of credit granted and the total charge for credit relative  to the customers 
financial situation.
And CONC 5.3 contains  further guidance on what a lender should  bear in mind  when thinking  about  
affordability. CONC 5.3.1(1)  says In making the creditworthiness assessment or the assessment 
required by CONC 5.2.2R (1), a firm should take into account more than assessing the customers 
ability to repay  the credit..
CONC 5.3.1(2)  then says The creditworthiness assessment and the assessment required by CONC 
5.2.2R (1) should include  the firm taking reasonable  steps to assess the customers ability  to meet 
repayments under a regulated credit  agreement in a sustainable manner  without the customer  
incurring financial difficulties or experiencing significant adverse consequences.
The guidance didnt require  SNC  to carry out specific checks, but it did require its checks  to be 
proportionate. And any checks had to take into account a number of different things,  such as how 
much was being lent and when the borrowing was due to be repaid. Put simply the lender had to 
gather enough information  so that it could make an informed decision on the lending. 
SNC was also required  to establish whether  Ms E could sustainably make her repayments  not just 
whether the repayments were affordable  on a strict pounds and pence calculation. The repayments 
being affordable on this basis might be an indication Ms E could sustainably make her repayments. 
But it doesnt  automatically  follow that this is the case. 
Ms Es credit facility was open-ended. So she didnt  need to repay  all of what she borrowed plus the 
interest due when she next got paid. Instead, there was an expectation that shed repay what  she 
borrowed plus the interest due within  a reasonable period. CONC doesnt define a reasonable period. 
I think  its fair to say that a reasonable period  will depend on the circumstances of each case. But at 
the start of the facility Ms Es minimum  payment  was around £20 per month.
Ive kept all of this in mind when  thinking about whether SNC did what  it needed to do before agreeing 
to Ms Es Safety Net facility.  
what happened when  the facility was granted
SNC says it reviewed Ms Es bank transaction data for three months prior to the facility being  
approved. It considered what it saw together with the results of the credit checks it completed through  
credit reference agencies.  Having  done so SNC was satisfied  Ms E wasnt having  trouble  meeting  her 
existing commitments  and would be able to maintain the facility she was offered.
Ive looked at all the information SNC  was aware of prior to granting Ms Es facility. As Ive explained 
above, Ms E wasnt contractually obliged  to completely  repay the facility in full when she next got paid 
and the amount of interest shed have to pay was capped.
Ms E had a regular income and was receiving child support payments. Her regular expenditure  wasnt 
at a level that would raise any concern  and she didnt  seem to have any credit commitments, such as 
short-term loans, that might  have been a sign of financial difficulty.  I can see that she was making a 
modest payment to a debt agency and at times incurred bank charges. But these  payments seemed  
manageable and I can see that she was generally  staying within  her agreed overdraft  facility which  
wasnt significant.  
Looking at the results  of SNCs credit checks its evident that these didnt necessarily paint a perfect  
picture of Ms Es credit history. For example, there appeared to be information available to SNC that 
Ref: DRN54901194showed shed had some  repayment issues and had a default five months before the check was 
completed. The check  also revealed Ms E had previously been using short-term  loans within the last 
year although there appeared  to be none outstanding at the point the facility was granted. And Ms E 
didnt seem to have  significant active balances either. So, I dont think SNC saw anything that 
wouldve meant  it shouldnt have approved the facility  or prompted it to have asked Ms E further 
questions about her circumstances.  
Overall, I think  Ms Es bank statements, in the period leading up to the facility being approved, 
showed that she had enough disposable income  to both service and repay the facility within  a 
reasonable period.
what happened after the facility was granted
As Ive said,  when the facility  was granted, I dont think it was unreasonable of SNC to have believed 
that Ms E would repay the outstanding balance  over a reasonable period, which could result in 
monthly repayments of around £20. After  all, this is what  was expected,  and the way this facility was 
designed. 
As Ive explained above SNC needed to carry out reasonable checks before the facility was approved, 
but it didnt then have to carry out an additional affordability assessment each time Ms E borrowed 
money. SNC also had to monitor her repayment record to look for signs of financial  difficulties. So, in 
effect it had to monitor how Ms E was using the facility.
In order  to see whether I think it was right to have allowed Ms E to continue to draw down, Ive 
considered the relationship  between when repayments were made  to SNC, the value of those 
payments and then when Ms E returned for further borrowing.  After all, if Ms E was making  significant  
repayments to SNC, and then quickly drawing down  a similar sum again, this might have indicated 
that she wasnt using the facility as it was designed  to be used, and she therefore may not have been 
able to afford  the repayments.
Ms E drew down on the facility seven times between 13 November 2016 and 14 February 2017.  
During this period a payment  was taken on four occasions and each time the balance was cleared in 
full. There  wasnt a regular payment date when payments  were taken  and they didnt  coincide with a 
consistent credit coming into Ms Es account.  Two of the payments seem to tie in with benefit 
payments, one with wages  and one with incoming bank transfers (possibly from a friend  and/or 
family). 
Following repayment of each of the first two drawdowns,  Ms E drew  down a further £290 (the facilitys 
credit limit) on the same  day or within  4 days. Following repayment of the third drawdown  Ms E 
returned to drawdown the full credit limit 11 days later. Three weeks later Ms E took a further £60 with 
the facilitys  credit limit increasing  to £350 at that point. A payment  was then taken around two weeks 
later which cleared the outstanding balance. 
Five days later Ms E received a further drawdown of £350.  She then took the final drawdown of £90 
around two weeks later when the facilitys  credit limit increased to £440.   
I think  the lending activity  could have indicated that Ms E was developing a reliance on the facility. 
After all shed taken seven  drawdowns, five of which were for the facilitys full credit limit. And I think it 
would have been important for SNC to have monitored any further activity and taken steps to ensure  
repayments were sustainable and the facility  was being repaid within  a reasonable period.  But I dont 
think though there is quite  enough evidence to say that a pattern of unsustainable  lending had 
become established.
And, having looked at Ms Es bank statements  which SNC had access to, I also dont think  there 
was enough to say, in the period leading  up to each credit increase, that Ms E didnt have  enough 
disposable income  to be able to afford and repay the facility within a reasonable period.  There  didnt 
Ref: DRN54901195appear to have been  any significant change in Ms Es circumstances or other signs of financial 
difficulties to suggest the borrowing was unaffordable or harmful.   
So, overall,  I dont think it was wrong for SNC to have granted the Safety  Net facility or its drawdowns. 
SNC has told us that the offer it made  in the final response to write off the outstanding interest on the 
facility (£88.09), leaving any remaining principal for Ms E to pay, is still available. As Im not minded to 
uphold Ms Es complaint,  Im not intending to ask SNC to improve on this offer. 
Ref: DRN5490119