K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains that Bank of Scotland  plc (T/A Halifax) transferred his savings to his sisters 
savings account  in error.
Mr G is represented by his parents in bringing this complaint. But for clarity  Ill refer to all 
submissions as being made by him directly.  
background
Mr G held a Young Saver account with Halifax. In 2018 Halifax launched new savings 
accounts and this led to it replacing  Young Saver accounts with the Kids Saver. As part of 
the transition process Halifax said it had to move  accounts in the name  of the child to the 
name of the controlling  adult.
Mr G and his sister both held Young Saver accounts. But due to an error  by Halifax, Mr Gs 
Young Saver account was changed  to an account  on which he was named  as a beneficiary. 
His sister was named  as the controlling adult or trustee of that account.  Instead, it should 
have been changed to Mr Gs mother.
Because of this error,  when  Mr Gs sister wanted  to close her Young Saver account,  the 
bank closed the account on which her name  appeared and transferred her account balance  
to an external account elsewhere. This meant  that Halifax transferred all of the savings that 
had been held in Mr Gs account  in addition to those belonging to his sister. This was all 
done without the knowledge  of Mr G and his family. And Mr Gs account  had held over 
£2,700, which were funds that were earmarked for his gap year abroad. 
When this error came  to light,  Halifax accepted responsibility. It said this had been  caused 
due to an IT upgrade  and that many  accounts  had been  impacted. It also said it had only 
realised its mistake after the transfer had been  completed. 
Halifax offered Mr Gs sister reassurance that she could transfer Mr Gs money back to him 
without it causing  any future implications  or concerns.  It stated that lessons had been learnt. 
And it accepted that Mr Gs experience  had fallen far below the standard  of customer  service  
it wanted to extend to its customers. So, it offered to compensate him £450 to recognise  the 
distress and inconvenience that its error had caused. 
Being dissatisfied with what had happened  and Halifaxs offer to resolve  matters  Mr G 
referred his complaint to our service.  He wanted Halifax  to return  his money.  And he didnt  
think the compensation it had offered here adequately recognised the trouble and upset its 
mistake had caused.
Our investigator looked into this and, while they empathised with Mr G, they didnt think 
Halifax needed to do anything more here. They thought that £450 compensation was 
appropriate and fair. But Mr G disagreed and asked for the matter  to be referred  to an 
ombudsman. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Ref: DRN53610032Im aware that Ive summarised  the events of the complaint. I dont intend any discourtesy by 
this - it just reflects the informal  nature of our service. Ive concentrated on what  I think  are 
the key issues. I can assure Mr G and Halifax that Ive read everything that they have 
provided. So if Ive not mentioned something  its not because I havent considered it. Its just 
that I dont  think I need to comment on it in order to reach what  I think is a fair and 
reasonable outcome.
Im sorry  to hear about  the difficulties Mr G experienced  here. I can appreciate  that he was 
caused distress and inconvenience by what happened. Halifax has already accepted it was 
responsible for transferring Mr Gs savings to his sister. So, the issue  here is whether its 
acted fairly  and reasonably in offering to put things right. 
In thinking about this, Ive considered things from both sides. I realise that what happened  
must have  been  extremely frustrating  and worrying. But I think that once Halifax was aware  
of the problem, it acted  promptly  and correctly  in accepting responsibility.  
Mr G told our service  that he wants Halifax to provide an explanation of what  happened and 
information about whos responsible for this error.  But I think Halifax  gave Mr G a fair 
explanation of what happened, in sufficient detail,  in its final response letter.  I realise that this 
didnt go into the level of detail Mr G wanted,  or expected. But impartially,  I think the letter 
gave the reasons as to why this happened  and I dont think itd be fair for me to ask Halifax 
to do anymore here
Its already explained that this error was caused when it was updating and transferring 
Young Saver accounts to its new Kids Saver accounts. From the evidence Ive seen,  Halifax 
didnt delay or protract matters when it investigated what happened  here.  It candidly 
accepted it had transferred Mr Gs savings to his sister in error  and apologised for its 
mistake. Halifax offered  to pay Mr G £450 in compensation  to recognise the trouble and 
upset its error caused. But its clear  he doesnt think this sum adequately reflects his 
inconvenience and experience. 
Its my role to decide whats  fair and reasonable in the individual  circumstances of a dispute. 
So here, I have  to take into account that the money was transferred to Mr Gs sister, so 
everyone involved in the dispute  knows where the money went. It hasnt been lost in the 
same way it wouldve  been if it was transferred to someone that Mr G didnt know.  With this 
in mind, I dont think itd be fair for me to tell Halifax to pay Mr G back  the money  that was 
transferred here as there  seems to be a clear way of him recovering this  if his sister 
transfers it back to him.
I also say this because  Halifax isnt able to recall  this money  from Mr Gs sister either. Its 
been transferred  to an external account  at a bank  elsewhere, which means Mr Gs sister 
would need to consent to a reversal of this transfer.  So in the circumstances here, I think this 
is something Mr G will need to arrange  with his sister  and family,  rather than something that 
is for Halifax to do.
I understand that Mr G wants Halifax to reopen his account to ensure that theres  a full audit 
trail in the event  that his sister pays his savings back to him. But Halifax  said it isnt possible 
for it to reinstate a closed  account even if it made an error in closing it. And its explained 
that it cant open a new account  matching the one Mr G had because hes now over the age 
limit for that account. The terms and conditions that apply to Mr Gs closed account  clearly 
outline that hes too old now to open this account  again. So, I cant fairly say Halifax  is acting 
unfairly by refusing to open an account  matching Mr Gs closed account.  
Ref: DRN53610033Even though  Halifax cant  reopen Mr Gs account  I dont think this will prevent him from 
being able to evidence a satisfactory audit trail showing the error Halifax  made.  I say this 
because Ive seen  lots of documentation  from Halifax which clearly demonstrates how 
Mr Gs money  came  to be transferred to his sister. And Halifax  has already offered Mr Gs 
sister reassurance that she can transfer this money back to him without it causing any future 
implications or concerns.  
Ive assessed  whether  the level of compensation Halifax offered Mr G appropriately  
recognises what happened.  He was inconvenienced  and I dont  doubt  he wouldve been  
worried before he knew  where the money had been sent. But I think  Halifax  did all it could to 
promptly resolve the error it made.  And I think the £450 its offered to compensate him for 
the trouble and upset this caused is fair to recognise the impact this had on him.
I recognise that Mr G and his family have spent a considerable amount of time in trying to 
understand how this error was caused  and in trying to resolve  matters  with Halifax. Mr Gs 
parents are both self-employed  and say theyve incurred financial loss as a result of 
corresponding with Halifax. And there have been  out of pocket expenses  incurred due to 
various visits to the bank.  I appreciate  that this has taken up a lot of everyones  time. But, Im 
satisfied that the compensation  offered fairly recognises the impact here.
I understand that Halifaxs mistake meant Mr G and his family had to think  carefully about 
whether to cancel  his gap year plans abroad. They say that cancellation wasnt  covered by 
his travel insurance provider. But I havent  seen any evidence that Mr G has been  
disadvantaged or incurred  additional  travel costs as a result of what  happened. And Im 
pleased to see that he was able to travel abroad. 
I realise Mr G is concerned about what couldve happened as a result of this mistake. Hes 
mentioned the possibility  that his savings could easily have been lost by Halifax or given to a 
third party with no connection to him. But these things didnt happen and it wouldnt be fair or 
impartial of me to tell Halifax  to pay compensation for something  that didnt happen. 
I appreciate that Mr G and his family  feel very strongly about the issues  raised in this 
complaint and Ive carefully considered everything they have said. But I think  Halifax has 
dealt with this complaint  fairly and done all it can to resolve this dispute. Im satisfied that the 
£450 Halifax has already offered to pay Mr G is fair to compensate him for the worry and 
trouble its mistake caused here.  So, Im not going  to ask it to do anymore here
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Ill leave it to Mr G to decide whether 
he wishes to approach Bank of Scotland plc (T/A Halifax) to accept the £450 it offered to 
resolve this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 August 2019.
Julie Robertson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5361003