K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs K have  complained about the way in which Bank of Scotland Plc (trading as 
Halifax) has administered their mortgage account.
background
Mr and Mrs Ks grievances about their mortgage  go back a number of years. In March 2015  
an ombudsman issued  a final decision  on their complaint. At the time Mr and Mrs K were 
complaining that there were calculation errors on the account  and conflicting  information 
given by Halifax about the status  of the account. 
The ombudsman didnt  uphold  the complaint. He noted that the relationship between Halifax  
and Mr and Mrs K was strained, and hoped that a resolution could be reached.
Sadly, that doesnt  appear to have  happened  and Mr and Mrs K have contacted  us again 
with further concerns about the way in which Halifax has dealt  with their mortgage.
Mr and Mrs Ks current complaint is as follows:
arrears havent been included  on their annual statements;
they are unhappy  about the format  of the annual  mortgage statements sent by 
Halifax;
Halifax has refused to discuss consolidation of arrears;
they are unhappy  at the way Halifax apportions payments across their sub-accounts.
An investigator looked at the complaint. He noted that Halifax  didnt consent to the complaint 
about arears not having been included on annual statements.  Thats because Mr and Mrs K 
had brought the complaint  to us more than six months after the final response letter  Halifax 
had sent them about this issue  dated  27 October 2017. There were no exceptional 
circumstances to explain the delay. 
In relation to the other matters, the investigator  reached the following conclusions:
the annual  statements  are in the format required by the regulator, the Financial 
Conduct Authority  (FCA);
the account didnt meet the criteria  for arrears consolidation, so Halifax  had done 
nothing wrong  in not contacting Mr and Mrs K to discuss consolidation;
Halifax had explained to Mr and Mrs K in 2013  how their mortgage  payments were to 
be apportioned.
The investigator didnt  think Halifax had done anything wrong. Mr and Mrs K disagreed and 
asked for an ombudsman to review  the complaint. They say they are still confused  by the 
information received  from Halifax and dont  understand either  the arrears figures or the way 
in which  Halifax has calculated their monthly  repayments.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not going  to revisit any issues considered by the previous ombudsman  in his decision 
dated 5 March 2015. Nor am I going to comment  on any issues  covered in the banks final 
Ref: DRN57937052response letter dated 27 October 2017,  as those  were referred to us more than six months  
after the date of the final response letter. There are no exceptional circumstances that would 
allow me to disregard  the time limits.
Im satisfied the account statements are in the formal  prescribed by the FCA. I appreciate  Mr 
and Mrs K dont like the format of the statements and find them difficult to understand. But 
the statements  contain the information Halifax is required by the regulator to provide. This 
means Im not upholding this part of the complaint.
With regard to consolidation of arrears, Halifax has explained that, before  it can consider 
this, Mr and Mrs K would  have to have  made  12 months payments of the full amount due 
each month. Because they havent done  so, Halifax isnt able to consider consolidation of 
arrears. In the circumstances, Im satisfied that Halifax has done nothing wrong by not 
contacting Mr and Mrs K to discuss consolidation when they wouldnt have qualified  for it in 
any event. Im not upholding this part of the complaint.
Im satisfied that Halifax has provided  information to Mr and Mrs K about how their payments 
are applied to their account.  Mr and Mrs K are able,  if they wish, to specify  which sub-
account they want payments applied to. But unless they tell Halifax  to do this, payments will 
be applied  globally across  the sub-accounts. Im not upholding this part of the complaint.
I do appreciate Mr and Mrs K are still unhappy  about the administration of their mortgage 
account. Theyve been confused about adjustments on their account  and what  they are 
required to pay. I note theyve raised  further  complaints  since  they brought this one, which 
are being  dealt with separately.
In relation to mortgage arrears, I note that in April 2017 the FCA gave  guidance to mortgage 
lenders about  the administration of accounts in arrears. The FCA said that lenders should 
exclude mortgage arrears from the balance used to calculate monthly  repayments.  Instead  
the arrears should  be paid off separately. This was done in order  that arrears would not be 
auto-capitalised when monthly repayments were calculated. Halifax has explained that, in 
relation to Mr and Mrs Ks account, historic adjustments have had to be made to ensure that 
arrears werent auto-capitalised.
So I think this may well explain why Mr and Mrs K believe theyve  been  given information 
about their account  which  theyve  found  confusing. I think it would be helpful if Halifax  could 
clarify this.
Im sorry  to note that, more than four years after the previous ombudsmans  decision, the 
difficulties between Mr and Mrs K and Halifax have still not been resolved. I note that Halifax  
is now taking legal  action,  due to the continuing arrears. Where  borrowers  are unable to 
maintain the full monthly mortgage repayment,  we would not generally  expect the lender to 
postpone legal action. 
We have previously explained to Mr and Mrs K that we dont audit mortgage accounts,  but it 
is always open to Mr and Mrs K to have  their account audited  (at their own expense).  In the 
event that an independent audit  found errors attributable to Halifax, and we were satisfied 
that this was, in fact, the case,  we would expect Halifax to reimburse  the cost of the audit. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my decision is that I dont uphold  this complaint.
Ref: DRN57937053Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision  before  27 September 2019.
Jan OLeary
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5793705