K820x#14complaint
Mrs M says Financial  Insurance Company Limited (FICL) mis-sold her a payment protection  
insurance (PPI)  policy.  
This policy was sold by a third-party acting on behalf  of FICL. I cant consider this complaint 
against the seller  of the policy directly. This is because the sale took place before that firm, 
or its predecessor-in-title, were regulated by the then Financial Services Authority (FSA) for 
insurance intermediation activities, or was otherwise covered by our jurisdiction. 
FICL, the insurer, has accepted that the seller was acting as its agent so it has taken 
responsibility for the sale. To keep  things simple, Ill only refer to FICL in this decision, rather  
than any other business.
background and summary to complaint
Mrs M bought the policy in September 2001  at the same time as taking out a store card.  She 
applied for the store  card and PPI policy in store. 
At the time,  Mrs M was employed in retail. She has told us she was entitled to less than 
three months full sick pay, and redundancy pay. Mrs M says she had a medical  condition  
many years before the sale.  
The policy provided  cover  for accident, sickness, unemployment and life  subject to its 
exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay  15% of Mrs Ms store card balance  in the event 
of Mrs M being unable to work due to accident,  sickness or unemployment. A claim on the 
life cover would  have paid off the outstanding account balance, up to a maximum of 
£15,000.
The policy also provided 60 days of purchase  protection and price protection.  Mrs M hasnt 
complained about this element of the insurance  policy so I will not consider it further in this 
decision. 
At the time,  the policy cost £1 per £100 of the monthly outstanding balance. The premium 
would continue to have to be paid during a successful claim and it did attract interest.  
Mrs Ms representative has made  lengthy  and substantial representations on her behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mrs Ms representative  says:
FICL  failed to meet the sales standards which applied  at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mrs M wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mrs Ms 
representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
Ref: DRN54549642The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means FICL should  have  told 
Mrs M about  the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means FICL should  have  explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mrs M and the impact 
they would  have had on her chances  of making  a claim; and
The information Mrs M received was misleading. These policies were promoted as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  Mrs M disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
for several  reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision. 
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs Ms. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ms complaint.
This sale took place  in 2001 before the sale of general insurance products like this became 
regulated by the FSA in January 2005.  So, the FSAs (and FCAs) overarching Principles for 
Businesses and insurance  conduct  rules (ICOB and ICOBs) arent applicable to this 
complaint, nor is the FCAs Perimeter Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself was with a third-party  and not FICL. That means the unfair 
relationship provisions set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court  
judgment in Plevin  about s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance  made by the FCA 
about the handling of complaints  about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the 
Plevin judgment, arent  applicable.
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint: 
The General  Insurance  Standards Councils  General Insurance Code for private customers  
the GISC  Code. 
Ref: DRN54549643This sale was made during a period  of industry  self-regulation by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC).  It published the GISC Code, which  set out minimum standards  of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling  insurance, including  PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for all 
intermediaries (Including Employees of Insurance Companies) other  than Registered 
Insurance Brokers   The ABI Code.  
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
Among other  things, the code said that As a condition of membership of the Association  of 
British Insurers (ABI),  members undertake  to enforce this Code  and to use their best 
endeavors to ensure that all those involved in selling their policies observe its provisions. 
FICL was a member of the ABI and the seller   its agent  was acting as an intermediary. 
The Finance  & Leasing  Association (FLA) Code of Practice
This code  was introduced in 1992,  and set out standards of good  practice  for the finance  and 
leasing industry. Section  4 of the code  covered  Credit  Protection Insurance. 
As Ive explained, FICL was a member  of the ABI, so it was subject to the ABI Code and its 
associated requirements.  The seller  but not FICL  was a member of the FLA and 
subscribed to the FLA Code, so I consider it reasonable to assume that the seller (as a 
member of the FLA)  should have complied  with its code when selling PPI, and this extends  
to when it was acting as an agent  of FICL. 
So I am satisfied it is right that I should take these codes into account when deciding  what  is, 
in my opinion, fair and reasonable  in the circumstances of Mrs Ms case. 
 
I have also taken account of relevant law in reaching  my decision, including: the law relating 
to negligence, contract (including the express and implied duty on professional  advisers to 
give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence; the law relating to the utmost duty of 
good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness).  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Insurance  Ombudsman  Bureau 
 might have been expected to reach in relation to an equivalent complaint. I note that under 
the Insurance Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman was required  to decide 
complaints by reference to what was, in his opinion, fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances  and that the Ombudsman was required  to observe any applicable rule of 
law or relevant judicial  authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
Ref: DRN54549644of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so FICL  
was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were guidance 
when considering Mrs Ms complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all circumstances of this 
complaint, are:
-If FICL  gave advice, whether it advised  Mrs M with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for her, given her needs 
and circumstances.  
-Whether FICL gave  Mrs M sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable her 
to make an informed choice about  whether  to take out the policy,  including drawing to 
her attention and highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading way  the main 
provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and exclusions.  
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mrs M, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mrs M suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mrs M and 
FICL, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ms complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below. 
did Mrs M know she had a choice?
FICL had to make it clear that the PPI policy was optional. Ive seen  a copy of Mrs Ms 
signed credit  application.  On it there  is a section  related to PPI (labelled  Account Cover) 
where Mrs M has signed to say she wanted  the PPI. Theres  nothing on the form to suggest 
the PPI was compulsory and if Mrs M hadnt wanted the policy  she couldve left this section 
blank. Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely  that Mrs M knew  the policy was 
optional and she agreed to take it out without undue  pressure. 
did FICL provide  advice?
Both FICL and Mrs M agree that advice wasnt provided during this sale. This means FICL  
didnt have to check if the PPI was suitable  for Mrs M. Instead, it had to give her sufficient, 
appropriate and timely information to enable Mrs M to make an informed  choice about  
whether to take out the policy, including drawing to her attention and highlighting  in a clear, 
fair and not misleading way  the main provisions  of the policy  and significant  limitations  and 
exclusions. 
the information
FICL has provided us with Mrs Ms application form  showing that PPI had been  selected. 
Ive seen a copy  of some of the paperwork Mrs M likely wouldve received or seen, including 
the policy terms and conditions  which I accept on the balance of probabilities  applied  to 
Mrs Ms policy. This provided full details  of the insurance, including  eligibility, exclusions and 
limitations, and levels  of cover.  
Ref: DRN54549645Looking at the information provided to Mrs M at the time, I dont think  FICL  gave Mrs M the 
information she fairly and reasonably needed  to make an informed decision about  whether 
or not to take out the policy. 
This sale took place  in store. I dont know what FICL  told Mrs M about  the PPI but I think  its 
unlikely she would have  agreed to take it out without  at least having a broad understanding  
of the cover  it provided  i.e. life, accident, sickness and unemployment cover. And I think its 
unlikely Mrs M would have thought  it was free.
But it was FICLs responsibility  to draw to Mrs Ms attention  the important information  i.e. 
the key information about the nature of the cover and any significant  exclusions and 
limitations which might be relevant to her decision. 
I dont think its likely  FICL did enough to do this. For example, I dont think  its likely the true 
cost of the policy was made clear to Mrs M, including  the need  to maintain premiums during  
a claim or that the payments would attract interest. In addition, its unlikely FICL adequately 
drew to her attention  the main  provisions of the policy and significant limitations and 
exclusions.
So I dont  think FICL  gave Mrs M sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable her 
to make an informed choice about  whether  to take out the policy,  including drawing her 
attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions of 
the policy and significant limitations and exclusions.  
I have considered how my findings interact with the FCAs list of significant  failings  in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded that there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mrs Ms representative has raised a number 
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mrs Ms. I have 
considered these carefully and summarised them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mrs Ms representative considers to be poor 
value. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mrs M about the limitations  and exclusions, it should have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to her.  
Im not persuaded by Mrs Ms representatives views  on this. The duty of utmost  good  faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think it is unlikely that a court would find that this extended to the insurer having to disclose 
the claims ratio information  or explaining the significance of the limitations  and exclusions in 
the way Mrs M has suggested. And taking into account the law, industry codes and 
standards of good industry practice  applicable to this complaint, I dont think  it would be fair 
or reasonable to impose such requirements on FICL. 
Ref: DRN54549646what effect did FICLs shortcomings have on Mrs M? To what extent  did Mrs M suffer 
loss or damage as a result?
I have found that FICL did not do all it should have done when it sold this policy to Mrs M. So 
I have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mrs M 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not Mrs M 
would have still taken  out the policy, had FICL done things properly. 
Mrs M says she would not have taken  it out and believes  that I should presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. 
As this was a non-advised sale, Mrs M had to weigh up in her own mind the cost of the 
policy against the benefits offered and the potential consequences if she didnt insure  
against the risk of being unable to work.  
As Ive found above, Mrs M chose to take this policy out. So I consider that its reasonable to 
conclude she had some  interest in the benefits offered by this type of insurance. But she 
made this decision  based  on incomplete information. So what Mrs M thought she was 
getting is not exactly what she got. The extent  to which this differed is a relevant 
consideration when determining if Mrs M has suffered any loss or detriment. 
In relation to the costs, Im satisfied Mrs M ought  reasonably to have known she would  have 
to pay something for the PPI and that it would cover  a portion of her outstanding balance.  
But, I accept that FICL  didnt make clear the on-going cost information. So while Mrs M didnt 
know some  things, the ultimate position  in the event of a successful claim was not dissimilar 
to what she would reasonably have thought from the information she based her decision to 
take out the policy on and found  acceptable. 
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mrs M thought  she had bought  and 
what she actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions which she knew about or 
should have known about or for which she received advice, treatment or counselling 
from any doctor during  the 12 months before  the start date of the policy; 
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions placing more onerous evidential requirements to support a claim  on those 
grounds;
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mrs M 
wasnt a permanent employee; and
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mrs M be unable  to 
do her own job, a similar job, or any paid work  which her experience, education or 
training reasonably qualified her to do. 
I do accept that there is a possibility that the limitations or exclusions  above  might well have 
caused Mrs M pause for thought  and may well have caused  her to conclude  that the policy 
was not as good as she thought  and she might have decided not to proceed.  The limitations 
on the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might  have dissuaded  
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mrs M from taking  out the policy.  
The evidence about Mrs Ms circumstances at the time of sale shows  that the policy  wasnt 
fundamentally wrong for her. She was eligible for its benefits and it provided cover that, 
despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable  to her should  the insured 
Ref: DRN54549647risks have become  a reality. Although Mrs M says she had a medical  condition  before the 
PPI was taken out and the policy wouldnt have provided cover had she needed time off 
work because of this condition, I dont think better  information about this exclusion would 
have put her off agreeing to it. I say this because Mrs M says this medical  condition  occurred 
in 1960  over 40 years  before the policy was sold. Based  on everything Ive seen,  including  
the nature  of this condition, it seems that the chances of Mrs M thinking shed need to claim 
because of this condition were low and, on balance, I think  that its more likely  than not that 
that Mrs M would still have wanted to be covered for all of the other  reasons why she might  
be unwell  and unable  to work.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were  more onerous than Mrs M might 
reasonably have expected. But its unlikely she would have expected to be able to make a 
disability claim without  having to provide some evidence to support that claim.  And while this 
limitation might have dissuaded  some consumers in slightly different circumstances to Mrs M 
from taking out the policy,  Mrs M, in her circumstances, still had some good reasons to take 
it out.
If Mrs M had known  she could only claim for disability if she was unable to do both her job, a 
similar job or any paid work which her experience, education or training reasonably  qualified  
her to do, it might have  played into her thinking about what she would have done. And I 
accept it may have given  her pause  for thought  although its possible she may not have 
been overly concerned given that if Mrs M was unable (through disability) to carry on her 
own occupation the chances  that she would be able to take up a similar occupation  would 
also, in all probability, be limited.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not that Mrs M would still have taken out the PPI. The policy  was sufficiently close to 
what she thought  she was getting and I think the policy  could provide a useful benefit in a 
difficult time, notwithstanding her employment  benefits. And in those circumstances I 
consider it more likely  than not that she would have taken out the policy  in any event.  
Mrs Ms representatives say the rules about  how to handle PPI complaints (DISP  App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
I have thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, I have found  it would be reasonable to conclude  there  
were substantial flaws  in the sales  process.  In those  circumstances, DISP App 3 says it 
should be presumed Mrs M would not have bought the PPI she bought unless, in the 
particular circumstances  of the complaint, there is evidence to rebut the presumption. 
I am satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude  the presumption  is rebutted 
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Mrs Ms 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mrs M 
Ref: DRN54549648found herself in as result of the sale was the same  position she would have been in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Mrs M believes the presumption may only be rebutted  when the flaws in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including her own comments  that she would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mrs M in the position she would have been in if she had 
not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that she would not have taken out the policy,  Im 
satisfied that of the two possibilities, it is more likely than not that she would  still have taken 
out the PPI had she been given clear,  fair and not misleading information about the policy 
she was buying.  So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude that FICL should pay Mrs M compensation, as that would put her 
in a better position  than she would have been in if everything had happened as it should  
have done. 
Im also aware that Mrs M thinks FICL  misrepresented the terms of the policy in how it 
described the PPI. While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
FICLs statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why FICL failed to 
act fairly and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  FICL gave  Mrs M, in the way it did, was 
insufficient to meet  the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to have met in 
2001 when providing information  about an insurance  policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mrs Ms representative says a court might take if it 
were to find FICL negligently misrepresented  the contract to Mrs M and about the remedy a 
court might award if it were to find that FICL had been in breach of its duty of utmost  good  
faith. But this doesnt persuade me to alter my conclusions  about what is fair and reasonable 
in all the circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mrs M in a better  position than if everything had happened as it 
should have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 April 2019.
Gemma Farrell  
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5454964