K820x#14complaint
Mr C has complained about the service he received from Haven Insurance  Company Limited 
after he was accused  of hitting another (third party)  vehicle and the other  driver  and their 
insurance company  made a claim for the cost of the repairs against  his van insurance  policy. 
background
Haven contacted Mr C and told him a third party had accused him of hitting their vehicle and 
knocking the wing mirror  off. He told Haven he didnt  do this. And hes said the claim handler 
told him they wouldnt pay out under  his policy. Haven  received a statement from the third 
party and someone the third party  said was an independent witness. In the end, they 
decided to settle the claims from the third party and their insurance company. The third party 
was claiming back their excess.  And their insurance company was claiming what  it had paid 
out to repair  the damage to the third partys car.
In the meantime, it seems  Mr C received a letter about the accident from the authorities.  
From listening to one of his calls to Haven it seems like he thought this was because Haven 
hadnt helped  him and backed him up on the fact he didnt hit the third party vehicle. 
Mr C is also adamant that when  he first spoke to Haven the claim handler  told him, because  
hed said he wasnt involved,  they wouldnt be paying out under his policy.  He recalls  them  
mentioning some sort of fund or pot of money  that would be used instead.  
Mr C complained to Haven but wasnt  happy with their response. So, he asked us to 
consider his complaint. One of our adjudicators looked into it and explained why he didnt 
think Haven had done anything wrong.  
Mr C isnt happy with the investigators  view that Haven didnt do anything wrong and has 
asked for an ombudsmans decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under the terms of Mr Cs policy Haven have the right to deal with claims he makes or that 
are made against him as they feel is appropriate. But Id expect them  to act reasonably and 
consider all the evidence before deciding to settle a third party  claim against Mr C. 
Mr C is adamant he did not hit the other vehicle. And Haven took this into account and didnt 
pay the third partys claim for their excess straight  away. And  when it got a further claim 
from their insurance company for the cost to them of repairing the third partys  vehicle, it 
didnt pay this straight away either. Haven asked for more evidence. It also looks  like they 
decided to send  someone to inspect Mr Cs van, as they werent  entirely happy that they 
could tell from the photographs Mr C had sent that there was no damage to it. But it seems 
like they didnt actually  tell Mr C they were going to do this. 
In the end, Haven felt they had to pay the amounts claimed by the third party  and their 
insurance company.  This was because they had a statement  from the third party, saying Mr 
C had hit their vehicle and a statement  from what appeared to be an independent  witness 
saying hed seen  Mr C do this. I appreciate  Mr C suggested the third party and the witness  
Ref: DRN50511352may have  known each  other, but it would  have been  very difficult for Haven to prove this. 
And if theyd  tried to defend the claim and it had gone to court, they may well have ended up 
paying anyway  with legal costs on top. So, I think Havens decision to pay out was 
reasonable.
Haven shouldnt have  told Mr C at the outset they wouldnt be paying out under his policy.  
And it may be that they didnt  explain  things  very well. There is a fund used on occasions to 
pay for damage caused when someone  is hit by an uninsured driver.  And its possible this is 
the fund or pot of money  the claim handler  at Haven was referring to. Unfortunately, we cant 
get a recording  of the call when Mr C says he was told this. But even  if he was misled,  while  
it would  be poor service, it wouldnt alter the fact that Haven had little choice but to pay out 
for the damage  to the third partys vehicle. And, although I fully appreciate  what  Mr C 
actually recalls being told, I think  its unlikely a claim handler would have told him 
categorically it wouldnt pay out on his claim under his policy  irrespective of the evidence  it 
received on what had happened.
I appreciate Mr C also had another issue as a result  of the accident with the authorities.  And 
he felt Haven should have assisted him with it. But this had nothing  to do with Haven. It 
wasnt their responsibility to act as a witness for him and support him by confirming hed said 
he hadnt hit the third partys car. Mr C needed to deal with the issue himself. And I cant see 
any way what Haven  did or didnt do could have  had any bearing on this issue  at all. 
So, overall, I dont  think Haven did anything wrong in paying out on the damage to the third 
partys vehicle. There may have been some communication issues by Haven, as it doesnt 
sound like Mr C knew they wanted  to inspect his van. And its possible the claim handler  
didnt explain things  very clearly at the outset. But I dont think these things warrant  an award 
of compensation.  So, I dont  think  its appropriate for me to uphold Mr Cs complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Cs complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 December 2019.
Robert Short
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5051135