K820x#14complaint
Ms H and her representative Mr H, her attorney appointed under an Enduring Power  of 
Attorney (EPA),  complain that National Savings and Investments (NS&I) has unreasonably 
refused to accept a certified copy of the EPA.
background
Mr H says he lodged the EPA with the Office  of Care and Protection  (OCP) in Northern 
Ireland in June  2018, and that they certified  a copy for him. Hes unhappy that when  he sent 
this to NS&I in October 2018 it refused to accept  it because it wasnt  certified  by someone 
who was acceptable  to them. He wants NS&I to accept the copy  EPA certified by the OCP. 
NS&I said in its final response that it can only accept a photocopy of a power of attorney if it 
has been certified on each and every  page  as being a true and complete copy  of the original. 
This is legal  requirement  set out in the Power of Attorney Act 1971.  The certification on each 
page must be signed personally by one of a number of specified people including  a solicitor  
or notary public. It said it has legal  and regulatory requirements to fulfil. And it cannot  accept 
a photocopy EPA with a rubber stamp bearing only a photocopy of the signature.  
Alternatively, it said Mr H could send  it the original document which it would return.  
Our adjudicator felt this complaint shouldnt be upheld. She said NS&I  required the copy  
EPA to be certified  by someone  from a specified  list of acceptable  people.  Here its 
confirmed that the certification by someone at the OCP isnt enough  as they arent  on its list 
of acceptable  people. NS&I has followed its procedure and hasnt done anything wrong.
Mr H remains  unhappy and has asked  for an ombudsman review.  Hes referred to a legal 
source which he thinks requires NS&I to accept his certified copy  of the EPA. He says its 
acted outside  its legal  authority by refusing to accept a UK court document. He disputes 
NS&I can give precedence to its process  over a court.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  While I know Mr H will be disappointed  I 
think the adjudicators  decision was right. 
Mr H has referred  me to a legal  source  but I dont think  it assists  in this case.  It refers  to an 
office copy,  which  is not the same as a certified copy. I know  Mr H believes this meant 
NS&I had to accept what hed sent but based  on what Ive seen I dont think thats the case. 
NS&I says its certification  requirements are set out in legislation. And its said it has legal and 
regulatory obligations. Its explained that it can only accept a photocopy of a power of 
attorney if it has been certified on each and every  page as being a true and complete copy  of 
the original by someone from a specified list. And the certification on each page must be 
signed personally by one of a number of specified people including  a solicitor  or notary  
public.
Its up to NS&I to decide how it interprets and what it does to comply with its legal and 
regulatory obligations. Its not for this service  to consider what those legal  or regulatory 
obligations are or whether NS&I is acting  lawfully or in compliance with them. Only a court  or 
regulator can do so.
Ref: DRN59225042NS&I is entitled  to determine,  put in place and operate a process it requires consumers  to 
follow before  it will register an EPA. Here its set out and explained who can certify a copy  of 
the EPA and how each page must be certified. Unfortunately for Mr H its list of acceptable 
people to do that doesnt include  someone  from the OCP  and the copy EPA he sent to NS&I 
doesnt appear to comply  with its certification process and requirements. So, I think NS&I  
wasnt obliged to accept  the document he sent in. 
But NS&I  has confirmed  that once a suitably  certified copy of the EPA is provided, or the 
original is sent in, it will be able to assist Mr H which I think is fair and reasonable.. 
Overall I dont think NS&I has done anything wrong. And although  I recognise  Mr Hs 
strength of feeling  and frustration, I cant fairly or reasonably require it to do anything 
differently. 
I dont see any compelling reason to change the proposed outcome in this case.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms H, or her 
attorney Mr H, to accept or reject my decision  before 19 August 2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5922504