K820x#14complaint
Mrs L has complained  that Nationwide Building  Society mis-sold her a mortgage payment 
protection insurance policy.
background
Mrs L took out the mortgage in 1994 but did not buy PPI at that time. It was in April 1996 that 
Nationwide sold her the policy to cover  her mortgage repayments against accident,  sickness  
or unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs L disagrees with the adjudicators opinion 
and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Ls complaint and Ill explain why.
Nationwide doesnt  have any paperwork from the sale,  which isnt surprising considering 
how long ago it took place. However,  this does make the complaint more difficult to decide.  
In reaching my decision I have looked  at the evidence that we do have, as well as what I 
consider is most likely to have happened. Ive also thought about how long ago the sale was 
and how this might have affected Mrs Ls recollection of events.
In response to our adjudicators assessment, Mrs L has said that Nationwide have now said 
the PPI cover extended from August  1994  to February 1997, whereas it told her on three 
occasions that she took out the PPI in 1996.  However, Mrs L has misunderstood something 
that our adjudicator  said in his letter. He said Nationwide has given us information that 
shows the mortgage agreement you took out PPI with started  in August 1994 and ended on 
1 February 1997.  So the adjudicator is talking about  the period that the mortgage was 
running, not the dates for the PPI. I can confirm  that the PPI was taken out in April 1996, as 
Mrs L was originally told.
As Mrs Ls mortgage had already been  active for around 20 months by April 1996,  Im not 
persuaded that Mrs L would have thought she needed to take out the policy as a condition  of 
the lending. And as the mortgage was already running, there must have been a separate  
sales process for the purchase of the PPI. Overall,  based on the available evidence, I 
consider that Mrs L would have been aware  of the optional nature of the policy.  It seems to 
me that she probably  decided to buy the policy, knowing that she didnt have to, even if she 
no longer remembers  doing so.
There isnt much information available about the sale itself,  so I dont know  whether 
Nationwide advised  Mrs L to take out the PPI or not. But it doesnt make  a difference to my 
decision. If it did advise  Mrs L to buy the PPI then, in recommending it to her, it needed to 
ensure that it met her needs. And from what  I know  of her circumstances at the time, the PPI 
was suitable for her.
Ref: DRN57666922Mrs Ls employer would  have given her six months  full pay, followed by six months half pay, 
if shed been off sick. But the policy would  have paid out in addition  to this and potentially  for 
longer than she would have received full pay for. Mrs L has told us she had some  savings.  
But having  the policy would have meant that she could retain  these or use them to cover 
other outgoings at what would  have  been  a difficult time.  So I think she had a need  for the 
policy and could have  benefitted from it.
Mrs L re-mortgaged to a new lender  in 1997.  But Nationwide  wouldnt have known at the 
time of the sale that Mrs L might move  her mortgage. She says that her new lender told her 
she didnt have a need for PPI because of her sick pay entitlement.  However,  Im only 
looking at whether Nationwide acted reasonably in selling PPI to Mrs L in 1996. As Ive said, 
I dont consider Mrs Ls sick pay made the policy unsuitable. So if Nationwide did 
recommend the PPI, that wasnt unreasonable.
Nationwide also needed to provide Mrs L with enough information  about the policy  for her to 
make an informed decision about whether or not it was right for her.
I consider Mrs L must have known something  about  the policy  that it would cover her 
mortgage repayments if she was unable to work   because I dont think  shed  have bought 
the PPI without knowing anything at all about it.
Its possible that Nationwide didnt provide as much information about the policy as it should 
have, particularly about the things  that it didnt cover. But Mrs L wasnt affected by any of 
those things. As I consider that she had an interest  in the PPI and decided to buy it, I dont 
think that further information  would have caused  her to change her mind. So she isnt any 
worse off as a result of anything Nationwide may have done wrong, so theres nothing 
Nationwide needs  to do to put things right.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  Mrs Ls complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 February  2020.  
Carole Clark
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5766692