K820x#14complaint
Mrs B is unhappy with the way AXA Insurance UK Plc dealt with a claim she made  under her
motor insurance policy.
background
In November 2018, Mrs Bs car was stolen as a result of her keys being lost or stolen. Mrs B
says she made a claim to change her locks under the replacement  locks section of her
policy. AXA said that because her car was stolen as a result  of the loss of keys,  a different
clause in her policy  applied  the loss and damage part. They  said the section Mrs B
referred to didnt apply  in these circumstances.
AXA say as the cost of replacing the locks exceeded 60% of the market value of the car, it
was deemed uneconomical to repair. So they offered Mrs B a total loss valuation  of £1,350
less her policy excess of £100.  This payment was issued in December 2018. AXA also
refunded Mrs B £254 for the recovery and storage costs she paid and offered to pay Mrs B
£150 compensation for the inconvenience  caused.  But they say Mrs B didnt accept this.
Mrs B has confirmed  that she collected  her car from the compound where  it was being kept
as she said she needed to use it to drive to work.
Mrs B wants  AXA to change the locks  on her car and to compensate her for the stress
caused for two months as well as the inconvenience  caused   Mrs B said she had to make
numerous phone calls to AXA which  impacted her at work. Mrs B also wants  AXA to make
their policy document  clear and unambiguous.
Our investigator looked into Mrs Bs concerns. He looked at the clause in the policy
document that AXA referred to and thought  it was fair for AXA to consider Mrs Bs claim
under this clause.  He also said he didnt  think it was unfair to decide the car was a total loss
as the repair  cost reached around  60% of the market  value.
Mrs B disagreed. Mrs B acknowledges that whilst AXA paid her the total loss valuation, she
never wanted AXA to deem her car a total loss and that she doesnt want to change the
locks herself. Shes also unhappy she had to collect her car from the compound  herself and
she is unhappy with the customer service she received. So the complaint has been passed
to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint setting out:
Our approach in cases like this, is to consider whether the insurers acted fairly and
reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy.
Mrs B contacted AXA to let them  know  her car was stolen.  Mrs B said this was as a result  of
the car keys being lost or stolen. Because Mrs B reported  her car as stolen when she
contacted AXA, they dealt  with her claim as a theft claim.
AXA dealt with Mrs Bs claim in line with the following term of the policy  document:
If your car, accessories or spare  parts are lost, stolen or damaged,  we will:
repair the damage;
replace what is lost or damaged and is too expensive to repair; or
Ref: DRN53200162pay you the cost of the loss or damage.
Mrs B doesnt think AXA should  have dealt  with her claim under this part of the policy  - she
didnt think the lock needed  to be repaired and only wanted AXA to replace the lost or stolen
car key. Mrs B says the part of the policy AXA shouldve  considered  her claim under  was the
replacement locks  section which says:
If the keys, lock transmitter or entry card for the keyless entry system of your car are lost or
stolen, we will pay up to £1000 towards  the cost of replacing:
the door and boot locks
the ignition and steering locks
the lock transmitter;  and
the entry card
providing you report the loss to the police within 24 hours of discovering  the loss.
I appreciate Mrs B thinks AXA shouldnt have dealt with her claim under the section of the
policy they did. However, I think the term AXA relied on when dealing  with Mrs Bs claim was
fair. I say this because  when Mrs B contacted AXA, she told them her car was stolen (as a
result of the key being lost or stolen)   the replacement locks section of the policy would  be
considered if only the keys were lost and not if the car itself was stolen. Ultimately, for the
period the car wasnt in Mrs Bs possession, AXA would  be responsible for any damage
caused to the car and costs incurred,  for example, any storage  or police costs and any
damage caused to the car by the thief.  So I can understand  why AXA dealt  with Mrs Bs
claim as a theft claim as Mrs B reported the theft of her car as opposed  to the loss of her
keys. Having carefully looked  at the term that AXA dealt  with Mrs Bs claim under, I cant
agree with Mrs B that the term was unclear or ambiguous.
Its not unusual  for insurers to decide  a cars uneconomical to repair once the repair  costs
reach around 60-70% of its pre-accident market value. In order to decide  whether AXA have
been fair in deeming Mrs Bs car as uneconomical to repair,  Ive looked at the breakdown of
repair costs and the market valuations of Mrs Bs car provided by AXA.
The engineers report shows the cost to repair Mrs Bs car was around £990. The market
value AXA decided  (based on an average of two valuation guides) for Mrs Bs car was
around £1,350.  So the repair  costs were above  60% of the market  value. This means AXA
were entitled  to decide not to repair Mr Bs car. So I think the payment made  to Mrs B of the
total loss valuation less the excess was fair.
Mrs B said she got her car back from the compound and that she sought a quote for repairs
for the locks from an independent garage. And she says the quote she received for the
repair cost was 33% of the market value of the car. I note Mrs B got her car back,  so it is up
to her if she wishes for the repairs to be carried out by her chosen garage. However,  as Ive
explained above, I dont think AXA need  to do anything  more as they correctly considered
Mrs Bs claim as a theft claim. If AXA hadnt dealt with the claim under the theft clause, then
Mrs B would be responsible for any additional  costs   such as storage and recovery fees.
But as AXA have  refunded such costs to Mrs B, if she did want to go ahead  with the
independent quote she received for the repair costs, this would put Mrs B in a better
position. I say this because she would have  received a refund of the market  value of her car
and been able to repair the car for a lot less than the market value.
Ref: DRN53200163Mrs B has complained about the inconvenience caused  to her in relation to the customer
service she received from AXA during her claim  she says she had to call AXA a number of
times and she wasnt able to get through to them and that she had to collect  her car from the
compound herself.  I can appreciate this must have been frustrating for Mrs B at a time that
was already quite  stressful for her. Understandably, Mrs B wanted the car back which meant
she was attempting  to get in contact  with AXA a number of times.
AXA offered  to pay Mrs B £150 in recognition for the service  she received. I think this is fair
in the circumstances of this complaint.
AXA confirmed receipt of the provisional  decision but didnt provide anything  further  for me 
to consider. Mrs B reiterated that the customer service she had received from AXA was poor 
which caused her a lot of frustration. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate that having to call AXA several times to find out what was happening with 
her car was inconvenient for Mrs B. And that she had to go and collect  her car herself  as she 
wasnt able to get through to AXA. As Ive explained in my provisional  decision, I can 
imagine this caused additional  stress and frustration  at what  was an already stressful time 
for Mrs B. 
But, having  considered all the circumstances,  Im satisfied that the £150  AXA have offered 
fairly reflects the worry and inconvenience  caused to Mrs B as a result of the poor service 
she received. Therefore,  I wont be telling AXA to do anything more.
my final decision
My final decision is that AXA Insurance UK Plc pay £150 compensation to Mrs B.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 June  2020.
Leanne McEvoy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5320016