K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a single premium  payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken 
out with a loan in 2007. Mr M says Northern  Bank  Limited mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ms case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think Northern Bank  made  Mr M aware he had a choice about buying the PPI, and he 
chose to take it. For example his credit agreement described the PPI as optional. And he 
signed separately on it for the PPI. 
Northern Bank recommended the PPI to Mr M, so it had to check  the PPI was right for 
him. And based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think  the PPI was 
right for him. For example it doesnt look like he was likely to be affected by the policy  
early repayment terms. And he wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on 
the cover. Also from what hes told us, Mr M wasnt entitled  to much work  sick pay. And 
he didnt have savings  to pay his loan if he lost his income.  So he seems  to have had a 
need for the cover.
Its possible the information Northern Bank gave Mr M about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been. But he chose  to take it  so it looks like he wanted this type of cover. 
And for the reasons  Ive given above, it wouldve  been  useful  for him if something went  
wrong. Given how long it couldve paid out for, if Mr M made a successful claim on the 
PPI he couldve got back quite a bit more  than he paid for it. And his loan agreement set 
out the total and monthly PPI cost of the PPI separately from the costs of the main  loan. 
Taking everything into account,  I dont think better information about the PPI or its costs 
wouldve made a difference  to Mr Ms decision to take the policy.
What Ive said above means Northern Bank  doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the 
PPI to Mr M. 
But Northern Bank will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr M because: 
Northern Bank got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr M about that. Because  Northern Bank didnt tell 
Mr M, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Northern Bank  has basically  offered to pay back the amount of 
commission and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that 
offer is fair in this case.
Ive taken into account all Mr Ms points, including what  hes said about  not having  enough 
time to think  about his decision. But I havent seen  enough to make me think  Northern Bank  
Ref: DRN57677282pressured Mr M into the cover. So for this reason, and bearing in mind  what  Ive already said 
above, these points dont change my decision.
what the business needs  to do
Northern Bank has to pay back to Mr M any commission and profit share  it got that was 
more than 50% of the PPI premium. Northern Bank  should also pay back to Mr M any extra 
interest he paid because of that.
Northern Bank should pay back to Mr M the extra he paid each month on the loan because  
the commission and profit share  was more  than 50% of the PPI premium  - including any 
extra Mr M paid if the loan was paid off early. Northern Bank should also pay Mr M 8%* 
simple interest on the extra paid each month.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr M can claim back  the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Northern Bank  Limited does not have to pay back  all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr M.
But Northern Bank Limited does  have to pay back to Mr M any commission and profit  share 
it got that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 April 2019.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5767728