K820x#14complaint
Miss P and Mr T complain  that Royal & Sun Alliance  Insurance Plc (RSA) turned down their 
claim under their pet insurance  policy. They also complain about the time it took RSA to deal 
with their claim. 
My references to RSA  include its agent. 
background
Miss P and Mr Ts new puppy B had free pet insurance covering him for the first 30 days. 
On 10 December 2017 Miss P and Mr T took out a policy with RSA to start after the free 
policy lapsed. This mean the RSA policy started on 30 December 2017. 
Unfortunately B had a serious  problem with his hips, which  is called hip dysplasia. The 
problem was discovered in January 2018 and Miss P and Mr T made a claim to RSA. 
RSA turned down  the claim,  because  it says that B first showed signs or symptoms of the 
hip dysplasia  within the first 10 days of the policy starting. This meant the claim wasnt 
covered. RSA did pay £100  compensation because it had taken around five months to reach  
its decision not to pay the claim, or the follow on claim. 
Miss P and Mr T said theyd not known about  the hip problem until just after the 10 day 
waiting period had finished. They came to us.
Our adjudicator concluded that RSA had made  a fair decision to turn down the claim.  He 
said the veterinary  evidence suggested  B first showed signs  or symptoms  of the hip problem 
within 10 days of the policy  starting. The adjudicator thought the £100  compensation for 
delay was reasonable. Miss P and Mr T asked for a review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint.  I appreciate this will be a disappointment to 
Miss P and Mr T whove  had to pay vets fees of around £7,800.  Ill explain my reasons, and 
in doing so Ill focus on what I consider to be the central issues in this complaint.
RSAs policy  says that it wont cover Vet fees payable for any changes in your pets health 
or behaviour you or your vet notice within the first 10 days of the first period of insurance  of 
your policy unless previously agreed by us. This type of waiting period  is a common term in 
pet insurance policies and we dont consider it is unreasonable. 
Miss P and Mr Ts policy with RSA started  on 30 December 2017. So any claim  for vets fees 
arising from changes  in Bs health of behaviour that they or their vet noticed  within  the first 
10 days wouldnt be covered. 
Ive carefully reviewed all the evidence,  including Miss P and Mr Ts comments about  when 
they first knew about the hip problem. Miss P told us that during Bs first week of going out of 
the house shed noticed he was limping slightly. On 6 January 2018 she took B for his 
boosters and mentioned this slight limp to the vet. She says the vet told them  he was a 
Ref: DRN57420642puppy and had probably over exercised resulting  in a slight limp. The vet gave him some  
medication to be given over the following week.  
A few days  later B was sick in the car, which  Miss P and Mr T thought was due to the tablets 
the vet had given him. On 10 January 2018  they took him to the vets. B was seen by a 
different vet, who saw that Bs hips were causing  him severe  discomfort. On 11 January 
2018 B was x-rayed  and after that he was diagnosed with hip dysplasia.  
RSA says that Bs hip condition was first noticed on 5 January 2018, followed by the trip to 
the vet on 6 January 2018.  Miss P and Mr T dont agree. They  say this is speculative. They 
didnt know he had a hip problem, and thought the limp was due to a sprain. They  say the 
hip condition  could  only be diagnosed following the x-ray, which  happened  on 11 January 
2018  outside the 10 day period.
I appreciate there has been some issue with the vets notes, and I understand the vet said 
the original entry of 6 January 2018 had been  deleted in error. The notes for that 
consultations were  completed  again  by the vet. Miss P thinks theyve  been  disadvantaged  
because of this but I dont  think  the deletion of the notes is the main issue.  
On Miss P and Mr Ts own evidence both they and their vet knew  about  the dogs limp on 
6 January 2018. I appreciate Miss P and Mr T say they were told this was a sprain,  and that 
the pain was recorded in the vets notes  as only 2/10 in severity.  This compared to the 
examination on 10 January  2018 when the dogs hips were examined  and the pains severity 
was recorded  in the vets notes as 10/10.  And I accept it was only on 11 January 2018 that 
the hip problem  was diagnosed following  the x-ray.
But I think RSA made  a fair decision on the claim, because  the vets evidence suggest the 
hind limp was noted on 6 January 2018.  This was a change in Bs health or behaviour within  
10 days of the policy  starting, and the vet said the limp was caused by the hip condition. 
Their claim was for the hip condition, even though it wasnt diagnosed until after the 10 day 
waiting period  ended. 
I say this because  the section  of the claim form completed by the vet said the main clinical  
sign of Bs condition was limping, and that the diagnosis was hip dysplasia.  The treatment 
dates for the claim ran from 6 January 2018 to 11 January 2018. The vet said the clinical  
signs were first noticed one day before the first treatment on 5 January 2018.
So even if Miss P was initially  told that Bs hind leg limping might be due to a sprain, the 
veterinary evidence is that it was caused  by the hip dysplasia. The limping was noticed 
within the first 10 days of the policy starting,  and RSA was fairly entitled to turn down the 
claim. This is the case  even if the hip problem  was diagnosed outside the 10 day period.
RSA acknowledged  it should have confirmed  its decision  on the claim earlier than it did. RSA 
paid Miss P and Mr T £100 compensation for the inconvenience caused by this. I think  this 
was a reasonable amount  of compensation. So despite my natural sympathy for Miss P and 
Mr Ts financial position I dont require RSA to do anything more.   
Ref: DRN57420643my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss P and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  25 April 2019.
Amanda Maycock
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5742064