K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that British Gas Services Limited didnt perform an annual boiler service and 
safety check under his service agreement, which led to his boiler becoming condemned.   
background
Mr C is a landlord and holds a HomeCare One policy with British Gas, which provides 
insurance cover for the property he lets out to tenants. Included in this policy  is an annual 
service of the propertys  boiler. British Gas also carry out a Gas Safety Check  and Certificate 
(referred to as a CP12), under a separate agreement. 
British Gas sent two letters to Mr C in May 2018, pointing  out that the CP12 would  expire on 
26 June 2018   so an appointment needed  to be arranged for a new safety check.  It also 
wrote to Mr C on 5 June 2018,  to remind him that the boilers annual service was due soon 
and this needed to be completed. All letters were sent to the address of the property under 
cover. 
British Gas were also in contact with a letting agency that Mr C employs to manage the 
property on his behalf. Appointments were  agreed  for British Gas engineers to conduct  the 
annual service in July 2018 and at the same  time,  complete  the CP12 certificate.  
Engineers attended  the property twice  during  this month  but were  unable to gain access 
and therefore  couldnt go ahead with the service or the CP12.  So, British Gas sent a letter  to 
Mr C dated June 2018 to set out that the CP12 certificate had expired. And it also sent 
letters in July and August  2018 to reschedule the appointment for this to go ahead,  at the 
same time as the annual service. One was then rebooked for 22 September 2018. But 
again, due to no one being at the property,  the engineer was unable to gain access.  
Because of this, British Gas sent a further letter  to Mr C on 7 October 2018, to advise him 
that this service needed to be completed  for safety reasons. 
The service  eventually went ahead  on 16 January  2019 alongside  the CP12 certificate. 
However, the British  Gas engineer diagnosed the boiler with faults. For safety  reasons, it 
was suggested  that it be capped  and a quote be generated  for a replacement  boiler.
Mr C was unhappy with this, because he was unaware of the attempted appointments and 
lack of entry to the property. He says the letting agent didnt inform him of the problems with 
gaining access and neither did the tenants.  He raised  a complaint with British  Gas, as he 
thought it unfair that he now must  pay out for a replacement boiler, when he has cover in 
place to perform checks and a service  to keep it in a working  condition.  He claimed that 
British Gas ought to have  called him directly  to ensure this happened. Therefore, Mr C asked 
British Gas for a contribution to the cost of the replacement. 
British Gas investigated the complaint and provided  its final response on 24 January 2019.  It 
disagreed that it should make a contribution, because it argued  that it made several attempts 
to attend the property  and it wasnt responsible  for the fact that access couldnt be arranged. 
It said that entry to the property  was Mr Cs responsibility. 
Ref: DRN50802992Mr C remained  unhappy, so he brought the complaint to our service  and one of our 
investigators looked into it. Because of the jurisdiction of our service, he didnt think that the 
CP12 certificate was an activity we can consider. But he was satisfied that we could consider 
the annual service agreement and British  Gas had acted fairly, by keeping to the policy 
terms. Therefore, he didnt recommend that British  Gas do anything differently for the 
complaint. British Gas accepted this recommendation.  
Mr C didnt agree. He submitted that its common sense to contact  the landlord directly  and 
this could have  resolved  the issues with entry to the property. The absence of an up to date 
CP12 and annual service  meant the lives of the tenants were  put at risk and he was not 
complying with his legal requirements as a landlord.  Overall, Mr C disputed British Gas 
submission that it had made reasonable efforts to carry out the work, so it was unfair that he 
be left in this position   especially after continuing  to pay his monthly premiums. 
Because Mr C didnt agree, the complaint has been  escalated to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive concluded  that 
British Gas has acted  fairly. Ill explain why. 
As the regulator,  The Financial Conduct Authority  (FCA) sets out the jurisdiction of our
service in the DISP  Rules part of the FCA Handbook. One of the requirements of DISP  is
that our service can only consider a complaint if it relates to an act or omission of a firm
carrying out a regulated  activity (or some other activity expressly listed  in DISP 2.3.1).
Its not in dispute  that the CP12 is an additional product to the HomeCare One policy,  which 
isnt automatically included unless opted into. Indeed, in the policy  booklet, the CP12 section 
sets out that This  can only be purchased with a British Gas product  that includes an annual 
service. And the CP12 is clearly separated in a different section of the booklet,  with it being 
included in Our service  and inspection products  in comparison to the HomeCare One 
policy which  is contained in the Our insurance features section. Therefore, the two are 
separate agreements. Taking this into account, I first need to determine  whether the 
complainants agreement with British Gas to provide the CP12 is a regulated activity.
An activity  is a regulated activity if its specified  in The Financial Services and Markets Act
2000 (Regulated Activities)  Order 2001 (RAO). Part II of the RAO specifies "effecting" and
"carrying out" a contract of insurance  as regulated activities. The FCAs Perimeter Guidance  
Manual indicates  that the best description of what constitutes a contract of insurance  comes 
from the authority  of the Court  of Appeal, in its decision  in the case of                       
Prudential Insurance  Co v Inland  Revenue Commissioners [1904] 2 K.B. 658. This case,  
amongst other things,  decided the essentials of an insurance contract.
In summary,  it considered  this to be that an insurer, in return  for prior payment (often
referred to as a premium), provides the insured with the service it agreed to undertake
when the contract  was concluded  in the event of the materialisation of a risk it agreed to
cover. And this risk is a defined event in the contract and has an occurrence which is
uncertain or sudden.
Ref: DRN50802993Having considered the terms of agreement for the CP12 product, Im not satisfied that it 
qualifies as covering an uncertain event. I say this because the terms set out that When 
your safety  check is due well send you an email, letter,  or text message or call you to
arrange it. Normally the check is booked in at a mutually agreed time, once a year. So, it 
offers a benefit  to cover an expected event that is scheduled on an annual  basis.  With this in 
mind, I must conclude that its not a contract  of insurance and, therefore, isnt a regulated  
activity that is within  our services jurisdiction.  In light of this, Im unable to consider the CP12 
and the complainants  claims that British Gas ought to have performed this check on the 
boiler sooner  than it did. 
The annual service  is included as part of the HomeCare  One policy. That is to say it forms 
part of the same contract that binds British  Gas and Mr C to the respective terms and 
conditions. This policy  undoubtedly  has all the key features of a contract of insurance, such 
as the fortuitous occurrence of a peril that is wholly  contrary  to the interests of the insured. 
Indeed, within the information booklet  provided  by British Gas,  the policy is included in the 
section labelled  Our insurance products. Therefore,  when determining  this complaint, I can 
only consider whether  the acts or omissions  of British Gas led to the condemning of the 
boiler, in respect  of the HomeCare One policy that it provides.
British Gas set out what Mr C could expect in relation to the annual  service in the policy 
terms. Included in these,  it says that: Well send you or your authorised contact an email,  
letter, text message or call you to arrange  your annual service.  Well try to contact you up to 
three times. If we dont hear back from you after the third time,  we wont try again  and wont 
refund the cost of the missed annual service. You can still contact  us at any time to book it.
British Gas sent more  than three  letters to the address of the property on risk. And its not in 
dispute that Mr C selected  this address  for it to send such  correspondence.  Indeed,  its       
Mr Cs responsibility to keep British Gas informed of any changes to such contact details. 
British Gas wrote out to advise of each missed  appointment and requested further 
appointments be rescheduled. So, Im satisfied  that it made reasonable efforts to arrange the 
annual service, using  the correct contact details. Therefore, its acted  fairly  and in line with 
the terms of the policy. 
I understand Mr C provided British  Gas with the letting  agents details and therefore had 
them in place as an authorised contact.  In light of the aforementioned term, British  Gas has 
also acted fairly by contacting this agent. The agreement holds British Gas responsible  for 
corresponding with authorised contacts in respect of the annual service   it doesnt hold it 
responsible for these  contacts to communicate between  themselves. Rather,  this would 
generally be contained in the obligations  of a tenancy agreement   which is entirely  separate 
to Mr Cs complaint with British Gas.  
So, it strikes me that theres been  a potential failing by the letting agency  or tenant rather  
than British Gas. It follows that any such dispute regarding  entry  to the property is for Mr C to 
resolve outside of this complaint. In any event, its my judgment  that British  Gas could not be 
expected to do any more to make  Mr C aware  of the intention to arrange  the annual  service.
I can appreciate Mr C may not have been aware  of the difficulties British  Gas encountered  
with gaining access to the property. Nevertheless,  the general conditions  of the policy state  
that Our engineers  will only work  on your property if theres  someone 18 years old or older 
there at all times during the visit. Its your responsibility to give us access to your property. 
So, once an appointment is arranged, its the responsibility of either  the tenant, letting 
agency or landlord to ensure that someone is available at the property.  
Ref: DRN50802994Therefore, I cant hold British Gas responsible  if the tenant, or a representative from the 
letting agency,  didnt make themselves available at the time of the appointments. And Mr C 
has provided no compelling argument or evidence that persuades me that entry  was in fact 
given. So, for the avoidance of doubt, I see no reason to question  the version of events that 
the engineers  of British Gas have given.
In all of the circumstances, I conclude that British Gas is not required to do any more for the 
complaint. Therefore, Im not holding it responsible for the current  condition  of the boiler.  It 
follows that, I dont  require it to contribute to the cost of a replacement. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 March  2020.
Matthew Belcher 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5080299