K820x#14complaint
Miss C says she was mis-sold the following insurance policies by Home in One Financial 
Services Limited:
Mortgage payment protection insurance  (PPI)  which  Ill refer to as policy one
Mortgage life insurance  policy which also included critical illness cover (CIC) and an 
income protection  insurance policy (called mortgage payment protection )  which Ill 
refer to as policy  two
background
Home in One arranged  a mortgage for Miss C in 2006 and also sold her policies one and 
two.
 
Policy one protected Miss Cs monthly mortgage  payments for up to 12 months per claim if 
she couldnt work due to accident, sickness or unemployment. Policy two paid out a lump 
sum if Miss C died during the term of the policy or was diagnosed with a specified critical 
illness. The income  protection element  of policy two paid a monthly benefit if Miss C couldnt 
work because of incapacity.
 
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  be upheld. Miss C disagreed, so the 
complaint was passed to me to review afresh.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill deal with each  of the main complaint points, as I see them, in turn. Ive done  so bearing in 
mind the policies were  sold several  years ago. Which has meant,  understandably,  some of 
the information from the relevant times no longer available. 
policy one
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website. And 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Cs case.
Miss C says she had the impression she wouldnt  get a mortgage unless she also took out 
insurance. While I cant  be sure how the first policy was presented  to her, Ive seen  no 
evidence to show thats likely what Home in One led her to believe.
Home in One had to make it clear to Miss C that she had a choice about buying the policy 
and get her agreement  before adding it.
Im aware that this subject was discussed when some of my colleagues  previously 
considered whether Miss Cs complaint was brought in time, under our rules.  But the 
ombudsman that issued the decisions on that issue specifically  explained that their findings  
were reached for the purposes  of determining whether we could consider the complaint. The 
substance of the complaint wasnt considered back then  and thats  what  Ive been asked to 
determine now.
Ref: DRN58015022I can see that, in applying for the first policy,  Miss C signed a separate  proposal form. The 
form referred to cover  for Accident, Sickness and Unemployment and set out her monthly  
mortgage payment,  the monthly benefit amount and the monthly  premium.  Overall, I believe 
this shows Miss C decided to take the first policy, knowing  she didnt have to. 
Although Miss Cs mortgage  offer could have explained more clearly  what the conditions of 
the mortgage were  regarding  insurance, Im satisfied that the remaining paperwork in 
relation to policy one didnt  lead her to believe she had to have it. In addition,  Im not 
satisfied Miss C would  have been mis-led by the ambiguity of the mortgage offer in terms of 
insurance given  that it wasnt  issued until several  weeks after shed  already  applied for her 
policies.
I believe that Home in One recommended  policy one to Miss C. As such,  among other 
things, it should  have checked  that its recommendation was suitable  for her based on her 
circumstances at the time. 
I believe policy one was suitable because, from what Miss Cs told us, it appears she was 
eligible for the policy and Ive seen  nothing to show that it was unaffordable for her. And I 
cant see that shed  have been affected by the main exclusions to, or limits on, the cover.
Miss C says she wasnt entitled to any enhanced sick or redundancy pay from her employer  but 
she did have savings  equivalent to a year or mores pay. She says she could have relied on them 
and so didnt need PPI. But the PPI would have  allowed her to retain what  shed saved or use 
them to cover her other living costs  at what could have been a difficult time if she wasnt working. 
Although it might have  been open  to Miss C to sell her home to raise  money  if she needed it, the 
PPI offered  a way of her avoiding  having  to take such drastic action. 
Overall, because Miss Cs borrowing was secured against her home,  I think  its likely shed have 
valued the extra protection the PPI provided  her with.
Its possible Home in One didnt point out everything it should have about  the PPI but I dont 
find that Mr Cs lost out because of that. I say that because, for the same reasons  I think the 
PPI was suitable for her, I dont think better  information would have stopped her from buying 
it.
policy two
As with policy one, Miss C says she believed she had to have policy  two in order  to secure 
her mortgage. And, as before,  I cant see any evidence  to show  Home in One told her that or 
gave her that impression.  
That Miss C signed  a separate application  form for policy two indicates  to me that shed 
have been aware  it was separate  to the mortgage. And the form wasnt worded in a way that 
would suggest  she had to take it.
The life and CIC elements potentially provided  Miss C with something she didnt already 
have: a lump sum that would have allowed her to clear her mortgage in the event of her 
death or diagnosis  of a critical illness. She says she didnt  need the cover as she had no 
dependents but I still think shed  have valued the protection provided especially as she 
personally stood  to receive the benefit under  the policy if she suffered a critical illness. 
Ref: DRN58015023The policy was set up so that it would match the 25-year  term of Miss Cs mortgage. And the 
sum assured would decrease in line with her mortgage repayments.  Taking  everything into 
account, I think these  elements of policy two were suitable for Miss C.
The income protection element of policy two could be confused with policy one, seeing as 
the former  was called mortgage  payment protection. But, whereas policy one was 
specifically designed  to protect Miss Cs mortgage payments, policy  two provided a way of 
replacing her monthly income if she wasnt working  due to incapacity.  
I note the income  protection insurance was specifically set up so it wouldnt have  paid any 
benefits until Miss C had been off work  for 13 months. That allowed the PPI benefits  under 
policy one  which had a waiting period of a month before paying up to 12 monthly  benefits   
to run their course before policy two came into effect. The benefits under policy two would 
then potentially continue  to be paid until, among other things, Miss C was longer 
incapacitated or the policy ended.  
Ive considered what Miss Cs said about the lack of a statement of demands  and needs,  
which she believes caused  the mis-sale. But its not for this service to penalise financial 
businesses for their failings. Instead, we must consider what  effect any failings had and 
whether they caused the consumer a loss. Overall, Im not satisfied that Miss Cs lost out 
because of how Home  in One sold her policy two. Thats because I believe it was suitable for 
her and because  I dont think better information would have stopped  her from taking it.
data protection
In response to the adjudicators assessment, Miss C said she believed  Home in One had 
breached data protection legislation in its dealings with her. I understand that were in the 
process of setting up a new and separate complaint  to deal with that matter. The parties can 
expect to hear more  from us about this shortly. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 February  2019.
Nimish Patel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5801502