K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that The Protection Specialist Limited (TPS)  didnt explain its fees for 
making a Packaged Bank Account (PBA) claim were higher than for a Payment Protection  
Insurance (PPI) claim.
background
In January 2019, Mr M asked TPS to make a PBA claim against his bank. He said he used 
TPS because it had successfully represented him in his PPI claims and he was happy with 
the service it had provided. TPS wrote  to him in April 2019 to tell him his claim was 
successful. The same letter included  the invoice setting out its fee for the successful claim.
Mr M complained to TPS as he was surprised  at the level of fee hed been  charged.  He said 
that he hadnt been told that the fees charged  for PBA claims would be higher than for PPI 
claims.
TPS said it would have explained  the fees in its initial call with Mr M. It also provided him 
with a copy of the terms and conditions and the letter of authority hed signed. It said these 
made clear the fee it charged  for making  the PBA claim.
Mr M was unhappy so brought his complaint to us. Our investigator looked into his 
complaint. She felt that the terms of the agreement were clear  and TPS hadnt done 
anything wrong.
Mr M disagreed. He felt that he should  have  been  told verbally that the fees were higher. So 
the complaint  has been passed to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im not upholding the complaint, for 
broadly the same reasons  as our investigator.
Mr M asked  TPS to make  PPI complaints on his behalf. He signed its PPI terms and 
conditions in December  2018. In January 2019  he asked it to make  a PBA claim on his 
behalf. So TPS sent him its PBA terms and conditions which  he signed and returned at the 
end of January  2019.
I have seen both sets of terms,  and I agree  that they look similar. But there are key 
differences. The headings are clear that one is for PPI and the other is for PBA. And in my 
opinion the fees are sufficiently prominent   being near the top of the first column, with fee 
written in bold.
There are regulatory rules that require claims management firms  like TPS to give examples 
of how its fee structure works. Importantly, TPS terms  provide the examples required  by the 
rules. The examples given in the PPI and the PBA terms are different, with all examples 
quoting the correct rate and fee due  24% for PPI and 30% for PBA.  So, Im satisfied that 
TPS provided sufficient  information for Mr M to be aware of the fee that applied  to his PBA 
claim.
Theres no dispute that the terms and conditions were received by Mr M. But he argues that 
the difference in fee charge should  have been made clear to him in the telephone call he 
Ref: DRN58423072had with TPS. I understand why he would  want that to have happened, and I agree that 
wouldve been preferable   but because it didnt happen doesnt mean that TPS has done  
something wrong.
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 October  2019.
Gordon Ramsay
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5842307