K820x#14complaint
Mr R has complained about Tandem Bank Limited  and the charges theyve applied to his 
credit card account after processing  gambling transactions as cash  advances.
background
Mr R made  three gambling  transactions  on his tandem credit card account  worth £1,000 
each. These  transactions were processed  as cash advances, so Mr R was charged  cash 
advance fees and interest.
Mr R complained about these additional fees. Hes referred to the terms of his credit 
agreement which state that cash advances, which include gambling transactions,  were 
limited to 30% of the credit limit and no more than £500 a day. So, he didnt think  Tandem 
shouldve authorised the transactions and for this reason the fees shouldnt  be charged.  Mr 
Rs also complained  about further interest thats  been applied on the additional  fees after 
hed paid off the gambling transaction amounts.
Tandem didnt uphold  the complaint. They explained  the three transactions were  presented  
by the merchant as purchases rather than cash advances. So they authorised them as such. 
They said it wasnt until the merchant  collected the payment that they were  made  aware the 
transactions were  cash advances. So, the transactions bypassed the cash advance  limits.
But, they thought the terms  were clear in explaining gambling transactions would be treated 
as cash advances. So, they thought theyd acted  fairly by applying the subsequent fees and 
interest. Mr R was unhappy with this so he then referred his complaint to us.
An investigator looked into the complaint and didnt  uphold  it. She didnt think it would be fair 
to hold Tandem  responsible for the merchant presenting the transactions in that way. She 
felt the terms were clear  in explaining gambling transactions  would be treated as cash 
advances and that fees would be charged  for transactions like the three Mr R made. So, she 
didnt think Tandem had acted unreasonably by approving the transactions  and for these 
reasons she thought the fees had been applied fairly.
Mr R didnt agree with this view.  He remained unhappy with the interest charged on his 
account after hed repaid  the £3,000 and felt these charges  resulted from Tandems failures. 
As Mr R didnt  agree, the complaint has been  passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  the 
complaint for broadly  the same reasons as the investigator.
Ive seen the terms of Mr Rs credit agreement  which explain that gambling transactions 
would be processed  as cash advances. Im aware  Mr R isnt disputing gambling transactions  
being treated  as such but hes unhappy  that he was able to make transactions  worth £3,000 
on the same  day when the terms state  You can withdraw up to 30% of your credit  limit, and 
not more than £500 per day. So, Ive looked  at whether I think  it was reasonable of Tandem 
to do so.
Ref: DRN56890742Tandem have said they authorised the three transactions as they were presented by the 
merchant as purchases, which  werent subject to the same restrictions  as cash advances.  
Ive seen evidence  that shows this. Although I appreciate  Mr R feels Tandem  should  have 
processes in place  to protect against  this, I wouldnt expect Tandems system to identify a 
cash advance if its not presented  as one by a third party. So, I think  theyve acted 
reasonably by authorising the transactions as they were presented.
Ive seen Tandem  werent  aware  the transactions should be treated as cash  advances  until 
the merchant  came  to collect the amounts. By this point, Mr R already had access to the 
£3,000. Tandem couldnt have declined the transactions as the scheme rules it/they 
operates/operate under wont  allow businesses  to decline payments once theyve  been  
authorised. Had they done so, Mr R wouldve been  left in a situation where he owed the 
merchant a significant amount of money.  So, I think Tandem  acted  reasonably by completing  
the transactions. And, as they were gambling  transactions and this isnt in dispute, I think it 
was reasonable  for Tandem to apply  the relevant charges associated with cash  advances.
Im aware Mr R is also unhappy about  the additional interest thats been charged since, as 
he paid off the £3,000.  Specifically, Mr R is unhappy  Tandem used  his payment to pay their 
cash advance fees, meaning he accrued more interest on the purchases he also made on 
his account. But, Mr R didnt pay off his balance in full so Tandem were  entitled to charge 
interest on the amount outstanding.
Although I understand it was Mr Rs intention not to pay the cash  advance fees which  were  
in dispute, Mr R isnt able to dictate how Tandem  allocate the payments he made.  As he 
didnt pay his amount  in full, I think Tandem have acted reasonably  by charging interest in 
line with the terms  of the credit agreement. So, I dont think  Tandem need to take any further 
action.
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above, I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint about  Tandem Bank  
Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 February  2020.
Josh Haskey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5689074