K822xcomplaint
Ms W complains that Charter Court Financial  Services Limited (trading as Precise  
Mortgages) didnt offer her a better  interest  rate. She also complains about the way its staff 
spoke to her. She asks that it apologises,  pays compensation for wasting her time, offers her 
a better  mortgage rate and is more  flexible in how it communicates. 
background 
Ms W took out a mortgage with Precise in early  2014. She had a fixed  rate product for two 
years after which a variable rate applied. In 2018 Ms W asked Precise if it could offer her a 
better rate. She wanted it to match the rate offered by a high street lender. 
Ms W says Precises agent was condescending,  ridiculed  her when she thought the call was 
disconnected, took delight in telling her it didnt  have to offer a new rate and refused to 
transfer her call to a manager or the complaints team.
Ms W says she couldnt get through to Precise using the phone  number she was given. And 
Precises complaints team  is only available when shes  at work and cant take calls.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld, saying in summary:
Precise says it doesnt generally  offer new rates after the initial rate ends. It didnt treat 
Ms W unfairly.
after listening to the calls, she didnt think Precises agent was condescending. The 
agent gave Ms W factual information.  While  the agent expressed surprise when she 
thought the call was disconnected, she didnt intend  to ridicule Ms W. A manager  wasnt 
available to speak  to Ms W but she was offered a call back.  Precise didnt have to 
change the hours its agents were available. 
the £100 compensation offered by Precise for Ms Ws upset  was fair and reasonable. As 
its likely  the cheque  it sent has expired, the investigator said if Ms W accepts  the 
recommendation Precise should re-issue the cheque. 
Ms W didnt  agree. She says this means  mortgage lenders can charge what  they want for 
lending money.  She says she hasnt received a new cheque.  She gave more information 
about the difficulties contacting Precise. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely  to have happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances. 
Precise says it doesnt have any products to offer Ms W. The terms of Ms Ws mortgage  
dont require Precise to offer her new products. I appreciate Ms Ws frustration with this. But 
I havent seen  anything to suggest Precise treated  Ms W unfairly when considering  her 
request for a new product.  Ms W says shes able to get a better rate elsewhere. I cant  
reasonably require Precise to match this or offer Ms W a better interest  rate. 
Ref: DRN56188332Ms W found her call with Precises agent  upsetting. While it wasnt the answer Ms W hoped  
for, the agent  gave her correct information. I dont think the agent intended to upset  Ms W. 
The agent  made a comment about  Ms W putting  the phone down and being  upset  when she 
thought the call was disconnected. While I dont think this was intended to be rude or 
derogatory, Ms W was upset. Precise offered £100 compensation and I think thats  fair. 
Ms W didnt  accept Precises  offer or the investigators recommendation. So there was no 
need for Precise to re-issue the cheque. If Ms W accepts  this decision and the cheque has 
expired Precise should  re-issue the cheque.  
The nature of Ms Ws work means  she cant make  or receive calls when shes  at work.  This 
made it difficult for her to contact Precises complaints team  during their working  hours. 
Ms W is upset by the way her complaint was handled and the time spent on calls. But 
Precise is entitled to decide how it deals with and processes complaints. And complaint 
handling isnt one of the activities  that we can look into under our rules. So while  I 
understand Ms W is unhappy about  Precises complaints process, I cant  require Precise  to 
change this.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint as I think  the £100  offered by Charter  Court 
Financial Services Limited  is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 April 2019.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5618833