K820x#14complaint
Mr B has complained about Nationwide Building Society and their decision not to uphold his 
chargeback attempt.
background
Mr B contacted Nationwide in August  2018  to dispute a payment taken by a third party  (A) 
which he feels he didnt authorise. Nationwide processed this dispute  as a chargeback under 
the relevant card scheme  rules, crediting  Mr Bs account while their investigation took place.
A responded  providing evidence to dispute  Mr Bs claim a few weeks  later. Due to this, 
Nationwide asked Mr B to sign a fraud declaration which they needed to continue with the 
chargeback.
Mr B didnt respond to this request and Nationwide debited his account, taking back the 
£478.80 they originally refunded.
Mr B told Nationwide he didnt receive the fraud  declaration. They  re-sent this to Mr B on two 
occasions.  On both occasions Mr B signed the document saying the payment was genuine 
and he had authorised it.  Due to this, Nationwide closed the chargeback and took no further 
action.
Mr B complained about Nationwides decision.  He said he hadnt fully understood the 
document he was signing  and the advice provided by Nationwide  was conflicting.  
Nationwides final response said they were unable  to process  the chargeback as it was now 
out of time. They offered £75 to recognise  they hadnt made Mr B aware it was out of time. 
Mr B remained unhappy  with this and referred his complaint  to us.
An investigator looked into Mr Bs complaint and didnt uphold  it. They  thought Nationwide 
processed the chargeback reasonably and didnt hold them  accountable  for A defending the 
claim. For this reason,  they didnt think Nationwide  needed to take any further  action. 
Nationwide accepted this view.
Mr B disagreed with this view. He didnt think it was fair he was left without his money for a 
payment he didnt authorise.
As Mr B disagreed, the complaint has been passed  to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I will not be upholding 
the complaint  for broadly the same  reasons as the investigator.
Nationwide tried to charge back, or challenge,  the payment Mr B is disputing  through the 
debit card network. I think they were right to do that, but there was never any guarantee that 
this would be successful  and Mr B would get his money back. That was dependent on the 
information Nationwide received from A and Mr B.
Ref: DRN58622752Ive seen that Nationwide credited Mr Bs account  with the disputed amount around a week 
after he initially raised his chargeback. Id expect Nationwide to have done this as its 
common practice for the disputed amount to be refunded whilst they investigate the matter 
further. This minimises the impact  of the funds not being available.
Around the same time, Nationwide contacted A asking  for more information to aid their 
investigation. For a chargeback to be successful, the company who took the payment must  
be given an opportunity to respond and if necessary, challenge the chargeback.  So, 
Nationwides actions  at this point were reasonable.
Nationwide asked Mr B to sign a fraud declaration that confirmed that he didnt  authorise  the 
payment. They  also asked him to review the documents A sent when challenging the 
chargeback and asked him to provide any comments he had. Ive seen they explained if they 
didnt receive a response, they would close the chargeback and re-debit the amount.
Mr B states he didnt receive  the initial letter so he was unable to respond.  In his opinion, the 
amount was re-debited  without  warning. I understand how that amount being taken back  out 
of his account would have  been a shock to Mr B. However, Nationwides system notes show  
the letter was sent so I dont think there  is any more  they couldve  reasonably  done at this 
point. Itd be unfair for me to hold them accountable  for any failed delivery and Id expect 
them to continue with the process as normal.
Mr B contacted Nationwide on the same day the payment was re-debited  and they re-sent  
the declaration  first class delivery. On the call, they explained if the document  was returned, 
the account would be credited again. I think  this is a reasonable response once they had 
become aware  of the issue as they explained  the situation and offered a solution.
On both declarations  Mr B signed, he ticked the box that states the payment was genuine 
and had been authorised.  Whist  I understand Mr B says this was a mistake and he didnt  
fully understand  the document, I have read the document and think  its contents were 
reasonably clear. 
The chargeback scheme  isnt run by Nationwide, but by the debit card network. Nationwide  
has to follow  the rules of the scheme.  They say that Nationwide are able to decline the 
chargeback if there is evidence that Mr B no longer  disputed the transaction.  As Mr B 
provided two declarations  stating the payment was genuine and authorised, I think its 
reasonable for Nationwide  to view this as evidence that the transaction was no longer 
disputed.
Besides that, Nationwide had received information  from A which  included  Mr Bs personal  
details and showed that Mr B had signed up to a service A provided,  at a cost of £478.80. Mr 
B has said he thinks he did sign up to the service,  but he thought he was getting  a trial for 
£1. However, theres nothing about that in the agreement, or to show  that Mr B cancelled 
with A within  the cooling-off period.   
So, in the light of the agreement and the declaration Mr B filled in twice, I think  Nationwide 
have acted reasonably when declining  the chargeback.
Ref: DRN58622753Ive seen Nationwide offered £75 in their final response. This was to recognise their failure to 
make Mr B aware  his chargeback had fallen out of time on 2 November. Ive seen 
Nationwide sent declaration forms to Mr B on 27 September  and 19 October. I think  this 
gave Mr B enough time to return the declaration before this time and in any case, he 
returned them confirming  the payment had been  authorised.
Because of this, I dont think Nationwides error around the time limit had any impact on the 
decline of the chargeback  or Mr Bs ability  to pursue it any further. I think  the £75 offered is a 
fair offer to recognise  the inconvenience  caused  to Mr B.
So, Nationwide dont  need to take any further  action.
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint about Nationwide  Building  
Society. Nationwide should  pay Mr B £75 compensation  if Mr B accepts this decision and if 
they have not already made the payment.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 October  2019.
Josh Haskey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5862275