K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs V have  complained about their mortgage current  account (MCA) associated with 
their Barclays Bank UK PLC mortgage.  They say that Barclays  has acted irresponsibly by 
failing to monitor Mr Vs spending  on the account.
background
In 2008 Mr and Mrs V took took out a mortgage with Barclays,  through  its residential lending  
business known  as Woolwich. They borrowed £77,600 plus £995 for fees on a capital 
repayment basis over 21 years. The mortgage came with a MCA, 
The MCA is an overdraft facility, which works like this: as capital is repaid off the mortgage, 
the overdraft limit on the MCA  increases  by the same amount, due to what  Barclays  calls 
rebalancing.  This can be spent by the borrower,  through the mortgage current account. But 
its not intended to be an additional  regular income  stream for the borrower;  nor should it be 
used to make the mortgage repayments.
Borrowers are free to repay the overdraft, in part or in full, if they wish to do so, at any time. 
Customers can pay money  into the MCA if they want to, and operate it in credit.  If there is a 
credit balance, interest accruing on that balance  can, if the customer requests it, be offset  
against the mortgage interest. But the MCA in this case isnt in credit  and so it operates as 
an overdraft facility with debit interest  accruing  on the outstanding balance.
The overdraft also becomes immediately repayable in full when the related mortgage 
account is repaid   either when the mortgage  reaches  the end of its term or if the mortgage  
is repaid sooner (for example,  on sale or remortgage of the property).  
The MCA operates on an interest-only  basis. Interest is currently  charged on the overdraft 
balance at Bank of England Base Rate + 4.49%, except where the mortgage  is a specific 
offset mortgages, where interest is charged  at the offset mortgage  rate.
The initial limit on the MCA was £7,400. Since  2008, as capital has been repaid off the 
mortgage, the available reserve on the MCA has increased. It is now approximately £38,500.
Mr and Mrs V have  now separated. Mrs V says that it was only at this point that she first 
became aware  of the overdraft. Mr V acknowledges that he has used the overdraft, but 
considers Barclays to be responsible for failing  to monitor his spending on the account.  Mr 
and Mrs V consider  Barclays  to have acted irresponsibly  when it sold them  the MCA 
alongside the mortgage.
Barclays didnt uphold  the complaint. It explained  that the terms and conditions allow for 
statements on the MCA to be sent to one party only. Barclays  also said that the annual  
mortgage statements  addressed to both parties set out the amount outstanding on both the 
mortgage and MCA. Barclays  said that it would not monitor the account while it was 
operating within its limits.  Where the limit was exceeded, Barclays would alert the customer 
but would  not take over management of the customers spending.
Mr and Mrs V brought their complaint to us where  an investigator considered it. He didnt 
uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs V asked for an ombudsman  to review the complaint. 
Ref: DRN50282772Mrs V, whos  dealt  with the complaint throughout, has made some further points, which  I can 
summarise as follows:
Mr V is vulnerable and she knows he is not good with money. She managed  the day-
to-day finances.
Why did Barclays even offer this product, where  you can spend the same amount as 
you pay back on the mortgage?
Barclays is responsible for not recognising that Mr V was in financial difficulty. These  
are signs  that Barclays would have known about, but which  she couldnt see.
It is wrong that the MCA statements were sent only to Mr V.
Barclays allowed the problem to continue to worsen whilst helping  Mr V to conceal it 
from her.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I am afraid I have 
disappointing news for Mr and Mrs V; Im not upholding the complaint. These  are my 
reasons.
Mrs V says that she and Mr V were never told at the time the mortgage was taken out that 
they would  also have to take out the MCA. But Im satisfied that this is explained clearly at 
Clause 12 of both the Key Facts Illustration and the Mortgage Offer. Furthermore, Mr and 
Mrs V both signed the account opening  documents, providing specimen  signatures for the 
banks records.
Mrs V has questioned why Barclays was allowed  to sell this product. But I dont have any 
power to investigate this. This type of mortgage  was offered with the flexibility to allow  
customers to borrow  without the need  to go through any formal  application for a further 
advance. If a product did not meet regulatory requirements, then the Financial Conduct 
Authority would be responsible for dealing with that. 
The crux of the complaint is that Mr and Mrs V say that Barclays has acted irresponsibly by 
allowing them  to have  the rebalancing feature on their MCA  overdraft. The starting point 
here is that the MCA overdraft is discretionary.  There is no automatic entitlement to it, and 
this is explained  in the terms  and conditions. It was up to Mr and Mrs V whether they utilised 
the overdraft or not.
The account  statements  were sent to Mr V, and the terms and conditions allow for this. I 
appreciate Mrs V is very unhappy  about  this. But the paper statements were  not the only 
form of record for the MCA, as they were  also available in Barclays online banking  portal.
I also note that the annual  mortgage  statements, setting out details of the utilised overdraft, 
were addressed to Mr and Mrs V, and there were also letters about the MCA addressed  to 
both Mr and Mrs V. So in all the circumstances, Im not persuaded Barclays has done  
anything wrong  here. If Mr V was concealing jointly-addressed correspondence from Mrs V, 
thats not something for which I can hold Barclays responsible.
The argument has been put forward that Barclays should have recognised that Mr Vs 
spending on the account was evidence of him having problems dealing with money,  and that 
Barclays should have  intervened to stop this. In a letter to us dated 29 September 2018 Mrs 
Ref: DRN50282773V says that, although she and Mr V acknowledge that hes used the overdraft It has now 
come to light that he has serious  problems with managing money. 
I will explain  here that for many years  banking has been an automated  process with the 
majority of transactions carried out electronically.  So once a current account is running, 
provided it is operating  within its limits,  there  would be no need for any human intervention  or 
for anyone  to monitor the activity on the account. 
There were occasions  when the MCA reached its overdraft limit and Barclays  wrote to Mr V. 
Its likely  that this would have been  a computer-generated letter. But the account was 
brought back within the limit and so there was no need for any further action.
Mrs V says that there  are signs that Barclays must  know  about  (but which she would not) 
that ought to have  flagged  up that Mr V was mis-using the MCA overdraft. But the role of a 
bank is to administer  accounts, not to police its customers spending or to question  what a 
customer is spending their money  on, where the account is operating  lawfully and within  its 
permitted limits. Indeed,  it would  be considered  intrusive and an unwarranted invasion of 
customer privacy  if banks  were to do this. (I acknowledge there are now some limited 
exceptions, where  a bank considers a customer to be at risk of being defrauded and the 
bank is allowed to question the customer before a bank transfer is made, but that situation 
doesnt apply  here.)
Ive looked at the MCA statements. The spending on the account  appears to have been 
through a mobile app, and so there  is no identifying merchant, such as there would be for 
debit card transactions. So even if Barclays had looked at the account usage (and, as Ive 
said above, there is no reason for the bank to do so), theres no evidence  to suggest Mr V 
was misusing the account or that he was in financial difficulties. And there are several 
periods where  there was no spending at all on the account, but money was being paid in by 
Mr V.
In the circumstances, I dont think Barclays has done anything wrong in the way in which  its 
administered the MCA.
I appreciate that it has come as a shock to Mrs V to learn that Mr V has used the MCA to this 
extent. Its important to remember that using the MCA was entirely optional. Mr and Mrs V 
werent obliged  to spend any of it if they didnt want  to. Its unfortunate that, according to Mrs 
V, she didnt  know Mr V was using  the MCA. I fully acknowledge that Mr Vs actions have 
caused Mrs V distress. But, for the reasons given above, I cant  hold Barclays  responsible if 
Mr V used the MCA without telling  Mrs V. Thats something theyll  need  to resolve between 
themselves.
my final decision
I know Mr and Mrs V will be disappointed,  but my decision is that I dont uphold this 
complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs V to 
accept or reject my decision  before  29 December  2019.
Jan OLeary
Ref: DRN50282774ombudsman
Ref: DRN5028277