K820x#14complaint
Miss T complains that EQUIFAX LIMITED didnt reinstate her credit score  as promised and 
carried out actions  that meant her score  decreased.  She says this caused  her to be declined 
credit.
Background
Miss T complains that the following resolution of an issue with her bank (Bank  1), Equifax 
didnt reinstate her credit  score as it said it would.  She said that an issue  with an account 
with Bank  1 caused her credit score  to drop dramatically in November 2017. She says she 
was told by Equifax  that once the issue with the account was resolved her credit  score would 
be reinstated to the October 2017 level. But this didnt happen.
She also says that Equifax told her another bank (Bank 2) had updated its credit information  
history but when she contacted Bank  2 it denied this and told her the her accounts were in 
good standing. Miss T says the account in question was closed in 2013  and she was told by 
Bank 2 there should be no change in her credit score.
Miss T believes  Equifax  actions have caused her credit score  to decrease dramatically and 
because of this she was refused credit when she applied for this causing her 
embarrassment. Miss T wants to be compensated  for the stress the issues have  caused  her 
and for her credit score to be restored.
Equifax says that Miss T contacted it in November  2017 to query an account with Bank 1. 
She said she had received her credit score  from a company affiliated with Equifax and the 
account was not known  to her so she wanted it removed. Equifax says it investigated the 
issue and sent a final response  letter in January  2018 not upholding Miss Ts complaint.
In May 2018, Miss T contacted it about  a new account with Bank 2 appearing on her credit 
file. It says that Bank 2 had updated how it reported account information and this change 
triggered an alert stating that a new account was opened when the account wasnt  new but 
was her existing account. 
Our investigator didnt  uphold this complaint. She said that Bank 1 had said Miss Ts account 
should be recorded as closed and settled and that this is how it shows on Miss Ts credit  file. 
She said that the lender  is responsible for the information that is recorded  and that Equifax 
had contacted Bank 1 on a number of occasions.
In regard to Bank 2, our investigator said that Bank 2 had contacted Equifax about a historic 
account following  a change in the way it reported its customers information.  This triggered 
an alert that was incorrect as it suggested  a new account had been opened when the 
account was opened in January 2017. She said if Miss T thought this information was 
incorrect she should contact Bank  2. However she did hadnt seen any evidence to show this 
had a negative  impact on Miss Ts credit score.
Our investigator said that she hadnt  seen a copy of Miss Ts credit  report  but said that she 
couldnt say the issues noted were the only reasons  why Miss T was refused credit  when  
she applied  for it. 
Ref: DRN54835602Miss T did not accept  our investigators  view.  She noted that Equifax had initially  blamed 
another party but it had said it relied on information  from Equifax in its reporting. She said 
Equifax had not done as it had said and this wasnt fair. 
Miss T said she had spoken to Bank  1 which  agreed Equifaxs approach was not fair and 
had said it would look to make the case  for the account to be removed. She said that this 
service would then need  to require Equifax to put her credit score  back as if this was not 
required she would still have to deal with Equifax.  
Miss T said that following the resolution of the issue with Bank 1 her credit  score improved 
with the other credit  reference agencies and only Equifax was treating her in this way. She 
reiterated that her credit  score should  be restored.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss T has raised  a number of concerns regrading the information reported by Equifax and 
its impact on her credit score. As she has noted  in her complaint, Equifax is required to 
report accurate information. 
Equifax receives  information from the credit  providers and this is what it relies on. Any 
amendments need to come from the information  providers although notes can be added to the 
credit file when there is data that is in dispute.  Miss T has explained  that she was getting her 
credit score through another company which provides credit  information using Equifaxs data.
Miss Ts main complaint is in regard to the events surrounding the resolution of her account 
with Bank1. She has also raised concerns about the information provided in regard to an 
account with Bank  2 and has mentioned a third account but said this didnt have a major  
impact on her credit score.
Miss T has sent in copies  of her credit  score which she says show the October and 
November 2017  situation and her current,  March 2019, score. The October 2017 score is 
recorded as 447 and the November 2017  score  is 344. The comments on this report  say a 
new account has been added. Miss Ts current score is 415. In the system notes provided by 
Equifax, Miss T said that after the issue with Bank  1 was resolved her score increased  to 
418 but then fell again to 349 due to the information  regarding Bank 2.
As I have not seen  copies of full credit  reports for Miss T from when the issue  with Bank 1 
was resolved, I cannot say whether this was the only change  that happened  at that time. 
Credit scores will move based on a number of factors. 
Miss T says that Equifax  said her credit score would  be restored when  the issue  with the 
Bank 1 account  was resolved. I havent seen where  this information was provided to Miss T 
but I accept that she would  have expected  to see an improvement following the resolution. 
Miss T has said that her credit score returned  for a period of time to 418 after the issue with 
the Bank 1 account was resolved. This suggests that the change  in the recording of the 
information had a positive impact on her credit score.  I accept the score did not return to 447 
but as I havent  seen  Miss Ts credit  report form the time before and after the issue I cannot  
say whether anything  else also changed  that could have affected the score.
Ref: DRN54835603It has been confirmed  that the disputed Bank 1 account is recorded as closed and settled 
and that this the information Bank 1 provided  to Equifax. Therefore Equifax appears to be 
recording the information regarding this account accurately. Miss T has had further 
discussions with Bank 1 about the removal of the entry and if this is requested by Bank 1 I 
would expect Equifax  to act on this. However, given the information provided to date I cannot 
say Equifax is doing anything wrong by recording  the account as closed and settled.
On balance, based on the information  I have seen, I find that Equifax is correctly recording 
the account as closed  and settled and I do not have enough evidence to say that it is 
reporting an incorrect credit score. I also note that when Miss T contacted  Equifax  about this 
issue it made contact with Bank 1 to check the information was correct.
In regard to the issue  with Bank  2 Equifax has explained that there was a change in how 
accounts were reported and that the account  related to one opened in 2017. As our 
investigator has said, if Miss T thinks this information is incorrect then she should raise  this 
with Bank  2.
I also note Miss T had an issue that she was recorded as being on the electoral roll. I 
understand this has been corrected but also note that being on the electoral roll can have a 
positive impact on a credit  score.
Miss T has mentioned that she was declined credit. I appreciate this must have been  
upsetting but I also note that the credit score she got from the affiliated company is not seen 
by lenders. Lenders have their own approach to assessing credit worthiness and will take 
into account a number of factors. 
Overall, while  I can understand  why Miss T is upset  with the issue regarding her credit report, 
I do not find that I have  enough evidence to say that Equifax has done anything wrong.
my final decision 
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2019.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5483560