K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains that Clydesdale  Bank  Plc (trading as Yorkshire Bank)  transferred a debt he 
owed to a third party. He wants  it to take it back, arrange a payment plan and remove 
adverse information  from his credit file.
background
Our investigator felt this complaint  shouldnt be upheld.  In summary she said:
Clydesdale sent Mr D a number of letters about his debt saying what  was owed, that 
he should contact  the bank and offering a monthly repayment plan.  It also said as it 
hadnt heard  anything  from him the account and debt had been sold to a third party.
The terms of Mr Ds account say Clydesdale may at any time assign or otherwise 
transfer all or parts  of its rights which includes any sums due. It also says if it does so 
it will disclose  information to that party. She cant therefore say Clydesdale  has acted 
unfairly towards Mr D by passing  the debt onto the third party.
If Mr D was experiencing financial difficulty wed expect Clydesdale  to help but that 
doesnt require  it to waive fees and charges.  Here it did arrange two repayment  plans 
which was reasonable.
Mr D says he didnt receive the banks final responses  but they appear most likely  
sent to his correct  recorded address Clydesdale also didnt make an error recording a 
default on Mr Ds credit record.  And she cant ask it to remove it or amend his credit 
file as it has an obligation to record accurate information.
Mr D doesnt agree and has asked for an ombudsman review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusions for the same  reasons.
The terms of Mr Ds account allow Clydesdale to assign his account  to a third party.  Here  
Clydesdale tried to contact him a number of times and it reasonably  assisted him by offering 
repayment plans.  But when it didnt hear from him it assigned his account as it was entitled 
to do.
It also acted reasonably by recording a default on his account as this accurately reflects  its 
conduct  
Overall I dont think Clydesdale has acted unfairly  or contrary  to the terms of the account. 
And, although I recognise Mr Ds strength of feeling and frustration, I cant  fairly or 
reasonably require Clydesdale to do anything  differently as hed like. And I dont see any 
compelling reason  to change the proposed outcome in this case.
Ref: DRN57491382my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 April 2020.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5749138