K822xcomplaint
Mr W complains about how Ocaso  SA, Compania de Seguros y Reaseguros (Ocaso) 
handled a claim  he made  under a buildings  insurance policy arranged via his freeholder.
background 
On 29 November 2018 Mr W contacted Ocaso  to make a claim under his buildings  
insurance policy as a result of the gas supply to his property being disconnected on 27 
November 2018  due to a gas leak.
Mr W says that when  he contacted the claims management services company appointed by 
Ocaso to handle claims, the claims handler  tried to dissuade him from making a claim.
Mr W wasnt happy with the way his claim was handled. He said Ocaso should have 
proactively contacted all affected policyholders  to confirm cover  and that there had been a 
lack of communication in relation to his claim. 
Mr Ws gas supply  was reconnected on 20 December 2018. Ocaso confirmed that the claim 
was covered on 21 December 2018.  
In response to Mr Ws complaint, Ocaso apologised that he felt that he had been dissuaded 
from making a claim and that the circumstances surrounding the loss werent given proper 
consideration. It said that measures were being  taken  to ensure that claims handlers were 
fully aware of the policy wording. It said that whilst the policy  included  cover for alternative  
accommodation, this didnt apply to the prospective  costs that Mr W might have had to pay 
had he moved out but only applied to incurred costs.  Ocaso said the policy allowed for a 
disturbance allowance and offered Mr W £240  for the 24 days hed been  inconvenienced  by 
the incident, based on the industry standard allowance of £10 per day. It advised  Mr W that 
this allowance  did not extend  to his tenant.
Mr W was unhappy with the response  hed received from Ocaso  and brought his complaint 
to this service.
Our investigator partially upheld the complaint. She was satisfied that £240 disturbance 
allowance was sufficient  and said that Mr W couldnt  claim the costs of alternative 
accommodation because  he hadnt actually incurred any costs.  She didnt think  Ocaso  was 
required to contact other policyholders  but agreed  that there had been some delay in 
handling Mr Ws complaint, in respect of which she suggested that Ocaso paid £150 
compensation.
Mr W didnt agree. He said he didnt think the disturbance  allowance  of £10 per day was fair 
and felt he should be entitled to the cost of alternative accommodation because Ocaso 
hadnt initially accepted his claim which meant hed had to stay in his flat with no facilities.  Mr 
W said his tenant should be entitled to compensation as well because the policy  extended to 
tenants and he had refunded his lodger £450 for the period when the gas was disconnected.  
Ocaso accepted the investigators  view.  It also offered to pay a further  amount of £450 to Mr 
W in respect of the sum he had refunded to his lodger.
Ref: DRN50557052my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although Ive read and considered the whole file, Ill keep my comments  to what  I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on a specific point,  its not because  I havent considered it but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach  the right outcome.
Ive reviewed the contact  notes provided by Ocaso which include notes of the initial  calls 
made by Mr W to the claims management services company. The claim was initially declined 
as there  was no physical  damage to the property. This was based on a misunderstanding by 
the claims handler that only damage  to the insured premises was covered  under the policy. 
It was only when the claim was reviewed  by another member of staff that the claim was 
accepted on the basis that the policy included cover  for accidental  damage to drains, pipes, 
cables and underground tanks used  to provide services  to or from the buildings. 
Ive considered the delay in the overall  claim handling and whether the redress  offered  by 
Ocaso is fair. The Financial Conduct  Authority has set out what is expected  of an insurer 
when handling  claims. It says a claim should be handled promptly  and fairly. As Ive already 
said, the terms of the policy include cover  for accidental damage to pipes. So, I think Ocaso 
ought reasonably  to have been  aware that the claim was covered and done more  to 
progress the claim  when Mr W first contacted them.
Mr W has said that he thinks Ocaso should have proactively contacted other  policyholders to 
confirm cover. It isnt the role of this service to tell Ocaso how to conduct its business. If 
there were other policyholders affected,  it would be up to them  to contact the insurer,  as 
each claim is handled  on its own merits.
Mr W has explained that he isnt happy  with the redress offered by Ocaso. Hes suggested 
that Ocaso should compensate him for the expenses he would have incurred had he moved 
out of the property and arranged alternative  accommodation.
Theres nothing in the contact notes to suggest  that Mr W requested alternative 
accommodation when  he originally made  the claim. So whilst I can see that there is cover on 
the policy for up to 33% of the sum for alternative  accommodation when the property is 
rendered uninhabitable, and whilst I think that the loss of services such as heating and hot 
water might have meant his home  was uninhabitable, I cant say that Mr W should be 
compensated for expenses that he would  have incurred had he moved out of the property, 
because he didnt move  out and therefore didnt incur any expenses.  
Mr W has asked  that his lodgers expenses are also taken into consideration. Ive reviewed  
the terms and conditions of the policy. Cover extends to a policyholders spouse or partner, 
children, parents and other  relatives  permanently living  with the policyholder  at the address 
insured. I havent  seen  anything to suggest that Mr Ws lodger was a family member,  so Im 
not persuaded that he or she falls under the definition in the policy.  Notwithstanding this, 
Ocaso has offered  to reimburse Mr W for the £450 he refunded to his tenant, and I think  this 
is fair.
Its fair to say that there was a delay in accepting the claim due to the claims handler  not 
being aware that there was cover  under the policy. Ocaso has acknowledged this delay and 
Ref: DRN50557053I think its reasonable to ask it to pay compensation to reflect the inconvenience caused to 
Mr W.
The policy allows  for a disturbance allowance  in circumstances  where a policyholder  
remains at the property for the duration  of the claim.  Ocaso has offered Mr W £240  for the 
24 days he was inconvenienced  by the loss of gas supply. I appreciate  that Mr W feels that 
this sum isnt enough, but Im satisfied that £10 per day is in line with the industry  standard  
and is therefore  fair and reasonable. 
In conclusion, and based on everything  Ive seen, I think the claim could have been handled 
better in the initial stages  and Ocaso could  have responded  sooner to Mr Ws queries. The 
delay has caused  inconvenience to Mr W for which I think  he should  receive  compensation. I 
dont think Mr W should be awarded  expenses which he didnt incur, and Im satisfied the 
disturbance allowance of £10 per day is fair and reasonable. I dont think  Ocaso  is obliged  to 
compensate Mr Ws lodger, however, I think the offer by Ocaso to pay for the loss of rental 
income Mr W suffered as a result  of the disruption  is fair.
my final decision
My final decision is that I partially uphold  the complaint. Ocaso SA Compania de Seguros y 
Reaseguros must pay compensation  of £250 to Mr W for the inconvenience  caused to him 
by the delay and handling of the claim. This sum is in addition to the disturbance allowance 
of £240 and payment for loss of rental income of £450 already offered..
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 September 2020.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5055705