K820x#14complaint
Mr N has complained about Link Market Services Trustees Limited (LMST).  
He says it sent him conflicting documentation;  didnt  process his withdrawal request and has 
failed to answer questions hes raised.
background
I issued my provisional decision on the complaint  in February 2019  (a copy of which  is 
attached).  In that decision, I explained  that subject  to any further comments  or responses  I 
didnt intend to uphold the complaint.
LMST acknowledged my findings, but had nothing further to add.
Despite being  sent the provisional decision and a further letter  by the investigator,  Mr N did 
not respond.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As there have been no further  comments or evidence for me to consider from either party,  I 
remain of the same  conclusions as set out in my attached provisional decision.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ns complaint against Link Market Services 
Trustees Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 April 2019.
Ross Hammond
ombudsman
Ref: DRN58596622COPY PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr N has complained about  Link Market Services Trustees Limited (LMST).   
He says it sent him conflicting documentation; didnt process his withdrawal request  and has failed to 
answer questions hes raised.
background
Mr N held an account as a member of a Dividend Reinvestment  Plan (DRIP).  In early December 
2017 he received a letter  from LMST dated 29 November  which set out new charges that were  being  
introduced.  These changes were to reflect the additional statement requirements  needed to comply  
with the incoming MiFID legislation that was due to come into force.
A week later Mr N received  a DRIP share certificate from LMST.   Accompanying the certificate was a 
leaflet which confirmed that Capita Asset  Services had changed its name  to Link Asset Services, but 
stating there were no other changes to the terms of service.
Mr N phoned LMST in December 2017 and made a request to withdraw from the DRIP, but was told 
he needed to make the instruction in writing.  He  sent a written  request in January  2018,  but LMST  
said that as the cash balance was only £0.58 it had been donated to charity as set out in its terms.
Mr N has explained that he has no objection  to the changes to the charges, but has set out a number 
of areas of concern:
LMST issued  documentation to shareholders that was at best factually wrong  and at worse  
fraudulent.  As the leaflet said there were no other changes  other than the name.
LMST has failed to address the questions he has put to it.
LMST refused to accept  his withdrawal request.
He received the letter  from LMST nearly  two weeks after it was dated on 29 November, and 
so feels  it was dishonestly back-dated.
LMST hasnt carried  out the investigation  into matter  it had stated it would.
LMST has refused to pay to Mr N amounts he has invoiced  it for the costs hes incurred 
dealing with the complaint.
One of our investigators reviewed the case and gave her opinion.  She felt unable to uphold  the 
complaint as she wasnt persuaded LMST had done anything wrong.  In summary, she said that 
LMST had acted within its terms, and commented that some of the issues Mr N had complained about  
did not cause any loss.
The investigator also noted that some of Mr Ns concerns related to matters of a more  regulatory  
nature, but she could  only deal with issues directly affecting Mr N.  For wider concerns Mr N was 
directed to the financial regulator, the FCA.
Mr N disagreed and explained in some  detail why the investigator had misunderstood parts  of the 
complaint and had made factual inaccuracies.   But as no agreement could be reached, Mr N asked 
for an ombudsman to carry out a fresh review
Ref: DRN58596623my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not intending to uphold  the complaint  and Ill 
explain why.
I feel its important to explain, that in reaching  my decision, Ive read and taken  into account the 
correspondence provided by all parties.  But I only intend to refer the issues and evidence I consider 
to be central  to making a decision  which is fair and reasonable.
I appreciate Mr N is particularly frustrated about both his personal dealings  with LMST  and the wider 
impact upon  other  shareholders.   In this complaint  Ive focussed my review upon the specific 
circumstances of Mr Ns complaint, but I note he has also referred  his wider concerns  to the FCA.
Mr N has explained that he feels LMST delayed  the letter being sent out as it was received almost two 
weeks after it was dated.  As a result he believes that LMST has acted dishonestly and says that he 
wasnt given adequate time to respond before the deadline which had been set.  
Ive considered this at some length, and note Mr Ns comments that this wasnt the first time such a 
delay in correspondence had occurred.  But Ive not seen  anything  that persuades  me there was a 
delay in the dispatch of the letter by LMST,  and on balance consider it quite possible there were 
postal delays  particularly given that it was in early December which is a period  when postal delays 
are not uncommon.  But in any event, I note that Mr N received the letter  in December and did in fact 
telephone LMST in response before the deadline.  So I dont think that is a key issue which I can hold 
LMST responsible for.
Having reviewed  everything, the issue central to the complaint  is the fact that Mr N says the 
correspondence he did receive was conflicting and dishonest.  The  first letter explained that there 
were going  to be changes to the charges imminently taking effect  from January  2018.   But about a 
week later Mr N received his DRIP share certificate which  was accompanied by a leaflet which 
confirmed the business  name change.   Mr N has pointed out that the leaflet stated Apart from our 
new name, there are no changes to our terms of service.
Mr N says the statement above from the leaflet he received was neither  truthful  nor accurate.  He 
assumed that it superseded the letter dated 29 November  regarding charges  and this is central to his 
concerns.  I understand Mr Ns stance  on this point, but I disagree and will explain  why.
I believe the contents  of the leaflet Mr N received was part of independent correspondence, distinct  
from the letter  hed previously received regarding the changes  to charges.  There  was nothing to 
suggest it should  be read in conjunction with or in replacement of any previous communication.
The content  of the letter  dated 29 November  2017 set out changes  applicable  to charges, and was 
correct as at that time.   I appreciate that those changes were  not due to become effective until 
January 2018, but the leaflet subsequently received  in December was not about  charges.  It 
confirmed the business  name was changing; and so the context was that nothing else (other  than 
issues Mr N had previously  been notified of) would be changing as a result of that name  change  in 
itself.
I appreciate that given  Mr Ns strength of feeling  on this issue, he is likely to disagree.  But I must 
assure him that Ive considered this point impartially  having looked at everything provided.
When Mr N called LMST in December  2017 he confirmed that he wished  to opt-out and withdraw from 
the DRIP.  LMST said that notice would need to be given in writing, but he queried where that was 
stated as being a requirement.   Mr N wasnt given  a satisfactory  answer to his query, but the 
investigator who reviewed  the complaint  has since provided reference to the relevant provisions.
Ref: DRN58596624When Mr N did send  written  instruction of his notice to withdraw to LMST in January  2018, the 
residual balance  of the account was £0.58.  As the amount was less than £2.99,  LMST  confirmed the 
funds were transferred  to charity in line with the Client Money section of its terms and conditions.   I 
understand Mr N has reservations about whether this was done, and to support his concerns he 
referred to a response from LMST several months later, suggesting that it will be donating it to 
charity.
Overall, Im satisfied the donation to charity by LMST is likely to have been  made.  But  given the small 
individual amount  involved,  I dont think its unreasonable that such  a transfer is not made  
immediately, but rather allocated to be collectively  paid with other sums.
During the course of the complaint, Mr N has been provided with information previously  unavailable to 
him.  So hes recently made further comments about the timescales LMST  had set in relation the 
changes to the DRIP.  LMST has explained that changes needed to be made to ensure compliance  
with incoming regulation (MiFID II).  Mr  N says that having  seen the DRIP terms, he feels that new 
members after 1 January 2018 would be given  preferential timescales  for withdrawal,  and the 
deadline he was set contradicts those terms.
Whilst I appreciate  Mr Ns point, any new members would  not be affected by historic terms and 
charges which pre-existed their shareholdings, and so I dont  consider it to be a key issue here.  I  
dont think LMST treated  Mr N unfairly and there was no financial  loss caused to him as a result of 
this in any event.
With regards to the costs Mr N says hes invoiced to LMST  for dealing with the complaint  I make no 
award as Im not upholding the complaint.  But it would  not be usual  to request  a refund for costs  
incurred in the ordinary process of making a complaint in any event.
my provisional  decision
Subject to any further representations I receive, for the reasons set out above,  my provisional 
decision is that I dont intend to uphold  Mr Ns complaint against Link Market Services Trustees 
Limited.
Ref: DRN5859662