K820x#14complaint
Mrs M complains that she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  with a 
store card. Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL) were the lender in this case and it 
has taken responsibility  for the complaint, so to avoid confusion  I will refer to it as the seller.
background
Mrs M took out a store card with a retailer in 1998. At that point in time she didnt take PPI. 
But the PPI was added about  two years later. FICL say this was as a result of sales call to 
Mrs M.
Mrs M says the PPI was added without her consent. She says she wasnt eligible for the 
cover because she wasnt working.
The adjudicator thought  that Mrs Ms complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mrs M disagrees, so her 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website  and Ive taken 
this into account  when deciding this case.  Having done so, Im not upholding Mrs Ms 
complaint. Ill explain  why.
Mrs M says that she didnt agree to the PPI being  added to her account. FICL say it was 
added as a result of a sales  call made to Mrs M. I have to consider that the sale took place 
over 18 years ago and that its not unreasonable for Mrs M not to remember  it. And its not 
unreasonable for FICL  to be unable to provide a call recording.
From this services understanding of how FICL sold PPI over the phone in 2000 Im satisfied 
that Mrs M wouldve had to give her permission  for the PPI to be added. And as shed had 
the card for over two years at that point  I think shed have  realised  it wasnt compulsory. If 
Mrs M hadnt  given her permission to add the PPI I think  shed have  queried  it when it 
appeared on her statements.
So, on the limited  information I have, I think Mrs M bought the policy  knowing she had a 
choice about it.
FICL didnt  advise Mrs M to take the policy,  so it didnt need to take steps to make  sure the 
policy was suitable  for Mrs M. But it did have  to make sure Mrs M got all the information she 
needed to make her own decision.
Its possible Mrs M didnt  get all the information  she needed. But I dont think more,  or better, 
information wouldve  made a difference to Mrs Ms decision  to buy it. I say this because:
Even though Mrs M wasnt  eligible  for the cover herself, it wouldve covered her 
husband instead. So if he wasnt able to work then hed have been able to make  a 
Ref: DRN50500142claim. As Mrs M didnt  have an income of her own I think cover for her husbands 
income wouldve  been valuable;
Mr M was eligible  for the cover. And it doesnt  look like he was affected by any terms 
which mightve  made it more difficult for him to make a successful claim, such  as 
those related to existing medical  conditions;
Mr M was self-employed  which sometimes makes it difficult to make an 
unemployment claim. But Ive checked  the conditions  of the policy and I dont think  
the terms were onerous  for self-employed people;
As Mr M was self-employed he wasnt entitled to any sick pay, so I think the policy 
offered a useful  benefit;
The cost of the policy was greater  than many policies on the market around the same 
time. But it provided greater benefit  and couldve paid off the entire balance of the 
store card in only a few months  in the event  of a successful claim;
I havent seen anything to suggest  the cover  was unaffordable for Mrs M.
So I dont  think Mrs M lost out as a result of anything FICL mightve done wrong.
my final decision
Im not upholding Mrs Ms complaint so it follows that FICL doesnt have to pay any 
compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 February  2019.
Sally Allbeury
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5050014