K821x#15complaint
Miss P complains  that HSBC UK Bank  Plc didnt do enough to prevent her becoming the 
victim of a scam and losing £7,250. 
HSBC say theyre not liable for the loss because Miss P had authorised  the payment and 
they had no reason to suspect there was an issue. But they accepted  they could have 
provided better service  when communicating about their recovery  attempts and offered  £100 
compensation for the impact  of this.
I issued a provisional decision upholding this case in September  2020. HSBC  have 
appealed, so I have reconsidered everything  and carefully taken account of all their further 
submissions (which I have summarised only briefly  in my findings below  for accessibility  
and to comply with our statutory duty to resolve disputes with minimum formality). 
my findings
Upon reading  all the available evidence and arguments, I remain  satisfied  that the fair and 
reasonable outcome in all the circumstances  would be to uphold this complaint for the 
following reasons:
1.It is common ground that Miss P authorised the scam payment of £7,250 in 2018.  She 
had arranged to buy a vehicle online through eBay.  Instead of using eBays preferred 
payment method (PayPal),  the scammer  suggested they use an escrow service,  
supposedly used  by eBay  for the protection of both parties.  The scammer told Miss P 
that she would make payment to eBay, then only once the vehicle had been  delivered 
and she was happy it was as described, would the payment  be released to him. Miss P 
agreed this would be a sensible way to proceed. She later received an official-looking 
email that contained a link that took her to a live online chat which  she believed was with 
eBay (but was in fact, we now know,  with the scammer). 
2.During this chat, Miss P was given the account number, sort code and a reference  to 
enable her to make  payment. She was reassured that this would be held securely until 
she was happy  with the purchase. On 28 April 2018, Miss P then used her online 
banking to send  £7,250  from her account with HSBC  to the account details shed been 
provided with. When the vehicle wasnt delivered,  and the scammer ceased  contact,  
Miss P realised  shed  been the victim  of a scam. She contacted HSBC, who made  efforts 
to recover her funds from the receiving  bank. Sadly,  they werent able to recover  a 
meaningful amount  of money.  
3.I accept that this was an authorised payment even though Miss P was the victim of a 
scam. She used  her security credentials  to make the payment. So, although  she did not 
intend the money to go to the scammers, under the Payment  Services Regulations 2017 
(PSRs), and the terms and conditions of her bank account, she is presumed  liable  for 
the loss in the first instance.  
4.HSBC say  in response  to my provisional decision (which  I dont  need  to repeat in any 
detail, as both parties  are aware of my initial findings)  that, if they were  required to 
intervene in all such transactions,  this would result  in significant customer  detriment with 
vast numbers of payments being held up each day. They say that the payment itself was 
still relatively modest. 
Ref: DRN556279325.However, taking into account  the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time,  I consider 
HSBC should  fairly  and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made  or received  to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other  signs that 
might indicate that its customers were  at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given  the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.   
In some circumstances,  irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment; or in 
some cases, declined to make  a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility  of financial harm from fraud. 
6.I acknowledged in my provisional  decision  that there is a balance to be struck; and I 
appreciate the difficulties faced by banks in meeting the competing requirements to 
provide efficient banking services  to their customers whilst also being alert to fraud.  The 
systems and procedures HSBC put in place to manage those competing  demands are a 
matter for them. But I maintain that, on the individual facts and circumstances of this 
case, there were  enough triggers to alert HSBC  to unusual  or uncharacteristic account 
activity such that an intervention would have been fair and reasonable  and likely to 
have prevented the loss. 
7.HSBC place emphasis on the legal case of Barclays Bank plc v Quincecare Ltd [1992] 4 
All ER 363, which they feel I didnt address sufficiently and, as a result, made it difficult  
for them to respond to the provisional  decision. They say the Quincecare ruling means  
their responsibility to be alert to fraud  is subordinate to their contractual duty to promptly 
execute a payment  order. 
8.We have to take account of relevant law  but were not bound by it because of our wider 
fair and reasonable jurisdiction. Nevertheless, Ive considered Quincecare carefully  
but it doesnt change my mind as to whether HSBC  ought to have intervened in the 
circumstances of this complaint. It is well-established that there is a balance  to be struck. 
The ratio of Quincecare was neatly  summarised  by the then President  of the Supreme 
Court, Lady Hale, in her judgment in Singularis Holdings  Ltd v Daiwa Capital Markets 
Europe Ltd [2019] UKSC  50:
[The judge] held that it was an implied term of the contract between  a bank and its customer  
that the bank would use reasonable  skill and care in and about executing the customers 
orders; this was subject to the conflicting duty to execute those orders promptly so as to avoid 
causing financial loss to the customer; but there would be liability  if the bank executed the 
order knowing  it to be dishonestly given, or shut its eyes to the obvious  fact of the dishonesty, 
or acted recklessly in failing to make such inquiries as an honest and reasonable man would  
make; and the bank should refrain from executing an order if and for so long as it was put on 
inquiry by having reasonable grounds for believing that the order  was an attempt to 
misappropriate funds.1
1 Though  not a deciding factor in my conclusions  here, I note in passing  that, when  the principles of 
Quincecare were considered  and affirmed by the Supreme Court in Singularis, the justices 
unanimously held that the defendant investment  bank could and should  have intervened to protect  its 
(non-consumer) customer from fraudulent  activity that ought reasonably to have triggered concerns.
Ref: DRN556279339.Lady Hale uses the words subject  to rather than subordinate when referring  to 
conflicting duties  on the bank. I dont  think its quite  right to characterise  Quincecare as 
concluding that one duty is always to be regarded as subordinate to another.  It is, 
perhaps, worth quoting the actual words  of Mr Justice Steyn  in the passage  that is often  
used to summarise the ratio, or deciding reasons,  of Quincecare (my emphasis):
The law should not impose too burdensome an obligation  on bankers, which  hampers the 
effective transacting of banking business unnecessarily.  On the other hand,  the law should  
guard against the facilitation  of fraud, and exact a reasonable standard  of care in order to 
combat fraud and to protect bank customers and innocent third parties. To hold that a bank is 
only liable when it has displayed  a lack of probity would  be much too restrictive an approach. 
On the other hand, to impose liability whenever speculation might suggest  dishonesty would 
impose wholly  impractical standards  on bankers. In my judgment the sensible 
compromise, which strikes a fair balance between  competing considerations, is simply 
to say that a banker must refrain from executing an order if and for as long as the 
banker is put on inquiry in the sense that he has reasonable grounds  (although not 
necessarily proof) for believing that the order is an attempt to misappropriate the funds 
of the [customer]...
10.So, we too  though not bound by the law but resolving disputes by what  we regard as 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances   are looking to strike  a fair balance between  
competing considerations (which I acknowledged in my provisional decision and again  
here). In any event,  as well as the duties set out in Quincecare, when thinking  about 
whats fair and reasonable, banks and we do also need to take account of the wider  
regulatory environment  for the protection of consumers, such  as the Financial Conduct 
Authoritys general principles on treating customers fairly, and any relevant codes of 
good conduct and/or good industry  practice.  HSBC, in their response,  said,  It is unclear 
from the ombudsmans provisional  decision which of these (if any) the ombudsman  has 
relied upon. However, my fellow ombudsmen and I have referenced such  matters in 
many previous decisions, both to HSBC and published on our website. In brief summary,  
in addition to the 2017 PSRs and Quincecare , HSBC and we have to be mindful that 
(amongst other  things):
Regulated banks  must  conduct their business  with due skill, care and diligence  
(FCA Principle  for Businesses 2) pay due regard  to the interests  of [their]  customers  
(Principle 6);
Banks have a longstanding regulatory  duty to take reasonable care to establish and 
maintain effective systems and controls  for compliance with applicable  requirements  
and standards  under  the regulatory  system and for countering  the risk that the firm 
might be used to further financial crime  (SYSC 3.2.6R of the Financial Conduct 
Authority Handbook, which  has applied since 2001);
Regulated banks  are required to comply with legal and regulatory anti-money 
laundering and countering the financing of terrorism requirements. At the material 
time, those requirements included maintaining  proportionate  and risk-sensitive 
policies and procedures to identify, assess and manage money laundering risk, e.g. 
through customer due-diligence measures and the ongoing monitoring of the 
business relationship (including through the scrutiny  of transactions undertaken 
throughout the course of the relationship); and
As a matter of good industry practice at the time, I consider banks should have 
sought to identify and help prevent transactions  particularly unusual  or 
uncharacteristic ones   which  could involve fraud  or be the result of a scam 
(something recognised by the British Standards Institutes October 2017 Code of 
Ref: DRN55627934Practice: Protecting Customers from Financial Harm as a result of Fraud or Financial 
Abuse,  which  a number  of banks and trade associations were involved in 
developing.)
11.I dont  see any conflict between the outcome proposed  in my provisional decision and 
the relevant caselaw  and/or regulatory codes (etc). Ultimately, my view and the courts 
position appear broadly comparable and seek to achieve a fair and reasonable outcome  
as between the parties. I dont expect banks to distrust  their customers; or act as 
amateur detectives;  or unreasonably  disrupt transactions  that appear  (and are) 
legitimate; or ignore  the general  principle  that consumers also have responsibility for 
their decisions  and the payments they authorise. But I do think  there are certain cases  
where, on those specific facts, it would have been fair and reasonable for a bank to take 
action because the fraud  alerts  that they are supposed to deploy for regulatory  and legal 
reasons probably  could and should  have been  triggered by transactions so unusual or 
uncharacteristic as to arouse  reasonable grounds  for believing that the authorised  
payment is in fact an attempt to misappropriate funds. And for the reasons set out in the 
provisional decision and here,  I am persuaded that this is just such  a case. In short, it 
would have been fair and reasonable for HSBC  to have intervened and asked discreet 
questions about the payment before processing it because:  
The payment  of £7,250 was an unusually large  amount when compared with 
Miss Ps account statements going  back to November 2017,  which  mostly contained 
only day to day spending, e.g. card payments,  direct debits and cash withdrawals. 
There were infrequent higher-value transactions, the largest being a bill payment for 
£4,800 on 13 March 2018.  But most payments were  for a few hundred pounds or 
less. 
The scam payment  represented a sudden and uncharacteristic increase in spending 
from the account. 
The payment  was to a new payee.
  
12.Whilst HSBC disagree that they ought  to have intervened,  they say that even if they had, 
they think its more  likely  than not that Miss P would have instructed the payment despite 
their involvement. In other words, any failure didnt cause the loss. Again, for the reasons 
already explained in the provisional  decision,  I dont agree  with this analysis. HSBC 
suggest that there would likely  have been an urgency  to making the payment to avoid 
missing out on the vehicle  and by extension that Miss P probably wouldnt have 
heeded any warning  that might  have been  issued.  However, the sale  had already been 
agreed; theres no persuasive evidence to suggest that it was presented as time 
sensitive; and no indication that Miss P was so anxious to proceed that she would have 
ignored warnings or been unprepared to postpone the payment for an hour or so to 
reflect on the matter  and/or  make further  enquiries.
13.HSBC accept that their staff are finance  professionals  but in their response to my 
provisional decision said it isnt reasonable to expect their branch staff to be experts in 
the processes  of the website concerned. I accept that we should  not place undue  
expectations on the knowledge and expertise  of branch staff (albeit  I believe they should 
still have been  properly trained to identify and help prevent fraud and scams, even at the 
time in question  see, for example,  the Banking  Protocol with regard  to branch 
transactions2). But the point  is, I dont think it would have been branch staff that would 
2 This industry-wide initiative, developed by UK Finance in partnership with National Trading 
Standards, trains bank branch staff to spot when someone is about  to fall victim to a scam and try to 
Ref: DRN55627935have contacted Miss P in relation to the payment instruction she provided online. The 
purpose of the contact  would have been  for HSBC to confirm  it was a genuine payment 
instruction and to satisfy  themselves that Miss P wasnt at risk of financial harm. I think 
its likely  that this contact  would have come from a specialist  fraud  team of some sort, 
trained to identify  circumstances where customers are at risk and to have a familiarity  
with the main fraud and scams. I believe that eBay was well known to banks at the time 
 and known by them to be commonly used by scammers. As such, I dont think  its an 
unreasonable expectation for HSBCs fraud  team at that time to have had an awareness 
of the true processes around that website where  it relates to payment instructions. 
14.HSBC maintain that Miss P was grossly  negligent and ought to be held responsible  for 
her loss. They say that purchasing  something as expensive  as a vehicle without  having  
seen it is inherently  risky and it doesnt require financial expertise to identify this. In 
principle, I can accept  that Miss P might have  done more with regard to her purchase.  
But this case is not about whether the vehicle was of satisfactory quality  and/or  fit for 
purpose, etc; it is about whether a scammed payment could and should have been 
prevented by a bank.  Any failing  on Miss Ps part was merely part of the background 
history  it might have occasioned  the loss indirectly (insofar  as the scam might  possibly 
have been exposed if shed requested a viewing, depending on how sophisticated  the 
setup was), but it wasnt, in my view, the dominant or effective cause of the loss. 
15.In my view, it was the failure  of HSBC that really caused the loss  but for its inaction in 
the face of unusual  or uncharacteristic activity,  the loss probably  wouldnt have  occurred. 
Any errors by Miss P were effectively superseded by HSBCs errors, breaking the causal 
chain, so I am not persuaded they played a material role in the loss that actually  
unfolded. I dont  think it can fairly  be said that she, the layperson, was to blame in this 
scenario  or that her compensation  should be reduced accordingly. I have also taken 
into account that Miss P would no doubt have felt reassured by the escrow scheme that 
the scammer convincingly  described.  Had HSBC acted on alerts,  asked reasonable 
questions, and then pointed out that no such scheme exists, this would probably have 
prevented the loss.
16.The email  that purported  to be from eBay  which linked to the web chat where  the 
payment details were  provided was also convincing. It looks genuine and I dont think 
Miss P was negligent when she was taken in by this. I accept it was outside eBays 
published processes and that there is a large  amount  of advice published  on the site 
warning of common frauds and scams. But still, HSBC could and should have prevented 
this transaction  being made.  Miss P appears to have been  totally oblivious as to what  
was going on until too late. She was thoroughly  duped:  the unwitting victim of 
sophisticated criminals. HSBC indicated  in response  to my provisional decision that it 
was alarmed by the proposition that ignorance  might be a complete defence.  I think that 
is overstating the position. However, a person does  need  to reasonably foresee the risk 
of some sort of loss  not necessarily  the precise loss that occurred  in order to be held 
liable in negligence. I dont think it would  be fair or reasonable to say that Miss P was 
careless or partly responsible for a loss that she simply did not foresee. HSBC  hasnt 
persuaded me that Miss P recognised the risk or contributed to her own misfortune 
through careless acts or omissions  when making the payment. There may be cases  
prevent them from withdrawing cash to give to a fraudster. After this the staff can request an 
immediate police response to the branch to investigate the suspected fraud and catch those 
responsible.  www.ukfinance.org.uk/news-and-insight/blogs/why-banking-protocol-matters 
Ref: DRN55627936where a proportionate  reduction in compensation is justified for a customers  contributory 
negligence (as was the case in Singularis), but I am satisfied that this is not one of them.  
17.Finally, HSBC have suggested  that 8% is a punitive rate of interest that isnt fair to apply 
in the circumstances of this complaint.  They say this will result in Miss P being in a better  
position to the banks  detriment. Ive considered this but I dont agree. Im not suggesting 
that Miss P would have otherwise invested and achieved a return  of 8%. But, given the 
average costs of borrowing over time, it has long been our approach that this is a 
suitable rate to compensate for being deprived  of the funds  and I remain satisfied it is fair 
to apply it in the circumstances  of this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above and before, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. 
HSBC UK Bank Plc must  pay Miss P:
£7,250 for the payment she lost as a result of the scam (less any amounts recovered 
from the payee bank and already reimbursed  to Miss P); plus
£250 compensation for distress and inconvenience caused (if the £100 referred to above 
has already been paid then only a further  £150  needs to be paid).
HSBC should  also pay interest on this proposed award (save for the distress and 
inconvenience) at our usual rate of 8% simple per year from the date of the scam payment to 
the date of actual  refund. But interest will also accrue at that rate on the £250 distress  and 
inconvenience if it is not paid within 28 days of HSBC receiving notification  of Miss Ps 
acceptance of my final decision.  Any tax lawfully due on the interest may be deducted  if 
needs be, with the bank providing a tax deduction certificate  to Miss P so she can claim it 
back from HMRC  if appropriate. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 December 2020.
Richard Annandale
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5562793