K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs V complain  that Santander  UK Plc (Santander) mis-sold  them  a monthly  
premium mortgage payment protection insurance  (MPPI) policy.
background
Mr and Mrs V were  sold a MPPI policy in 2001 during a meeting. 
The PPI would have  provided a monthly benefit  for up to 12 months per claim if 
Mr and/or Mrs V were  off work sick or lost their job.
Our adjudicator didnt  think Mr and Mrs Vs complaint should be upheld.  Mr and Mrs V didnt 
agree with our adjudicator and so the complaint has been passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Vs case.
Having done that, Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Vs complaint. I will now explain 
why.
First of all Ive considered whether Mr and Mrs V were eligible under the policy. Based on 
Mr and Mrs Vs age and circumstances at the time of the sale, Im satisfied that they were 
both eligible.
Santander had to make it clear to Mr and Mrs V that the MPPI was optional  and needed  their 
consent before it could  be applied to Mr and Mrs Vs account.  Mr and Mrs V say they didnt 
ask for insurance and it wasnt made  clear  to them that it was optional.
I cant know for sure what took place  during  the sale. So Ive thought about what 
Mr and Mrs V have  told us and have considered the documents  from the time of the sale to 
help me decide  what is more likely  to have  happened during the sale.
Ive seen a copy  of the mortgage application  form. Within this document there is a section  for 
MPPI. Theres  nothing in this section  which  would suggest that the MPPI was compulsory 
and in fact that this section gives Mr and Mrs V an option as to whether or not to take PPI. I 
can see that they chose the option  to take MPPI. This section also indicates  that 
Mr and Mrs V would have completed  a separate MPPI application form. Mr and Mrs V also 
signed separately on the mortgage application form to confirm  that they had chosen to take 
PPI.
So all in all, I think its more likely that Mr and Mrs V were made aware  that the MPPI was 
optional and that it was applied to the account because  they chose to take it out.
Santander accept  they advised  Mr and Mrs V to take MPPI. This means they had to check  it 
was suitable for them.  I dont know  if Santander  took all the steps they should have to check 
Ref: DRN53423792if the MPPI  was suitable for Mr and Mrs V but I do think the policy  was suitable  for them.  I 
say this because:
-Mr V has told us he was entitled  to six months  full pay followed by six months  half 
pay. I havent seen evidence  of this entitlement. But even if Mr V was entitled to this 
amount of sick pay I dont think this made  MPPI unsuitable for him. This is because 
the MPPI  was protecting a valuable asset  and would have paid out in addition to     
Mr Vs sick pay. And it would have been  particularly useful when Mr Vs sick pay was 
reduced. Mrs V has told us she wasnt entitled to any sick pay. The MPPI would also 
have paid out for up to 12 months per claim if Mr and/or  Mrs V lost their jobs.
-Mr and Mrs V have  also mentioned  savings  and other policies but I havent  seen any 
evidence of these.  Even  if Mr and Mrs V did have some savings, these didnt 
necessarily make the MPPI unsuitable for them because the savings could have  
helped with living expenses while  the MPPI helped  take care of the mortgage 
repayments.
-Mr and Mrs V dont  appear to have  been affected by the terms in the policy which  
would have made it difficult for them to make a successful claim under the policy.
-I havent seen  any evidence which suggests the MPPI was unaffordable for 
Mr and Mrs V at the time of the sale.
-Mr and Mrs V could  have cancelled the MPPI at any time without losing out 
financially if they no longer wanted  or needed  it.
As well as checking that the MPPI was suitable  for Mr and Mrs V, Santander also had to give 
them clear  information  about the MPPI   in particular about the costs, benefits  and main  
exclusions in the policy  so that they could make  an informed decision about whether or not 
to take it out.
Its possible the information Santander gave  Mr and Mrs V wasnt  as clear as it should have 
been but this in itself doesnt  mean the policy was mis-sold as I have to go on and consider 
whether better information would have put them off taking it out. And I dont think  it would 
have. I say this for the same reasons I think the MPPI was suitable for them.
So having  taken everything into consideration, I dont think Santander mis-sold Mr and Mrs V 
this MPPI policy.
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Vs complaint against Santander UK Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs V to 
accept or reject my decision  before  13 March  2019.
Navneet Sher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN53423793
Ref: DRN5342379