K820x#14complaint
Mr E has complained about the decision by AXA PPP Healthcare  Limited  to apply an 
outpatient benefit limit to the amount it will pay in settlement of claims for the treatment of his 
chronic condition.
background
Mr E was a member of his employers group private  medical insurance policy, held with AXA 
PPP. In 2015,  he was unfortunately diagnosed with a chronic condition. AXA PPP agreed to 
provide cover for his treatment. However,  Mr E understood that once his condition  had 
stabilised his treatment  would no longer  be covered unless he moved to a different, more  
expensive policy (which  would still be through his employer). On this basis, Mr E decided  in 
April 2017 to switch  to the new policy which covered treatment for both acute and chronic  
conditions. The policy had an overall  annual benefit  limit of £1,500,000. Within this, however, 
cover for outpatient treatment (with  some  exemptions) was subject to an annual benefit  limit 
of £5,000. 
In 2018, AXA PPP advised Mr E that he had exceeded his £5,000 outpatient  benefit  limit and 
so was liable  for the excess of approximately £500. Mr E complained to AXA PPP. He said 
the cost of treatment  hed received to monitor his condition shouldnt have counted towards 
the outpatient limit. He said that AXA PPP should  either pay these  claims in full without 
reference to the outpatient limit or refund him the extra premium he had paid to switch policy 
on the basis that it had mis-sold it to him.
AXA PPP didnt uphold his complaint. It maintained that the treatment in question  constituted  
diagnostic tests and it had therefore applied  the terms of the policy correctly and fairly. 
Mr E was unhappy at AXA PPPs response. He referred his complaint to us.
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint should not be upheld.  In her opinion, given 
that the type of outpatient treatment hed received wasnt one of the exemptions listed  in the 
policy, it was reasonable for AXA PPP to say it was subject to the £5,000 limit.
Mr E didnt accept the adjudicators findings. He said his treatment didnt meet the policys 
definition of a diagnostic test, nor did it fall under any of the other types  of treatment  listed in 
the policy as being subject to the outpatient  limit. He said the policy specifically provided 
cover for chronic conditions which required ongoing or long-term monitoring. On this basis, 
he thought AXA PPP should provide cover for his treatment subject only to the overall 
annual limit of £1,500,000.
In view of the continued  disagreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  this 
complaint. I shall explain  why.
The policy has a section  outlining  what cover  is provided. This is split into three sections: in-
patient or day-patient cover; outpatient  cover; and other  cover  (which includes such things 
as ambulance transport  and treatment received in the home).
Ref: DRN50824012The outpatient cover  is listed under  eleven  headings. For the first two of these  headings, 
which are surgery and scans, the policy  states that benefit is subject only to the overall plan 
limit (i.e. £1,500,000 per year). For the remaining nine headings, which  include the heading 
of diagnostic tests,  it states that these are subject  to a combined  limit of £5,000  per year.     
The policy defines  diagnostic  tests  as investigations, such as x-rays or blood tests,  to find or 
to help to find the cause  of your symptoms. 
Mr E was undergoing treatment to stabilise his condition. His treating specialist was 
monitoring his condition,  including  through  regular blood tests and liver function tests,  to 
determine whether  the treatment was working. AXA PPP said these tests fell under the 
heading of diagnostic tests and so were subject to the outpatient limit. Mr E says these tests 
cant be classed as diagnostic because his condition had already been diagnosed.
I understand Mr Es argument. However,  the tests were to determine his blood chemistry  
and liver function, and I think it is fair to describe them broadly as diagnostic  tests. I say this 
not least because, if they cannot be described  as diagnostic tests,  then I think  no cover 
would be available  for them under the policy. This is because  they are undertaken on an 
outpatient basis but dont fall under any of the other headings for which  outpatient cover is 
provided.
Mr E points out that his policy specifically provides cover for chronic  conditions.  The policy 
states, under the heading of How your cover works, that cover is provided  for both acute 
and chronic conditions. It goes on to explain  that a chronic condition is a disease,  illness  or 
injury which  has at least one of six listed characteristics. This list includes It needs ongoing 
or long-term  monitoring through consultations, examinations, check-ups and/or tests. Mr E 
thinks his blood  and liver function  tests  dont fall under any of the headings  for outpatient  
cover. However, in his view, and bearing  in mind  the policys coverage  of chronic conditions, 
this means the tests  are eligible for cover but are simply subject to the overall annual policy 
benefit limit of £1,500,000.
I disagree with Mr Es interpretation of the policy. While it states that cover  is provided for 
treatment of chronic conditions, I dont  think this means that all such treatment is always  
covered regardless  of the rest of the policy terms. In other words, Mr E needs to read the 
section on How your cover works in combination with the policy section outlining the 
specific cover available.  While I agree the policy  could have been more clearly  worded, I 
nonetheless consider that if a certain type of treatment is omitted from the table of outpatient  
cover, it doesnt mean cover for that type of treatment is subject only to the overall policy  
benefit limit of £1,500,000; it instead means cover  for that type of treatment isnt provided.
Mr E has suggested he received wrong  advice at the time he switched to the more 
expensive policy. However,  AXA PPP has explained that the advice  was from Mr Es 
employer. I cant therefore hold AXA PPP responsible for this.
In summary,  I think it was reasonable for AXA PPP to regard the blood tests and liver 
function tests as diagnostic tests and to provide cover on that basis.  It is unfortunate that this 
has caused Mr E unwittingly to exceed  his annual outpatient limit. However,  I am satisfied  
that AXA PPP has acted  fairly and I dont  require it to do anything more.   
Ref: DRN50824013my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 May 2019.
David Poley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5082401