K821x#15complaint
Ms Ps complaint is that she received unsuitable advice from Agincourt Financial Ltd to 
invest her self invested personal  pension (SIPP)  in a contracts for difference (CFD)  trading 
account.  The account has fallen in value  significantly.  She considers this advice was 
unsuitable.  
background
In September  2015 the process to switch Ms Ps personal pension  to a SIPP  was started.   
The SIPP was opened in early October  2015.  In late October  the funds (around £59,000) 
were received in the SIPP.  Shortly after, £57,000 was transferred to a CFD trading account 
with Saxo.   Ms P completed  a Limited  Power of Attorney to allow the firm to manage the 
account on a discretionary basis.  Trading started  on 2 November 2015.  It continued up to 
July 2016 when a new discretionary manager was appointed. 
An adjudicator looked at Ms Ps complaint.  It was his view that the complaint should  be 
upheld.  He said the firm were aware  that the SIPP had been arranged to allow  the 
investment in the CFD account  to go ahead.   He considered that the firm should have 
reviewed the suitability of the account and concluded  that it was unsuitable.
The firm did not agree with the adjudicator.  It said the complaint  should properly be directed 
to the two unregulated firms who had advised and arranged the switch of Ms Ps personal 
pension to the SIPP. The description of the firm as an investment  adviser  on the Saxo form 
was misleading.  It did not describe itself as a financial adviser.  The  only activity carried  out 
by the firm was the discretionary management  of Ms Ps CFD account.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I have come  to the same 
conclusion as the adjudicator and for essentially  the same reasons.  
It is not clear  from the available evidence how or why Ms P switched her personal pension  to 
a SIPP.   However, it seems that the purpose  of this arrangement was to enable Ms P to 
trade CFDs.  This switch took place  after conversations with an unregulated introducer.  
However, nothing  about  the discussions between the introducer  and Ms P was documented. 
Ms P has also said that another  unregulated  introducer was involved  in the switch.  The firm 
has said another regulated firm was involved.   An appointed representative of another  
regulated firm verified identity documents for Ms P.
So exactly  what went on and why the switch to the SIPP took place isnt clear.  However, 
what is clear is what happened after the switch to the SIPP.  After the switch to the SIPP, 
essentially all the money in the SIPP was invested in a CFD trading  account with Saxo. Ms P 
completed a Limited  Power of Attorney, authorising the firm to manage  the SIPP account on 
a discretionary basis.  
What were  the obligations on the firm when managing Ms Ps CFD account?
COBS 9.2.1R (1a) says that a firm must:  
Ref: DRN56926012take reasonable steps to ensure that a personal recommendation, or a decision to trade, is 
suitable for its client;
(my emphasis)
The firm has concentrated on the role of other,  unregulated  firms in bringing  about the switch 
of Ms Ps personal pension to the SIPP.  I accept that there is no documentary  evidence to 
support an assertion that Agincourt  gave advice to Ms P to switch  her personal pension  to 
the SIPP.  However, it is not in dispute  that Agincourt managed Ms Ps CFD account on a 
discretionary basis.
 
The firm was making decisions  to trade  on Ms Ps account and was therefore  obliged to 
ensure these decisions were suitable  for her.  COBS  9.2 says that when  managing 
investments, a firm must obtain the following  information about the investor  to establish their:  
(a) knowledge and experience in the investment field relevant to the specific type of 
designated investment or service;
(b) financial situation; and
(c) investment objectives;
The information regarding  the financial situation  of a client must include, where relevant, 
information on the source and extent of his regular income, his assets,  including liquid 
assets, investments  and real property, and his regular financial commitments.
The firm did not obtain any of its own information  about Ms P.  Instead it seems to have  
relied on the information obtained by Saxo.  However, Saxo  was recording information to 
establish whether  the account  was appropriate,  not whether the account was suitable.  As a 
result the information  recorded wasnt particularly detailed.
Whilst various statements  were  made  that CFD trading  was high risk the level of risk that 
Ms P wanted to take was not properly established  no explanation or description  of what 
high risk entails was provided to Ms P.  
Basic information about Mr Ps income  and savings  was recorded on the Saxo forms.  
Nothing was recorded about Ms Ps investment objectives  or the length  of time she wanted 
to keep the investment.  
Despite the limited information  available I am satisfied that it was apparent  from the available  
information that the CFD account was unsuitable for Ms P. 
As set out in COBS 9.2 there are three key factors in determining whether an investment is 
suitable. These are: 
Does the investment  match the level of risk that investor is prepared to take?  
Do they have the knowledge and understanding to understand the level of risk they 
are taking? 
Is the investment  consistent with their financial circumstances i.e. do they have the 
capacity to withstand the scale  of the financial loss they are exposed  to?
Whilst Ms P was given  information which described  the product as high risk, I am not 
persuaded Ms P was in reality a high risk investor.  She had no other investments only a 
Ref: DRN56926013modest amount  in cash savings.  Her existing personal pension was invested in a balanced  
risk fund.  However, even  if I accept  that Mr D was a high risk investor - I am not persuaded 
that the other tests of suitability  have  been met.  
Given her lack of investment experience  I dont think Ms P had the knowledge or experience 
to appreciate the level of risk she was taking.   CFDs are high risk, complex products that are 
rarely suitable for a typical retail investor.   
The third factor is Ms Ps financial circumstances.  The CFD account represented the 
entirety of Ms Ps SIPP, which in turn represented a substantial  proportion of her pension 
provision.  Even if Ms P was prepared to take a high level of risk - and I am not persuaded 
she was  for an investor to invest the majority of their pension  in a single high risk product 
is unsuitable.  CFD trading carried the very real risk of losing the entirety of the investment.  
Ms P was not in a position to take this level of risk with her pension.  
For these reasons my conclusion is that the CFD account was not suitable for Ms P.  On  
being appointed to manage the account the firm should have told Ms P that the account  was 
unsuitable.  I consider  it reasonable to assume that if Ms P had been  advised by a regulated  
firm that the CFD account was unsuitable  she would have heeded  the advice.  So shortly 
after the firm was appointed to manage the account I consider it reasonable to assume that 
Ms P would  have made alternative  arrangements  which were suitable for her.  
 
Ms Ps original  personal pension had been  invested on the basis  of a balanced or medium 
level of risk.  I consider  it reasonable  to assume that any alternative investment would have 
been made on the basis of this level of risk.  I consider this is consistent with her 
circumstances, knowledge  and experience and probable attitude to risk.     
The adjudicators view was that the loss of his pension provision would  have been  upsetting  
for Ms P. I agree with the adjudicator and the £250 he has proposed  as suitable 
compensation.
fair compensation
My aim is that Ms P should be put as closely as possible into the position she would  
probably now be in if she had been  given  suitable  advice.
I take the view that Ms P would have invested  differently.  Its not possible to say precisely 
what she would have  done differently. But Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair 
and reasonable given  Ms P's circumstances and objectives when she invested.  
what should  Agincourt do?
To compensate Ms P fairly, Agincourt must:
Compare the performance of Ms P's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below. If the fair value  is greater  than the actual value there is a loss and 
compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value , no 
compensation is payable.
Agincourt should add interest as set out below. 
If there is a loss, Agincourt  should pay into Ms P's pension  plan to increase its value 
Ref: DRN56926014by the total amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should 
allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief.
Compensation should not be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any 
existing protection or allowance. 
If Agincourt is unable  to pay the total amount into Ms P's pension plan, it should pay 
that amount  direct  to her. But had it been possible  to pay into the plan, it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore the total amount  should be reduced to 
notionally allow  for any income tax that would otherwise  have been  paid.
The notional allowance should  be calculated using Ms P's actual or expected  
marginal rate of tax at her selected  retirement  age. 
For example, if Ms P is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement 
age, the reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Ms P would 
have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation.
Pay to Ms P £250 for the trouble and upset caused to Ms Ps retirement  planning.
investment  
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional 
interest
The 
Lifetime 
SIPPstill existsFTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return  IndexDate the 
management 
of funds 
began08/07/2016 
(date 
transferred to 
new 
investment  
advisor)8% simple  per 
year on any 
loss from the 
end date to the 
date of 
settlement
actual value
This means  the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date  the end date 
being the date at which a new investment manager was appointed.   This is the cash value of 
the account plus or minus any unrealised losses or profits.
fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a return  
using the benchmark.  The end date being  when a new discretionary manager  was 
appointed to manage the account.
Ref: DRN56926015why is this remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method  of compensation because:
Ms P wanted capital  growth and was willing to accept some investment risk.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income  total return index (prior to 1 March  2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock  Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices  
with different asset classes,  mainly UK equities  and government bonds. It would be a 
fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher  return.  
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the 
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison 
given Ms P's circumstances and risk attitude.
my decision
My decision  is that the complaint should  be upheld and Agincourt  Financial Limited  should  
pay the amount  calculated as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Ms P either to 
accept or reject my decision  before  26 March  2020.
Michael Stubbs
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5692601