K820x#14complaint
Miss B has complained  that Bank of Scotland Plc trading as Halifax (Halifax)  mis-sold her 
an Ultimate Reward Current Account (URCA)  a packaged bank account  in 2010. 
Miss B paid a monthly fee for the account which provided several  benefits  in return.
background
Miss Bs account was opened as an URCA in April 2010. It remained as such  until August  
2018, when it was downgraded to a fee-free Reward account.
One of our adjudicators didnt think that Halifax mis-sold the URCA to Miss B and didnt 
recommend that Halifax should pay her any compensation. Miss B didnt agree so she asked 
for an ombudsman to look at the complaint and make a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve explained  how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website.  
Ive used this approach  to help decide what to do about Miss Bs complaint. 
Where evidence is incomplete and matters  are in dispute, as they are here,  I make  my 
decision based on what I think is most likely to have happened  keeping  in mind everything 
Ive seen and been told.
After giving Miss Bs complaint a lot of thought, I dont think the URCA was mis-sold to her. 
Ill explain  why.
Ive started by thinking about whether Miss B was given a fair choice when she took her 
packaged bank  account.
Miss Bs main  complaint point is that she was told shed have to take the URCA in order  to 
have an overdraft on her newly opened  account.  Shes explained that she feels  as though 
Halifax used scare tactics to persuade her to take the account  by telling her about  the 
extortionate penalty fees shed be charged if she used an unarranged overdraft without 
holding the URCA.
I fully understand  what Miss B has said and Ive thought carefully  about  the detailed  
recollection shes provided with her complaint.  And although its not my place to say how she 
felt, or what her intention  was, the other information Ive seen suggests that having an 
overdraft was unlikely  the only reason Miss B agreed to take the URCA.
Halifax says that when Miss B opened  her account she switched from a different bank. With 
that in mind, there  was no existing loyalty between Miss B and Halifax that suggests Halifax  
was the only bank she couldve approached to open a new account with. 
Ref: DRN50354352Ive also reviewed Miss Bs bank  statements and her overdraft history from the time she 
opened her account.  She did indeed apply for a £1,000 overdraft on the same  day as her 
account was opened. But Ive also seen  that Miss B didnt use her overdraft until over a year 
and a half later. In fact, her account  maintained a fairly healthy credit balance  most of the 
time.
This suggests to me that whilst Miss B mightve  thought an overdraft could  be useful, I dont 
think it was the most important factor in her choosing to open a new account. And because 
of this, I dont think shed have agreed to open  the URCA  or even to open  an account with 
Halifax  if she thought the only way to have an overdraft was to pay a fee that she didnt 
want to pay.
Whilst I dont doubt  that Miss B has given her honest recollections, I havent seen enough to 
persuade me that she was given incorrect information which led to her having no other  
option but to open  a paid-for packaged  account. On balance, I think its more  likely that 
whilst she mayve indeed wanted  an overdraft, she was also attracted  to the other  benefits  
that came  with the URCA.
From what  I know about Halifaxs sales process around the time Miss B opened her account 
I dont think that Halifax  recommended  URCA to her. So whilst it didnt have to check  if the 
accounts benefits were  suitable for her, it still had to give her enough information to enable  
her to make that decision for herself.
The main  benefits  of the URCA in April 2010 were a £300 interest-free overdraft, worldwide 
travel insurance, mobile phone insurance and car breakdown cover.  
 
Like our adjudicator, I think that Miss B was interested in some of the benefits  of the URCA, 
and chose it because  of these benefits.  
I can see from Halifaxs records that it sent Miss B a Welcome Pack for the account on the 
day she opened it. And around  10 days later Miss B registered a mobile  phone  under the 
accounts insurance policy, and it also looks as though she contacted the travel insurance 
provider for a medical-related query.  Miss B then went on to make a claim on the mobile 
phone insurance  policy around two weeks later  although she didnt see the claim through 
as she says the excess was higher than her phones value.
Over the following years Miss B registered  a further  four mobile phones and relied on the 
breakdown cover at least twice. 
I appreciate that Miss B has said she only used the accounts benefits  because she thought 
she had to pay for them anyway. And I understand why shes  said that. But because  I think 
she agreed to the URCA knowing that she didnt have to, I think that she took the account  for 
the benefits as well as the potential savings she couldve made when using her overdraft  
rather than simply  to have an overdraft.
Miss B may not have  made claims on all the URCAs benefits. But I do think  Halifax  gave her 
enough information about them to know  what  they were, and how to make use of them if she 
wanted to. And like with any insurance  policy  not claiming on the accounts insurance  
benefits doesnt mean Halifax mis-sold it. 
Ref: DRN50354353Its possible that Halifax didnt tell Miss B everything it should have about the URCA. But for 
the reasons Ive explained I havent seen enough to make me think  that Miss B wouldnt still 
have taken the account, even if Halifax had told her more about  it.
I want to reassure Miss B that Ive looked at all the information I have about her complaint. 
And Ive thought carefully about  everything shes said. But having  done so I dont think  
Halifax mis-sold  the Ultimate Reward  Current Account to her. So I dont  think it owes her any 
money.
my final decision
Im sorry  to disappoint Miss B but for the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold her 
complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 February  2019.
Sam Wade
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5035435