K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
1998. Mr B and Miss L say Yorkshire Building  Society (YBS) mis-sold them the policy.
background 
Mr B and Miss L took out PPI to cover a mortgage in 1998  to cover them if they were unable 
to work because of illness, injury  or unemployment. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think we should uphold the complaint. Mr B and Miss L disagree, so 
the complaint  has been passed to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr B and Miss Ls case.
Ive decided the PPI wasnt  mis-sold and Ill explain why
The PPI was sold a long time ago now so there is limited information available from the time 
of sale. Where I have limited information  about the sale, I have to decide  what  I think is likely 
to have happened given the evidence I do have and the wider circumstances. 
Ive had a look at Mr B and Miss Ls mortgage  application form from 1998  which  said they 
should complete  a separate application form if they required PPI. Their signed  PPI 
application shows they requested full cover for accident, sickness  and unemployment - there  
were options  to select less extensive cover. They also requested  a benefit amount of £450.  
Although these forms were completed in branch, I wouldve expected  Mr B and Miss L to 
have looked over the forms before  signing them. Their mortgage  offer shows  they had 
decided to take PPI and set out the cost of the PPI. 
I can also see their PPI was free for six months. YBS sent a reminder  letter after the expiry  
of this free period and in response to this, Miss L wrote a letter back  clearly saying theyd like 
to continue with the PPI. 
So, overall, based on everything  Ive seen, I think its more likely  YBS made it clear the PPI 
was optional and that Mr B and Miss L agreed  to take it. 
Based on everything  Ive seen, I dont think YBS either assessed their circumstances or 
gave them a tailored recommendation. So I dont think it advised Mr B and Miss L to take 
PPI. This means it didnt  have to check if the PPI was right for them  but it did have to make 
sure Mr B and Miss L got the information they needed to decide if it was right for them. 
Its possible the information YBS gave Mr B and Miss L about  the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But I think  they chose to take out the PPI - so it looks  like they wanted this 
type of cover. Mr B and Miss L were eligible for the policy  and it doesnt  look like they were 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover    so the PPI would have been 
useful for them  if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  I also think 
Ref: DRN55160742Mr B and Miss L would have understood how much the policy was going to cost and what 
theyd get back  if Mr P needed  to make a claim   this was set out in their mortgage offer and 
PPI application.   
I understand Mr B and Miss L were  both employed  so they may have  had some  employee 
benefits or other means  to help them make their repayments if they had found themselves  
out of work unexpectedly. But YBS only had to give them  clear  information about the policy. 
But as explained  above, the cost and benefit was set out for them,  and it was then up to 
them to decide  if the PPI was right for them, bearing in mind  the other ways they had to 
make their repayments if they werent  working. 
Overall, based on what Ive seen, I dont  think  better  information about the PPI would  have 
put them off taking out the cover. 
Which means YBS doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr B and Miss L.
But YBS will pay back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr B and Miss L because: 
YBS got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr B and Miss L about that. Because YBS didnt tell 
Mr B and Miss L, that was unfair. 
To put that right, YBS has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this 
case.
what the business needs  to do
YBS has to pay back to Mr B and Miss L any commission and profit  share it got that 
was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  YBS should also pay back  to Mr B and Miss 
L any extra interest they paid because  of that.
YBS should pay back to Mr B and Miss L the extra  they paid each month because 
the commission and profit share  it got was more than 50% of the cost of PPI. YBS 
should also pay Mr B and Miss L 8%* simple interest on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr B and Miss L can claim back the tax if they dont pay 
tax.
Ref: DRN55160743my final decision
The PPI policies werent mis-sold  so Yorkshire Building Society does not have to pay back  
all of the cost of the PPI to Mr B and Miss L.
But Yorkshire Building Society does have to pay back  to Mr B and Miss L any commission  
and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B and Miss L to 
accept or reject my decision  before  22 April 2019.
Asma Begum
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5516074