K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs H have complained about their home  insurer,  Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance  
Plc (RSA) in relation  to a claim they made  to it after an accident caused  water damage at 
their home.
background
On 17 September  2018 Mr and Mrs H notified RSA of water damage which had occurred 
due to an incident whilst their young son was in the bath. The kitchen ceiling below the 
bathroom was damaged,  including  the electrics,  and the flooring below. RSA asked for 
quotes to be provided  and this was duly done. On 17 October  Mr H asked RSA for an 
update, he was keen for the claim to progress. From comments made later it seems the wet 
flooring had begun to smell  and no plan for the claim had been laid out.
RSA told Mr H that it was authorising the ceiling and electrical  repair quotes, and it settled 
these costs less the excess. But it said it needed to attend his home to determine a cost for 
the flooring. On 6 November RSA said it had authorised its contractor to order  and fit the 
flooring. At this stage RSA had not checked that the floor below  the flooring was dry, nor had 
it arranged to remove the damp flooring.
It was 24 January 2019 before RSAs  installer  received  the new flooring and began to 
prepare Mr and Mrs Hs home for it to be laid. Mr H had removed some flooring  by this time 
as hed been unable to live with the smell over Christmas. But it was found that the floor 
below the flooring was wet. Some tiles were  in place below the flooring, stuck to the floor 
using bitumen, and some  of these were removed  with dust dispersing around the house.  A 
drying company  was appointed and when it attended a week  later it asked RSA if any testing 
for asbestos had been carried out. It hadnt. On 13 February a test was done and the family 
moved to a hotel whilst it was determined if their home had been contaminated.
The family were away from home  for two weeks. During which time it was found that the tiles 
were negative for asbestos, but the bitumen below did contain it. The bitumen layer was then 
sealed to make it safe. The family  returned  home  on 26 February but were concerned that 
they may have tracked asbestos through  the house  particularly  as RSA had disposed  of 
items like their vacuum cleaner in case it was contaminated  and which  they had used all 
over their house before being  made aware  of the asbestos. RSA felt it was unlikely that other  
areas had become affected in this way but did agree to test the rest of the home. This was 
done on 15 March  2019 and on 19 March  it was confirmed that the property was safe and 
clear from asbestos. Mr H asked RSA to complete the reinstatement  of his flooring.
Mr and Mrs H wanted the repairs  at their property  to be finished. Theyd told RSA how upset 
they were at how long this had all been  taking. Mr H had also told RSA that on 
28 January 2019  hed been taken to hospital  and diagnosed the pneumonia which he 
believed had been caused by living  in the property with a damp floor and flooring  for so long. 
He said his kitchen  table had been damaged  when  the bitumen  had been  sealed. He said it 
had been uncomfortable for the family to stay in one room at the hotel for a fortnight with 
limited facilities and belongings. During  this period hed also ended up back  in hospital.  He 
was disappointed that whilst RSA had tested  his home further this only came  about due to 
his insistence  and persistence. 
RSA issued its final response to Mr and Mrs Hs complaint on 20 March 2019. It 
acknowledged that there had been some  delays by it and that more care should have been 
Ref: DRN50049892taken when lifting the flooring. It offered £400  compensation.  It offered reassurance  that the 
risk from asbestos had always been limited and confirmed that checks  had shown the 
property was safe. RSA did not accept that it had damaged Mr and Mrs Hs table. 
Mr and Mrs H complained  to us but they werent  happy with our investigators findings. Mr H 
in particular felt we hadnt taken account  of his episode  of pneumonia. Their complaint was 
passed to me to review. In short, whilst I felt RSA had handled the claim poorly,  I didnt think 
there was evidence linking the conditions in the house to Mr Hs illness.  I didnt think  it would 
be fair or reasonable  to make RSA pay any further  compensation.  
RSA didnt reply to my provisional decision.  Mr H acknowledged my decision. He 
commented that it made no reference  to the fact of further damage hed notified us about, 
which had occurred to the flooring RSA had laid after it had issued its final response on the 
complaint about  its claim handling. Our investigator  clarified to Mr H that his complaint about  
the new damage does not form part of this decision and is being  dealt  with separately under 
a separate reference.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I said provisionally:
I dont think RSA managed this claim very well. I note it accepts it should have checked for 
moisture trapped below the flooring at an earlier stage in the claim. If it had the flooring could 
have been lifted  and drying  taking  place whilst its installer was waiting for the new flooring to 
be delivered. RSA could at least have given  Mr and Mrs H the option of having the damp 
flooring lifted whilst the new one was on order. As it was their claim was delayed by nearly 
three months and for at least  part of that time they lived in a smelly damp house.
Then when  the possibility  of asbestos was found  it took a week for the family to be moved 
out and tests to be undertaken. I know RSA felt the risks for the family was limited, and it 
may help Mr and Mrs H to know that I think that was a fair assessment by it. But the risk was 
there and it was clearly  a big concern  to Mr and Mrs H. RSA should, I think, have arranged 
to test the rest of the house before the family returned home  that would have been 
reasonable given items  like the vacuum  were disposed of on a precautionary  basis.  
Im not persuaded though  that RSA likely  damaged Mr and Mrs Hs table. Ive not seen 
evidence of the table before items were placed  on it whilst the bitumen was being sealed.  So 
whilst it is now clearly scratched, I cant assume  that happened due to RSAs actions. And it 
is clear that items had to be lifted off of the floor for the bitumen to be sealed, and there was 
little room for them to go elsewhere in the house. And I dont think RSA could reasonably be 
expected to have taken  the items for off-site storage when they only needed  to bel lifted for a 
few hours.  So I think placing items  up there was unavoidable. But RSA could have 
re-attended later, before  the family  came  home,  to reinstate the items. And when 
Mr and Mrs H told RSA about  the damage, it was suggested that they should have cleared 
the kitchen themselves in order for the work to be done. I think it was unfortunate that RSA 
raised this argument   the reason work was being  done was to seal in potentially  harmful 
asbestos, and for which the family  had been moved  out of the home. This was not an 
appropriate comment on the part of RSA and Im not surprised that it frustrated 
Mr and Mrs H.
Ref: DRN50049893It is unfortunate that the family had to move  out of their home.  But its by no means  clear  that 
a short  stay away from home as a result of this claim  could have been avoided.  It should 
probably have  happened  in a more organised manner, and the circumstances wouldnt have 
been so fraught if the asbestos  risk had been  identified and planned to be dealt with before 
dust was traipsed around the house,  but it may well still have been  necessary. It would 
always have taken time for the test results to come back  and I can see that here, once  they 
were back,  the work to lift the tiles and seal the bitumen happened in a matter of a few days. 
But I acknowledge that this was a worrying and stressful time for Mr and Mrs H which,  better 
handling by RSA, would likely have avoided.
I understand why Mr H attributes their living condition to the illness he suffered  in 
January 2019.  Whilst I see that Mr H became  ill a couple of days  after RSA had attended  to 
lift what remained of the damp flooring, I note that Mr H said he removed some before 
Christmas, quite a while before  he became ill. And Ive not seen evidence that makes me 
think the illness was caused by the conditions in the house. It may have been  but that is not 
enough for me to make a finding against  RSA in this respect.  
I know matters  have  continued since RSA issued its final response  at that time the flooring  
had not been laid, Mr H reports delays were still occurring and hes since  raised  concerns 
about the completed work. However, in this complaint, I can only consider mattes  up until the 
final response was issued.
Having considered everything  that happened between the claim being made in 
September 2018 and the final response being  issued in March 2019, I do think RSA failed 
Mr and Mrs H. I accept, as explained above,  that they were caused distress  and 
inconvenience as a result. However,  I note the offer of £400 compensation made by RSA,  
and I think that is fair and reasonable in the circumstances  here. 
As neither party has objected to my findings, Ive no need to change them. My provisional  
findings are now the findings of this, my final decision. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  I dont make any award against Royal & Sun Alliance 
Insurance Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  23 January 2021.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5004989