K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
2004. Mr F says St Andrews Insurance Plc (St Andrews) mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Fs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
St Andrews  had to make  it clear that the policy was optional and Mr F had to agree to take 
it out. Neither Mr F nor St Andrews have  been  able to provide  much of the paperwork from 
the time of the sale, which isnt surprising considering this was more than 14 years ago. So 
in cases like this I need to decide  what I think is more likely to have happened.
St Andrews  has told us the policy was taken out by post and it says it would have made 
the optional nature clear. I dont  have copies of the paperwork Mr F saw or signed but St 
Andrews has been able to provide  us with a letter that was sent to Mr F following the 
sale of the policy and this refers to Mr F choosing to take out the policy.  It also confirms  
that a direct  debit instruction had been  completed to enable  them  to deduct  the premiums  
from his account. I can see this letter also confirms that the policy  could be cancelled at 
any time. If Mr F didnt want the PPI policy I think he would have cancelled the cover as 
soon as he received  this letter.
Im also aware that the policy was taken out after Mr Fs mortgage had started, which 
would suggest  that it wasnt a requirement of the mortgage that Mr F took out this cover.
So based  on the limited information  I have seen, I think its more likely St Andrews made  
it clear Mr F didnt  have to take out the policy and Mr F agreed to take it, knowing he 
could refuse  it if he didnt want it.
As this was a postal  sale, with no interaction with staff members, St Andrews says it didnt 
recommend the PPI to Mr F. I think that is likely  to be the case. So it didnt have to check if it 
was right for him. But it did have to make  sure Mr F got the information he needed  to decide 
for himself if it was right for him. 
Its possible the information St Andrews gave Mr F about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But he chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like he wanted this type of 
cover. Based  on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it doesnt look like he was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it would have been useful 
for him if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont  think  
better information about the PPI would  have put him off taking out the cover.  
Ive thought about everything Mr F has said, including  what he has said about  not needing 
the policy as he had sick pay and savings he could  have  used. As I mentioned  previously, 
this policy  was sold to Mr F through the post,  so it was for him to decide if the policy  was 
suitable for him, based on what he knew about his personal circumstances. And this policy  
Ref: DRN53174862would have paid out in addition to, and potentially for longer than his sick pay as it would 
provide cover for up to 24 months.  And it would have enabled him to protect his savings  for 
another purpose, or use them to cover other essential living  expenses. So this point doesnt 
alter my decision.
So overall, when  taking everything  into account, I dont think  Mr F has lost out as a result  of 
anything that St Andrews  may have done  wrong.
my final decision
For the reasons  stated  above, I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 February  2019.
Jenny Giles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5317486