K821x#15complaint
Mr C has complained about AXA Insurance UK Plc, the provider of his commercial 
buildings insurance  because it has avoided his policy (treated it as though it has never 
existed) and, by association, declined his claim for significant structural damage caused  to 
his property when  a culvert beneath  it collapsed. AXA has also reserved its position 
regarding the claim  in the event its avoidance  is found to be unsound, its said it will likely  
decline the claim on the grounds that the damage originated before the policy began.
background
Dating back several  years  before the events  that led to this complaint Mr C bought  the 
property in question. He didnt undertake  a survey and there was no mortgage arrangement 
utilised (meaning there was no lender to require a survey).
In October  2015, according to evidence from the council and a loss adjuster not involved 
with Mr Cs claim and complaint, two simultaneous events occurred. One being  damage to 
the roadway at the front of the property when a section  of culvert running  under it collapsed 
and which  the council repaired.  The other being an ingress of water  to Mr Cs property. The 
loss adjuster says he thinks that was likely linked to the culvert damage  in the road outside  
but cant be sure. Mr C says it was a distinctly separate event, caused by a blocked drain at 
the rear of his property.  He also says the events occurred  a few weeks  apart.
Mr C owns the building  and has, or had, links to the salon that operated  out of the ground  
floor. The upper floors comprised a flat, let to a residential tenant.  Following the water  event 
Mr C became aware that the salons insurance didnt provide cover for the buildings and 
that he didnt have cover for the buildings  elsewhere. He asked his broker to arrange  a 
policy. The broker did so and cover  commenced with AXA in early  November 2015.
In 2016 Mr C was made aware of water  running underneath his property. Upon  
investigating he saw water running under  the floor in the basement and noted that some 
supporting walls had collapsed. He contacted AXA and it began  investigating the situation.
AXA said it felt Mr C had made misrepresentations to it about the property when hed 
arranged cover. It also said, whilst reserving its right to argue misrepresentation, that the 
damage had likely been on-going at least since 2010, and that damage  which  originates 
before cover  starts  is specifically excluded by the policy.  The misrepresentations it felt had 
been four-fold,  with Mr C not telling it about:
the history of flooding  at the property.
the property damage which had occurred in 2015.
the historic subsidence of the property (noted  by its loss adjuster).
the existence of the culvert.
AXA subsequently avoided Mr Cs cover  and returned his premiums. Mr C complained  to 
this service.
Our investigator felt, given  the policy definition for flooding, that Mr C hadnt  taken  
reasonable care when  telling AXA the property was not in an area with a history of flooding.  
He was satisfied  that if AXA had been told this information it wouldnt have offered cover. 
He therefore felt AXAs avoidance  had been  fair and reasonable.
Ref: DRN55829272Mr C was unhappy. He asked for an ombudsmans decision. The complaint came to me 
and I felt it should be upheld. I issued a provisional decision which  Mr C accepted. AXA 
didnt agree with my findings. My provisional  findings were:
I dont agree with our investigator  that AXAs avoidance was fair and reasonable, not least 
because policy definitions  cant reasonably be taken into account  when assessing what 
likely happened before the policy came  into effect.  On that basis I also need  to address the 
issue of the claim. 
Consumer Insurance  (Disclosures and Representations) Act (CIDRA)
This legislation  applies  to consumer contracts. Because Mr C is a landlord  his policy  was a 
commercial one. Therefore, the rules set out by CIDRA, strictly speaking, dont apply.
However, this service often gives consideration to whether or not its fair to treat an 
individual as a commercial consumer. Where we do so, and find the individual  is 
unsophisticated,  or akin to a non-commercial consumer - well often apply the rules set 
out by CIDRA  when  considering a complaint  about  misrepresentation.
Mr C is a landlord who owns  a couple of properties.  Im not convinced  though that the scale  
of his business is suggestive of a commercial entity. I havent seen that he is any more able 
to deal with or understand matters  than your average consumer.  Therefore  Im satisfied that 
Mr C is an unsophisticated consumer, meaning  reference to commercial  insurance rules 
when considering his complaint would be unfair. Instead Im going to take into account what  
CIDRA says and allows AXA to do.
what does CIDRA say?
CIDRA requires a prospective  policyholder  to take reasonable care to not make any 
misrepresentation to the insurer when applying for cover.
If a misrepresentation  is made which is a qualifying misrepresentation  then the insurer  will 
be allowed to take certain action.
If reasonable care wasnt taken by the prospective policyholder and the insurer  can show  
that if it had been,  it wouldnt have entered  into the insurance contract, or it would but only 
on different terms, the misrepresentation  made is seen to have been a qualifying one. And 
the insurer will be allowed  to set the clock back  to reflect what  would have happened if the 
misrepresentation hadnt been made.
Whether the prospective policyholder did misrepresent the situation will depend largely  on 
whether the questions asked by the insurer were clear and/or specific enough  to elicit from 
the reader what  it really was the insurer wanted  to know.
what did AXA ask?
AXAs statement of fact confirms that Mr C said:
hed had no claims or incidents giving rise to a claim in the last five years.
the property was not in an area with a history of flooding.
Ref: DRN55829273the property or adjacent property has not suffered from or does not show any visible  
signs of damage from subsidence,  landslip or ground  heave.
It didnt ask anything  about a culvert  or any type of watercourse, or whether there was 
anything like this in the vicinity of the property.
culvert
Taking the last point  first  AXA didnt ask told to be told about the existence of the culvert. 
As it didnt  ask it cant reasonably be said that Mr C misrepresented  anything to it about  this.
previous claims
Water damage is a big cause for concern in the insurance industry,  and details about  
previous claims and/or  losses  often form a key part of an insurers  consideration of the risk 
they are being  asked  to offer cover for. So I understand that AXA would like to have known 
about the previous incident  at Mr Cs property.
But I dont think the question it asked Mr C was clear enough to let him know thats  what  it 
expected to be told about. Ive seen questions similar to this one. Many  refer to incidents  
and/or losses that might give rise to a claim and include a phrase like; whether insured or 
not. AXA didnt opt to use wording like that here.
Here Mr C had no cover,  so he made no claim, which means  the incident that occurred 
didnt give rise to a claim. Mr C answered  the question  that was asked of him correctly. He 
didnt, in my view, misrepresent the situation.
flooding
AXA clearly  didnt want to just know if the property  it was being asked to cover had ever 
flooded. It wanted to be informed about what was happening in the wider  area of the 
property. Given recent  flood events in the UK, I can understand why AXA would  want to 
know that. I think its question was clear enough  in this respect. Ive considered then 
whether Mr C adequately  answered that question  and/or misrepresented the situation.
I see there was an incident  in October  2015  when a significant amount of water entered the 
premises. Im not too worried  as to whether this was from the culvert or a blocked  drain.  The 
reasonable person, regardless of insurance  policy definitions  or terminology, would consider 
an unexpected  body of water  inside a property to be a flood. But asking Mr C about the 
area having a history of flooding required him to apply a broader consideration, in terms 
of time as well as locale.
Im aware that the council had repaired the culvert downstream of Mr Cs property some time 
in 2013 or 2014 when it was reported  that water  was emanating out of the manhole  cover.
But, as far as Ive seen,  all Mr C knew about  this at the time the policy  was arranged was 
that thered been a blockage in that area which the council had attended  to and fixed.  This 
was reported to him verbally by the council when repairing the road in 2015. I havent seen 
that he knew or should reasonably have  known thered been a flood (if there was one).
Therefore, Ive not seen that the area had a history of flooding.  As a result, Im not 
persuaded that Mr C misrepresented the situation to AXA in this respect.
Ref: DRN55829274subsidence
It isnt unusual for an insurer, when considering whether to offer cover  for a property to want 
to know if its ever suffered from subsidence, or damage that might  be associated with 
subsidence. I think this is likely what AXA really  wanted to know  here. But I dont  think 
AXAs question was clear  enough to communicate that to Mr C.
AXA found images dating back  to 2010 showing the property  had external  cracking  to its 
render indicative,  its loss adjuster says, of subsidence damage. Mr C says he wasnt  aware  
of any subsidence  damage but that a contractor working for him in 2011 had told him the 
render had failed.  At that time Mr C agreed  to the contractor  adding its replacement to the 
list of work previously agreed. Whilst AXAs expert has recognised  those cracks as being 
related to subsidence, I havent seen anything to make me think Mr C should reasonably 
have known that. And AXA didnt ask him to tell it about any cracking;  it put the focus on 
being told about visible signs of damage  from subsidence. That meant  unless Mr C had, 
or reasonably should have, linked the cracking  noted in 2011 as having been caused by 
subsidence (and therefore being a visible sign of subsidence damage), he wouldnt have 
needed to tell AXA about it. Given what Ive seen and based  on the specific  question he 
was asked by AXA, I dont think Mr C misrepresented the situation.
reinstating the policy
As Mr C didnt,  in my view,  misrepresent  the situation, there wasnt any qualifying 
misrepresentation as required  by CIDRA which might otherwise allow  AXA to avoid the 
policy. That means  its avoidance here was unfair  and unreasonable  and it will have to 
reinstate Mr Cs policy (removing the record of the avoidance from its own and any industry 
records). Mr C will need to re-pay his premium  and subject to that, AXA will have to deal 
with his claim.
the claim
AXA has already  said that if its voidance of the contract is cancelled then it will decline 
liability for the claim. The policy  in question excludes cover for damage  which  originates 
prior to the contracts start date and AXA believes Mr Cs property has been suffering from 
damage for quite some time.  Not least given the photographic  evidence  of cracking from 
2010/2011.
I dont doubt the property  has been  moving for some time. But all the experts involved seem 
equally agreed that significant  damage  and movement has occurred during the term of 
AXAs cover.  AXA cant fairly walk away from fixing that damage merely  because other 
damage was occurring before. If areas  of pre-existing and current damage cant  be 
distinguished between, and/or pre-existing damage needs to be fixed  in order  to resolve 
current damage, and/or provide a long-lasting and effective repair  to current damage,  then 
AXA will need to fix the older damage  too.
Whilst I know some emergency, urgent and making safe work has been done  at the 
property the damage  is structurally  complex. It isnt something Id expect an insurer  to look 
to settle in cash, even where some  work  has been done. For the work done  AXA will have 
to look to reimburse Mr Cs outlay, plus interest* from the date he paid for any work until 
settlement is made. It will also need  to arrange to assess the property  with a view to 
establishing what is needed to reinstate it, and then do that work.
Ref: DRN55829275I understand that Mr Cs policy also offers cover  for lost rent and/or business  interruption 
and that the tenants of the business premises, as well as the flat, had to vacate some time 
in 2016 because the building was unsafe. AXA will have to consider  what the policy  owes  
Mr C in that respect. To any settlement it should  reasonably add interest* from the date the 
payment under the policy would have  been  made but for its unfair avoidance and decline,  
and until settlement is made.
If the policy has any applicable limits that might leave a difference  between what  the policy 
reasonably owes  and Mr C has lost, AXA will need to consider  whether it owes Mr C 
anything outside  of the policy terms given  its unfair  avoidance, and therefore the delay  to 
the claim.
compensation
I havent seen  that Mr C has been  particularly  distressed or inconvenienced by AXAs  
actions. But I accept  that hes had to fund emergency work whilst also absorbing  a financial 
loss due to rent payments  ceasing.  So I accept hes likely had some  worry and had to 
spend some  time organising work he wouldnt otherwise have needed to (because AXA 
would have taken  it on). I think  AXA should  pay Mr C £250 compensation.
Mr C accepted my findings.  AXA disagreed with them.  
As part of AXAs disagreement it requested a hearing be held so Mr C could be questioned.  
I said this wasnt a case in which I felt a hearing was necessary   and even if it was, that 
process wouldnt allow AXA to question Mr C in the way it seemed it wanted to do. AXA 
accepted what  Id said.
The remainder of AXAs response can be summarised as:
This service shouldnt  use a sophistication test now legislation exists  that clearly  
separates commercial  from non-commercial consumers, and Mr Cs policy was a 
commercial one.
In any event,  Mr C is sophisticated because he owns a limited  company in the buildings 
trade. An internet search shows Mr C is a worldly man who owns three properties and 
has made  several planning applications. He, AXA says, is a man of wealth who has 
ready access  to professional advice and prior experience of making insurance claims. 
That the involvement of a broker meant  it was immaterial  whether Mr C was 
sophisticated or not as the broker clearly  was.
The system  used for applying for the policy is only available to brokers  for commercial 
business and brokers are made aware that AXA expects them  to contact it if there is 
any relevant information it needs  to be informed about.  
Whether or not specific questions were asked  about certain things, Mr C was asked if 
there were any other material  facts  he felt should be disclosed and Mr C had said no.  
This was clearly  wrong, given the other  points already  raised, and so it was a qualifying 
misrepresentation (if CIDRA is being considered).
Policy documents warn the policyholder to make sure all relevant information has been 
passed on, and that there may be repercussions if anything material hasnt been  shared.
Ref: DRN55829276Once he saw the documents Mr C should have discussed with his broker  what  needed 
to be shared and the broker should have told AXA.
Any failure by the broker  shouldnt  be placed  at AXAs  door.
Regarding previous incidents as the question asked didnt define  what  was meant by 
you, Mr C should have assumed it would also mean  any businesses he was in control 
of, or at least asked  the broker what was meant by it. So the question was clear and 
Mr C didnt take reasonable  care when answering it (if CIDRA is being considered).
It is disputed that the word history  suggests more than one event.
In any event,  it seems most likely  Mr C would have known about the second, recent 
flood event  in the area.
Further,  Mr C, having had a flood himself, should  reasonably have made enquiries with 
the council to see if there had been other events in the area.
Mr C, with his history in the building industry,  and his knowledge  of the culvert,  
probably had linked the cracking on the exterior of the property to subsidence,  so 
should have told AXA about this damage.
The policy excludes any damage  where the cause of it occurred before the policy  
began. The collapsed culvert caused  this damage and that likely  occurred  before  the 
policy, so none  of the damage to the property is covered.
If AXAs  decision is found to be wrong, it shouldnt be liable for any consequential  loss 
or interest  because, right or wrong aside, its claims decision was reasonable.
Further,  Mr C has access to money  so shouldnt have suffered any loss or been  forced  
to borrow money at a rate of 8% or more.
Therefore, if interest is to be paid it should be at a rate of 1.5% and only applicable 
from nine months after the claim was made   which  is a reasonable timeframe for AXA 
to have considered matters over.  
I noted AXAs response raised  some new arguments. I considered  them, didnt think they 
changed anything, and shared my initial thoughts  on them  with AXA.  AXA only responded 
in respect of what Id said about the brokers involvement and to ask that I reconsider my 
decision not to hold a hearing.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im still not minded  to hold a hearing  on this case. My reasons for this havent changed since  
I wrote  to AXA about it in November  2019. Essentially this service  doesnt hold hearings to 
allow either party to cross  examine the other,  as AXA seems to want to do and Im satisfied  
that I have  sufficient evidence to reach a fair and reasonable  decision on this complaint.
Ref: DRN55829277I appreciate that legislation now identifies  a difference  between  commercial and 
non-commercial policyholders. But this service still believes that within  the group of 
customers that hold commercial policies there are those that fairly and reasonably need to 
be treated like the average, residential consumer (unsophisticated). In general terms they 
are not akin to a large company with all the knowledge and access  to professional 
assistance at its disposal.  And in considering whether someone is or isnt sophisticated we 
wont usually make assumptions about their level of knowledge and/or ability to access 
advice based  on their level of income  or family history as AXA has sought to do here. Ive 
considered what  AXA has said but nothing makes  me think Id be acting unfairly  by 
considering Mr C to be an unsophisticated consumer.
Whether or not Mr C used  a broker, his sophistication, or lack of it, still has relevance. A 
brokers duty to warn a policyholder that an insurer will want to know  about anything  material  
is not in doubt.  But a broker doesnt have a crystal ball and cant reasonably be expected  to 
interrogate a prospective policyholder to try and find out if there is anything else material   
which it hasnt been caused to ask about by the insurers questions and which  it hasnt been  
so far prompted to enquire about  because of any comments  the policyholder has made.  So 
if the broker asked  Mr C, as it seems it did, whether there was anything  else material  he 
wanted to disclose and Mr C said no, then that brings us back to the fact that, as an 
unsophisticated consumer, Mr C can only be expected to know  a fact is material by the 
questions the insurer asks. And as AXA didnt ask about the culvert,  Mr C wouldnt have 
known, even on consideration  of his policy documents, that he should have asked the broker  
about it and/or told AXA.  I also havent seen that Mr C was unsure about anything  such as to 
make me think he should reasonably have asked  the broker  for advice.
If the broker had been  told material information,  and hadnt passed it on to AXA, then I agree 
that would  be a failure by the broker. A failure  like that wouldnt be held against AXA. But Ive 
seen nothing to make me think  anything like that occurred here.
Im not sure why AXA has raised an issue about  the definition of the word you in relation  to 
previous incidents.  I didnt  say Mr C didnt need  to divulge  the incident at the business 
because it wasnt a personal claim. I said the question wasnt clear enough because he was 
asked about incidents that gave rise to a claim, and as there was no cover, the damage  
couldnt possibly  give rise to a claim.  So the question, in my view, wasnt  clear enough to 
elicit from Mr C what it really was AXA wanted to know   about all incidents  whether or not 
they resulted in a claim.
I think it is fair to say that a general  interpretation  of the word history is a pattern or number  
of activities/events that paint a picture  about the past. So Im not persuaded that Mr C (or 
even the broker) when  thinking only about the flood that had occurred at his business 
premises, failed to take reasonable care to answer the question about history  of flooding in 
the area, and thereby misrepresented the position to AXA. 
Im not persuaded that Mr C knew that a second repair  of the culvert  in his area had 
occurred following flooding. It seems  the report is fairly anecdotal and there  wasnt a 
large-scale  flood event  that was discussed or generally known about locally,  or reported  in 
the press. Nothing Ive seen makes, me think Mr C knew, or should  reasonably  have known, 
this other  repair  followed  a water leak that resulted in a build-up  of water that might, in 
insurance terms, be considered to equate  to a flood. And Im not satisfied that, in not making 
enquiries, having had a flood himself, that Mr C had failed to take reasonable care.  
Ref: DRN55829278I understand why AXA may think Mr C should  have put the culverts existence together with 
the cracking and determined  the cracking was likely being caused by subsidence.  But Im 
not sure he most likely did. Following AXAs view about Mr C for a minute  that he was an 
expert builder with lots of technical knowledge  and understanding  I have to ask myself 
whether someone  like him would realise  that subsidence was probably occurring and do 
nothing about  it, instead giving the go-ahead for a cosmetic cover  up? That seems unlikely 
to me. 
I think there was likely some damage  to the property occurring prior to the cover  with AXA 
beginning. So the culvert  probably was damaged to some extent previously  as well. But 
I havent seen  that there was one failure  of the culvert which  then allowed damage  to occur 
over time until the point  Mr C made the claim.  And Im mindful that this claim was triggered 
because water was heard  gushing under the property. It seems  this was the first point at 
which this had been heard. So it seems likely to me that some  damage to the culvert had 
only recently occurred, which had then allowed the water  to flow in the way that it did. So my 
comments from my provisional findings remain  AXA will reasonably need to deal with 
current damage and if in dealing with that it has to deal with older  damage, or damage 
caused by something  which occurred prior to the cover beginning, itll have to sort the 
older/prior cause damage too.
Im still satisfied that AXAs claim decline was unfair and unreasonable.  When I find that an 
unfair or unreasonable act has caused  a policyholder to suffer  a loss, we consider it fair and 
reasonable to award interest at 8% on the out of pocket costs, and make the insurer liable 
for costs and losses that have arisen  that the policy  itself doesnt cover.  That is quite 
common at this service. Whilst I note that AXA has raised arguments about what  the 
commercial insurance legislation allows for, and what the Canadian courts  have found, none  
of that has bearing  on my assessment  here (because Canadian law has no standing  here 
and Im not considering the complaint in light of the commercial insurance legislation).  
Whether Mr C is wealthy  or not, his money, if AXA had answered the claim fairly, should 
have stayed in his pocket. As AXA didnt do that and Mr C spent his money carrying out 
repair work that, in my view, AXA should reasonably have completed,  I can reasonably 
award 8% interest on his outlay from the point the costs were  incurred.  Likewise, on money 
that should have come into his pocket, from rent and the business income, but didnt 
because of AXAs unfair avoidance and decline. And if the policy has limitations to the cover  
available and Mr Cs losses go beyond that AXA will have to consider what  it needs  to 
reimburse as a result of its delays. It cant reasonably deny liability  on the basis  of what  the 
commercial insurance legislation and Canadian  courts allow as that wouldnt be fair and 
reasonable. Ultimately  Mr C shouldnt be left out of pocket due to what  Im satisfied was an 
unfair and unreasonable avoidance by AXA. 
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  I require AXA Insurance  UK Plc to:
Reinstate Mr Cs policy, subject  to him paying  or an agreement  being reached 
regarding reimbursement of the premium, removing the record  of its avoidance from its 
own and any industry records.
Take on the claim, visit the property to assess the current situation and determine  what 
work needs to be done to reinstate it and then arrange  to complete  that work in line 
with my comments  above.
Ref: DRN55829279Reimburse Mr Cs costs for work carried out to date, subject to proof being provided  by 
him, plus interest* from the date each invoice was paid until settlement is made.
Consider and pay what the policy owes Mr C in terms of lost rent and/or business  
interruption, plus interest*  from the date it shouldve settled this aspect of the claim but 
for its unfair avoidance,  until it settles  my award.
If any applicable policy limits reduce the settlement to Mr C below his reported loss, 
consider whether  anything should  be paid outside of the policy  due to its unfair 
avoidance and associated delay of the claim, taking into account what  Ive said above.
Pay Mr C £250  compensation for the inconvenience its actions caused  him.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 February  2020.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
*Interest is at our services  usual rate of 8% simple  per year and paid on the amounts  specified and from/to  the 
dates stated. If AXA Insurance UK Plc considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income 
tax from any interest due to Mr C, it should tell him how much its taken off. It should also give Mr C a certificate 
showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs  if appropriate.
Ref: DRN5582927