K820x#14complaint
Mrs B complains that U K Insurance Limited  (UKI) wont pay a claim she made under her 
travel insurance policy for a holiday she couldnt  take when she became ill before she was 
due to travel.
background
Mrs B and her husband Mr B had an annual world-wide travel insurance  policy  with UKI. 
They had to cancel  a holiday they had booked,  but were able to get back the costs of this 
without claiming on the policy.  However as they were  now going to go on holiday later than 
they had planned, they decided to cancel their existing policy, get a refund on it, and take out 
a new policy.
In February 2019,  Mr B phoned UKI and said he wanted to cancel the old policy, which was 
due to start that day, and take out a new policy covering the same  risks as before, including 
endorsements for particular conditions Mrs B had suffered from in the past. 
In the course  of the call, the representative says,  
Cancellation cover  begins on the start date of the policy and not before. Did you mention  
you wanted it to start some time in April? 
Mr B says Yes, 25th. So the policy was set up from 25th April 2019.
Unfortunately Mrs B became ill during April 2019 with one of the conditions  mentioned  in her 
policy extension.  She required surgery and they werent able to go on the booked holiday. 
So they claimed on their travel policy.
UKI didnt  accept the claim. It said Mr and Mrs B werent covered for cancellation  under  the 
policy until the start date of the policy  25 April 2019  and by that date Mrs Bs illness  was 
a known pre-condition which was excluded from cover by the policy  terms.
Mrs B complained to UKI that this was unfair. She said UKI should have done more in the 
phone call with Mr B to point out the risks of the policy only starting on 25 April 2019  if they 
were to become  ill before then, particularly as they had extended  the policy to cover the 
conditions Mrs B had suffered from previously.  UKI didnt agree so Mrs B complained  to us.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that this complaint should be upheld.  She said the 
representative did tell Mr B in the course  of the phone call that cancellation  cover  began on 
the start date of the policy and not before. The policy was an annual policy,  and at no time 
during the call did Mr B tell the representative that they had actually  booked  a holiday.
The investigator said that where  a policy term was significant or unusual,  we would normally  
expect the insurer  to highlight this to the customer. Having listened to the phone  call, she 
thought the representative  had done  enough to bring the term to Mr Bs attention. If he 
wasnt sure what  it meant he could have asked  about it or referred  to the policy.
Mrs B thought the discussion that took place about her previous conditions  should have 
been a red flag to the representative that they might need cancellation cover. The 
investigator said the representative  wasnt acting  as an adviser  during the sale,  but had 
Ref: DRN57339322simply provided information about  how the policy worked when asked. It wasnt her role to 
advise Mr B on any risks associated with his wifes  health conditions.
The representative wasnt aware  a holiday had been booked. Mr B had told her they had a 
previous policy  with UKI, but they hadnt needed  to use the cancellation cover on that policy  
because they had been repaid their holiday  costs.  So the investigator  didnt think  the 
representative had any reason to decide Mr B needed any additional explanation about how 
the cancellation cover worked.
Mrs B responded to say, in summary, that:
Mr B may not have stated that another holiday had been booked,  but he had asked 
for the insurance  to start on a particular date, which would give rise to a presumption  
that a holiday  had been booked;  and
the discussion about Mrs Bs previous medical  conditions had gone on for over nine 
minutes, which should have been  a red flag to the representative to advise they 
wouldnt be covered  if they had to cancel before the policy started.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also listened to the phone call Mr B 
had with UKI, and the later call between Mrs B and UKI. 
We consider every  complaint thats made  to us individually and on its particular  facts.  In this 
case, for the reasons the investigator  explained  to Mrs B, I think UKI did enough to point out 
to Mr B that cancellation  cover under the policy would begin  on the date he had asked for it 
to start, and not before.  I say this, in particular,  for the following reasons:
this wasnt the first policy Mr and Mrs B had had with UKI  it was a like for like 
replacement for the policy they were cancelling;
the representative did point out in the phone  call that cancellation cover wouldnt 
begin until the policy start date. In the context of the call I think  it was sufficiently 
clearly said;
Mr B didnt  mention  during the phone call that any holiday had been  booked.  I dont 
agree that the representative  should  have presumed from the fact he asked for the 
policy to start on 25 April 2019  that a holiday had been  booked from that date. For 
example, in an annual policy it could have  been to tie in with a holiday that was to 
end in April 2020;
although Mr B had discussed Mrs Bs previous medical conditions  in the phone call, 
and had asked  for the policy to be extended to include them, there  was nothing to 
suggest to the representative that there was any likelihood they would reoccur  in the 
near future.  In fact she said she wouldnt have considered  them further in relation to 
the policy if Mr B hadnt wanted  extensions on the policy to include them. So I dont 
think they can be said to have been  a red flag so as to require the representative to 
make further mention  of the cancellation provision; and
at the conclusion of the call the representative  told Mr B that she would post the 
policy documents to him and he should read through these to confirm the policy  met 
his needs. In the Important information section on page 6 of the policy  it says:
Cancellation cover
Ref: DRN57339323Your insurance covers you in case you have  to cancel your trip before  it starts. This cover 
begins on the start date shown on your schedule  or the date you booked the trip, whichever 
is later, and ends  when  you leave your home area at the start of your trip (or your home for a 
trip solely within the UK)  see Section F.
All in all I dont think UKI has treated Mrs B unfairly,  and I dont require it to do anything 
more.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint,  and make  no order  against U K Insurance 
Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 September 2019.
Lennox Towers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5733932