K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains about the response  of Vanquis Bank Limited  (VB) to his complaint about 
an item he bought  with his credit card.
background
Mr W says in January 2018  he bought a TV box overseas  for £1,317.75 using his VB credit  
card. He says he was told hed be able to cancel his subscription for £80 per month with a 
third party internet television provider and be able to access the same services through  a 
satellite with another third party business that Ill call Business A. And he says he was shown 
the cost of accessing Business As site, which was over £2,000.  But the salesman  told him 
they could offer a discount and he would be buying the package from Business A.
Mr W also says when he got back to the UK and tried unsuccessfully  to log into Business As 
site he realised hed been mis-sold the TV box. He says he contacted  VB about the matter 
and was eventually  told his dispute had been refused because he couldnt evidence  that the 
TV box could work  in the UK and that he hadnt  returned it to the supplier.
So, Mr W says he feels let down and upset  and he wants VB to be required to accept his 
claim.
VB says it reviewed the documentation Mr W gave it and the circumstances surrounding the 
sale of the TV box. But it says the information  he provided doesnt confirm  theres  been  a 
breach of contract or misrepresentation.  And he hasnt returned  the goods  to the supplier to 
enable VB to dispute the transaction  through the third party business that facilitates the 
credit card.
VB also says its Section  75 teams  confirmed that should Mr W provide sufficient evidence  to 
show a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the merchant in the future, it would 
happily look to assist  him.
Our investigator thought Mr Ws complaint shouldnt be upheld.  
Mr W disagreed  with the investigators conclusions. He said he believes hes been the victim  
of a scam  by paying over £1,300 for a TV box he was told would connect to Business  As 
satellite and would allow him to close his internet  TV account with another  third party 
business, saving  him £80 per month.  
Mr W also said he has a TV box thats inefficient in that programmes cant be accessed or 
the qualitys poor. He said hes tried the box with different broadband providers and from the 
very beginning hes offered  to get it checked out professionally. And he said having checked  
legislation and consumer  websites his understanding is that by paying by credit card he 
should be covered  in this situation.
So, the matters  been referred  to me to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
Ref: DRN54939202Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ws complaint and Ill explain why.
I see Mr W submitted  his claim to VB under Section 75 Consumer  Credit  Act (s75), which  
enables a consumer  to claim against  the credit card provider  if theres  been  a breach of 
contract or misrepresentation by the supplier of goods or services bought with it.
I also see VB rejected Mr Ws claim on the basis that he hadnt given it information 
confirming thered been either a misrepresentation or a breach of contract by the supplier of 
his TV box.
So, I have to decide whether that decision was fair and reasonable, in the circumstances.
Mr Ws given us a great  deal of information in support of his complaint including  a recording 
of what he can see when  using the TV box. But from everything Ive seen, I dont have  
enough information to conclude the issues hes experiencing  are the result of a fault that was 
present when he bought the TV box. I think its at least as likely theyre due to issues  with 
the programmes  or files hes using.
So, in the absence of an independent  experts  report confirming the cause of the issues     
Mr Ws experiencing, I think  VBs decision that there wasnt enough information to support a 
claim on the basis of a breach of contract  by the supplier  of the TV box was reasonable.
But I also have to consider whether there was any misrepresentation by the supplier when 
Mr W bought the TV box. 
I acknowledge Mr Ws told us he bought it as a result of information he was given by the 
supplier to the effect that the TV box would connect to Business As satellite and would allow 
him to close  his internet TV account with another third party  business,  saving him £80 per 
month. And he says this has proved to be untrue, so hes been the victim of a scam.
But I havent seen  any other information supporting  what  Mr W says the supplier  told him, 
such as any advertising  material containing similar  statements about the TV box. And, in 
these circumstances,  I think  VBs decision to reject his claim on the basis  of 
misrepresentation was reasonable.  
So, for these reasons,  I cant fairly  and reasonably  uphold Mr Ws complaint.
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint against Vanquis Bank Limited. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 February  2019.
Robert Collinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5493920