K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about two mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policies taken out 
in 1995 and 1996 when  Mr and Mrs W took out a mortgage and then a further  advance.     
Mr and Mrs W say Furness Building Society  mis-sold them  the PPI.
background
The policies covered Mr W only as the main wage earner.  Initially they covered Mr W against 
being unable  to work due to an accident,  sickness or unemployment. 
Later, in 2001,  the policies were amended to cover  Mr W against accident and sickness only.
Our adjudicator didnt  think the PPI was mis-sold.  Mr and Mrs W disagreed  with the 
adjudicators findings  so the complaints been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive decided the PPI wasnt  mis-sold because:
Furness has been able to show us some of the original paperwork completed in 1995  and 
1996.
I can see that on the original mortgage application form from June 1995 there is a question  
asking if Mr and Mrs W wanted details of PPI offered by Furness. I can see the yes box 
has been ticked while the no box is blank.
The mortgage offer dated July 1995  states that PPI has not been  arranged. The offer has 
been signed by Mr and Mrs W. This suggests that Mr and Mrs W would  know that they didnt 
have to have PPI to get the mortgage.
There is a PPI application form which Furness has shown us and a letter from September 
1995 addressed  to Mr and Mrs W giving details of the PPI which had been put in place.
So I think Mr and Mrs W applied for the mortgage  and added  the PPI after they had 
accepted the mortgage  offer.
In 1996 there is less surviving paperwork,  but I can see the mortgage application form for the 
further advance  again gave the choice to accept  or decline the PPI.
And Furness has been able to show  us a form from 2001 where  the cover  has been reduced  
to cover Mr W against accident and sickness only.
Taking everything into account  I think Furness made  it clear  that Mr and Mrs W didnt have 
to take out the PPI and they chose to take it out  although I can understand why they cant 
remember this after so many years have passed.
Ref: DRN58458382From what  Ive seen I dont think Furness wouldve made a personal recommendation to      
Mr and Mrs W to buy the policies.  So it didnt  have to check  if they were  right for them. But it 
did have to make sure Mr and Mrs W got the information they needed  to decide for 
themselves if it was right for them. 
I cant be sure exactly what  was information was given to Mr and Mrs W during the sale of 
the PPI. Its possible the information Furness gave them about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  
But they chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like they wanted this type of cover  for Mr W. 
Based on what Ive seen  of Mr Ws circumstances at the time it doesnt look like he was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover. So it wouldve been  useful for 
him if something went wrong.  It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont think  better  
information about the PPI would have put Mr and Mrs W off taking out the cover for Mr W. 
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs W have said. Mr W has said he was employed at 
the time the PPI policies were sold to him. Later he became self-employed  and it may have 
been difficult for him to make an unemployment claim after that. Mr W has told he made 
Furness aware he had become self-employed so it should have advised him that the policy  
wasnt right for him.
Ive thought about this, but Ive looked at the sale of the policies. And in 1995 and 1996      
Mr W was employed  so he wasnt  caught  by any policy terms relating to the self-employed.  
So I wouldnt  uphold the complaint because  Mr W became self-employed after the policies 
were sold.
In my view it isnt reasonable  to expect businesses to monitor  customers  circumstances 
after the sale of a policy to check it remains suitable.  So I dont think  Furness  did anything 
wrong by not telling Mr W the policies may not be right for him after he became                 
self-employed.
But in any event I see the policies were amended in 2001 to remove the unemployment  
cover, and the amendment form shows that Mr W was self-employed at that time. So it 
seems to me that some  discussion did take place in 2001 which  resulted in Mr W amending 
the policies.
So overall I think the policies were presented to Mr and Mrs W as being optional  and they 
chose to buy them. I think its possible the information Furness  gave them at the time 
couldve been clearer. But even if Furness gave  Mr and Mrs W all the clear  information that it 
should have, I still think they would have  bought  the policies. All of which means  I dont think 
the policies were mis-sold.
Ive also thought about the commission Mr and Mrs W paid on their PPI  and whether 
Furness treated them  unfairly. 
Furness has told us that the commission for Mr and Mrs Ws PPI was less than half of what  
they paid for each  premium. Weve looked  at how Furness has been working this out and 
based on what weve seen it looks like its right  Mr and Mrs Ws commission was less than 
half the cost of the PPI. As thats the case,  I dont think it needed to tell them about the 
commission  so I dont  think  Furness treated them  unfairly.  This means  it doesnt  need to 
pay Mr and Mrs W back any of the commission they paid for the PPI. 
Ref: DRN58458383my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  26 April 2019
Steve Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5845838