K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs S complain  about the delay in receiving a statement of account from Cabot 
Credit Management  Group  Limited.  Mrs S is also unhappy that she made payments for four 
months but her outstanding balance didnt  change.
background 
Mr and Mrs S opened a loan account  in June 2010 with a third party. The loan was sold in 
2013 and a debt collection company (A) was instructed  to manage the account. The 
company who owned  the loan became part of Cabot Group in 2015  and A continued to 
manage the account.
Mrs S says she always paid A at the beginning of the month by debit card over the phone.  
She also says she asked for the outstanding balance each time she made a payment. She 
became concerned when, despite making  payments, the outstanding  balance  stayed the 
same between January  and April 2018.
Mrs S contacted A in April 2018  and requested a statement of account. She didnt receive 
the statements  until July 2018.
In its final response,  Cabot acknowledged  that there had been unacceptable delay. It said it 
had decided to close the account and waive the outstanding  balance  of £31.65.
Mrs S wasnt  happy with the response. She felt that her concerns regarding  being given an 
incorrect balance between January and April 2018  hadnt been addressed.
Our investigator thought that the level of service  wasnt of the standard  that Mrs S could 
expect, and that being provided with incorrect information about her account had caused her 
stress an anxiety. The investigator  recommended that Cabot paid compensation of £100 to 
Mr and Mrs S.
Cabot didnt agree. It said it had received  the request for statements from A on 31 May 2018, 
and had thereafter requested statements from the original lender. It said it received the 
statements from the original lender  on 31 July 2018  and that it hadnt heard from Mr and 
Mrs S in the interim. It felt that its decision to waive the balance on the account was a fair 
resolution. 
Mrs S didnt agree either. She disputed what Cabot had said about  there  being  no contact 
from her and said shed  called A every month.  She said she hadnt  even been aware that the 
account was with Cabot as she had only ever received letters  from A.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute that there was a delay between Mrs S requesting  statements in April 
2018 and receiving these in July 2018. Cabot has already  acknowledged  that the delay was 
unacceptable and I think it was right to do so.
Ive taken into account what Cabot has said about  not receiving the request for statements 
until the end of May 2018. Its clear that A was responsible for at least  one months delay. 
Ref: DRN50192252However, A managed the account on behalf  of Cabot  (whether  Mrs S was aware  of this or 
not) and so I think Cabot  has to accept responsibility for any delay on the part of A.
Cabot has said it didnt  hear from Mr and Mrs S between May and July 2018. Whilst I accept 
that Mrs S didnt contact  Cabot directly, Im satisfied  that this was because she was 
contacting A about the account and her request for statements.  Moreover,  it isnt Mrs Ss 
responsibility to chase Cabot for the statements. Having requested the statements from the 
original lender, Cabot  should have chased  these  up after the 30 days period. I havent seen 
any evidence that it did so.
There isnt any information  to show exactly what was discussed when Mrs S called A. But I 
think its reasonable to conclude  that she was given incorrect  information  about her account 
balance which prompted her to make  the request for statements. Again, Cabot must accept 
responsibility for As poor service in this respect. 
I appreciate that Mrs S has said that she wasnt aware that Cabot owned  her account. This 
isnt something which  I think is relevant to the determination of the complaint. However,  for 
the sake of completeness,  Im satisfied that Cabot wrote to Mrs S telling her about this in 
March 2016.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint.  Cabot Credit  Management  Group Limited 
must pay compensation of £100  to Mr and Mrs S.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  13 December  2019.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5019225