K820x#14complaint
This complaints about an equity release  lifetime  mortgage that Mr and Mrs H took out on the 
advice of MPA Pension & Investment Advisers in 2004. The complaint is that the lifetime 
mortgage was mis-sold.  Mr and Mrs H are represented here by Mrs W.
background
In 2004, Mr and Mrs H took out a lifetime mortgage of £80,000,  on advice from MPA. The 
terms of the mortgage  provide that no monthly  repayments are required. The mortgage is 
only due to be repaid if the borrower sells the property  voluntarily, goes into full-time nursing 
care or after their death. Interest on the loan is rolled  up into the outstanding balance,  and is 
compounded. This means that if the loan runs for a number of years,  there can be a 
significant balance  to be repaid.
In 2018, Mr and Mrs H complained that it had been mis-sold. MPA  rejected the complaint, 
prompting Mr and Mrs H to refer it to us. The basis of their complaint is that the mortgage 
was unsuitable  for their needs and circumstances  at the time. Our investigator didnt think 
MPA had done  anything  wrong. Mr and Mrs H have asked that the complaint be reviewed by 
an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  If the available evidence is incomplete  
and/or contradictory,  we reach our findings on what we consider  is most  likely to have 
happened, on the balance  of probabilities. Thats broadly the same test that the courts  use in 
civil cases.
The starting point  here is the point-of-sale documentation from 2004.  The value of such  
documents is that theyre contemporaneous;  so they should reflect  what was said and 
agreed at the relevant time. Theyre not fool-proof, of course; its always possible information 
might be recorded incorrectly.
But where the consumers have signed to confirm that the information  is accurate, well 
generally attach some  weight to it. Its typically more reliable  than peoples  individual 
recollections (or, as here, the recollections  of others) at a distance of time which, although 
given in good faith, can sometimes  be inaccurate or contradictory.
Ive thought hard about what Mr and Mrs H are saying now,  and the difficulty I have is that it 
is completely at odds  with what was said and agreed between  them  and MPA in late 2004. 
Just one example  amongst several is that MPA recorded them as having recently sold a 
property in Spain rather than currently  planning to buy one. I dont mean  this unkindly, but I 
cant exclude the possibility that Mr and Mrs Hs current recollections actually relate to a 
different transaction potentially pre-dating this one.
Whether this or some other  explanation is the reason for the difference  between what  
Mr and Mrs H say now and the information MPA gathered in 2004, the fact is that 
Mr and Mrs H gave the information to MPA and signed a document declaring it to be 
accurate. In that context, it was reasonable for MPA to rely on it, and I consider I can do the 
same here.
Ref: DRN59154422It seems  Mr and Mrs H had a specific financial  objective; that was, paying off an interest-only 
mortgage with their existing lender. Mrs W says they had savings they could have used  so 
didnt need to borrow. It does seem  that Mr and Mrs H had some money put by, because  
shortly afterwards they invested it in a bond. 
If Mr and Mrs H wish to complain about the separate advice to take out the bond,  they can 
do so, and possibly  refer it to us if need be. But it doesnt have  a bearing on my 
consideration of the mortgage  advice.  That because  its not unusual for people often to 
prefer to borrow rather than dip into savings  or liquidate other assets that they want to use 
for other purposes.
Ive next considered whether something other than a lifetime mortgage  would  have been  a 
better option. Mr H was recorded as having recently  retired on a modest level of retirement  
income, whilst  Mrs H was still working.  But even then it shouldnt be assumed that 
Mr and Mrs H would  have been accepted  for a traditional mortgage, especially a capital 
repayment mortgage, given their age. This,  combined with my earlier finding that theyd 
decided some borrowing  was necessary  to meet the recorded objective, meant that equity 
release was probably the most suitable option, and arguably the only viable  option  for 
Mr and Mrs H, given their circumstances  and the preferences theyd expressed.
As to the lifetime mortgage itself and Mrs and Mrs Hs comments about the interest  rate and 
index-linking, its normal  for interest to roll up, and then to attract further  interest on a 
compounding basis. The effect of this is demonstrated in monetary terms in the point-of-sale 
material. 
Its possible Mr and Mrs H feel the documents were  too complex to ensure a proper 
understanding of the mortgage. I cant know how much of the information they were able to 
assimilate. But the documents presented the information in a format that was consistent  with 
the requirements set by the regulator  - at the time the Financial  Services Authority, now the 
Financial Conduct  Authority.
That information included  illustrative examples of how house prices  might change over time. 
I mention this because  Mr and Mrs H have said MPAs advisor  told them  house  prices would 
rise by 10% every year.  The examples  given  in the point of sale documents certainly dont 
specify that future growth would be guaranteed to be 10% a year. Ive seen another 
document that does mention 10%,  but that is unequivocally  given as an assumption,  not a 
guarantee. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes  this 
services consideration  of this complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further  
discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  19 March  2019.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5915442