K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) has treated him unfairly in 
increasing his interest rate on his overdraft.  He wants RBS to reduce the monthly charges to 
him and to help him reduce his overdraft facility.
background
I set out the background  to this complaint, and my provisional findings, in a provisional 
decision issued in January 2020.  A copy of that decision  is attached. 
In that provisional  decision, I explained  why I thought  that RBS had not treated Mr D 
positively and sympathetically when he contacted RBS in June 2018, and why I was not 
satisfied that he had been properly  notified  about  the change  in interest rates.  I therefore  
considered that the complaint should  be upheld. 
That provisional view was shared with the parties and their comments have been sought. 
Mr D accepts the provisional decision, and advises that he has recently received notification  
that the interest rate on his overdraft is soon to be increased to 39.49% EAR.  
RBS has provided comments disagreeing with my provisional findings. 
RBS says that when  Mr D contacted RBS in summer 2018 he did not describe experiencing 
financial difficulties. It says that businesses are sometimes  reliant on consumers proactively 
raising their difficulties and that the business  cannot be criticised  for not identifying Mr D as 
suffering difficulties, because he was remaining within his account limits. 
RBS also says that it is satisfied that a notice of variation was sent to Mr D as a notice was 
sent to all affected customers within a project  to regularise a number of accounts. 
RBS finally  notes that it is keen to work  with Mr D regarding his overdraft going forward and 
that it would  be happy to discuss  this further.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am grateful for RBSs  comments  and appreciate  RBSs willingness to work with Mr D going 
forward. 
RBSs comments do not, however,  materially  affect  my provisional  view. 
I accept that businesses may rely on customers raising difficulties, but it is not required  for 
customers to use any specific terms when contacting the business.
Mr D contacted RBS and was concerned that the change in interest  rates would make his 
overdraft unaffordable to him. The adviser he spoke to acknowledged that the overdraft  was 
no longer suitable for him because of this. I accept  that Mr D may not have  used the specific  
terms financial difficulties but I think he gave sufficient information  during this contact to 
communicate that he could not afford  the interest  rate change.  In addition, it was apparent  
Ref: DRN57894242from a review of Mr Ds accounts that he was frequently using the full extent of his overdraft, 
which had been  extended on multiple  occasions and now stood at a high level, and he had 
not returned to a credit position  for some time. 
In my view, RBS had sufficient information from this contact to understand that Mr D was 
experiencing financial difficulties.
In respect of whether RBS sent Mr D a notice of variation, I appreciate that ordinarily it is 
sufficient for RBS to provide details of the information campaign and to confirm that address 
details it holds are correct. This would usually be sufficient for the balance of evidence to 
weigh in favour of concluding that the notice was sent. In this case, however, RBS 
acknowledged to Mr D that it had a note on his account preventing post from being sent to 
him and that on that basis it could not be sure that a notice was sent. 
No further evidence has been  produced to demonstrate that the notice was sent,  and so I 
remain of my provisional view that I cannot be satisfied that it was sent.  
I have not seen evidence or arguments  to otherwise  affect my provisional  decision, and I 
adopt the reasons and decision set out in my provisional decision, as supplemented by my 
comments here, as my final decision. 
For the avoidance of doubt, Mr D has provided  a copy letter indicating that the interest rate 
on his overdraft will soon increase to more than 39%. As I have directed the Royal  Bank of 
Scotland Plc to request income and expenditure details  from Mr D and to propose  an 
affordable plan to reduce his overdraft,  I would not expect that this proposed  increase would 
apply to his account, until such time that such a rate would be affordable  and would not put 
him into further financial difficulties. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out in my provisional  decision and above,  I direct The Royal Bank  of 
Scotland Plc to:
Refund all interest  charged  on Mr Ds overdraft since May 2018 (from 
the specific date of the change to overdraft interest rates)
Request details  of Mr Ds income  and expenditure;
Based  on that information, to propose  to Mr D a repayment plan to 
reduce his overdraft  on a regular basis; and
To pay to Mr D £100 compensation for his distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 March  2020.
Laura Garvin-Smith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5789424