K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains that Automobile Association Insurance  Services  Limited (the AA) has 
decided to cancel  his roadside  assistance  insurance policy. 
background
Mr D had a roadside assistance  policy with the AA. Mr D had continuous  cover  where it 
runs on a continuous basis until its cancelled. In September  2018,  the AA wrote to him 
saying it wouldnt be renewing  his policy when it expired on 5 November 2018.  
The AA said itd taken  this decision because of the number  of times Mr D had used  the 
cover. Mr D thinks  the AA did it because  of a previous complaint hed made.  And hes not 
happy that the AA didnt warn him he was nearing  the limit of times he could use the policy 
when he called them to report  a breakdown shortly before this.  
Our adjudicator considered Mr Ds complaint. She said, in summary, she thought the AA 
were entitled  to cancel  the policy and had done so in line with the terms and conditions.  
Mr D said he didnt agree,  so the complaint  has been passed to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided to not 
uphold this complaint.
Mr D is unhappy that the AA wrote to him to say that it wasnt  going to continue to provide  
him with breakdown cover.  He thinks this is down to a safety  concern that he raised  following 
the AA attending a breakdown due to an issue with his bonnet. Hes also unhappy that the 
AA didnt warn him he was reaching the annual limit of breakdowns. The AA said he had 
unlimited call outs on the policy. But it says that the terms of the policy say its entitled to 
cancel the policy giving  45 days notice. And it ultimately decided  that it wasnt  willing to 
provide the cover any longer.
Under the terms and conditions  of Mr As policy, the AA has the right to cancel the policy at 
any time with 45 days notice. And its entitled to decide whether its willing  to provide an 
insurance policy or not. But it must  exercise this right fairly and reasonably.  
I can see that the AA wrote to Mr D giving him 45 days  notice that it was going  to cancel the 
policy. Mr D then telephoned  the AA to discuss the letter it sent him as he thought the AAs 
decision was unfair. So its clear that the letter was sent and Mr D received it. And Im 
satisfied it gave him the required notice. 
I note Mr D says that he thinks the AA only cancelled  the policy because he complained  
about the way it handled  a breakdown he reported. But Im satisfied from the AAs internal 
records that it cancelled  the policy due to the number of times Mr D asked for assistance. I 
understand that it had attended  his car 19 times in the previous 12 months. I appreciate 
Mr D is unhappy about the AAs decision, but I cant say the AAs has acted unfairly or 
unreasonably.
Ref: DRN56306392Mr D says hes been treated unfairly  by the AA because it didnt warn  him that he was 
nearing the limit of times  he could use policy, before it agreed to send someone  out to him 
when hed broken down  the last time. But I dont think there was a need  for the AA to do so 
as the policy  didnt have a limit to the number of call outs. So I dont think  this makes a 
difference to the outcome of his complaint. 
Ultimately, I dont think it was unfair  for the AA to decide to end the continuous  cover  under 
the policy.  
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, its my final decision that I dont uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 April 2019.
Eleanor Rippengale
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5630639