K821x#15complaint
Ms S complains  that Elevate Credit International Limited (trading as Sunny) lent to her in an 
irresponsible manner.
background
The background to this complaint was set out in the provisional decision I issued in 
October 2019. An extract from this is attached and forms part of this final decision, so I will 
not repeat  that information here.
In my provisional decision I set out why I was minded  to uphold some of the complaint. 
I invited both parties to let me have any further  comments and evidence. Ms S has said that 
she accepts my provisional findings.  Sunny  has provided us with some  comments.  
Although I am only summarising here what Sunny  has said,  I have considered its entire 
response carefully before writing this decision.
In its original response to Ms S, Sunny had agreed to uphold  her complaint about loan 1 so 
I didnt look into that loan in any detail. Sunny has now reconsidered that response and says 
that it doesnt think it was wrong to give loan 1 to Ms S. We have told Ms S about  that 
change and she has agreed for me to consider loan 1 afresh  in this final decision.
Sunny has pointed out that Ms S repaid each of her first ten loans on time and didnt tell the 
lender about any financial  problems she was facing before any of the loans she was given. It 
says that it calculated that Ms Ss disposable income was sufficient for her to sustainably 
make her repayments on each of the loans. 
Sunny notes that I havent concluded  that its affordability calculation was inadequate  or that 
Ms Ss declared disposable income  was insufficient  to make the repayments. And it says 
that it did independently check the information  she was providing  about her finances by 
comparing it to credit reference agency  data.  
Sunny considers that it is artificial  to make creditworthiness  and affordability assessments  
dependent upon the number and frequency of loans that a consumer has taken.  And it says 
this argument  is supported  by the guidance that is given in CONC. And finally  Sunny doesnt  
agree that the number of loans taken by a consumer  necessarily impairs their ability  to take 
other mainstream credit.
my findings
Ive once more  considered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
I will first consider loan 1 afresh.  I think that the checks Sunny did before agreeing  this loan 
were proportionate. The amounts that Ms S needed  to repay were small compared with the 
disposable income shed declared.  Given these repayment amounts, what was apparent 
about Ms Ss circumstances at the time,  and that this was her first loan from the lender, 
I dont think it wouldve been  proportionate for Sunny to ask her for the amount of information 
that would  be needed to show the lending was unsustainable before agreeing  this loan. So 
Im no longer  going to ask Sunny to pay Ms S any compensation in relation to loan 1. Ms S 
is aware of these new findings and has accepted  my decision not to uphold her complaint  
about this loan.
Ref: DRN52551892I still think it is reasonable to conclude that theres  a point at which the pattern of lending, in 
itself, indicates  that the lending isnt sustainable.  Im satisfied that point is at loan 6 in this 
case. By then, Ms S had taken out six loans  in just under eight months and although 
I appreciate the amount of each  loan was relatively  small, she hadnt  even  started to repay  
loan 5. Ms S had been indebted to Sunny for the whole of the eight  months she had been 
borrowing except for a short gap of 17 days and was making  no significant inroads into her 
outstanding debt.
I think its likely that a mainstream lender would look at the number of loans Ms S took from 
Sunny and take a negative view. So, I think its fair that all information about loans 6 to 11 is 
removed from her credit file. 
Considering everything, I think that the findings  and redress  I set out in my provisional 
decision in relation to loans  6 to 11 are fair.
putting things right
I dont think Sunny should have agreed to lend to Ms S after, and including, the loan that she 
took on 15 November  2015 (loan  6). So for each of those loans Sunny should;
Refund any interest and charges paid by Ms S on the loans. 
Add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum to each of these amounts from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement*.
The number of loans  taken from loans 6 onwards means any information recorded  about 
them is adverse.  So all entries about  loans  6 to 11 should be removed from Ms Ss credit 
file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Ms S a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if she asks for one.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold part of Ms Ss complaint and direct  Elevate Credit 
International Limited to put things  right as detailed above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 January 2020. 
Paul Reilly
ombudsman
Ref: DRN52551893EXTRACT FROM PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Ms S complains  that Elevate Credit International Limited  (trading as Sunny) lent to her in an 
irresponsible manner.
background
Ms S was given 11 loans by Sunny between March 2015 and April 2016.  Each of the loans was 
scheduled to be repaid  in six monthly instalments, and all of the loans  have been  fully repaid. 
A summary  of Ms Ss borrowing from Sunny is as follows;
Loan 
NumberBorrowing Date Repayment  DateLoan 
Amount 
1 20/03/2015 25/09/2015 £   100
2 14/08/2015 27/10/2015 £   150
3 16/08/2015 27/10/2015 £   100
4 19/10/2015 27/10/2015 £     50
5 13/11/2015 23/12/2015 £     50
6 15/11/2015 23/12/2015 £     50
7 18/11/2015 27/01/2016 £     50
8 12/01/2016 21/07/2016 £   150
9 18/01/2016 18/04/2016 £   100
10 04/02/2016 21/07/2016 £   100
11 23/04/2016 27/10/2016 £   100
When Ms S first complained  to Sunny  it agreed  that it shouldnt have given the first loan to her. So it 
offered her some compensation. But Sunny didnt think it had been wrong  to give the remaining  loans 
to Ms S. So Ms S brought her complaint to this Service.
Ms Ss complaint  has been assessed by one of our adjudicators. She didnt think Sunny  should have 
given any of the loans to Ms S. So she asked  Sunny  to pay some additional  compensation  to Ms S.
Sunny didnt  agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been  resolved informally, it has 
been passed  to me, an ombudsman, to decide. 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  
lending - including all of the relevant rules,  guidance and good  industry practice  - on our website.  
Sunny needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice  this 
means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make  sure that Ms S could repay the 
loans in a sustainable  manner. These checks  could  take into account a number  of different  things, 
such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income  and 
expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough 
checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
Ref: DRN52551894But certain factors might  point to the fact that Sunny  should fairly  and reasonably have done more  to 
establish that any lending was sustainable  for a consumer.  These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more  difficult  to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount  due to be repaid  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular  level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period  of time during 
which a customer has been given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing  had become,  or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point  where  the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think  that it is important  for me to start by saying that Sunny was required to establish  whether  Ms S 
could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments were affordable  on a strict 
pounds and pence calculation.  
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might  be an indication a consumer could  
sustainably make  their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. This is 
because the FCAs Consumer Credit  Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable as being  without 
undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time,  while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet the repayments.  
And it follows that a lender should realise,  or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise,  that a borrower 
wont be able to make  their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their 
repayments without borrowing further.  
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this context and 
what this all means for Ms Ss complaint.
As I said earlier Sunny has already agreed that it shouldnt have  given the first loan to Ms S. So 
except for directing the compensation that Sunny needs to pay I wont consider  that loan any further 
in this decision.
Sunny did some checks before it lent to Ms S. It asked her for details  of her income, and her normal 
expenditure. And it checked her credit  file before agreeing the loans. Ive seen a summary  of those  
checks and I dont  think  they showed anything that should  have caused additional concerns  to Sunny.
As I mentioned earlier  each  of Ms Ss loans  was repayable over a six month period. So the amounts 
that Ms S needed  to repay each time were smaller  than if shed taken a normal payday loan. But of 
course she was committing to making those  repayments  over a far longer period.  And at times Ms S 
had a number of loans outstanding together. So Ive needed to consider the total amount  that Ms S 
needed to repay to Sunny each month.
I think  the fact that Ms S often repaid her loans much earlier than planned should have caused some  
concerns to Sunny.  That might be the sort of behaviour  that would  indicate  that someone was facing 
problems managing  their money and needing to refinance loans on a regular basis.  So Ive also taken  
that into account  when looking at whether Sunny should have  given the loans to Ms S.
I think  that the checks Sunny did before agreeing  the loans 2 to 4 were proportionate. The amounts 
that Ms S needed  to repay were small  compared with the disposable income  shed declared. Given 
these repayment amounts,  what was apparent about Ms Ss circumstances at the time, and her 
borrowing history with the lender,  I dont think it wouldve been proportionate for Sunny to ask her for 
the amount of information that would be needed to show the lending was unsustainable  before 
agreeing these three loans. 
Ref: DRN52551895I do think, by the time Ms S asked for loan 5, that Sunny should have realised that it couldnt safely 
rely on the information  she was providing  about her finances. I think  it should have taken steps at that 
time to independently verify Ms Ss true financial position. So Ive looked at Ms Ss bank statements  to 
see what better checks would  have  shown  Sunny.  But although those statements show some signs of 
financial pressure Im not persuaded this was enough  to mean  Sunny shouldnt have given  Ms S this 
loan either.  
I appreciate that during some of this time Ms S was borrowing heavily from other  lenders and so she 
was clearly having problems managing her money  although the number of other loans she had 
taken had reduced  a little at the time of loan 5. But those problems werent  something she told Sunny  
about at the time. And I dont think it is something that Sunny should  have seen from the checks  it 
ought to have  done. So I dont think Sunny was wrong to give loans  2 to 5 to Ms S.
But looking  at the overall pattern of Sunnys lending history  with Ms S I think by loan 6 the lender 
should reasonably have seen that further lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so 
Sunny should have  realised  that it shouldnt  provide  further loans. 
I say this because:
This was now Ms Ss sixth loan request  in just under eight months.  Each of the loans Ms S 
had taken  had been repayable over a period of six months. But Ms S generally paid those 
loans off far earlier than planned, but borrowed  similar amounts very shortly afterwards. 
I think that pattern  of frequent borrowing and repaying early should  have indicated to Sunny 
that Ms S was most  likely having significant problems  managing her money. 
When Ms S asked for loan 6 she wasnt making  any inroads to the amount she owed the 
lender. Loan 6 had been preceded by loan 5 just two days earlier,  and was followed three 
days later by loan 7. In total they equalled the largest loan shed taken to date. 
Between loan 6 and loan 11 Ms S had multiple  loans active at the same  time.  So Sunny ought  
to have realised it was more likely than not Ms S was having to borrow further to cover the 
hole repaying her previous loans was leaving in her finances and that Ms Ss indebtedness  
was increasing unsustainably.
I think  that Ms S lost out when Sunny continued to provide borrowing from loan 6 onwards because:
these  loans had the effect of unfairly  prolonging  Ms Ss indebtedness by allowing her to take 
expensive credit  intended for short-term  use over an extended  period of time.
the sheer number of loans  was likely to have had negative  implications on Ms Ss ability to 
access mainstream credit and so kept her in the market for these high-cost  loans.
I have seen that Sunny  has said that Ms Ss declared  income compared to her monthly  repayment 
suggests these loans were  suitable. Therefore it does not accept  the loans provided were 
unaffordable. But Sunny  will know  from previous  decisions (as well as whats set out on our website)  
that there are cases  where this service considers the overall lending  pattern and not just the 
affordability of each  loan. When a consumer borrows  numerous loans over a long period of time, its 
most likely that the loans  arent being used for their intended purpose of temporary cash  flow 
problems. As Sunny will have seen, the FCA made it clear in a recent letter to CEOs  of high cost 
lending firms that a high volume of relending..may be symptomatic  of unsustainable lending 
patterns. And I think  thats the case here.
So in addition to what  it has already said about loan 1, I dont  think Sunny should  have agreed to lend 
to Ms S from loan 6 onwards. Sunny needs  to pay Ms S some compensation .
Ref: DRN5255189