K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs D are unhappy  that Scottish  Widows  Limited has changed the mortality fee 
applicable to their mortgage endowment policy over time. 
background
Mr and Mrs D took out their mortgage endowment  policy  in 1994. The policy  was unit linked 
which meant the value  could  rise and fall depending on the performance of the under-lying  
fund. 
In 2005 Mr and Mrs D made a complaint about the recommendation to take out an 
endowment policy as a means of mortgage repayment. That complaint wasnt  upheld. They 
decided to continue  with the policy. 
In December 2018, Mr and Mrs D were sent their annual statement.  Following  this they 
made a complaint that payments of £754.92 were made over the year but the plan had only 
increased by £616.44.  They wanted an explanation  of how their contributions had been 
invested and what had been done to avoid a shortfall on the policy.  
Scottish Widows  issued  a final response explaining  how the investment had performed. It 
also provided an explanation about  the encashment of units  to fund the fees applicable  to 
the policy. Enclosed with the response was a transaction history. In reply Mr and Mrs D 
raised concerns  the mortality fee had increased but there wasnt  an allowance for this in their 
policy contract. Scottish Widows replied  explaining why the mortality fee had changed. 
Not happy with that Mr and Mrs D asked us to look into their complaint about the mortality 
fees. Our investigator  didnt think Scottish Widows  had done  anything wrong. She referred to 
the policy provision  information which explained  the mortality fee was based on a number of 
factors at the start of the policy and at each anniversary, so she was satisfied the terms did 
set out the fee could vary.
Mr and Mrs D remain unhappy. In summary, they say they have never  seen the policy 
provisions document;  this wasnt given to them when they took policy out.   And  they remain  
of the view there is no provision within the contract  which enables Scottish Widows to 
change the mortality fee. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  the 
complaint. 
I would like to reassure  both Mr and Mrs D and Scottish Widows that although I have  only 
summarised the background and arguments  above, I have considered  everything  provided 
in its entirety. 
Mr and Mrs D are unhappy  the mortality fee applicable to the endowment has increased over 
time. To put this right, they would like the value of their policy recalculated  as if the mortality  
fee had stayed the same throughout. And if there  is still a shortfall on the policy they would 
like Scottish Widows to make this up. 
Ref: DRN53831942Mr and Mrs Ds policy is unit linked. The fees and charges  associated  with the policy, 
including the mortality fee, are paid for by encashing units within the policy.  The policy  
provided life cover of £33,000, the same  target  the policy was set up to achieve, although 
there was no guarantee of it reaching this. 
The mortality  fee started  at £6.58 a month and has increased over time. The policy  
provisions explain the cost of the life cover is based on the age of the policyholders on the 
start date of the policy and at each anniversary and factors in whether or not they are 
smokers and the value of the investment. 
So I agree with the investigator that the policy provisions do set out that the mortality fee is 
calculated at regular  intervals throughout the policy. However, unlike the investigator Im not 
persuaded this was information that Mr and Mrs D would have been given during the sales 
process. I think  it more likely to be an aid to help the sales force understand the policy 
offered and how it works. 
But that doesnt mean I uphold this complaint. The general contract did form part of the legal 
contract with Mr and Mrs D. Section  12 explains the charges; those that apply to the cost of 
arranging the plan, the monthly plan fee and the charge for benefits  the mortality  fee in this 
case. I do accept Mr and Mrs Ds point  that section 12.3 doesnt explicitly set out the 
mortality fee is recalculated at each anniversary. But at the outset of the section its 
explained:
Charges are met by the cancellation of units and are subject  to change from time to 
time.   
This applies to all of the charges set out in the section, including the mortality  fee. Im 
therefore satisfied  the general contract does  provide  for the variation of any applicable  
charges. 
In an endowment policy any amount the provider  would need to pay out on death is made  up 
in part by the value of the policy. And so the amount it is on risk for is the difference  between  
that value and the death sum assured   in this case £33,000. When the policy was arranged  
had it performed as hoped for, its possible there wouldnt  have been much change  in the 
mortality fee at all as the value in the policy  would  have been higher. But investment 
conditions have led to lower levels of growth for investments  and this policy.  This in turn has 
meant the cost of providing life cover  for Mr and Mrs D was higher  as the difference  
between the value of the policy  and the death  sum assured was greater and so the potential 
sum Scottish  Widows would need to meet greater. 
As Im satisfied that Scottish  Widows was able to increase its mortality  fee, I find no basis on 
which to ask it to recalculate the value of the policy using the fee at the outset,  or for Scottish  
Widows to make up any shortfall in the policy value. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 July 2019.
Ref: DRN53831943Claire Hopkins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5383194