K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
1995. Mr and Mrs M say Bank  of Scotland plc, trading as Leeds Permanent  Building Society 
(Leeds), mis-sold  them the PPI. 
background
Mr and Mrs M took out a mortgage in 1984.  In 1995  a PPI policy was taken out to protect 
their repayments. They  paid a monthly amount for the policy.
Even though  this was a joint mortgage, only Mr M was covered by the policy. In the event of 
a successful claim for accident,  sickness or unemployment, the policy  would have paid out 
the monthly benefit for up to 12 months.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs M disagreed  and so the matter  has 
been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ms case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
Neither Mr and Mrs M nor Leeds  has much  information from the time of the sale, which  is 
understandable considering how long ago this was. In situations like this I need to consider 
what I think is more likely  to have happened. Ive been given a copy  of the application form 
for the PPI and I can see that this asks for details  of the monthly benefit  required along with 
the applicants  to be covered by the policy. On Mr and Mrs Ms form the monthly  benefit  of 
£300 has been entered and it confirms that only Mr M is to be covered by the policy.  Mr M 
has signed and dated the form to confirm his selection. If Mr and Mrs M didnt want to take 
out the PPI they didnt need  to complete this form.
From what  I have  been told, the application  for the PPI didnt take place with any borrowing, 
and I can see that Mr and Mrs Ms mortgage had already been running for at least 10 years 
by the time this policy was taken out. So I think Mr and Mrs M would have known that the 
policy wasnt a condition  of the lending.
So based  on everything Ive seen and been told, I think Leeds made it clear that 
Mr and Mrs M didnt  have  to take out the PPI and they chose to take it out  although I can 
understand why they cant recall this now.
Leeds doesnt know how the policy was sold so it has considered  the complaint on the basis 
it provided advice  to Mr and Mrs M. As this puts a greater responsibility on Leeds, rather  
than Mr and Mrs M, I have also assessed  the complaint as though  Leeds  did provide advice. 
This means  it had to check  that the PPI was right for them  and based on the limited 
information Ive seen of Mr Ms circumstances  at the time,  I think its likely that it was. For 
example he doesnt  appear to have been  affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the 
Ref: DRN54757182PPI cover and he seems to have  had a need for the cover  Mr M has told us that he wasnt  
entitled to any sick pay from his employer and they had no other means  with which  to meet  
their repayments if Mr M wasnt working.   
Its possible the information Leeds  gave  Mr and Mrs M about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But they chose to take it out for Mr M - so it looks  like they wanted this type 
of cover.  And it seems like it would have been useful for them if something went wrong. It 
also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have 
put them off taking out the cover. 
Which means Leeds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs M.
But Leeds  has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs M because: 
Leeds got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs M about that. Because  Leeds  didnt tell 
Mr and Mrs M, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Leeds has paid back the amount of commission  and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland  plc does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs M.
But Bank of Scotland plc does have  to pay back to Mr and Mrs M any commission  and profit  
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  8 April 2019.
Jenny Giles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5475718