K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a short-term regulated loan that Mr and Mrs C took out in 2017.  The 
loan was from Masthaven Bank  Limited. 
The loan was for £1.427m, plus fees,  secured  by a legal mortgage  over Mr and Mrs Cs 
home. It was on an interest-only  basis, with the interest rolling  up rather  than being  paid by 
monthly instalments.  The loan was repayable after ten months. Mr and Mrs C complain that 
the strategy  put forward for repayment was speculative and not credible.
background
Ill begin with a brief summary of the circumstances that led to Mr and Mrs C taking out the 
Masthaven loan that is the subject  of this complaint. Theyd previously had an interest-only  
mortgage with a lender Ill call U. That had been  due for repayment in 2014,  and 
Mr and Mrs C had been trying to sell their home to clear the mortgage. Unfortunately,  theyd 
not found a buyer. 
To resolve  this situation, Mr and Mrs C, acting on advice from a broker,  entered  into a 
short-term regulated loan with a lender Ill call O. The loan from O went  ahead  in August 
2014, and was repayable  after twelve months; i.e. in August 2015. The strategy for repaying  
O was the sale of the property, but when  that didnt happen in time, Mr and Mrs C obtained 
extensions (the first for a year, the second for six months) from O. 
By the beginning  of 2017, with still no sign of the property being sold, Mr and Mrs C looked 
for a new short-term lender. Acting on advice from a different broker (which Ill call J), they 
applied to Masthaven. On their behalf, J put forward several potential  repayment strategies 
for the proposed loan; these included  the sale of a development  property that was under 
Mrs Cs project  management, the sale of Mr Cs business, and decisions in principle for 
refinancing from two lenders, M and H respectively.
Masthaven lent the money as requested allowing Mr and Mrs C to repay O shortly before the 
second extension  expired.  But when  the due date for repaying Masthaven  arrived  in late 
2017, Mr and Mrs C werent able to do so and asked Masthaven  for a six-month extension,  
on an execution-only basis. That meant  they,  rather than Masthaven,  were  responsible  for 
ensuring the extension met their needs.
The extension ran out, and Masthaven began possession proceedings. The case went  to 
court in December 2018, and the court  granted  a possession  order  in favour of Masthaven.  
Mr and Mrs C brought  a complaint to us. 
The essence  of Mr and Mrs Cs complaint is that Masthaven  agreed to lend on the basis of a 
repayment strategies  that were speculative and not credible. They  say that by doing so, 
Masthaven is in breach of the rules of mortgage regulation. 
To be clear, Im dealing  here solely with the complaint about Masthavens lending  decision; 
where Ive referred  to actions taken by other parties,  its for context only.
Masthaven initially objected to us looking at the complaint.  It thought the arguments 
Mr and Mrs C were making had already been  considered by the court in the possession 
proceedings and that the only reason for complaining to us was to obstruct enforcement of 
the possession  order. We looked in to this and were told that Mr and Mrs Cs witness  
Ref: DRN51597392statement to the court had been submitted too late and therefore disregarded by the court. 
So we went  ahead  with our consideration of the complaint. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think Masthaven had done anything wrong, and so didnt recommend 
the complaint  be upheld.  Mr and Mrs C disagree and want to have their complaint reviewed 
by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our rules require us to determine a complaint by considering all of the evidence  from both 
parties in order to decide whats fair in all the circumstances. Where the available  evidence 
is contradictory, incomplete, or even missing altogether,  we reach our conclusions on the 
basis of what is most  likely to have happened  on the balance of probabilities. Thats  the 
same approach that the courts use in civil cases.  
Were not the regulator of financial  businesses, and we dont police their internal processes 
or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the Financial Conduct Authority. We deal 
with individual  disputes between businesses and their customers. In doing that, we dont  
replicate the work of the courts. Were  impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions  
on how we investigate a complaint.
Lenders generally do put recovery action (or, as in this case, enforcement action)  on hold 
whilst we look at a complaint, but they dont  have to and we cant  force them  to. For the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service  to have that power  would seriously undermine our impartiality 
between the parties  to a complaint. It would also create the potential  risk of consumers 
abusing our service by making complaints  with the intention to obstruct businesses that were 
trying to take legitimate action to recover money owed to them. Ill come back  to this point in 
due course.
Mr and Mrs Cs case is largely focussed  on what they regard as a breach of the 
Mortgage and Home Finance Conduct of Business  Rules (known as MCOB for short); 
specifically, section 11.6.41, which deals with the strategy for repaying interest-only 
mortgages. In deciding a complaint, Im required to give due consideration to relevant  law, 
regulation as well as whats generally  regarded  as standard industry practice at the time of 
the events. Ultimately though, whilst having regard for the above, I have to decide  what  is 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.
Masthaven had a duty to lend responsibly, and part of that duty included  ensuring 
Mr and Mrs C had a credible strategy for repaying  the capital; theres no dispute about  that. 
Its also important to keep  in mind that the very nature of the lending  (short-term - in effect, 
bridging - finance)  imposed  a time constraint on any repayment strategy being implemented.  
Im satisfied Mr and Mrs C understood and accepted  that, not least  because  their solicitor 
wrote to Masthaven to confirm hed explained  this to them and they were  happy to proceed. 
In the case at hand, it seems there was no shortage of possible repayment strategies. None 
of them  were cast-iron certainties; all of them had the potential to fail. But MCOB doesnt 
require a repayment strategy to be fool-proof,  merely credible. 
Ref: DRN51597393Taking an overview and looking at them  collectively,  as Masthaven  is likely to have done, it 
seems the business  was satisfied that Mr and Mrs C had the necessary resources and 
know-how (personal and professional) to ensure any money it lent them would be repaid on 
time. In short, it decided they were people to whom  it was safe to lend a large sum of money  
in the short  term.
Mr and Mrs C make much of the fact that the mortgage illustration provided by H  one of 
the lenders presented as a possible source of re-financing the Masthaven  loan  assumed a 
valuation of their property of £2.8m. They say Masthaven should  never  have accepted that 
as credible, insofar as its own lending decision had been based on a valuation of £2.6m.  Ive 
thought hard about that, given its prominence in Mr and Mrs C submissions.
Firstly, its worth keeping  in mind that the possible mortgage from H wasnt the sole 
repayment strategy.  Secondly,  when applying to Masthaven, Mr and Mrs C declared the 
property to be worth £2.8m, so it clearly suited them to think  that at the time. Thirdly, valuing 
property is not an exact science;  the courts have long recognised  that. 
Even in negligence cases, there is well-established case law that says variations of up to 
20% are not excessive,  so the variation of £200,000  here is well within those parameters. If 
property valuations are an inexact science, then second-guessing  judgements made in 
reliance on them is even  more so; especially after the fact and with the benefit  of hindsight.
But given the wider circumstances, Im not convinced  Mr and Mrs Cs arguments not 
withstanding  that adherence or otherwise to MCOB is the real issue  here. Indeed,  Im not 
even sure Mr and Mrs C have given any meaningful  consideration  to what  their situation  
would be now if Masthaven hadnt  lent to them. 
The broader  truth here is that Mr and Mrs C were, not to put too fine a point on it, in a bit of a 
hole financially. They needed  money in a hurry, to stave off likely action from their existing 
lender O for the money theyd borrowed and failed to repay  on time, even after two 
extensions. That loan had itself been  taken out in not dissimilar  circumstances, when U had 
decided it wasnt willing to wait any longer  to be repaid. J, the broker Mr and Mrs C used this 
time, referred them to Masthaven, and Masthaven provided them  with a loan they very much 
needed, at short notice. 
The terms of the loan reflected the nature of the lending; that is, an urgent need  for funds in 
the short term combined with a high risk that the money might not be repaid on time, 
however credible the repayment strategies. That risk has now been  realised, and 
Mr and Mrs C face the very real prospect of losing their home.  Thats a horrible prospect for 
anyone, but its one that Mr and Mrs C may well have faced two years earlier  if Masthaven  
hadnt lent to them.
My impartiality means I must also have regard for Masthavens point of view.   It has said it 
believes Mr and Mrs C only brought this complaint to try and delay enforcement  of the 
possession order. It also says its ironic  that the remedy Mr and Mrs C have sought, initially  
from the court and now from us - to be allowed  more  time to sell their property - is one of the 
strategies they argued lacks credibility. 
On the latter  point, there is something  in what Masthaven says. In response to the question 
on our complaint form about what theyd like us to do to put things right, Mr and Mrs C said 
theyd like to see enforcement of the possession order stopped  in order to allow them to sell 
the mortgaged  property. So there  is some  contradiction there, but ultimately  the point is 
Ref: DRN51597394moot. Its not my place to interfere with a court order. Any argument for staying enforcement 
of a possession  order should be made to the court  that granted it. 
One of the fundamental  principles underpinning the mortgage contract is that a lender has 
the right to enforce its security to recover money  owed to it. The court has found  in 
Masthavens favour on this, and it would be entirely inequitable and inappropriate for me to 
remove that right in a final decision on Mr and Mrs Cs complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold  this complaint, or make  
any order or award against Masthaven Bank  Limited. My final decision concludes  this 
services consideration  of this complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further  
discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  7 September 2019. 
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5159739