K821x#15complaint
Mr and Ms B complain  that Bradford & Bingley Plc (Bradford  & Bingley) mis-sold them  a 
mortgage payment  protection insurance policy (MPPI).
background
This complaint is about a regular premium  MPPI  policy taken out with a mortgage in August 
1996. The sale took place during a meeting. The insurance covered Mr B if he was unable to 
work because of an accident,  sickness  or unemployment.
Our adjudicator upheld  Mr and Ms Bs complaint.  As Bradford & Bingley doesnt  agree the 
matter has come to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of payment protection 
insurance on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr B and Ms Bs case.
Ive decided to uphold Mr and Ms Bs complaint because  I think Bradford & Bingley 
recommended the MPPI to Mr and Ms B but I dont think that it was suitable for them.
I say this because  Mr B had a medical condition which the policy  would not have covered. 
So he might not have been  able to claim on the policy  in all the circumstances  he had 
expected. Because of this, I dont  think the policy was suitable for him. 
Ive taken into account that Mr and Ms B would have been able to claim for other  benefits  
under the policy.  But I think  they have lost out as a result of Bradford & Bingleys failings in 
this case, because I dont think they would have taken out the policy  if it had asked further 
questions about  their circumstances and then advised them  that the policy  was unsuitable.
So I uphold Mr and Ms Bs complaint and Bradford & Bingley need to put things right.
fair compensation 
Bradford & Bingley  should put Mr and Ms B into the position theyd be in now if they hadnt  
taken out MPPI. The policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled  already, and 
Bradford & Bingley  should:
Pay Mr and Ms B the amount they paid each month for the MPPI.
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back.  The 
rate of interest is 8% a year.
If Mr and Ms B made a successful claim under the MPPI policy,  Bradford & Bingley can 
take off what they got for the claim from the amount it owes them.
If Bradford  & Bingley  considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs  to withhold 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr and Ms B how much its taken off. It should 
Ref: DRN57154622also give Mr and Ms B a tax deduction certificate if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the 
tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained I uphold Mr and Ms Bs complaint. And I direct Bradford & 
Bingley Plc to pay Mr and Ms B compensation in line with the calculation of fair 
compensation Ive set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Ms B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  10 August 2019.
Mark Richardson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5715462