K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains that Carnegie Consumer Finance Limited (CCF) wont cancel a loan he took 
out to fund a training course which he says was misrepresented.  
background
In 2016 Mr W was interested  in doing  a training  course to get qualifications  in a particular 
trade. The course provider (a third party that Ill refer to as T) sent a salesperson to his home 
to discuss the course content  and T arranged for Mr W to obtain a loan with CCF to pay for 
it. 
Mr W says the course was misrepresented. He felt pressured to sign the agreements,  didnt 
realise how much the course would cost, didnt  receive the training or the qualifications  
promised and wasnt told about his right to cancel. He has paid back over £3,000  and he 
wants CCF to write off the balance. 
CCF says 
the training  was supplied to Mr W under  a separate agreement  and he hasnt received 
any qualifications yet because he hasnt completed enough of the course;
Mr W had the opportunity to consider the course  details  including the cost  and the 
loan terms before he agreed  to borrow this money;
he was told about the cooling off period in the documents he signed and made aware 
that he had 14 days to cancel if he changed  his mind; 
the course wasnt misrepresented  Mr W never  complained to T about the training and 
didnt mention he was unhappy with that when  he asked T if he could cancel the course 
last February; and 
CCF has already paid T for the course  so Mr W should pay back  the money. 
Our investigator thinks the paperwork Mr W signed at the time gave him enough  information  
to decide if he wanted to take out the loan and do the training. Hes satisfied it was made 
reasonably clear to Mr W that he had 14 days to cancel if he changed his mind after signing  
the agreements. He notes  Mr W told T he wanted to cancel because  he was struggling to 
study and work at the same  time.  Hes not persuaded theres been a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation. And he doesnt  recommend the complaint  should  be upheld.  
Mr W doesnt agree. He feels theres been  unfair commercial practice in that 
he was put under  pressure to sign and told there were limited spaces on the course
he wasnt told about the cost until the paperwork was in front of him and didnt have the 
chance to read it properly
he was rushed into signing as the salesperson said he had another appointment
he was told he would  have some qualifications within  a year or so but thinks  that was 
unrealistic due to the amount of study needed at the same time as working
the salesperson  tried to scare him by saying he would be stuck in a minimum wage job 
without undertaking  training and obtaining  more skills; and 
the salesperson  used  tactics like telling him how much more he could  earn with the 
training so he wouldnt question the cost. 
Mr W feels he was misled and he asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. 
Ref: DRN57804832my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
I can see that Mr W feels strongly about  this matter.  I have no doubt hes disappointed  with 
his progress on this training  course. And I have sympathy for the situation he finds  himself  
in. But, having  carefully considered everything  both parties have provided, Im not persuaded 
I can fairly uphold his complaint and Ive explained  why below. 
Where the evidence is incomplete,  inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), 
I reach  my decision on the balance  of probabilities  in other words, what I consider  is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances. 
Mr W says the salesperson misled him about the course and put him under pressure to 
agree to the loan and the training. I cant be certain  what was said exactly during  these 
discussions. So Ive considered the documents Mr W signed  at the time carefully   as I think 
these are likely to provide  the best evidence  of what was agreed.  
I am satisfied the loan agreement sets out the main terms   including the amount of credit   
reasonably prominently. Mr W borrowed over £7,000 from CCF and agreed to pay this back 
at £165 per month over nearly  four years.  Thats a fairly substantial commitment  and Id 
expect a borrower to consider the paperwork carefully, in this situation. 
I appreciate Mr W says he felt under pressure to sign and wasnt given the opportunity to 
read the paperwork. But, I can see the training agreement has a box marked  important  just 
above the place where  Mr W signed to say he had read and accepted  the terms. In this box 
it says by signing the agreement Mr W was confirming he had been left with a complete 
course kit for appraisal as well as a copy of the loan agreement.  
I am satisfied the training contract  makes it clear  that theres was 14 day cooling off period. 
And if Mr W cancelled the training within that time the loan would be cancelled as well. So 
I think Mr W was made reasonably aware that he had still had time to cancel after the 
salesperson left  if he changed his mind and decided  he didnt want to go ahead. 
Mr W says the salesperson said hed obtain  some qualifications within  the first two years. 
I understand he feels that was an unrealistic prospect now  in view of the amount of 
studying hed have needed to do at the same  time as carrying  on with his day job. But Im 
satisfied the training contract Mr W signed expressly  states   in the box marked important  
 that it would be up to him to choose the pace  at which  he wanted to work.  I think the 
paperwork makes it clear  that progress would  depend on how much time the individual 
student is able to give. And I am not persuaded I can fairly find the course  was 
misrepresented. 
Taking everything Ive seen into account, I dont think there are sufficient grounds to 
reasonably find theres been a breach of contract  or misrepresentation here.  Im sorry to 
disappoint Mr W. I know this isnt the outcome he wanted. But, Im unable  to require CCF to 
cancel this loan or provide a refund and Im not going to uphold this complaint. 
Ref: DRN57804833my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my decision is I do not uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 February  2019.
Claire Jackson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5780483