K820x#14complaint
Mr L complains  about the way Aviva Insurance Limited dealt with and recorded a claim  on 
his car insurance policy. 
background
Mr Ls car was vandalised and both wing mirrors  stolen. He contacted  Aviva  to claim on his 
policy. Aviva  accepted the claim and paid for the repairs to Mr Ls car. When Mr L came  to 
renew his insurance,  he discovered that because  he had a fault claim his premiums would 
be more expensive. He also found  out that Aviva  had recorded the claim as involving  
multiple vehicles  on the Claims Underwriting Exchange (CUE).  Because of this he 
complained. 
Aviva looked  into Mr Ls complaint and agreed  it had incorrectly recorded the claim on CUE, 
by saying it involved multiple vehicles. Aviva arranged  for this to be amended but said it 
would still be recorded as a fault claim,  as it was unable  to recover the claim cost from 
anyone. Mr L didnt think this was fair, he said if hed been made aware it would  affect his 
future premiums then he wouldnt have claimed on his policy. 
Our investigator reviewed  Mr Ls complaint and didnt recommend it was upheld. She found 
that Aviva  had updated CUE, so it now correctly  showed the claim. She also explained  that 
when an insurer is unable  to recover claim costs then claims are recorded as fault. Our 
investigator also explained that Aviva  had said Mr L could buy his claim back and that would 
mean it wouldnt be recorded as a fault claim anymore.  
Mr L didnt think this was fair, he said the terms fault and non-fault are misleading. He 
also didnt think Aviva had properly explained the implications of having a fault claim on his 
record. 
As Mr L didnt agree  the complaint has come to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We dont decide  whos at fault for an accident  as thats the role of the courts. Instead we look 
to see that the insurer has made a fair and reasonable  decision thats  in line with the terms 
and conditions of the policy. 
Like most policies we see the terms and conditions of Mr Ls policy  give Aviva the right to 
take over, defend or settle a claim as it sees fit. This might  mean  Aviva  makes a decision   
Mr L disagrees with, but the policy allows it. Ive considered whether Aviva  has done so fairly 
and reasonably. 
Ref: DRN53439682When Aviva  initially recorded  Mr Ls claim on CUE  it did so incorrectly.  Aviva provided Mr L a 
letter to say this was an error. The letter also confirmed how it should be recorded, Aviva has 
also said CUE has now been updated.  While its disappointing this was incorrectly recorded, 
now its been corrected  Im not going  to ask Aviva to do anymore. If Mr L has been charged 
a higher premium  because of Avivas error, in saying the claim involved multiple vehicles 
when it didnt, then he would need  to speak with his new insurer  and ask them  to adjust  the 
premium. 
In Mr Ls case where its not possible to recover  the claim costs, its normal for an insurer  to 
record the claim in a way thats known as fault.  I can understand why this is misleading as 
its not Mr Ls fault he needed to claim.  But that isnt what  this term means here.  When an 
insurer records a claim in this way it means theyre unable to recover their outlay.  This is 
industry wide practice and something we see across the industry. Because  of this I dont 
think Aviva  has done anything wrong.  
Ive listened to the call when Mr L made his claim and was told it would be recorded as fault.  
I can understand Mr Ls frustration at not knowing that a fault claim could affect any future 
premiums. But I dont  think  it was something Aviva  needed to tell him. Aviva has also said  
Mr L can buy his claim  back, this would mean the record on CUE would be updated to no 
longer be showing  as fault. This would put Mr L into the same position as if he hadnt  
claimed on his policy.  So, if Mr L would like to do this, he would need  to contact Aviva.  Im 
therefore not going to ask Aviva to do anymore. 
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, my final decision is that its fair and reasonable for Aviva  
Insurance Limited to have given Mr L the option  to buy back  his claim. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 May 2020.
Alex Newman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5343968