K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) taken out to cover a credit  
card. Mrs C says Barclays Bank  UK PLC mis-sold her the PPI.
background
I sent Mrs C and Barclays a provisional  decision on 21 November 2018  to explain why I 
didnt think the PPI policy had been mis-sold  but did think Barclays paying back some  of the 
cost of the PPI was fair. An extract from my provisional decision is set out below:
Mrs C took out a credit card with Barclays in April 2003. The evidence  Barclays has sent us 
gives conflicting information about  when  Mrs C took out PPI, with some of the evidence  
showing she took PPI out with the credit card in April 2003 and some evidence  showing she 
took PPI out around a year later,  in April 2004.
Based on the evidence  I have, I think its likely  that Mrs C took out a PPI policy  in April 2004. 
But its not clear whether  she also took out a PPI policy  with the credit card in April 2003.
Barclays has sent us statements  for Mrs Cs credit card, which  show that no PPI premiums 
were charged from when the card was opened  until April 2004.  So, even if a PPI policy  was 
taken out in April 2003, Mrs C was never charged  for it. And so shes not suffered a loss as a 
result of any PPI sale in April 2003.
For the sale in April 2004, Barclays has said that the PPI was sold over the phone  and has 
sent us a copy of a call script it says its advisor wouldve followed at the time. And this script 
instructs the advisor to ask the customer whether they would like to apply for PPI.
Based on this, and what I understand  about  its sales practices at the time, I think  its likely 
that Barclays made it clear to Mrs C that she had a choice about the PPI. And that she 
chose to take it.
Mrs C says she felt pressured into taking the PPI. But she hasnt given  us much detail about 
what was said or why she felt this. This is understandable  given how long ago the sale was. 
But I dont think theres enough evidence here for me to say that Barclays  unfairly pressured 
her into taking out the PPI.
Barclays recommended  the PPI to Mrs C, so it had to check that it was right for her. And, 
based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For example, 
she wasnt affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover  and she seems to 
have had a need for the cover.
Its possible the information Barclays gave Mrs C about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But, for the same reasons I think it was right for her, it seems  like it would 
have been useful for her if something went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable.  So I 
dont think better information  about  the PPI would have  put Mrs C off taking it out.
Which means Barclays doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs C.
Ref: DRN51897942But Barclays  has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs C because:
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs C about that. Because  Barclays  didnt  tell Mrs C, 
that was unfair.
To put that right, Barclays  has paid back the amount  of commission  and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
I said that I felt Barclays offer to pay back any commission and profit share  it got that was 
more than 50% of the PPI premium was fair. And that, as I understood it had already done 
this, I didnt award any further compensation. I also said Id consider anything else either  
Mrs C or Barclays sent me.
Barclays said it didnt have anything  further to add. Mrs C said she didnt feel there was 
evidence to show the optional nature of the policy had been made clear, but didnt provide 
any further documents or more detailed  arguments.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mrs C doesnt feel there was evidence to show the optional  nature of the policy 
was made  clear. But, where  the evidence available  is incomplete or inconclusive, I must 
make my decision  based on what I think is likely to have happened.
As I explained in my provisional decision,  Barclays has said that the PPI was sold over the 
phone and has sent us a copy of a call script  it says its advisor wouldve followed at the time. 
And this script instructs the advisor  to ask the customer whether they would like to apply for 
PPI.
Based on the evidence  I have, including the call script, what Mrs C and Barclays have said 
and what I understand  about Barclays sales practices at the time,  I still think its likely that 
Barclays made it clear to Mrs C that she had a choice about the PPI. And that Mrs C chose 
to take the PPI.
As neither Mrs C nor Barclays  made  any further  arguments, I still feel the rest of the 
conclusions set out in my provisional decision are correct.
Ref: DRN51897943my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC doesnt have to pay back  all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mrs C.
But Barclays  Bank UK PLC does  have to pay back to Mrs C any commission  and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont intend to award any further compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am now required to ask Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  10 February  2019.
Alan Millward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5189794