K820x#14complaint
Miss C complains that Santander UK Plc failed to process a future bill payment shed 
arranged. As a result, Miss C lost the promotional rate on a credit  card,  incurred a late 
payment fee and her credit file was affected.  
background
Miss C says she arranged a bill payment using her mobile banking application to pay her 
credit card, which was due on 1 August 2018. But the payment wasnt  made  and, as a result, 
her credit card provider withdrew  the promotional rate and charged her £17. Miss C also 
says the issues  impacted  her credit file. 
Miss C complained to Santander and it checked  her online and mobile banking facilities but 
couldnt find any record of her arranging a bill payment for 1 August 2018. Santander asked 
Miss C if she had any evidence but shes explained she doesnt. Miss C told Santander 
shes never missed a payment before and, given her history  with the bank, her word should 
be sufficient. But Santander  didnt uphold Miss Cs complaint as it says theres  no evidence 
a mistake was made. 
The complaint was referred  to this service and an adjudicator looked at whatd happened. 
But they thought Santander  had dealt with Miss Cs complaint fairly by offering to pay the 
late payment fee as a gesture of goodwill and didnt feel there was evidence of an error. As 
Miss C remains  unhappy  shes  asked for her case to be appealed  so its been passed to me 
to make a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate why Miss C feels  frustrated  by Santanders request for evidence she set up the 
bill payment. I agree that its not normal behaviour for someone to take pictures showing 
how they complete  their online  banking. But I think Santander was looking for ways to assist  
when it asked Miss C to provide that information because it hadnt  found any evidence  to 
support her claim that shed set up a bill payment. 
Ive carefully looked at the information  given to us by both Miss C and Santander. Ive paid 
particular attention to the systems  information Santanders provided. In its final response to 
Miss C it lists all the times she used her online and mobile banking  in the month  leading  up 
to the credit  card payment  being due. Santanders technical department has also confirmed 
there werent  any known  issues  affecting  its systems  that would stop someone arranging  a 
future bill payment. 
Im satisfied the systems evidence Santanders sent us shows  Miss Cs online and mobile 
banking facilities were  working during the period she says a bill payment was arranged. 
From what  Ive seen, Santanders  claim that  there werent any technical issues affecting bill 
payments is reinforced  by the fact it processed one for Miss C on 31 July 2018  and another 
on 4 August 2018. 
I know Miss C has also sent in customer reviews shes found online about Santanders 
systems. But, looking at them, theres  no way for me to tell whether the issues  Miss C has 
Ref: DRN58189162raised or if the timings are the same. And I think the evidence from Santander is clear in 
confirming that it wasnt  experiencing problems arranging payments  via its online or mobile 
banking facilities at the time.
Miss C has confirmed shes previously used Santanders bill payment  service to make  
payments to her credit card. The account  statements show Miss C had a direct debit in place 
but that appears to have been cancelled after March 2018s payment. And whilst I can see 
Miss C did regularly make bill payments  to her credit card each month those stopped  after 
she paid £25 on 25 May 2018. 
I appreciate Miss C has used this facility before but it does appear that around this time 
shed either  stopped making regular payments to her credit card or was doing so from 
another account. And Santander has confirmed that Miss C checked her accounts at 03:46  
on 1 August 2018 (the day her payment was due).  Given Miss C hadnt made a bill payment 
to her credit card for some months  and she checked her account on the morning it was due I 
think it wouldve been reasonably clear it hadnt been paid. 
I know Miss C feels Santander should accept her word but its entitled to investigate a 
complaint and request evidence. Santanders provided clear  evidence to show no future  bill 
payment was arranged  in the run up to 1 August 2018. Im satisfied from what  Ive seen that 
there wasnt a technical issue  affecting  bill payments at this time.  Santander offered to cover 
the cost of Miss Cs late payment fee of £17. If she wishes to accept Miss C can contact 
Santander directly to arrange payment.  But as Ive not found any evidence that Santander 
made a mistake,  Im not telling it to take any further  action to resolve  this complaint. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Miss C to accept or reject  my decision 
before 11 February  2019.
Marco Manente
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN5818916