K820x#14complaint
Mrs C complains that Bank of Scotland  Plc (trading at the time of sale as Halifax)  mis-sold 
her a mortgage payment protection insurance  (MPPI) policy.
background
Mrs C bought a regular premium MPPI policy in October 1997. She purchased  the policy  
during a meeting with an advisor from Halifax in one of its branches. The mortgage  ended in 
June 2002.
Mrs C says she was pressured into buying MPPI. She says her needs  and wants were not 
taken into account.  She thinks Halifax mis-sold the policy to her.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Mrs Cs complaint.  As she doesnt  agree with the adjudicators 
opinion, the complaint has been passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Cs case.
Ive looked at all of the information provided by both parties and decided not to uphold         
Mrs Cs complaint because of the following  reasons:
Mrs C says she was put under pressure to buy the MPPI policy,  and that Halifax  
didnt give her choice.  
I acknowledge everything Mrs C has said. I cant be sure exactly  what  was discussed 
between Mrs C and Halifax when the policy was sold. Im also mindful that the sale 
took place many  years  ago, and that detailed  recollections of what happened  can 
fade over time.
Halifax hasnt provided  much documentation  from the time the policy was sold.  Thats 
not surprising  given the time thats passed,  and its similar  to some  other cases  Ive 
seen. 
Without anything  else to support what Mrs C have told me, and based on what  I 
know of sales conducted by Halifax during that time, I cant safely conclude that 
Halifax didnt make her aware that the policy was optional.  
Moving on, Halifax has said it recommended the MPPI to Mrs C during  the meeting 
and so, as this puts additional responsibilities on the business,  I will proceed  that this 
was the case.  So as it did recommend  the policy to Mrs C, it had to ensure during the 
sale that the policy was suitable for her needs. 
After reviewing the very limited information, it doesnt look as if the MPPI policy  was 
unsuitable for Mrs C based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time.     
Mrs C says she would have been  able to claim statutory sick pay and she had up to 3 
Ref: DRN56249672months worth of savings  but the MPPI policy would have paid in addition to any 
provisions she would  have had and for longer. So the benefit  would have been of use 
to Mrs C during a difficult time as she could have used her provisions to pay for other 
expenses. I think,  on balance,  Mrs C had a need  for this cover based  on her 
circumstances at the date of sale,  for any extended period of unemployment  or 
sickness. I also couldnt find any other reason such as a significant  or limiting term 
that would  make the policy  unsuitable for her either.
Halifax has provided some information about the costs relating to the MPPI  policy  
that Mrs C took out but even though it has provided information detailing  the cover  
and how much it cost, I cannot  be sure that these costs were disclosed  to Mrs C in a 
clear and fair way at the time of sale. That said, even if they were disclosed clearly I 
dont think Mrs C would have done anything different and decided  against having the 
policy for the reasons that I have already given for the policy being suitable.
Its possible Halifax didnt point out the main  things the policy  didnt cover. But its 
unlikely Mrs C wouldve been affected by any of these.
I understand this will come as a disappointment  but in conclusion  I do not uphold Mrs Cs 
complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Cs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs C to accept 
or reject my decision before 31 August 2019.
Mark Richardson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5624967