K820x#14complaint
Ms S is unhappy about the way Bamboo  Limited has treated her while shes been 
experiencing financial difficulties.
background
Ms S took out a loan with Bamboo  on 2016. Since  then her circumstances have changed, 
shes experiencing financial difficulties and she cant afford the loan repayments. Bamboo 
has offered to let Ms S repay the loan over a longer period than originally agreed and says 
she wont incur any extra charges or interest  as a result. This means she will only have to 
repay what she originally agreed to when she took out the loan and results in smaller 
monthly payments  for her. 
Ms S wasnt happy with this offer. She wants  Bamboo to either write off or reduce the 
outstanding amount she owes  or to arrange a 12 month payment holiday.
Our investigator felt this complaint  shouldnt be upheld.  He said:
Bamboo must act positively and sympathetically to Ms S financial difficulties. 
When Ms S struggled to make the loan payments she proposed  Bamboo should  
reduce the loan repayments, write off the outstanding debt or provide  a 12 month 
credit holiday. But writing off the debt wouldnt be fair to Bamboo. A repayment 
holiday may be appealing but wouldnt improve Ms S financial position and in fact 
more interest would accrue  increasing the debt. They would also have  a negative 
impact on her credit file.
Bamboo has offered  to organise  a repayment plan to take into account Ms Ss 
reduced income. Its said it would write off any extra interest or charges that would 
accrue so Ms S will only pay the original loan amount  and interest totalling £5,476.61. 
This offer is fair and reasonable. It ensures the debt is capped  and gives Ms S the 
best chance to clear  the outstanding balance at an affordable  rate.
Ms S remains unhappy and has asked for an ombudsman review. She says Bamboo has 
never offered her a lower  payment plan. Its offering  was for her to pay off the loan early 
which she cant afford to do. As her financial circumstances have significantly changed its 
really unfair to expect  her to continue to make payments for a loan when  she has already 
paid more than was borrowed. It couldve asked  for details of her income and expenditure 
earlier.
The investigator responded that Bamboo had said in its final response that it would be happy  
to arrange a repayment plan and cap the outstanding  amount.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN55241992I agree  with the investigators conclusions for the same reasons.
Bamboo must treat Ms S positively and sympathetically whilst she is experiencing financial 
difficulties. But its not obliged to do anything particular to fulfil this obligation or to agree to 
any proposal put forward by her.
Here Ms S has suggested Bamboo should either  write off her debt or reduce it. 
Ms S entered into her loan agreement with Bamboo willingly. And even though her financial 
circumstances have  now changed, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to require  
Bamboo to either reduce the amount outstanding  under  the agreement  or to write it off 
completely.
Ms S has also suggested she should  be given a 12 month payment holiday. But I dont think 
that would  actually improve her position  in the longer term and may actually worsen it as 
more interest would be applied increasing the total amount shed have  to pay.
Bamboo proposed  in its final response setting up a repayment plan to take into account Ms 
Ss reduced  income. Its said it would write off any extra interest or charges that would 
normally accrue for doing this and effectively cap the amount she has to pay at the original 
loan amount and interest totalling £5,476.61.
Taking everything into account  I think that Bamboos offer is fair and an appropriate 
response to Ms S current financial difficulties. 
In considering what is an affordable monthly  payment  for her its also reasonable for 
Bamboo to ask for details of her income  and expenditure.  Ms S is unhappy Bamboo hasnt 
asked for income  and expenditure  details before now. But even if it had done  it would still 
need up to date information  before considering what is currently affordable for her.
Overall I think  Bamboo has treated Ms S positively and sympathetically  while  shes been 
experiencing financial difficulties. I sympathise with the situation Ms S has found herself in. 
But I dont think I can require Bamboo  to do anything more or differently  as she would like. 
I would therefore  encourage Ms S to co-operate with Bamboo  so that an affordable 
repayment arrangement  can be put in place to repay the capped outstanding amount at the 
earliest opportunity.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 February  2019..
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5524199