K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains that a fixed sum loan agreement was mis-sold to him by Marlborough 
Information Services Ltd, trading as Trades Gateway.
background
Mr D signed a fixed sum loan agreement in January 2015 to finance  a training course. The 
course provider and credit broker for the agreement  was Trades  Gateway.  The loan was 
provided by another business.  
A few months before the course contract  was due to expire, Mr D complained that the 
agreement had been misrepresented. He says the potential earnings he was told hed be 
able to secure after finishing the course were inaccurate.
He wasnt satisfied with Trades  Gateways response so complained to this service.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  should  be upheld.  He couldnt conclude  
that the course had been misrepresented or that theyd been a breach of contract.
Mr D didnt agree, so the complaint has been  passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im only able to consider  the actions of Trades Gateway in this complaint. The loan was 
provided by the credit  provider and it was responsible  for assessing the affordability of the 
loan. So I cant consider those issues in this complaint.
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr D, but Im not persuaded that theres  enough evidence to show 
that the course was misrepresented to him or that theres been  a breach of contract by 
Trades Gateway. 
Mr D says the salary he was told hed be able to get after he finished the course was 
inaccurate. I cant be sure exactly what was discussed when he met with Trades Gateways 
representative. But the course brochure says:
Average  salaries  for qualified welding and fabrication engineers  range considerably.
And although the introductory video gave some  potential earnings figures, there was nothing 
to suggest that these  were guaranteed. So I cant see that theres been a misrepresentation 
of the outcomes of the course.
Trades Gateway told us that Mr D didnt complete the course. But I cant see that was due to 
any failing  by Trades Gateway. It supplied the course materials  in line with the agreed 
contract and provided  support and a tutor for three years as required.  I consider Mr D 
wouldve been able to achieve the advertised qualifications if hed followed  and completed  
the course. 
Ref: DRN52201132Overall, I dont  find theres enough evidence to show that Trades Gateway has acted 
incorrectly. It follows that it wouldnt  be fair or reasonable in these circumstances for me to 
require Trades Gateway  to cancel the loan agreement   or to take any other  action in 
response to Mr Ds complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 June  2019.
Elizabeth Dawes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5220113