K820x#14complaint
Mrs H complains  that Toyota Financial  Services  (UK) Pic ("Toyota Finance") unfairly 
charged her interest when she made an early  repayment  of the amount financed 
under a hire purchase  agreement  for a new car.
background 
In January  2018 Mrs H entered into a 42 month  hire purchase  agreement  for a new 
car with Toyota Finance.  There was a Finance Deposit Allowance  of £1,500 put 
towards the car by the dealership  as Mrs H was purchasing  the car via a finance  
agreement.
Mrs H says at the time she entered into the agreement  she made it clear that she 
intended  to settle the agreement  early.
One week after entering into the agreement  Mrs H contacted  Toyota Finance and 
asked for the early  settlement figure.  Mrs H said she intended  to make a payment  at 
the start of February 2018.
Toyota Finance provided a figure to Mrs H and advised  her that this included  
56 days  interest.  It also said that the settlement  figure was valid for 28 days  
(which ended mid February ).
Mrs H asked if the amount could be paid by her husband's  card but was told by 
Toyota  Finance that this wasnt possible  and any final payment  would need to be 
made either on a card belonging  to Mrs H or by BACS transfer.  She also queried  
the 56 days interest  being added to the settlement  figure.
Mrs H paid the settlement  figure at the start of February 2018.  She then wrote to 
Toyota  Finance and requested  that she receive  a rebate on the amount paid as shed 
settled within 16 days of the agreement  being  taken out and felt 40 days  of interest 
should be repaid to her. She said Toyota  Finance had provided  a number  of different 
figures for the settlement  amount and she'd found the process  confusing  and 
unclear.  Mrs H also said that the agreement  had made no mention  of paying 56 days 
interest when settling  the agreement  early and disputed this was in line with the terms of 
the Consumer Credit Act as stated by Toyota Finance.
Toyota Finance didn't respond within 10 weeks of Mrs H making her complaint and so 
she made a complaint to this service. However, it then did provide  its final response 
to Mrs H before her complaint had been fully investigated by our adjudicator.
Toyota Finance said that under the terms of the finance agreement if Mrs H settled 
the agreement  early she was entitled to a rebate on the interest she would've paid 
had the agreement lasted its full term. The method used to calculate this rebate was 
set out under  the Consumer  Credit Act and interest is calculated  in advance. It said 
that the 56 days  interest was part of the statutory calculation and wasn't  a fee or 
penalty.
Ref: DRN55873222Toyota Finance said Mrs H hadn't been  provided with misleading information nor had 
she'd  paid too much interest  under the agreement when settling it early.
Our adjudicator didn't recommend Mrs H's complaint should  be upheld. She said that 
the hire purchase agreement Mrs H entered into with Toyota Finance was regulated  by 
the Consumer Credit Act 1974  and this Act sets out the procedure  to be followed for 
early  settlement. It says that settlement figures should be calculated  using the rules set 
out in the Consumer Credit (Early Settlement) Regulations 2004.  And although  the 
agreement didn't  refer specifically  to 56 days interest being applied to an early  
settlement figure, it did refer to the "compensatory amount". The adjudicator said she 
was satisfied Toyota Finance was allowed to charge  this amount of interest under the 
Consumer Credit  Act.
Our adjudicator also said she appreciated that Mrs H had found  the settlement figures  
provided by Toyota Finance confusing,  as there were differences  in the amounts. But 
Toyota  Finance had explained that the manual calculations would probably differ to the 
computer  calculations due to the complexity  of the formula that's applied  in calculating 
early settlement  rebates.
She said that the settlement figure provided  to Mrs H was valid for 28 days  and early  
payment would make  no difference to that figure.  So although  Mrs H paid the amount  
at the start of that period there was no refund due to her.
She also noted it was Toyota  Finance's policy not to accept settlement payments on 
someone else's  credit  card as this could raise  issues over ownership. And said she 
didn't  think Toyota Finance had been  obstructive towards Mrs H when she had tried 
to settle the agreement early.
Mrs H said that she'd been told by the dealership  that no fees or minimum interest 
would be charged when  she'd explained she would be settling  the agreement early. 
She said she was provided with incorrect  pre-sale information  which  led her to enter  
into the agreement. She also didn't accept that Toyota Finance wasn't able to provide  
accurate figures when  requested.
Mrs H disputed it was Toyota  Finance's  policy not to take payments from someone 
other  than the person named in the agreement ,as the deposit for the car had been 
paid with her husband's card.
Mrs H said she was only seeking a repayment of 28 days interest, with compensation 
for the distress and inconvenience  caused as she believed  this was fair.
Our adjudicator responded that she didn't agree the dealership had misled Mrs H as the 
56 days interest  wasn't  a penalty nor was it a minimum months' interest charge. The 56 
days  interest  would've been applied at any point during the agreement  if it had been 
settled before  the set end date.
She also said she wasn't persuaded Mrs H wouldn't have entered  into the agreement 
if she'd been  aware of the 56 days  interest  as she'd received the £1,500 deposit 
allowance  when she'd taken out the finance  agreement. If Mrs H had withdrawn from 
Ref: DRN55873223the agreement  within the first 14 days,  although she wouldn't have incurred interest 
charges, she would've  had to repay the £1,500 contribution.
She said that Mrs H had been provided  with an accurate repayment figure  that had 
been  calculated by the computer, and Toyota Finance hadn't  done anything wrong  
in trying to simplify  the calculation when they did it manually for her.
Our adjudicator also explained  that it was Toyota  Finance's policy not to accept  
settlement  payments from cards belonging to third parties, though  they did allow  
partial payments. Its concern being the transfer  of ownership from Toyota Finance 
once the agreement was settled.
Mrs H disagreed with our adjudicators view. She said that she'd  been  told there would 
be no penalties and as she'd paid off the agreement within  2 to 3 weeks of taking it out 
only one month's interest should  be charged. She disagreed that it was acceptable that 
Toyota  Finance  couldn't provide accurate interest amounts when asked to do so. And 
that the multiple  settlement figures had caused her confusion. She said that Toyota 
Finance had provided a settlement  date in excess of what  was required, therefore  
justifying why more  than one months' interest  was due. But as the settlement had been 
made within the first month  the full two months of interest couldn't be justified.
Mrs H also said she believed Toyota Finance had changed its story about  the payment 
with a third party's card and this had been  barrier  to her repaying the agreement early. 
She added  that the £1,500 contribution  had no bearing on how much interest was 
charged or on the fairness  of the early settlement  process. Finally, she observed that 
Toyota Finance had only issued its final decision after she'd complained  to this service, 
which was poor.
As the parties werent able to agree the complaint  was passed  to me. I issued  a 
provisional  decision  along  the following  lines.
Mrs H had acquired  a new car via a hire purchase agreement, and by taking out this 
agreement  she was able to take advantage  of the deposit allowance of £1,500 and put 
this towards  the cost of the car.
I accepted Mrs H had always intended to settle the agreement earlier,  and so there 
would've been  a discussion  with the dealership  about the impact of early settlement. 
Mrs H said it was never  raised with her by the dealership that she would incur 56 days  
interest being added  to any settlement figure. She said she was told that there  would be 
no penalty imposed.  Sectio n 56 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974  (CCA) says a lender 
like Toyota Finance  may be liable for what's  said in pre-contract discussions  by the 
dealer. Mrs H said that the dealer  had misrepresented  the amount she'd have  to pay on 
early settlement  and it wasn't set out clearly in the agreement.
Looking at this part of Mrs H's complaint, I'd needed to be satisfied that the dealer 
probably told Mrs H something that wasn't  true and that the untrue statement on its own 
had induced her to take out this hire purchase  agreement. But I needed to make  it clear 
at the outset that, even  if Id accepted there'd been  a misrepresentation, the appropriate 
remedy would have been to put Mrs H back in the position she would've been in if the 
misrepresentation  hadn't been made.
Ref: DRN55873224Taking into account the evidence I accepted  that it was likely  thered been  an untrue 
statement by the dealership as to the effect  of settling the agreement early.  And I was 
reasonably sure that the statement from the dealer about there not being  any early 
settlement fees would have been  an important factor in Mrs H taking  out the hire 
purchase agreement.  But I wasnt sure it was the only one.
If she hadn't taken out the agreement  then the deposit allowance  of £1,500 wouldn't  
have  been paid towards the car. Mrs H said this contribution wasn't relevant  to her 
complaint. But I disagreed as it was something  I needed to consider when deciding 
whether the inducement  to take out the agreement was only due to what had been said 
about the early settlement,  or whether thered been other  factors involved.
I could see there was the (statutory) opportunity for Mrs H to withdraw from the finance  
agreement within the first 14 days.  But, had she done so, although there would've  
been no interest charges the dealer contribution of £1,500 wouldnt have applied-  and 
would have  had to be repaid.
So, I thought it was possible that even if Mrs H had been explicitly aware of the early 
settlement  position,  she wouldve still entered into the hire purchase agreement as the 
interest Mrs H said she was overcharged amounted to £114.36, which  was substantially 
less than the deposit  contribution she benefitted  from.
The HPA signed by Mrs H included the following terms:
"The amount repayable under  this Agreement may then be reduced by a rebate of 
charges."
and
"We may charge a compensatory amount in accordance with laws and regulations ..."
So, I was satisfied Toyota  Finance had the ability to include any such charges in the 
event of early settlement. But it was important  I set out the position  in this particular 
case-  as I must  have  regard to the relevant law when reaching my decision.
The early settlement figure had been calculated  in line with the Consumer Credit (Early  
Settlement) Regulations 2004. The regulations require lenders to work  out the total 
interest  payable  as if the loan had remained outstanding for the remainder of the term. 
That amount  is then reduced  by giving an interest rebate to reflect that the loan is 
being repaid early. But the regulations  do allow lenders to defer the date of the 
calculation - in this case  by a sum equivalent to 56 days' interest-  where  the loan is 
for more than a year.
Mrs H felt strongly  that Toyota  Finance had been misleading  and obstructive in its 
dealings with her. However, I was aware that the formula that is set by the Consumer 
Credit (Early  Settlement) Regulations 2004 ("The Regulations") is complex  and a 
computer is used to calculate the settlement figure. I thought Toyota  was clear with Mrs 
H that the manual figures  may not be accurate, and it had provided the correct  
settlement figure in writing as it had been required to do.
Ref: DRN55873225Mrs H queried the settlement date.  But under the Regulations the credit provider, after 
receiving notice  from the debtor that they wish to settle, sets the date for that 
resettlement  "28 days after the date on which the notice was received'.   I appreciated 
Mrs H said she wanted to make the settlement payment at the beginning of February, 
but Toyota Finance  was entitled  to give a settlement date of mid-February. I didn't 
agree this was a tactic to enable it to charge a larger sum of interest
I appreciated Mrs H paid the settlement in advance of the 28 days  limit, but I thought  it 
was clear  that this figure stands for the full 28 days and so it wouldn't  alter if it was paid 
at the start or end of the 28 day period. I disagreed that it would be fair for Mrs H to 
receive a rebate  because shed chosen to pay the settlement figure early on in the 28-
day period.
Mrs H said that Toyota Finance had been difficult about her making an early settlement 
and that its dealings  with her were  confusing and unclear.  She was also unhappy about  
its delay  in sending out its final response  letter.
Looking at the email correspondence,  I thought Toyota Finance had explained things 
to Mrs H and answered her queries.  I also thought  its stance on third party  cards not 
being allowed to be used to pay final or settlement  payments was reasonable, as its this 
payment that transfers the ownership of the vehicle  over. I'd no evidence to suggest 
that Toyota  Finance  applied this rule to block Mrs H making her settlement payment.
And although I appreciated  the final response  letter was late, and triggered by our 
services'  involvement, that hadn't affected Mrs H's rights to complain to us. It had also 
set out what  Toyota  Finance  had already said about the complaint. So, although  this 
wouldve been frustrating for Mrs H, I didn't  accept that it should've caused her undue  
distress and inconvenience and I didn't  think this alone merited  compensation.
So for the reasons given above, I didn't intend  to uphold Mrs H's complaint.
Neither  Mrs H nor Toyota  finance  have  asked  me to look again  at the points  I made  in my 
provisional  decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I havent been asked to look again  at my view by either of the parties and so I havent 
changed my view. 
For the reasons  set out above Im not upholding Mrs Hs complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above Im not upholding Mrs Hs complaint.
Ref: DRN55873226Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 September  2019.
Jocelyn Griffith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5587322