K820x#14complaint
Mr J says Lloyds Bank  PLC mis-sold him a payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy. He 
has also complained  that his policy wasnt cancelled  after he made his complaint to Lloyds.
The rules  about  complaining to the ombudsman set out when we can  and cant  look into 
complaints. In my decision, Ive explained  what this means for one part of this complaint.  
summary and background to the complaint
Mr J said Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold him payment protection insurance (PPI) with a 
mortgage in 2008. Lloyds  didnt agree  we could look at a complaint about  how the PPI was 
sold - because it said Mr J had referred  the complaint to us too late. Our adjudicator  looked  
at all of this  but didnt  think we could help with Mr Js complaint about how this policy was 
sold. 
When making his complaint to us, Mr J also said he was unhappy that his PPI policy hadnt 
been cancelled  when he made  his complaint  in 2014. 
Our adjudicator considered this point  but said that as Mr J hadnt told Lloyds to cancel the 
policy in 2014,  it didnt have to refund the premiums from that point. 
Mr J disagreed with this, so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
mis-sale of PPI
I cant look at all the complaints referred to me. The rules applying  to this service say that  
where a business  doesnt agree  I cant look into a complaint if its been referred to us more 
than six months after the business sends the consumer its final response letter, telling them  
they can refer their complaint to us. This is Dispute Resolution rule 2.8.2R(1)   and it can be 
found online in the Financial Conduct  Authoritys handbook.
Lloyds sent its final response about  Mr Js mis-sale  complaint on 23 October  2014. So Mr J 
had until 23 April 2015 to refer this aspect of his complaint to us. But he didnt do this until 
4 October 2018, so the complaint was referred  out of time under the rules I have to apply.
I can look into complaints referred  outside  the usual  time limits where Im satisfied the failure 
to comply with the time limits was because of exceptional circumstances. But, while I know 
this will be disappointing for him, I dont  think that exceptional circumstances apply here. 
Mr J has told us he received the letter in 2014  but he hasnt provided any details as to why 
he didnt make the complaint about the mis-sale of the policy  to our service earlier.  So in the 
circumstances I believe Mr J could have referred his PPI mis-sale complaint to us by 23 April 
2015. 
So Im sorry that were unable to help Mr J with his complaint about how this policy  was sold.
cancellation of the PPI policy
When Mr J brought his complaint to us in 2018  he said he was unhappy that Lloyds didnt 
cancel his PPI policy  when he complained in 2014. He told us that, as the letter  he received 
Ref: DRN51553512in 2014 from Lloyds said it had closed its file, he believed his policy had been cancelled  at 
that point. It was only sometime later that he realised the PPI premiums was still being  taken  
out of his account. He wants Lloyds to refund his policy from when he first complained about 
the PPI policy  in 2014.
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And while Ive thought carefully about this 
point, Im afraid that I cant uphold Mr Js complaint  about the cancellation of the PPI policy.
Lloyds has told us Mr J didnt ask for his policy  to be cancelled  in 2014  this was only 
requested when he made a subsequent complaint  in 2018. I note that, due to a delay in 
handling this matter the policy wasnt cancelled  straight away  and so Lloyds has arranged 
with the insurer  for a refund of the premiums  paid between the date the request for the 
cancellation was made and the actual date when  the policy  was cancelled. I think this is the 
fair thing  to do. But Lloyds is unwilling to make any further refund to Mr J for the premiums 
he paid prior to the date of the cancellation  request. 
From what  he has told us, Mr J didnt  request  the cancellation of the policy in 2014.  He made 
an assumption that this was what Lloyds would do. But without express  instructions from 
Mr J, Lloyds was under no obligation  to arrange for the cancellation. Ive noted that Mr J has 
said he struggles with reading  and feels Lloyds should have explained to him that he needed 
to cancel the policy himself but as Mr J hadnt requested  this to happen, I dont think  that 
Lloyds should  have known this is what he wanted.  And as Mr J was aware  that he struggles 
with written correspondence, he could have contacted Lloyds at the time to check his 
understanding. So this doesnt  alter my decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im unable  to consider Mr Js complaint about  how his policy 
was sold, because it was referred to us too late  and Im not persuaded the failure to 
comply with the time limits was because  of exceptional circumstances. 
And I dont  think that Lloyds Bank  PLC has to reimburse to Mr J the premiums he has paid 
on the policy from 2014.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 June  2019.
Jenny Giles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5155351