K822xcomplaint
Mr R makes a number  of complaints about Lloyds Bank PLC following fraudulent  attempts to 
access his account.
background 
Mr R says Lloyds was the victim of an online hacking attempt in 2015.  He says he has also 
been the victim of fraud and his account  was frozen but Lloyds didnt contact him about that. 
Mr R says he asked Lloyds that any changes to his account be made with use of his 
identification documents to avoid these problems. But changes have been made to his 
account without  permission. Mr R has raised a number of questions about whats happened 
and says hes been caused  stress and worry.
Lloyds upheld Mr Rs complaint in part and accepts  it didnt deal with what  had happened  
appropriately. It says its offered  Mr R compensation of £500 and has offered to pay for his 
Credit Reference Agency  subscription costs  of £359. Lloyds says its not aware of any 
hacking attempt  in 2015 and its not responsible for the actions of fraudsters.
Mr R brought his complaint to us but our adjudicator thought Lloyds  offer of about  £859 was 
fair and reasonable. The adjudicator said she wouldnt have expected Lloyds to contact Mr R 
when his account was compromised as it couldnt  be sure it would have spoken to Mr R 
himself and not a fraudster. The adjudicator accepted Lloyds hadnt dealt with Mr R as it 
should and that he had been caused stress and inconvenience.
Mr R didnt accept that view and said whilst  he accepts some  of the answers  to his questions  
he maintains Lloyds was responsible for his personal information  being published.
The adjudicator said that it wasnt our role to investigate what had happened or to provide an 
explanation. The adjudicator also thought there wasnt  any conclusive evidence  that Lloyds 
had compromised  Mr Rs personal  information.
Mr R has asked that the adjudicators view be looked at by an ombudsman.  He says Lloyds 
were able to speak to him about  other matters and so questions why it couldnt  speak to him 
about freezing  his account.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall view as the adjudicator. I realise  Mr R will be disappointed  by my decision and I 
appreciate how strongly he feels about whats happened. I also appreciate  that Mr R has 
listed a number of questions that he would  like answers to. So I make  it clear to Mr R that I 
have read all of the points  he makes and the questions  he says he would like answers to. 
But I should explain to him that we are not the regulator of banks or building societies and so 
its not our role to investigate certain matters  as Mr R would like or provide  the answers to 
some of those questions.
There is no doubt here that Lloyds didnt deal with Mr R as it should have when it appears 
his account was compromised. I have no doubt  that Mr R was caused  stress and 
inconvenience in trying to sort matters out and I appreciate how difficult  that must have 
been. But Im satisfied Lloyds has apologised for not handling matters far better and has 
Ref: DRN53043462made what I think is a fair and reasonable offer of compensation to include Mr Rs costs in 
checking his credit file.
I accept that Mr R would like to know how the problem started and if it was linked to what he 
says happened  in 2015. But Im sorry to disappoint Mr R but Ive not seen any evidence that 
suggests the two events  are linked or even if Lloyds systems were hacked in 2015. I think  it 
more likely that both Lloyds and Mr R were sadly the victims of fraud.
I appreciate that Mr R says Lloyds  should  have told him that his account was frozen.  But I 
think its up to Lloyds  when exercising its commercial judgement to decide  on such matters. 
And I dont  think thats something I can fairly interfere  in.
Overall as Im satisfied the compensation offer is fair and reasonable I cant  ask Lloyds  to do 
anything further  in the circumstances of this complaint. I appreciate that Mr R may not wish 
to accept that offer and so I will leave it to him to decide. I also appreciate that Mr R may still 
have unanswered questions  about  what took place.  But I think  that brings an end to what 
we, in trying  to sort out this complaint  informally, can do.
my final decision
My final decision is that Lloyds Bank PLC has made a fair and reasonable offer of 
compensation. Mr Rs acceptance  of that offer would be in full and final settlement of this 
complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 July 2019.  
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5304346