K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that Lloyds Bank  Plc misled them  about  the cover  they had from 
their travel insurance policy.
background
Mrs H has an annual, worldwide travel insurance  policy as a benefit of her bank account with 
Lloyds Bank.  Mr H is a beneficiary under the policy. An insurer, not Lloyds Bank, provides 
the travel  insurance  cover. 
I understand that on 14 October 2018,  Mr and Mrs H travelled to their holiday home  in Spain 
and on 10 December 2018, they travelled from Spain to Hong Kong. On 24 December 2018, 
Mr H became ill and required hospital treatment in Hong Kong for three days. Mr and Mrs H 
made a claim against their policy.
The insurer  declined the claim. It said that that the policy doesnt cover trips of more than 
62 days. 
Mr and Mrs H say that they were dismayed to be told that their claim wasnt  covered. They 
say they were misled  by the renewal letter sent by Lloyds Bank. Mr and Mrs H say that the 
information Lloyds  Bank  sent them says that they were covered for one single journey 
worldwide of up to 62 days and it didnt say that their journey starts  when  they leave the UK. 
Mr and Mrs H want their claim to be covered.
Lloyds says that the annual eligibility letter is an overview of the benefits available to Mrs H 
and not the full details  of the policy.
One of our investigators  looked at what had happened. He didnt  think that Lloyds Banks  
letter was misleading.  The investigator said that Mrs H would have been sent separate 
documentation about her travel insurance,  which would explain the full terms of the policy.
Mrs H didnt agree with the investigator. She said that if Lloyds Bank had not misled  her, it 
would only have cost her £20 to rectify  the matter. Thats the insurers  charge for trip 
extension cover. Shes concerned that others with holiday homes will be misled. 
As there was no agreement between the parties, the complaint was passed to me, an 
ombudsman, to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The letter sent to Mrs H by Lloyds Bank  was an annual eligibility statement in relation to the 
various insurance cover she had with her account.  In relation to the worldwide travel 
insurance benefit, it said:
Worldwide  Travel Insurance
[]
The standard maximum trip duration  is 62 consecutive days 
Ref: DRN54123292The letter also said that Mrs H should check to ensure the cover  is still suitable for her and 
directed her to the policy terms and conditions. 
The terms and conditions  of Mr and Mrs Hs cover  define Trip  as any  holiday, business  
or pleasure  trip or journey within the Geographical Limits, during the Period of Insurance, 
commencing and ending  in Your Home Area, with a maximum duration of 62 consecutive 
days. Home is defined as Mr and Mrs Hs normal place of residence  in the UK.
I dont think that Lloyds Banks  letter  to Mrs H was misleading. It correctly stated that the 
standard maximum trip duration is 62 consecutive days. I dont think that it should have gone 
on to say that the trip starts from Mr and Mrs Hs UK home. I think  it was sufficient for Lloyds 
Bank to direct  Mrs H to the policy terms and conditions.  
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs H have specific insurance needs, as they have a holiday home  
in Spain. But I think that meant it was particularly  important for them to check  the policy 
terms and conditions, to ensure  that the policy met their needs.  
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr and Mrs H but, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont think that 
Lloyds Bank  was at fault here.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  3 July 2020.
Louise Povey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5412329