K821x#15Complaint
Mr L complains  about the advice  given by HF Wealth Planning Ltd, an appointed 
representative of Pi Financial Ltd, to transfer a portion  of his pension  benefits to a self-
invested personal pension (SIPP) and invest in a Stirling Mortimer fund. For ease, although  
Mr L did not deal with Pi Financial directly, I will refer to Pi Financial  as the responsible  
business throughout this decision.
Background
In January 2010, Pi Financial gave Mr L advice in relation to his pension. Ultimately, it 
recommended that Mr L switch some of his existing  pension provision to a SIPP  to invest  in 
Stirling Mortimer. 
A Pension  Transfer Analysis  Application  and fact-find were completed these confirmed that 
at the time of the advice:
Mr L was 47 and married with three dependent children. 
He had an income of around £46,000 (elsewhere his income was listed  as £51,000) 
per year and expected  to retire at 65. 
He was a homeowner with a mortgage  and held a number of bond and Individual  
Savings Account (ISA) investments which were valued at £63,597.  
He had three existing  pensions  with a combined  value of £103,386. 
Handwritten notes confirmed that:
Although the current performance of my plan is satisfactory a re-organisation of 
asset classes has prompted the wish to transfer.
Mr L was assessed  as having  a highly speculative attitude to investment risk, and Mr L 
noted: 
very speculative for majority  of investment p/folio but a little more conservative for 
pension.
Under percentage of benefits,  Mr L ticked that:
It is a major  proportion  of my financial wealth which should be protected as far as is 
reasonably possible.
And in handwritten notes, it was confirmed that:
Whilst obviously  significant benefits  are not required  until age 65 so could be 
speculative.
His priorities in order of importance to him were:
To increase his pension
Tax free lump sums at retirement
The security of his pension fund
Provision for a spouses  and dependents pension
Lump sum benefits upon his death before retirement
Ref: DRN56436832The ability to retire  early
Pi Financial issued a suitability report dated 27 January 2010, this confirmed that the advice  
was limited to the pension. 
The adviser noted that they had recently  switched a number of Mr Ls funds to make  the plan 
more speculative. Whilst initially  property  funds were going  to be kept out of the portfolio, the 
adviser told Mr L about the Stirling Mortimer  fund which tweaked his interest.  Due to the 
minimum investment level of £20,000  and that it could only be accessed  through a SIPP, the 
adviser recommended switching part of his existing personal pension, estimated to be 
around £21,000, to a SIPP to invest in Stirling Mortimer.
Under Attitude  to Investment  Risk, the adviser  notes:
Taking into account your attitude to risk and our opinions about the prospects for the 
main asset  classes of cash,  shares,  bonds,  gilts, property and equities, I recommend 
that your portfolio  should be invested within the Stirling Mortimer No. 9 Fund  UK 
Land 2. 
We have discussed  the implications of investing  in one single fund.  You are 
comfortable with this risk as it is temporary and intend to return to a spread of asset 
classes when the fund matures.
And 
Remuneration
The fund does not pay any commission but this is provided as a marketing 
allowance, equivalent  to 9% of the amount invested  in the fund. So if we invest 
£20,000 the marketing allowance will be £1,800.00.
And 
Reviews
This meeting occurred  in accordance with our agreement to review your financial 
situation on a regular basis to ensure the continuing  suitability of your existing 
financial arrangements.  
In order to ensure  that these recommendations remain relevant  to your 
circumstances, I suggest  we conduct regular  reviews. We have scheduled our next 
review for June this year.
On 28 January 2010, Mr L completed  the SIPP providers  paperwork and the Stirling  
Mortimer application form. 
In a replacement  contract  form the adviser  confirmed in relation to risks that:
There are no guarantees that this fund will outperform any of the usual  property 
funds and there is no historical  performance to judge by. The potential  for growth 
outweighs these risks and it is hard to see how it could lose money unless land was 
offered for sale at less than 1.5% (the AMC above the purchase price). 
Ref: DRN56436833On 17 February 2010, £20,317.47  was paid into the SIPP  from Mr Ls existing personal  
pensions of which £20,000 was subsequently  invested in Stirling Mortimer No 9 UK Land 2 
Limited.
On 28 April 2010, Pi Financial contacted Mr L to arrange for funds to be paid into the SIPP  to 
cover the charges as there were insufficient liquid  funds  to cover these. 
After discussing the situation with another  adviser, Mr L raised a complaint. 
Pi Financial issued its final response  letter on 5 April 2018,  it concluded  that the complaint 
had been brought too late. 
Unhappy with its response Mr L referred  his complaint to this service. Pi Financial objected  
to our considering the complaint on the basis that it had been brought too late. Pi Financials 
objection was considered by one of our investigators  initially  and then by one of our 
ombudsmen. The ombudsman found  that Mr Ls complaint  about  the suitability of the advice 
he received had been brought in time  but, that his complaint about the charges had been 
brought too late. 
The investigator then reviewed the merits of Mr Ls complaint and recommended that it 
should succeed. He said The Stirling Mortimer fund is an unregulated, specialist and non-
mainstream pooled  investment  scheme. He would  typically have expected  a prospective 
investor to be high net worth or considered  a sophisticated investor with experience  in non-
mainstream funds.
In his view the fund was unsuitable  for Mr L to invest 20% of his overall pension savings in. 
By arranging  a separate SIPP, Mr L incurred additional costs in saving for his retirement. It 
was unnecessary to incur  the additional costs of the pension plan and risks of the niche 
investment. He found Mr Ls objectives could have been achieved through regulated  
investment funds.
Pi Financial disagreed  it said:
The investigators assessment of the investment was incorrect. It is not true that the 
Stirling Mortimer fund exhibited similar  characteristics  to a UCIS.
Mr L understood the investment. He did not want to invest  in conventional property 
funds given their performance  at the time. 
Despite this, the adviser  was alert to the fact that Mr Ls portfolio lacked a property 
element, so he recommended this fund.
The investment  of around 20% of Mr Ls pension  into this asset  class  was suitable. 
Mr L was 47 at the time, so did not have  to access his pension for eight  years  and 
the investment  had a seven-year  timeline and was therefore  appropriate  for him. 
The investigators conclusions remained  unaltered. Because agreement  could not be 
reached, the complaint  has been passed  to me for review. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I have reached the same 
conclusions as the investigator and for broadly the same reasons. 
Ref: DRN56436834When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I have  taken  into account relevant law and
regulations; regulators  rules, guidance and codes of practice; and what  I consider to have
been good industry practice at the time.
Where the evidence is incomplete,  inconclusive, or contradictory (as some of it is here),
I reach  my decision on the balance  of probabilities  in other words, what I consider  is most
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
It is my role to fairly and reasonably decide  if the business has done anything  wrong  in
respect of the individual circumstances of the complaint made and  if I find that the
business has done something  wrong  award compensation for any material  loss or distress
and inconvenience  suffered by the complainant as a result of this.
The parties to this complaint have provided detailed submissions to support their position
and I am grateful  to them for doing  so. I have  considered these submissions in their entirety.
However, I trust that they will not take the fact that my decision focuses on what I consider to
be the central issues as a discourtesy. The purpose of this decision is not to address every
point raised in detail,  but to set out my findings and reasons for reaching  them.
Pi Financial was required to follow the relevant rules set out by the regulator. All of this 
needs to be considered through the lens, so to speak, of the overarching  principles  for 
businesses  in particular, principles 1 (integrity),  2 (due skill, care and diligence), 6 
(customers interests)  and 9 (reasonable care).
So, amongst  other things,  to fulfil its duties Pi Financial had to know its client,  act in his best 
interests and give suitable  advice.
Pi Financial accepts responsibility for the advice but argues that it was suitable for Mr L in 
the circumstances. Mr L appears to have had an ongoing relationship with Pi Financial and it 
had been agreed that his pension investments were to be adjusted  in line with his 
speculative attitude  to risk. It appears that Mr L agreed that he had a speculative  attitude to 
risk, although he did qualify that he was a little more conservative  in respect of his pension:
very speculative for majority  of investment p/folio but a little more conservative for 
pension.
In relation to the significance of the funds in question, Mr L confirmed that:
It is a major  proportion  of my financial wealth which should be protected as far as is 
reasonably possible.
He did note however  that he did not need  access to the funds until age 65, so could afford  to 
take a speculative approach to the funds:
Whilst obviously  significant benefits  are not required  until age 65 so could be 
speculative.
Taking all of this into account,  I think that Mr L did have a speculative  attitude to risk but 
wanted to take a slightly more cautious approach to his pension.  The funds invested in 
Stirling Mortimer were significant to him and, whilst he was prepared to take risks with these 
funds in the meantime, he wanted  these to be available to him in retirement.  His comments  
Ref: DRN56436835support this and do not indicate that he was happy  to incur significant  losses in respect  of 
these funds. I note the adviser said:
There are no guarantees that this fund will outperform any of the usual  property 
funds and there is no historical  performance to judge by. The potential  for growth 
outweighs these risks and it is hard to see how it could lose money unless land was 
offered for sale at less than 1.5% (the AMC above the purchase price). 
I think this would indicate to Mr L that whilst  the level of growth was not in any way 
guaranteed, the investment was fairly safe in terms of capital preservation. 
The Stirling  Mortimer investment was high-risk unregulated alternative investment and I dont 
think it was suitable  for Mr L to invest a significant portion of his pension in it. I think  he could 
have accessed  suitable investments within his existing pension  arrangements without 
switching part of his pension to a SIPP. Mr L has had to contribute  funds to the SIPP just to 
cover the fees.  
Mr Ls pension was intended to provide him with an income in retirement. I have not seen 
any evidence that he had experience with alternative investments or that he had the capacity 
for loss to risk losing around 20% of his personal  pension provision by way of investing in 
Stirling Mortimer. Particularly  when taking into account that the rest of his pension  was 
invested in line with a speculative approach.  
As I have said, I think that suitable regulated funds could have been  accessed within  his 
existing pension arrangements and I think that this is what  Pi Financial ought to have  
recommended to him. 
It has not been suggested that Mr L was an insistent client or that he was otherwise likely to 
disregard suitable advice   but, for the sake of completeness, I have considered  what  would 
have happened  had suitable  advice been  given. I think Mr L was a retail client and most  
likely reliant  on Pi Financials advice, I am not persuaded he was likely to ignore suitable 
advice from his financial adviser.
Fair compensation
My aim is that Mr L should be put as closely as possible  into the position he would  probably  
now be in if he had been given suitable advice.
I take the view that Mr L would have invested  differently.  Its not possible to say precisely 
what he would have  done differently. But Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair and 
reasonable given Mr L's circumstances and objectives when he invested. 
What should Pi Financial do?
To compensate Mr L fairly, Pi Financial must:
Compare the performance of Mr L's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below. If the fair value  is greater  than the actual value there is a loss and 
compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value , no 
compensation is payable.
Pi Financial should add interest as set out below. 
Ref: DRN56436836If there is a loss, Pi Financial should  pay into Mr L's pension plan to increase its value 
by the total amount of the compensation and any interest.  The amount paid should 
allow for the effect  of charges and any available tax relief.
Compensation should not be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any 
existing protection or allowance. 
If Pi Financial is unable to pay the total amount into Mr L's pension plan, it should pay 
that amount  direct  to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan,  it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore, the total amount  should be reduced to 
notionally allow  for any income tax that would otherwise  have been  paid.
The notional allowance should  be calculated using Mr L's actual or expected  marginal 
rate of tax at his selected retirement age. 
For example, if Mr L is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement 
age, the reduction  would equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr L would 
have been able to take a tax-free  lump sum,  the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation.
Pay to Mr L £300 for the distress and inconvenience caused by the loss of a 
significant portion  of his pension.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Pi Financial deducts income tax from the 
interest it should tell Mr L how much  has been taken off. Pi Financial should  give Mr L a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
investment  
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional 
interest
SIPP still existsFTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return  Indexdate of 
investmentdate of my 
decision8% simple  per 
year from date 
of decision to 
date of 
settlement (if 
compensation 
is not paid 
within  28 days  
of the business 
being notified 
of acceptance)
Actual value
This means  the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date. 
It may be difficult  to find the actual  value of the investment. So, the actual value should be 
assumed to be nil to arrive at fair compensation. Pi Financial should take ownership of the 
illiquid investment  by paying a commercial  value acceptable to the pension provider. This 
amount should  be deducted from the compensation and the balance paid as I set out above.
Ref: DRN56436837If Pi Financial is unable to purchase the investment, the actual  value should  be assumed to 
be nil for the purpose  of calculation. Pi Financial  may require that Mr L provides  an 
undertaking to pay Pi Financial any amount he may receive from the investment in the 
future. That undertaking must allow for any tax and charges that would be incurred on 
drawing the receipt  from the pension plan. Pi Financial will need to meet  any costs in 
drawing up the undertaking.
Fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a return  
using the benchmark.
Any additional sum paid into the investment  should be added to the fair value calculation  
from the point in time when it was actually paid in. 
Any withdrawal, income or other distribution out of the investment should be deducted from 
the fair value  at the point  it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue  any return in the 
calculation from that point on. If there  is a large  number of regular payments, to keep 
calculations simpler, Ill accept if Pi Financial totals all those payments and deducts that 
figure at the end instead of deducting periodically.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method  of compensation because:
Mr L wanted capital  growth and was willing to accept some investment risk.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income  total return index (prior to 1 March  2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock  Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices  
with different asset classes,  mainly UK equities  and government bonds. It would be a 
fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher  return.  
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the 
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison 
given Mr L's circumstances and risk attitude.
Ref: DRN56436838My final decision  
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Pi Financial Ltd should pay the amount calculated  
as set out above.
Pi Financial Ltd should provide details of its calculation to Mr L in a clear, simple  format.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr L either to 
accept or reject my decision  before  24 April 2021.
Nicola Curnow
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5643683