K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a regular premium  payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken 
out in 1993. Mr and Mrs M say Santander  UK Plc mis-sold them the PPI. 
Santander was trading  as National & Provincial  at the time. To keep things simple, Ill refer to 
the lender as Santander throughout my decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ms case.
Ive decided the PPI wasnt  mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs M say they were told their chances  of being accepted for the mortgage were 
higher if they took out the PPI. Because of this, they felt they had no choice but to take the 
PPI. Santander  has said it wasnt mandatory to take out the PPI.
I cant know what was said during the meeting  when  the policy  was discussed. So Ive 
considered everything  available  to me to determine  what I think  is more  likely to have 
happened in the circumstances. Santander has given me a copy  of the mortgage application 
form. 
This had a separate section for PPI that said we recommend that your monthly mortgage 
payments are protected  and had a number of tick box options for each applicant. Mr and 
Mrs M selected  to take out accident, sickness and redundancy cover  for Mr M only.  Looking 
at this, I think Santander made it clear the policy was optional and that they could leave the 
section blank if they didnt want it. And I havent seen anything to suggest its more likely 
their mortgage would be accepted if they took out the PPI.
Santander recommended  the PPI to Mr M so it had to check  that the policy  was right for him 
 and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For 
example he wasnt  affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover  and he 
seems to have had a need for the cover. 
Its possible the information Santander gave  Mr and Mrs M about the PPI wasnt as clear as 
it shouldve been.  But they chose to take it out - so it looks  like they wanted  this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would have been useful  for them  if something  went  wrong. 
Mr M says he had somewhere  between 6 and 12 months of sick pay available to him. But 
the policy couldve covered him for up to 24 months per claim if he was too ill to work, had 
an accident or was made redundant. And that wouldve  been  in addition  to his sick pay. It 
also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have 
put Mr and Mrs M off taking out the cover. 
Ive also thought about the commission Mr and Mrs M paid on their PPI  and whether 
Santander treated  them  unfairly. 
Ref: DRN53775082Santander has told us that the commission for Mr and Mrs Ms PPI was less than half of 
what they paid for each  premium. Weve looked at how Santander has been  working  this out 
and based on what weve seen it looks like its right  Mr and Mrs Ms commission was less 
than half the cost of the PPI. As thats the case,  I dont think  it needed  to tell them about the 
commission  so I dont  think  Santander  treated them unfairly. This means it doesnt need to 
pay Mr and Mrs M back any of the commission they paid for the PPI. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  5 March 2019.
Rebecca Norris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5377508