K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs G complained  that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) didnt pay them a 
referral fee after they opened a new account  with them.
background
The background to this complaint, and my initial conclusions, were set out in my provisional 
decision dated 12 December 2018 - a copy of which is attached  and forms part of this final 
decision.
In my provisional decision I noted  that Nationwide had already paid Mr and Mrs G £50 
compensation and I explained why I thought that it should pay an additional  £100  for the 
distress and inconvenience caused over the matter.  I invited both parties to send any 
additional comments or evidence they wished to make.  
Nationwide agreed  to pay the additional £100.  Mr and Mrs G agreed  with my decision but 
stated that Nationwide hadnt  offered them an upgrade to a better  account should they 
qualify for oneas  had been promised. 
I invited Nationwide  for its comments on the matter of the account upgrade as I said I 
intended to make it part of my decision.  But it didnt make any. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As both parties have  agreed  with my 
award I see no reason  to change the conclusions  I came to in my provisional decision.
But Nationwide did previously offer to upgrade Mr and Mrs Gs account so I think  it should 
now contact Mr and Mrs G to see if that is possible.
my final decision
For the same reasons  Ive already given in my provisional decision, overall I uphold 
Mr and Mrs Gs complaint  against  Nationwide Building Society in as much as it should  pay 
an additional  £100. 
In addition Nationwide should contact Mr and Mrs Gs to discuss a potential account upgrade 
(any application  will be subject to the usual checks).
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  19 March  2019.
Keith Lawrence
ombudsman
Ref: DRN57672392copy of provisional decision
complaint
Mr and Mrs G complained that Nationwide  Building  Society (Nationwide)  hasnt paid them a referral 
fee after they opened a new account with them.
background
Mr and Mrs G were transferring some money in a Nationwide branch, when  they say it was suggested 
to them that they could qualify for a refer a friend incentive payment if they opened a new account. 
They agreed  to an appointment in the branch  in order to complete the application process.
Following the account opening Mr and Mrs G waited  for their referral payment but it wasnt made. 
They queried  this with Nationwide  and were told the fee was only payable if they switched their 
existing current account  to Nationwide and transferred at least  two direct debits to the account. 
Nationwide also said in the meeting Mr and Mrs G didnt request an account switch.  Rather that they 
simply wanted to open a new account.   
Mr and Mrs G complained saying they were never made aware of any conditions that applied to 
receiving the incentive payment and they expected Nationwide  to be aware of what had been  
discussed prior to the meeting when they attended the appointment in the branch. They  also said that 
Nationwide had wrongly assumed they had a previous individual voluntary arrangement (IVA).  This 
led to them being given a basic  bank account which didnt have an overdraft facility. 
Nationwide didnt uphold the complaint  as it said Mr and Mrs G wouldnt have qualified for the 
payment because ultimately  in the account opening meeting, they said they didnt want  to switch 
their account.  It also stated  that the adviser  wouldnt have discussed  the promotion if it was clear  Mr 
and Mrs G didnt qualify. Nationwide also mentioned that it hadnt completed a payment that was due 
when it set up a direct debit for Mr and Mrs Gs mortgage payments. It paid them  £50 as 
compensation for that error. It also apologised  for assuming Mr and Mrs G had an IVA and offered to 
upgrade them to a different  account on request.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint  and she thought  it should be upheld.  She thought  
Mr and Mrs G would have made  whatever  arrangements were likely to be required to receive the 
incentive if they had been made aware of them. She thought it was unlikely they wouldnt have 
wanted the refer a friend payment.  And she recommended that Nationwide  should  pay Mr and Mrs G 
the incentive payment.
Nationwide didnt agree. In summary it said the branch  staff were  aware of the refer a friend process 
and would have made Mr and Mrs G aware  of any conditions that applied to the incentive. It also sent 
a link to the process to show that Mr and Mrs G wouldnt have qualified for the payment.  
As a resolution couldnt  be found the case has been passed to me for a decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
Theres very little evidence  around  what Mr and Mrs G might have been told or given prior to the 
appointment. But Mr and Mrs G say they were told simply opening a new account would mean  theyd  
receive the incentive  payment and they werent told the offer was conditional.
Ref: DRN57672393On the other hand, Nationwide has said that its staff would have  explained the conditions and it has 
pointed to a link on its website  which clearly sets out the refer a friend  conditions.  
The website says that, in order to follow the refer a friend process youll need to:
have a current account, mortgage  or savings account with us
click on the link below to fill out your details on the recommendation
Your friend will need to:
Switch their main  account to a Nationwide  Flexaccount, Flexdirect or a flexplus account.
Once you click on the refer button and fill out basic details an email  should  follow in 1-2 days.
Ive thought about all of this very carefully. And overall,  I havent seen enough to make me think Mr 
and Mrs G were told to follow this process. Had they been told, I think  its most likely  that they 
wouldve either  followed  it and it would  have  been  clear to them what they needed  to do in order to 
qualify. Or they would have  cancelled  the appointment as they didnt  want to transfer their existing 
account. And, if the former, I think had they arrived in branch for their appointment with the email  they 
would have received; the adviser would have known  from the outset what the purpose of their 
appointment was and been  able to advise  accordingly.
So, I dont think Nationwide has been clear in making Mr and Mrs G fully aware of what they ought  to 
do prior to the appointment  or in ensuring that both parties knew why they were  coming into the 
branch. 
I note Nationwide  has said it processes numerous account openings  each day and the majority  are 
not refer a friend applications, so it cant be expected to check in each case, especially when the 
customers dont fulfil the criteria. But I would  have  expected the Nationwide  adviser to have  been 
given some awareness of the initial discussion  Mr and Mrs G had previously  had in branch and the 
purpose of the meeting. 
So, I think Nationwide has caused Mr and Mrs G some inconvenience here, both in terms of the lack 
of clarity  in what Mr and Mrs G might need to do, and also in terms of being clear about the purpose 
of the meeting. If Nationwide had been clearer then I think Mr and Mrs G would have been  able to 
decide whether the terms and conditions  of the incentive payment were acceptable  to them prior to 
the meeting. 
Ive gone on to carefully consider the issues around the appointment Mr and Mrs G attended in order 
to complete an application and potentially  qualify for a refer a friend  payment.  And Ive also 
considered the issue of whether Mr and Mrs G would have actually qualified for the incentive, and 
whether they would have been prepared  to accept the requirements. 
I note Mrs G has told us that the new account would have been  helpful so that they didnt have to 
transfer money across from their existing  savings account with another account  provider. And that she 
understood the incentive  would be paid whatever account  was opened - including  savings accounts.  
But Ive also taken into account  that shes also said she was happy with her existing banking 
arrangements  and that during the meeting Mrs G said they didnt want  to switch and would only 
consider moving payments over to the account gradually.  
It should be noted that the definition of switching a current account is you open a new account and 
your old account is closed. So, I think that based on Mrs G comments  during the meeting  its more 
likely than not that she and Mr G didnt want to complete an account switch.  I think they were  
attracted to the benefit of opening a new account  and receiving an incentive  payment but I dont think 
it was their intention to fully switch accounts at that time. 
Ref: DRN57672394Therefore, Im satisfied  that Mr and Mrs G wouldnt have switched accounts if theyd been made 
aware of the full terms and requirements and they wouldnt have qualified for the refer a friend 
incentive payment. So I dont think Nationwide  is required to pay Mr and Mrs G the incentive payment.
But whilst I dont believe  Mr and Mrs G should receive  the incentive  payment, as mentioned above,  I 
do think theyve been caused some inconvenience. In summary:  
they werent made fully aware  of the correct refer a friend process  which meant they didnt  
know the requirements  to receive an incentive payment;
they spent nearly an hour going  through an application process  which wasnt  for the purpose 
they originally believed it was for;
And Ive also noted that Nationwide gave Mr and Mrs G a basic account  having incorrectly assumed  
they previously  had an IVA. Mrs G has told us that as a result they incurred two returned direct debit 
fees, although she confirmed  they were aware  that the direct debits were  due and that there was no 
overdraft on the account. So I dont think Nationwide  should waive the fees but I have thought  about  
any inconvenience this caused Mr and Mrs G as part of my overall consideration.  I also understand  
Mr and Mrs G are unlikely to take up Nationwides offer of an upgraded account  with an overdraft 
facility.
I note Nationwide  has already paid Mr and Mrs G £50 for failing to arrange a mortgage payment from 
the new account.  Mrs G has told us that all their payments have  been paid on time and although one 
of their payments remains  with their other account they hadnt missed  any. So I think the £50 
Nationwide has already paid is fair and reasonable for that issue.
But for the reasons Ive given I think Nationwide  should  pay an additional  £100 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused  by the other matters I summarised.
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that I intend to uphold Mr and Mrs Gs complaint against Nationwide 
Building Society, in as much as it should pay an additional £100 for the distress and inconvenience 
caused to Mr and Mrs G. 
Keith Lawrence
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5767239