K820x#14complaint
Mrs C complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc didnt keep a pre arranged  
appointment to complete a current account  application. 
Mrs C also complains that RBS didnt tell her when the application was declined. 
background
Mrs C says she made an appointment  to open  a current account in branch over the phone, 
but when she attended there was no record of it. As a result,  she had to rearrange the 
appointment. 
Mrs Cs application was declined but shes said no one at RBS contacted her to explain  so 
she complained.  
RBS said that Mrs C has made various complaints  about her current  account  application.  
RBS has issued several responses  which deal with the issues Mrs C has raised and offered 
a total compensation figure  of £225.  Mrs C says that the £225 figure doesnt take into 
account the issues shes raised above and is concerned that part of the compensation 
relates to a complaint with a different bank.  
Mrs C referred  her complaint to this service and an investigator looked  at whatd happened. 
But they thought RBS had paid fair compensation for the issues  raised  and didnt ask it to 
take any further action.  Mrs C didnt agree and asked for the complaint to the appealed.  As a 
result, Mrs Cs complaints been  passed  to me to make a decision. 
Mr T brings  this complaint on behalf  of Mrs C. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs C says she is unhappy  with the service  received  from RBS when trying to open an 
account. And RBS has sent five complaint responses setting out the different complaint 
points Mrs Cs made. I can see that both the way Mrs Cs appointment was arranged and the 
issue about not being told that the account was declined have been dealt with in RBS 
responses. As a result, Im satisfied  that the total compensation  figure of £225  thats  been  
paid relates to all the issues  raised. 
I now need to decide whether the offer is fair. Ive carefully thought about what happened  
and focused on what Mrs Cs told us about her experiences. 
Mrs C has specifically asked us to look at how her branch  appointment was arranged and 
that she wasnt told her application  had been  declined. I can see that RBS response dated  
12 July 2018 deals with difficulties in arranging the appointment. RBS accepted there were 
problems when arranging  an appointment so it paid £100 (in addition  to £75 that had already 
been paid). I think the additional £100  RBS paid fairly reflects  the issues Mrs C raised so Im 
not telling  it to increase the amount offered. 
Ref: DRN57563962Mrs C says she wasnt told when her application  was declined but RBS says there were 
several attempts  to contact her over the phone to provide that information. RBS complaint  
response dated 17 September 2018  explained  that itd tried to contact Mrs C and apologised 
for any inconvenience caused.  Im satisfied from what  RBS has provided  that it did try to 
contact Mrs C and I think  the apology is a fair way to deal with this part of her complaint. 
Taking everything Mrs C and Mr T have said into account, I dont think  itd be fair to tell RBS 
to pay more. 
RBS has paid a total of £225 in relation to problems  that occurred when Mrs C applied  to 
open an account. Mrs C says some of that compensation relates to issues she had with 
another bank  but Ive not found that to be the case.  Looking at the letters RBS has sent and 
information its provided, I can see that the £225 figure relates how it handled Mrs Cs current  
account application. 
Ive thought about the level of compensation offered for the individual complaint points raised 
as well as total figure  for the overall experience. Having done  so, Im satisfied the 
compensation RBS has paid to date fairly reflects the impact  of its errors on Mrs C so Im not 
telling it to take any further action to resolve this complaint. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint  beyond the £225  
The Royal Bank of Scotland  Plc has already paid. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or reject  my decision 
before 8 February 2019.
Marco Manente
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN5756396