K820x#14complaint
Mr S' complained that Calpe  Insurance Company  Limited unfairly refused to pay his motor
insurance claim.
background
Mr S told us he left his car with a dealer to sell for him. A prospective buyer put down a
deposit for the car. And while the finance  application  was clearing there  was a fire at the
dealer's garage which destroyed Mr S' car.
Calpe initially turned down Mr S' claim because it said he'd already sold the car. Mr S
complained to our service. Our investigator didn't think  Calpe could  fairly  say he didn't own
the car and so recommended Calpe  reconsider the claim in line with the remaining  terms
and conditions of the policy.
Calpe reconsidered  Mr S' claim, but still didn't think it should  be paid. It said the car was
being used by the dealer  and no one from the garage was named on the policy as being
entitled to be in charge of it. It said the policy excluded cover where the car was being  used,
or driven,  by anyone  not named on the Certificate  of Motor Insurance.  Calpe also said the
car had been  insured on the basis of it being kept at Mr S' home address. And Mr S hadn't
informed Calpe of any change to that. It said if he had done it wouldn't  have continued  to
cover him. Calpe added  that the policy also excluded any claims where the car is being used
or driven  in connection with the motor trade.
Mr S was unhappy with Calpe's decision and brought his complaint to us. I issued a 
provisional decision on this complaint  on 25 October 2019. In that decision I said:
The terms and conditions  of Mr S' policy say Calpe won't cover any claims if his car is being
used or driven:
 "by any person not described in the Certificate of Motor Insurance and/or Schedule
as entitled to drive  or in charge of the car"
 "for any use in connection with the Motor  Trade other than by a member of the Motor
Trade for the purpose of overhaul, upkeep or repair".
The policy doesn't define 'used' and when considering  the ordinary, everyday use of the
words 'used'  and 'driven'  I don't agree  that Mr S' car can reasonably be described  as being
used or driven  by someone not entitled  to drive or be in charge of it. That's  because  at the
time of the fire the car was unattended on the garage forecourt.
Calpe has suggested  that the dealer  was in charge of the car because they had the keys.
But the policy only says it won't cover  claims when the car is being used or driven. The
policy might  be trying  to imply that someone who is in charge of the car is also using it. But I
don't think  that's clear  from the term and as a result I think the term is ambiguous.
Where a term could have different meanings the Consumer Rights Act 2015 says the term
should be given  the meaning  that is most favourable to the consumer. So, on that basis I've
interpreted this term to mean there isn't cover if the car was being used or driven by
someone not named on the certificate and - as I've set out above -I don't think it was. So I
don't think  it would produce  a fair and reasonable outcome to Mr S' complaint if I allowed
Calpe to rely on this term to turn down Mr S' claim.
Ref: DRN58020702I also don't  think Mr S' car was being used or driven  in connection with the motor trade. This
is because the dealer  wasn't doing anything with the car other than facilitating  its sale.  So, I
also don't  think Calpe can fairly rely on that term to turn down the claim.
However, Mr S' policy also says he needs to tell it about "any changes  in circumstances"
while the policy is in force. It says not keeping  Calpe up to date with any changes might
affect his ability to claim because it might  not be able to provide cover  in every case. It also
says if it can't provide cover  then its cancellation  terms  would apply.
Calpe said Mr S should have let it know  he changed  the address where the car was kept. It
said if he'd done  that it wouldn't have covered him. I do think the address where the car is
kept is a fundamental change and Mr S should  have told Calpe about it.
I've asked Mr S why he didn't  tell Calpe that he'd moved the car and he hasn't responded. In
view of this I don't see any reason why Calpe shouldn't be entitled  to rely on Mr S' failure  to
comply with this term and tell them his car was likely to be kept at a dealership for a
considerable period of time.
Calpe has provided  evidence from its underwriting manager that says Calpe wouldn't  have
continued to cover Mr S if it knew he'd moved  his car to the garage. I'm persuaded that what
she's said is accurate,  given her position and the fact that I don't  think most insurers  would
want to cover a car when  it's kept away from the policyholder's home  for an extended period
of time, under a private motor insurance  policy.
As Calpe wouldn't have covered Mr S' car at the garage, I don't think  it would be a fair and
reasonable outcome to this complaint to make it pay Mr S' claim. This is because  I don't
think it should have  to pay out for a risk it wouldn't have covered if it had been asked to
do so. It therefore follows  that I don't intend  to uphold Mr S' complaint.
Neither Mr S nor Calpe responded  to my provisional decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither Mr S nor Calpe  responded I see no reason  for to depart from my provisional 
decision. For the reasons set out above  I dont uphold this complaint. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 December  2019.
Sarann Taylor
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5802070