K820x#14complaint
Mr J says Lloyds Bank  Plc (Lloyds) mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  
with each of two credit cards.
background
The PPI policies were  taken at the same time as the credit cards were  taken out, which was in 
1993. 
Mr J has already received  an offer of redress for high commission payments from Lloyds, so this 
decision just concentrates on whether the PPI was mis-sold. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr J disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, so the 
complaint has been passed to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Hs case. 
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill confine my comments  to what  I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it, but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach  what  I think  is the right 
outcome in the wider context. 
Where there isnt much evidence for me to consider, or the evidence is contradictory,  I need to 
make my decision  based on a balance of probabilities  that is to say, Ill consider what I do have, 
look at what both sides have said, and make a decision based on what  I think most likely 
happened. 
Im not upholding Mr Js complaint and Ive explained why below.
Ive seen the credit card application form. To get the PPI Mr J had to tick a box for it. Had he not 
wanted the PPI there was a box he could  have ticked to say no to the cover. So it seems that Mr J 
chose the cover and did so knowing  he had a choice about  that. 
Ive not seen anything that clearly shows Lloyds didnt make Mr J aware  the PPI was optional or 
failed to secure his agreement  to take it out. I say this whilst noting  that Mr J says he didnt tick the 
box to give his consent to the PPI. He thinks the form may have been ticked by representatives of 
Lloyds. Mr J thinks that some of the data on the form is inaccurate  which  he says supports the idea 
that representatives played a part in completing  the form. But I dont  think the evidence Mr J has 
provided is as decisive as he told us it was. The reference doesnt  clearly confirm his employer at 
the time and the credit  reference is not definitive evidence.  And Mr J does not challenge that he 
signed the application form. So even  had the form been completed by someone else, Mr J signed 
the form to agree to its contents. This has lead Mr J to speculate  that he may have signed and 
returned to Lloyds a blank  form which they then completed and chose the PPI for him. 
I acknowledge that things could have happened  as Mr J suggests. But having  considered  all the 
submissions I have  received in this case,  I think its more likely that Lloyds wouldve made Mr J 
Ref: DRN52425422aware that the PPI was optional and that he chose to take it on both cards,  even though he may 
not remember that now, many years  later. 
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr J, so it had to check  that the PPI was right for him  and based 
on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think  that it was. 
I say this because  Mr J was eligible for PPI and wasnt affected by any of the exclusions from or 
limits to the PPI cover. And he seems to have had a need for the cover. I say this as whilst Mr J 
told us he would have  received some  sick pay, he couldnt recall how long that would have  lasted. 
And Mr J told us he had no savings or any other  means to rely on such that he may have had to 
rely on his family for help if anything went  wrong. This PPI policy couldve covered 10% of Mr Js 
monthly balances  for up to 12 months.  So, I think the policies would have been useful to Mr J if 
something went wrong. 
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr J about  the PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve  been. 
But for the same reasons  that I think the policy was suitable, I dont think better information about  
the PPI would have put him off taking out the cover.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Js complaint against Lloyds Bank Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or reject 
my decision  before 14 December 2019.
Douglas Sayers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5242542