K820x#14complaint
Mr K and Ms K say Bradford & Bingley Plc mis-sold them a payment protection  insurance 
(PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a monthly  premium PPI policy which  Mr K and Ms K took out shortly  
after they started a mortgage with Bradford & Bingley in 1998.
The policy covered Mr K. It would have  paid Mr K and Ms Ks monthly mortgage payments 
for up to 12 months per successful claim for accident, sickness or unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr K and Ms K disagreed  with the adjudicators 
opinion so the complaints been  passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr K and Ms Ks case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr K and Ms Ks complaint. Ill explain why.
Ive seen a copy  of Mr K and Ms Ks mortgage  offer from Bradford & Bingley. The 
interest rate was fixed  for the first few years.  The offer contained special conditions, 
which Im satisfied  were reasonably clearly set out. They  explained that the interest rate 
set out in the offer only applied during  the fixed rate period where  Bradford & Bingley had 
arranged, and Mr K and Ms K maintained, two out of three types  of insurance with 
Bradford & Bingley.  Those insurances  were  buildings insurance, contents  insurance  and 
PPI. If Mr K and Ms K didnt wish to take two types of insurance with Bradford & Bingley,  
the offer still stood,  but the interest  rate during the fixed rate period would be 0.25% 
higher.
A few weeks after the mortgage started, Mr K and Ms K completed an application for 
PPI. The cover requested was £730  per month,  which represented the monthly  mortgage 
payment at the lower fixed rate, and a monthly  insurance premium of £26. So it looks as 
if Mr K and Ms K opted to accept the mortgage offer at the lower fixed rate. And it was a 
condition of that rate that they took two types  of insurance out with Bradford & Bingley. It 
appears that they took out PPI and either buildings or contents insurance. 
But the fact that Bradford & Bingley required customers to take out two types  of 
insurance if they wanted the more favourable interest rate doesnt mean that the PPI was 
mis-sold. Bradford & Bingley  was open about  its conditions for offering the fixed rate that 
Mr K and Ms K chose.  And they had the option of taking any combination  of PPI, 
buildings insurance  or contents insurance  to secure  that rate. Alternatively, if they didnt 
want to take out two insurances with Bradford & Bingley, they could have gone ahead  
with the mortgage  at a slightly higher interest  rate. 
Ref: DRN55649312Taking  everything  into account, I think Mr K and Ms K would have understood at the time 
that they had a choice  about whether to take PPI. But I think theyd also have been 
aware that the particular  fixed rate they wanted was conditional  on them  taking two types  
of insurance with Bradford  & Bingley.  And I think they chose to take PPI as one of the 
two. I can understand why they may no longer remember this, so many years  later.
Bradford & Bingley  didnt recommend  the PPI to Mr K and Ms K so it didnt have to check 
if it was suitable  for them.  But it did have a duty to give them clear enough information to 
decide for themselves whether they wished to take the cover.
Its possible Bradford & Bingley didnt point  out the main things the policy  didnt cover  
for example  existing  medical conditions or unusual employment arrangements.  But, from 
what theyve told us about their circumstances at the time, its unlikely Mr K and Ms K 
would have been affected by any of these.
Mr Ks told us hed have been  entitled to some  sick pay from his employer  at the time. 
But if hed made a successful claim on the PPI, it would have paid out on top of any 
payments he received  from his employer  and potentially  for significantly longer. And 
Mr K and Ms K wouldnt have  had to use their savings  to meet their monthly mortgage 
payments.
I acknowledge that Mr K and Ms K say that family could have  helped  with their mortgage 
payments if need be. But circumstances can change, and I cant  be sure that Mr K and 
Ms Ks family would  have been in a position  to help if the need  had arisen.
The mortgage was a significant, long-term  financial  commitment, secured on Mr K and 
Ms Ks property. And Ms K wasnt working at the time. Taking everything into account, 
I think the PPI could have been  useful to them. 
It may be that Bradford & Bingley could have explained the cost of the policy  better than 
it did. But the policy was free for the first six months, and after that, it was competitively 
priced. Ive seen nothing to suggest that Mr K and Ms K couldnt afford it. So even if 
Bradford & Bingley  had given them better  information about the cost of the policy,  I think  
theyd still have  bought it.
Ive taken into account Mr K and Ms Ks comments,  including what theyve said about 
someone having come to their house to collect the PPI application form. But this doesnt  
alter my view that they chose to take out the PPI in order to benefit from the fixed rate that 
they wanted. And Ive seen nothing to make me think that they were  pressured into taking 
the PPI.
Mr K and Ms K have also mentioned that they took out a number of further advances on the 
mortgage, and didnt take out PPI with those further advances.  But the fact that they didnt  
take out PPI on the further advances  doesnt  change my view about the sale of the PPI on 
the original mortgage.  Ive explained that I think  that Mr K and Ms K chose to take out the 
PPI in order to benefit from the fixed rate they wanted. And even though it didnt cover the 
further advances, it would still have  been  of benefit to Mr K and Ms K if Mr K had made  a 
successful claim. So although Ive thought carefully about the points that Mr K and Ms K 
have raised, I dont think the PPI was mis-sold.
Ref: DRN55649313my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr K and Ms Ks complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K and Ms K to 
accept or reject my decision  before  22 April 2019.
Juliet Collins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5564931