K821x#15complaint
Mr J has complained about the advice that he received from Greenhill (Life & Pensions)  
Limited (referred to from now on as Greenhill) to transfer the value of his deferred  pension 
scheme benefits within his former employers occupational pension  scheme  (OPS) and a 
personal pension  plan (PPP) to a new Self-Invested  Personal Pension (SIPP).
Mr J has also complained  about the funds that his new SIPP was invested in.
background
Mr J was 59 years old when  he met Greenhill in 2014 to discuss  his pension provision. Mr J 
was divorced but did have a partner and a dependent. He had accrued a significant  deferred 
pension in a former employers  OPS  and had been  offered a transfer value of over £460,000  
in lieu of his benefits.
Mr J also had a small  PPP worth  about  £46,000.
The business reviewed  Mr Js pension  arrangements and recommended  that the value of 
both the OPS and PPP be transferred into a new SIPP arrangement where  it would be 
invested in a low risk fund that was in line with Mr Js recorded attitude to risk.
Mr J accepted the recommendation and the PPP was transferred into the SIPP  in February  
2015 and the larger sum from the OPS  was received in March 2015.
The monies were then invested in one single fund which  was expected  to produce returns 
over a three  year period  equal to the returns on cash  plus 5%.
I note that on 2 March  2015 the SIPP was worth  about £510,000  but it had fallen to 
£505,000 in April 2015. Mr J was very unhappy. In May 2015  it had fallen  again  to just over 
£500,000. In June 2016 the funds in the SIPP had fallen further  to £472,000.
Mr J complained to the business that as a low risk investor he was not expecting  his funds to 
fall in value.
The business reviewed  Mr Js complaint and having  carried out some calculations  made  an 
offer of redress to Mr J of £7,500.
This offer was not accepted by Mr J who then referred the matter  to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service where the complaint  was looked at by an adjudicator.
I note that unfortunately Greenhill has been unable to locate its file with all the papers  that 
would have been collected  at the time of advice. The Financial Ombudsman  Service has 
tried to locate this file through contacting former staff of the business but this was not 
successful. 
On 20 January 2018 the adjudicator wrote to the business upholding the complaint based on 
the information that he had obtained.
The adjudicator proposed  that redress for the OPS transfer be determined using the 
methodology and latest assumptions that have been  issued by the regulator where mis-
selling of PPPs had been found to have occurred. For the complaint about the PPP transfer  
Ref: DRN55263212which the adjudicator also upheld he recommended that redress  be determined by 
comparing the actual  transfer value of the policy with the notional transfer value that it would 
have achieved had it been invested  in an index. 
The business did not agree with the adjudicator and asked that the complaint be referred  to 
an ombudsman for a decision. It noted that the critical yield that had been calculated 
assumed that Mr J was going to buy an annuity  which he was not going to do. The business 
argued that Mr J was planning to use the flexibility that a drawdown policy provided and that 
the advice to transfer from the OPS was appropriate in this case.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
At the time of advice  Mr J was aged  59 and divorced he had a partner who was aged 53 and 
also divorced with a dependant child at university.  Mr J had a PPP that was worth about  
£46,000 and deferred pension benefits  in a former employers OPS  that were worth about 
£460,000.
I have considered first the transfer of Mr Js PPP to the new SIPP.  There  is a report on the 
file that was produced by the business  dated  7 January 2015 which shows that the PPP was 
worth £45,760 and that it was invested  across  a range of 13 funds.
The report  compared  the projected  benefits  at age 65 under the PPP with the projected 
benefits under the proposed new SIPP. The comparison  showed  that the SIPP was more 
expensive. If the transfer was to go ahead then additional growth under the SIPP  would be 
required to match the benefits under the old plan of between 0.6% and 0.3%  based  on the 
assumptions used in the report. 
Given the fact that after the proposed transfer the projected benefits were  likely  to be lower, 
in my opinion, the advice  to transfer  does  not seem to have been advantageous  for Mr J. 
Whilst I appreciate the fact that the business  has been unable  to finds its file there appear to 
have been no sensible reasons why the transfer  of the PPP should  have  gone  ahead.
I therefore uphold  this part of the complaint.
I have then considered  the much larger and more  significant transfer of the deferred  pension 
benefits that Mr J had accrued in his former employers OPS  in respect of service  of over 20 
years. Mr J had left the employer in November 2006.
It is important  to note that the regulator required that a business arranging  a pension transfer 
in 2015 had under COBS 19.1.2 to: 
1.compare the benefits likely (on reasonable assumptions) to be paid under a defined  
benefits pension scheme with the benefits afforded by a personal pension scheme or 
stakeholder pension scheme , before it advises a retail client to transfer out of a defined 
benefits pension scheme;
Ref: DRN552632132.ensure that that comparison includes enough information for the client to be able to make 
an informed decision;
3.give the client a copy of the comparison,  drawing the clients attention to the factors  that 
do and do not support  the firms advice, no later than when the key features document is 
provided; and
4.take reasonable steps to ensure that the client  understands the firms comparison and its 
advice.
I have not been provided with any evidence that the business has met the requirements set 
down by the regulator. This is because the business has been  unable to locate its file which  
might set out the reasons  behind the advice to transfer. I note that the regulator does require 
that a business now retains  its pension transfer  files indefinitely.
 
I also note that the regulator required that a business consider the suitability of the proposed 
transaction and that it should  start from the assumption that the advice should be not to 
transfer. I have seen no reasons why the transfer proposed by the business was suitable.
The regulator requires  under COBS  19.1.7  that: 
When a firm advises a retail client on a pension transfer or pension opt-out, it should  
consider the clients  attitude to risk in relation to the rate of investment growth that 
would have to be achieved to replicate the benefits  being given up.  
I have seen no evidence  that the business  carried out the required transfer value analysis to 
determine the investment return that would  be required after the transfer had taken place  to 
match the benefits that would have been  payable from the OPS.
The Financial Ombudsman  Service as part of its investigation asked an independent  firm of 
actuaries to carry out the required calculation to determine the critical yield on the OPS  
transfer. The answer was 20.4%. This is very high and reflects both the low transfer value 
and the fact that there would have  been  less than a year after the transfer  to the scheme  
retirement age of 60 under the OPS.
Given this very high critical yield I consider that the advice from the business should have 
been do not transfer from the OPS to the new SIPP.
I have seen nothing  that would lead me to conclude that Mr J would have ignored the advice 
that he was given not to transfer  and would have transferred anyway as an insistent 
customer.
I have also seen nothing  in the papers that have been submitted that would  lead me to 
conclude that Mr J was a high risk investor. I say this because after the transfer of both 
arrangements had taken place  Mr J sent an email to the business when the value of his new 
arrangement dropped  by £10,000  from around  £510,000 to £500,000. Mr J stated he was 
expecting his new arrangement to grow  in value and not to fall. 
The monies transferred  in were all invested  in one single  fund that was marketed as being a 
cautious fund.  This fund was expected to achieve stable positive returns and its use for Mr J  
would also further  support  the argument that has been put forward that Mr J was indeed a 
Ref: DRN55263214cautious investor. I consider the fact that Mr J complained when the value of his fund fell 
slightly also indicates that Mr J was a low risk investor.
Given that Mr J was a cautious investor  I consider that he should have been advised  not to 
transfer his pension benefits to a new SIPP where  he would be exposed  to all of the 
investment risks. I consider that the advice should  have been  do not transfer the OPS  
benefits into the new SIPP but to leave the deferred  pension benefits where they were in the 
OPS of the former employer.
 
In my opinion if Mr J had been  told that he should  not transfer into a SIPP  he would have 
followed that advice  and would not have transferred either of his two arrangements  into the 
SIPP. I say this because  in my opinion a non pension expert, such as Mr J, who was paying 
an expert for pension  advice would generally follow that advice.
Finally I note that the business has referred to Mr J seeking to get a retirement income  of 
£40,000 p.a. from his arrangements  and that this was not going to be provided by the OPS. 
The business believes  this is why Mr J was advised to transfer to the new SIPP.  In addition  it 
noted that Mr J had told the adjudicator  that he would not have married his partner to receive 
the spouses pension benefits.  Whilst it is noted that the trustees could exercise their 
discretion there was no certainty that Mr J would be able to provide anything  for his partner if 
he retained his deferred  pension benefit in the OPS.
In my opinion the new drawdown plan would be unable to maintain payments out of £40,000 
p.a. and even if this was taken for the first few years the benefits  payable would have been 
expected to fall in the future. This would not have been a reason to transfer to the SIPP. 
I therefore uphold  the complaint about  the advice that Mr J received to transfer the value of 
his OPS benefits to the SIPP. 
As I have concluded that the advice  to transfer  both the value of the OPS benefits  and the 
value of the PPP to the new SIPP was inappropriate I have not considered  that part of the 
complaint that considers where  the SIPP was invested. 
fair compensation
The purpose of the recommended  redress is to put Mr J into the position he would now be 
in had he received  suitable advice and had not transferred to the new SIPP.
There are four separate  sections to the recommended redress and there  are different steps  
which need to be taken  in respect of each of them. The redress proposed covers the OPS 
transfer, the PPP transfer, distress and inconvenience and interest.
OPS transfer
Greenhill (Life & Pensions) Limited  must undertake a redress calculation in line with the 
regulators pension review  guidance  as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in 
October 2017.
This calculation should  be carried out as at the date of this decision, and using the most 
recent financial assumptions published (at the date of this decision). In accordance  with the 
Ref: DRN55263215regulators expectations, this should  be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider 
promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Js acceptance of the decision. 
Greenhill (Life & Pensions) Limited  may wish to contact the Department for Work and 
Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Js contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension  
Scheme (SERPS or S2P).  These  details should then be used to include a SERPS 
adjustment in the calculation,  which will take into account the impact  of leaving the 
occupational scheme on Mr Js SERPS/S2P  entitlement . 
If the redress calculation  demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Js pension plan. The payment should  allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief.  The compensation  shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing  protection or allowance.
If a payment  into the pension isnt possible or has protection  or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr J as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have  been paid.  25% of the loss would be tax-free and 
75% would have been taxed according to his likely  income  tax rate in retirement   presumed 
to be 20%.  So making a notional deduction  of 15% from the loss adequately reflects this. 
PPP Transfer 
Greenhill must compare  the performance  of Mr Js investment  with that of the benchmark 
shown below. If the fair value is greater than the actual value, there is a loss and 
compensation is payable.  If the actual value  is greater than the fair value then a gain has 
been enjoyed and that gain may be used towards offsetting any losses identified in the 
DBS transfer calculation.
If there  is a loss then,  if possible, and provided that doing so would not give rise to any 
pension protection or annual allowance issues, the calculated loss should be paid into a 
suitable pension  arrangement for Mr J. This payment should take account of any available 
tax relief and the effect of charges.
If it is not possible to pay the calculated loss into a suitable pension  arrangement,  or if doing 
so would give rise to any pension protection or annual allowance issues,  then Greenhill (Life & 
Pensions) Limited should pay it as a cash sum directly  to Mr J. But had it been possible to 
pay into the plan,  it would  have provided  a taxable  income. Therefore the total amount 
should be reduced to notionally allow for any income  tax that would otherwise have been  
paid.
The notional allowance should  be calculated using Mr Js most  likely  marginal rate of tax in 
retirement. For example,  if Mr J is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer in retirement, the 
notional allowance  would equate to a reduction  in the total amount equivalent to the current 
basic rate of tax. However, if Mr J would have been able to take a tax-free lump sum, the 
notional allowance  should  be applied to 75% of the total amount.
Investment Benchmarkfrom
(start date)to
(end date)
Ref: DRN55263216£49,066,50for half the investment: 
FTSE UK Private Investors  
Income Total Return Index; 
for the other  half: average 
rate from fixed rate bondsdate of transfer 
into the SIPPdate of calculation
actual value
This means  what the transfer value of Mr Js SIPP would currently be, as at the date of 
calculation, had the only monies  transferred into the SIPP been the £49, 066.50 which  was 
transferred in on 10 February 2015.  This also assumes that the underlying asset allocation 
of the SIPP is identical to that which has actually existed in the SIPP  since outset.
fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced a 
return using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark,  Greenhill
(Life & Pensions)  Ltd should use the monthly average rate for the fixed  rate bonds with 12 to 
17 months maturity as published by the Bank of England. The rate for each month  is that 
shown as at the end of the previous month.  Apply  those rates to the investment on an 
annually compounded basis.
I have recommended  this approach for the PPP transfer element of the redress  because:
Mr J wanted capital  growth with a small risk to his capital;
the average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone 
who wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to his capital;
the FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total  Return Index is made up of a range 
of indices with different asset  classes, mainly UK equities  and government 
bonds and it is a fair measure for someone who was prepared  to take some  risk 
to get a higher  return;
I consider that Mr Js risk profile was in between,  in the sense that he was 
prepared to take a small level of risk to attain  his investment objectives and so 
the 50/50 combination would reasonably put Mr J into that position;  it does  not 
mean that Mr J would  have invested  50% of his money in a fixed  rate bond  
and 50% in some kind of index tracker  investment;  rather it means that I 
consider this a reasonable compromise  that broadly reflects the sort of return  
Mr J could have obtained from investments  suited to his objectives and risk 
attitude.
If the review calculation demonstrates  a loss then if possible, and provided  that doing so 
would not give rise to any pension protection or annual allowance  issues, the calculated 
compensation amount should  be paid into a suitable pension arrangement for Mr J. This 
payment should  take account  of any available tax relief  and the effect of charges.
If it is not possible to pay the compensation into a suitable pension  arrangement, or if doing 
so would give rise to any pension protection or annual allowance issues,  then Greenhill (Life & 
Pensions) Ltd should instead pay it as a cash sum directly to Mr J. But had it been possible 
Ref: DRN55263217to pay into the plan,  it would have provided a taxable income. Therefore the total amount 
should be reduced to notionally allow for any income  tax that would otherwise have been  
paid.
The notional allowance should  be calculated using Mr Js most  likely  marginal rate of tax in 
retirement. For example,  if Mr J is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer in retirement, the 
notional allowance  would equate to a reduction  in the total amount equivalent to the current 
basic rate of tax. However, if Mr J would have been able to take a tax-free lump sum, the 
notional allowance  should  be applied to 75% of the total amount.
interest
The compensation resulting from the loss assessment must where possible be paid to Mr J 
within 90 days of the date Greenhill (Life & Pensions) Ltd receives notification of his 
acceptance of my final decision.  Further  interest must be added to the compensation amount 
at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of settlement 
for any time,  in excess of 90 days,  that it takes Greenhill Life & Pensions) Ltd to pay Mr J 
this compensation.  Tax may be due on this interest.
Its possible that data gathering  for a SERPS  adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes  beyond  the 90 day period allowed for settlement above   and so any 
period of time where  the only outstanding  item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply. 
Distress and inconvenience
I am satisfied that Mr J been  caused  some distress  by the loss of his pension benefits.  I 
think that a payment  of £400 directly to Mr J, and with no notional  deduction for tax, is 
appropriate to compensate for that distress.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Greenhill (Life & Pensions) Limited.
I direct  that Greenhill (Life & Pensions)  Limited  determine the redress  due as set out above.
Where I consider that total fair compensation requires payment of an amount that might 
exceed £150,000, I may recommend that the business pays the balance.
determination and money award : 
I require Greenhill (Life & Pensions) Limited to pay Mr J compensation as set out above, up 
to a maximum of £150,000. 
The compensation resulting from the loss assessment must where possible be paid to Mr J 
within 90 days of the date Greenhill (Life & Pensions) Limited receives notification of his 
acceptance of my final decision.  Further  interest must be added to the compensation amount 
at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of settlement 
for any time,  in excess of 90 days,  that it takes Greenhill (Life & Pensions) Limited to pay Mr 
J this compensation.
Ref: DRN55263218Its possible that data gathering  for a SERPS  adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes  beyond  the 90 day period allowed for settlement above   and so any 
period of time where  the only outstanding  item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply. 
recommendation: 
If the amount produced by the calculation of fair compensation  exceeds  £150,000, I also 
recommend that Greenhill  (Life & Pensions)  Limited pays  Mr J the balance. I further 
recommend interest  to be added to this balance  at the rate of 8% per year simple  for any 
time, in excess of 90 days,  that it takes Greenhill (Life & Pensions)  Limited  to pay Mr J from 
the date it receives  notification of his acceptance of the decision,  as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 March  2019.
Adrian Hudson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5526321