K820x#14complaint
Mr S is unhappy with the way Admiral Insurance Company Limited has settled a claim on his 
motor insurance policy.  
background
Mr S says he was going at no more than 2mph when his car touched  another  car while  
parking. He says no damage was caused to either  car. He was therefore surprised when, on 
renewal, he later found out the incident was referred to as a fault claim on his insurance. He 
thinks Admiral  has inadequately investigated  matters and that it made a premature decision 
before all the evidence was available.  He thinks the other party made a fraudulent personal 
injury claim. He says Admiral has unfairly let a claim go through on his insurance.  He wants 
Admiral to rescind its decision to hold him at fault.
Admiral said in its final response that Mr S was told he would be held at fault.  Its engineer 
considered the third partys images  of the damage to the third partys  car and confirmed that 
only some,  although  not all, of it couldve been  caused in this incident. A sum of £175 was 
offered for this. The minimal damage  caused was reflected in the negotiations  of the 
personal injury claims as were pre-existing  medical conditions. It made a decision  to settle 
the claim on the best possible  terms.  
Our investigator felt this complaint  shouldnt be upheld.  In summary he said:
Theres no dispute about the collision or that Mr S was responsible for it. So he was 
always going to be considered at fault for it. 
Its not for us to assess claims.  And under the terms and conditions of the policy 
Admiral is entitled  to settle  the third partys  claim.  
Admiral referred the photos Mr S sent in to its engineer. And some of the damage on 
the other partys  car was discounted as being pre accident. Admiral  refused to pay 
the full amount the third party  initially asked  for and said it wouldnt agree to cover  a 
hire car. Admiral  has also explained  why it paid the third party personal injury claim 
and that an existing problem had been exacerbated. 
Admiral has acted  fairly when deciding to settle  the claim on the best terms possible 
to limit what  it had to pay. It explained  this to Mr S. And Admiral didnt do anything  
wrong. He will not be asking Admiral to do anything  more.
Mr S remains unhappy and has asked for an ombudsman  review. In summary he says 
Admiral didnt do enough before deciding to settle the claim. It didnt settle on the best 
possible terms for him. He didnt  damage the other  car. Its decision  was hasty. It should do 
more to prevent  fraudulent claims.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN59192262Mr S has provided detailed evidence and submissions to support  his complaint. Ive read 
and considered them all. But my findings are expressed in considerably less detail. And they 
focus on what I think are the main  issues.
Mr S has very strong views about  what happened  in the incident. He says the impact  was at 
very low speed and there was no damage  to other  car. He also thinks  the other  partys  
damage and personal claim  was fraudulent.
But its not our role to decide whos at fault for an accident or what the consequences of it 
were. That is something only a court can consider. We can only look into whether the 
underwriter of the policy has conducted a reasonable investigation into a claim, when 
making its own decision on liability.
Under the terms of the policy Admiral is entitled  to defend and settle  a claim as it sees fit. It 
also doesnt need Mr S approval of any decision to admit liability, settle a claim or make  a 
payment to a third party. It also isnt obliged to take a case to court even if the policy holder 
would like it to do so. Admirals also entitled  to consider the economics of proceeding to 
defend the case, the potential  costs and risks of doing so and to later settle the case  on what 
it considers are the best terms possible.
Overall I think  Admiral  investigated matters adequately  given whatd happened. It considered  
the photos sent in by Mr S and referred them and the damage to its engineer  who thought  
some of the damage  couldve  been caused in the incident. And Admiral  concluded  it was 
appropriate to settle the other  partys  claim on the best terms it could.  
Mr S disputes the thoroughness of Admirals investigation and disagrees with its 
interpretation of the evidence and decision to settle  the claim on the best possible terms. But 
I dont think its failed  to comply with the policy terms or exercised its discretion unfairly or 
unreasonably when deciding to settle  the case as its done. 
Mr S wants  Admiral  to rescind  its decision  recording this as a fault claim. But I cant  fairly or 
reasonably ask it to do so. Mr S accepts the incident occurred and that his car touched the 
other one. That means he was always going  to be considered at fault for it.
I recognise Mr S frustration. But taking everything  into account I dont think Admiral has 
done anything  wrong. And I dont think I can fairly or reasonably require it to do anything 
more. 
Overall I dont see a compelling  reason to change  the proposed outcome in this case.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 November  2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN5919226