K820x#14complaint
Mr C is unhappy with the refund he has received from Bank  of Scotland plc (BoS) in relation 
to home  insurance  attached to his mortgage.  He is dissatisfied with how his enquiries were 
dealt with in relation to the refund; why it was being made and how it had been calculated.  
Subsequently, Mr C raised  concerns  about the tax deducted from the redress  he was paid. 
He said HMRC had told him it couldnt  trace having  received the tax and he wants  to know  
what was happening about that. 
background
Mr C had a mortgage  with BoS between  2001 and early 2007. BoS arranged  buildings and 
contents insurance policies for Mr C (at his request) alongside the mortgage. Mr C had the 
option to either pay the insurance premiums  through BoS by adding the premiums to the 
mortgage or directly  with the insurer. It seems  he chose to do so through  BoS and at that 
point it should  have given him three  options for payment:
Leave the premiums  added  to the mortgage balance  and pay them  over the entire  term 
of the mortgage.
Make  a single  direct  debit payment each year.
Make  monthly direct debit  payments.
Recently, BoS completed a review of all mortgages  where the insurance premiums had been  
paid through the mortgage  to establish whether the relevant direct debits were set up as they 
should have been. 
In the case of Mr Cs mortgage it would appear the insurance premiums were  meant  to have 
been paid by direct debit.  However, whilst the direct  debit  for the contents  insurance policy  
worked throughout, that for the buildings  insurance premium wasnt ever collected. So the 
buildings insurance  premiums were added to the mortgage balance  and remained on the 
balance until the mortgage was repaid in January 2007.
BoS concluded it had made a mistake when  Mr Cs mortgage was set up and it, therefore, 
offered him redress to compensate  him for any financial loss. BoS offered a refund of half 
the building  insurance premiums plus a refund of the mortgage interest accrued on that 
premium refund. The interest  was calculated using the highest mortgage  rate charged during 
each year the insurance premium was included in the mortgage  balance. 
Compensatory simple  interest at 8% each year was then added to refund/mortgage  interest  
amount outstanding at the beginning of each year until the mortgage was redeemed in 2007.  
The total loss at that point  was added up and then further compensatory interest at the same 
rate was added to the total until 31 December 2018.   Basic  rate tax was deducted from the 
compensatory interest.  Mr C was sent a letter  at the end of 2018 along  with a cheque  for the 
amount of redress calculated. 
Mr C was not expecting  the letter and considered it wasnt clear  about why the review had 
taken place, what had happened to cause  the review and he wasnt sure about the details of 
the offer. He asked questions at various times, but the answers  were  not to his satisfaction. 
In addition, he spoke  to HMRC to try to claim the tax paid on the interest back as his income 
was below the taxable threshold,  but says he was told no record could be found of the tax 
collected. 
Ref: DRN50008622As Mr C wasnt satisfied  with the communications and information he was given, he referred 
the complaint  to this service. One of our investigators considered  the complaint, but didnt 
recommend it be upheld  he was satisfied  the offer was fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. He also didnt think any further  explanation of how the redress  was 
calculated would assist  Mr C.
Mr C didnt accept the investigators conclusions. He confirmed that hed cashed the 
refund/compensation cheque before it expired and that HMRC had refunded the tax 
deducted from the compensation interest. However, Mr C didnt  agree that Halifax had sent 
him a breakdown of the calculation and he wasnt happy that the investigator  has said he 
was satisfied with the explanation of how the amount had been calculated.  Furthermore,  he 
didnt consider his concerns about  the service hed been provided with had been  addressed.  
Mr C asked that the complaint be referred  to an ombudsman,  as is his right. 
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Initially, whilst I would  agree with out investigator that we cant consider any problems Mr C 
was having in relation to claiming back the tax paid on the interest, I think I can provide him 
with some explanation that will assist him. When a large financial institution deducts tax from 
interest payments  when  required  to do so under HMRC rules, it doesnt lodge  that tax in 
small amounts for each individual account or policyholder. It will deduct  it and HMRC  will be 
informed of combined totals without referencing the individuals the tax has been  deducted  
from. However, what the financial institution  does  have to do is provide the consumer with 
written details of the deduction so that the tax deducted can be evidenced in the event a 
consumer wants to claim the tax back or needs to declare it in a tax return.
Mr C wants to know how the issue with insurance  policy premium payments came  to light 
and why it took 17 years for it to do so. Such  matters come  to light in a variety  of ways, 
including, but not limited  to, a complaint being  made by an individual,  audits and regulatory 
investigation. I dont  know how the matter came  to light, but as I dont think  it is something  
that has a material  effect  on the outcome of this complaint, I dont consider BoS needs to 
provide Mr C further information.
Mr C has said that he has been  told that the PO Box he was sending  correspondence to 
does not have a real postal address. He appears to think  this means that any 
correspondence sent to that PO Box would not be received by BoS. That is not the case. 
When a PO Box is used the post for it will be collected in a physical location  (usually  a Royal  
Mail sorting  office) and it will either be collected  by the addressee or there will be 
arrangements made with Royal  Mail for the letters to be delivered to a physical address. So 
whilst a physical address is not attached  to the actual PO Box, that doesnt  mean  the post is 
not received by the addressee.
There are many ways the financial  loss in this situation could have been  calculated. Whilst 
the redress hasnt  been calculated in the manner I would likely have suggested had I been  
considering it, I think the method BoS has used is a fair one. Indeed, it seems likely  that had 
I made  an award in this case, the method of calculation would have resulted in a significantly 
smaller sum,  as I would  not have  required  a refund of any of the premiums paid. 
Ref: DRN50008623That said,  I dont think the redress was explained particularly well or clearly initially. The 
second breakdown Mr C was sent was better. That said, the redress  method is complicated  
and would never have been  simple to explain.
Mr C has asked why only 50% of the insurance premium was refunded.  BoS hasnt provided 
this information,  but as I have said above,  its not something that I consider Mr C would 
usually have received to redress the error made  by BoS.  This is because he wanted the 
policy and had the benefit of it. In such circumstances,  he would be expected to pay for the 
policy, so no refund of any of the premium would  be made. As such, refunding  any of the 
premium was somewhat  generous of BoS.  
Overall, I think BoS treated Mr C fairly  in the circumstances  and I dont propose to make any 
further award.
my decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr C to accept  or reject my decision before 
11 July 2020.
Derry Baxter
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5000862