K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain  that National Westminster Bank Plc wouldnt let Mr B withdraw cash  
from their joint bank  account without an explanation for the withdrawal.
 
background
Mr B wanted  to withdraw £5,500 from the joint account he holds with Mrs B. National 
Westminster said he couldnt  take the money unless he explained the reason for the 
withdrawal. Mr B thought  this was unreasonable. He also said that the branch staff he dealt 
with were rude.
The following  day Mrs B attended  a different branch. She was told shed need to fill in a form 
to make the withdrawal, but that if she took out a lower amount  she wouldnt have to give 
reasons for doing so. 
Mr B raised this with National  Westminster  and was told Mrs B shouldnt  have been given 
the information shed received from the second bank branch.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend the complaint should be upheld.  He was satisfied  that the 
amount Mr B wanted  to withdraw meant  National Westminster had properly followed its 
internal security procedures. He was satisfied that the banks aim was to protect  Mr B and 
his account.
Mr and Mrs B didnt  agree with the adjudicators conclusions, so the complaint has been 
passed to me.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand why Mr B might think its unreasonable to have to give reasons for 
withdrawing his own money.
But Im also mindful that the bank has a duty to protect customers  and their accounts,  as far 
as it is able to. The accounts terms and conditions  allow National Westminster  to restrict 
access to the account if it considers its appropriate  to protect the account.
Ive also looked  carefully at National  Westminsters  internal policy  for checking  cash 
withdrawals. And Im satisfied  that the amount  Mr B wanted to take out meant  the bank had 
to ask the reason for the withdrawal. 
From what  Ive seen, Im not persuaded that National Westminster did anything wrong by 
carrying out security checks on the transaction in question. 
It seems  Mrs B may have  been given incorrect information about the extent of National 
Westminsters security  checks when she attended  a different branch the following day. But I 
understand the bank has apologised for that, and I dont think its necessary for National  
Westminster to do anything else. 
Ref: DRN51030242For the reasons  Ive explained, there are no reasonable grounds  on which I can uphold  the 
complaint in connection with the cash withdrawal Mr B tried to make.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  27 July 2019.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5103024