K820x#14complaint
Mrs T has complained about Aviva  Life & Pensions UK Limiteds decision not to continue  
paying her benefit  under  her employers  group  income protection  insurance  policy  after she 
was made  redundant.
background
Mrs T was a member of her employers group income protection insurance  policy,  held with 
Aviva. The policy,  after a 26 week deferred period, would pay benefit  if Mrs T was unable  to 
perform her own occupation due to illness  or injury.
Mrs T suffered from a chronic condition which began to impact  on her ability to do her job. 
As a result, she had to reduce her hours to four days a week.  Her employer made a claim 
under the policy  for proportionate  benefit. Aviva accepted the claim and began  to pay this 
benefit. It later increased its proportionate benefit payments, as Mrs T was forced to reduce  
her hours to three days a week.
Mrs Ts employer then informed her it would be making her redundant. It also informed Aviva  
of this and asked Aviva to continue paying proportionate benefit directly  to Mrs T after she 
was no longer employed.
Aviva said it wasnt  prepared  to pay benefit directly  following the termination of Mrs Ts 
employment and said it wasnt obliged to do so under the terms of the policy.
Mrs T complained to Aviva  about its decision.
Aviva didnt uphold  her complaint. It said it had no contractual  obligation to continue paying 
benefit to a member  once  they were no longer employed by the policyholder. It 
acknowledged that the policy allowed it to exercise  its reasonable discretion  to do this if 
requested by the policyholder. However, it said that after considering  all circumstances,  it 
had decided it would be inappropriate  to exercise  this discretion in her case.  
Mrs T was unhappy at Avivas decision.  She referred her complaint to us. She considered  it 
should have exercised its reasonable discretion  to continue paying proportionate  benefit to 
her directly.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should not be upheld. She noted that 
Aviva had explained it would consider paying  benefit  directly only if the claimant had been 
made unemployed on ill-health grounds  and was unlikely to be able to get a job elsewhere. 
Since this didnt apply  to Mrs T, who had apparently been made redundant as part of a 
reorganisation and who was capable of working on a part-time basis, Aviva had decided  not 
to pay her directly. Our investigator was satisfied  this was fair.
Mrs T didnt  accept the investigators findings.  She understood that the decision to pay 
directly was discretionary but she said Aviva was obliged  to exercise this discretion in a 
reasonable manner. She considered it hadnt  done  so in her case and had just refused  the 
request without giving  it proper  consideration.
In view of the continued  disagreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.    
Ref: DRN55948742my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  this 
complaint. I shall explain  why.
The policy states:
Where the policyholder removes  an employee from its payroll, we will consider paying 
benefit to the former employee where:
the policyholder  has requested us to do so, and
the policyholder  has been eligible to receive  benefit for that person  under this policy  for a 
continuous period of more than six months before  that employee was removed  from the 
payroll. 
As accepted  by Mrs T, this is a discretionary benefit.  However,  she was removed from her 
employers payroll  and her employer fulfilled  the two bullet point criteria, which  means Aviva 
was obliged to consider  paying benefit to her directly.
But being  obliged to consider paying benefit isnt the same  as being obliged  to pay benefit. 
Aviva has confirmed that there were other factors it took into account in determining whether 
to exercise this discretion and I would have  expected this to be the case. In particular, Aviva 
has explained that it would pay benefit  directly only if the member  had been removed from 
the payroll on ill-health  grounds.  This didnt appear  to be the case  in respect of Mrs T. Aviva 
has further explained that benefit would be paid only if the member was totally unable to 
work in a suited occupation whereas Mrs T was capable of working on a part-time basis.  In 
view of this, Aviva didnt agree to pay benefit  directly.
I acknowledge that Aviva made its decision quickly,  responding to Mrs Ts employer within  
24 hours of the request being  made  for direct payment. But that doesnt mean it didnt give 
the request proper  consideration.
I sympathise with Mrs T who has had suffer a loss of income. However, I am satisfied that 
Aviva has acted fairly in this matter.  
Ref: DRN55948743my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 January 2020.
David Poley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5594874