K820x#14complaint
Mr D says the information Aviva Insurance Limited  provided about his home emergency 
policy wasnt clear or fair and that it was misleading.
background
Mr D bought his home  emergency cover online. The policy  was initiated in July 2018 and it 
covered plumbing,  heating and electrics.
In August  2018  Mr D was having problems with his boiler and he tried to make  a claim on 
the policy. Avivas representative  attended but because his boiler  failed a health check it said 
his boiler wasnt covered.
Mr D has a number of concerns about what happened. For example, he says the letter  he 
received after taking out the policy led him to believe his cover was effective immediately 
and comprehensive.
The investigator didnt  uphold this case. Mr D disagreed  so his complaint has come to me for 
a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this case.  Im not upholding Mr Ds complaint. Ill explain 
why.
Theres no dispute about how the sale happened   Mr D bought  the policy online. And he 
didnt receive advice or a recommendation from Aviva. Mr D also agrees when looking at the 
detail of his policy Aviva has applied the terms and conditions appropriately.
Mr Ds argument is that the letter he received after buying his insurance led him to believe 
he was fully covered  from that point on. It said Relax.  You are covered.  He says that this 
tone was maintained  throughout and given the events which followed was shown not to have 
been the case.
Ive thought carefully about what Mr D has said. I understand the point hes making. Even 
though its agreed  the sale wasnt advised, Aviva  still needed to make  sure the information 
about the policy which was clear, fair and not misleading. Mr D says this wasnt  the case.
Having read the welcome letter Mr D received  from Aviva Id certainly have concerns if that 
had been the only information  hed been given  about his emergency  cover.  But it wasnt.
As Mr D applied  for his home emergency policy online  Ive reviewed screen  shots of the 
information he was most  likely provided  with as he went through that process.  On the page  
about the plumbing, heating and electrics service  the second paragraph says:
It includes  a boiler service too, which usually happens within the first 90 days of your cover 
start date. And, for all new customers,  well also carry out a boiler health check, so we can 
be sure your boiler is as safe as possible and can be covered.
And I think its more likely than not after completing his application he wouldve seen a 
message prompting  him to book his boiler health check.
Ref: DRN58741802Shortly after buying the policy Mr D was sent a welcome pack. As well as the covering letter  
which is the focus of his complaint, this wouldve included  a policy schedule and key facts,  
as well as the more detailed policy documentation.  These are important documents  and I 
would expect the average person  to have paid these some attention.
For example, the policy schedule,  which  is a single page, says in the exclusions row:
For the Gas element, in order for us to complete a claim, your boiler/system needs to have 
passed its boiler health check.
The key facts document, which  amount  to two pages of information, repeats the exclusion:
To prevent claims on existing problemsthere is an initial  exclusion period of 14 days  when 
you will not be covered.  This applies to all elements of the policy,  except the Gas Central 
Heating element...  For the Gas Central Heating  element,  in order  for us to complete a claim, 
your boiler/system needs to have  passed its boiler  health check.
Had Mr D read this information then at the very least I think it wouldve prompted him to go 
on and read the full terms and conditions as they applied to his boiler.  These again clearly  
set out whats covered  and what isnt.
On balance, I think the information  given  to Mr D about important features of the policy, in 
particular how the cover for his boiler worked,  was prominent and clear. I think  this is the 
case both during the sale and with regards to the follow-up information he was sent.
So I dont  think Aviva has acted unreasonably. And I dont think  it would be fair for me to 
direct it to refund Mr Ds premiums.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ds complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 February  2019.
Kevin Williamson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5874180