K821x#15complaint
Mrs A complains that the car she bought using her Tesco Personal  Finance Plc (trading as 
Tesco Bank)  credit  card was not as described.  She raised a claim under section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974  (s.75) but says that Tesco  Bank did not fully assess her claim.
background
Mrs A acquired a car in August 2017  and made  part of the payment using her Tesco  Bank 
card. She says that the car was acquired through the internet from a reputable supplier. As 
she was buying  without inspection she says she asked about the condition of the car and 
was told it was in good/immaculate  condition.
Two days after delivery Mrs A says that she was cleaning the car and some paint washed 
away to show two areas of damage to the bonnet.  She contacted the supplier about this and 
also damage to the wheel. The wheel  was replaced and she says he was told to apply touch 
up paint to the bonnet  damage and if this didnt work then the paintwork warranty could be 
used.
Mrs A says she did as suggested  but a couple  of months later following a snow  fall the paint 
washed off to revel  the damage  again.  She says she was advised  to have the bonnet  treated 
properly and was also told the damage was not covered  by the warranty.  She says that the 
supplier made a goodwill offer of £175 but this wasnt enough to cover the cost of repair  and 
so she raised a complaint with Tesco Bank under  s. 75 saying there had been a breach of 
contact as the damage hadnt been  disclosed  at the point of sale.  
Tesco Banks says that under s.75 it can be held jointly liable with the supplier  for any breach 
of contract  or misrepresentation but that this must be substantiated. It says that it was not 
possible to establish  when the damage  to the car occurred and even  if it was present at the 
point of sale, purchasing a second had car is a subjective process  and it could not say that 
the damage was not properly disclosed.  Because of this it did not agree that s.75 applied  in 
this case.
Our investigator upheld  this complaint.  She thought it more likely than not that damage  to the 
car was present  from the point  of supply and that had Mrs A been made aware  of this she 
would have expected it to be repaired before taking delivery. Because of this she 
recommended that Mrs A be refunded the cost of the repair plus 8% interest from the date of 
payment until the date of settlement.
Tesco Bank did not accept our investigators view. It said that there  were  inconsistencies  in 
Mrs As series  of events and that had an inspection taken place in August 2017 it was not 
clear why Mrs A did not accept the offer of a full refund. It said that there was no clear 
evidence that the damage  was present from the point of sale and that the supplier had made 
a reasonable offer to resolve the issue.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role is to decide what is fair and reasonable based on each cases merits. I take relevant 
regulations into account  but my decision is based on what  I consider fair given  the unique  
Ref: DRN59635022circumstances of the complaint. Where the evidence is incomplete, inconsistent or 
contradictory, I have  made my decision based on the balance  of probabilities - that is what  I 
consider is most likely to have happened in light of the available  evidence  and the wider  
circumstances.
Mrs A has raised her complaint in regard  to her .75 claim against Tesco Bank. Mrs A used 
her Tesco Bank credit  card to make part of the payment for the car and so, under s.75 Tesco  
Bank can be held liable if there has been a breach of contract  or misrepresentation by the 
supplier.
Mrs A bought a car without carrying out an inspection. Therefore she relied  on the 
information she was told and the video  she was sent of the car. She says she specifically 
asked about the condition  of the car and its body work and was told that it was in very, very 
good condition  / immaculate. I accept that based  on this she agreed to buy the car.
Mrs A took delivery of the car but says that when cleaning it a few days later paint came off 
and revealed damage to the bonnet. She also noted  damage to a wheel but this was 
resolved. 
In regard to the damage to the bonnet,  Mrs A says she was told to apply touch up paint.  
However when she had the damage assessed she was told this was not a suitable  
resolution. The supplier  also offered to buy back the car.
Tesco Bank has said that there is no evidence that the damage to the car was present at the 
point of supply  and that if it was it is possible that this was accepted.  I accept that on a used 
vehicle some damage is to be expected but in this case Mrs A had been told the car was in 
very good condition.  Also,  given her statement about paint washing off when the car was 
cleaned this suggests that the damage  had been covered, possibly touched  up before 
delivery, and so it would  not have been until the car was washed that she was aware of this.
In regard to whether the damage  was present at the point of sale, I find it more  likely than 
not that it was. I say this because Mrs A raised  the issue with the supplier two days after 
taking delivery. She has also provided  a quote for the repair dated January 2018 which 
shows the damage and the rust that has developed. She has also provided  a report  from the 
quote provider  saying that when  they inspected the damage it appeared to be fairly old. 
Based on this I accept  that the damage  was present at the point of sale.
Tesco Bank has asked  why Mrs A accepted the offer of touching  up the paint work when she 
was aware this was not a proper solution and why she didnt accept the suppliers offer to 
buy back the car. I understand why this has been  raised and appreciate that the supplier did 
try to assist. However, I do not find it unreasonable that Mrs A wished to keep the car but 
that she wanted the damage to the bonnet addressed. She agreed  to try the solution offered 
but as this was not a permanent solution  she then decided to have the repair carried  out.
In this case I accept that Mrs A took delivery of the car expecting  it to be in good condition  
and it was not until after this that she became  aware  of the damage to the bonnet. I also find 
it more likely than not that the damage was present  at the point of sale. I think  that had 
Mrs A been  aware  of the damage she would have asked for this to be repaired before taking 
delivery. Based on this I find the fair resolution  is for Mrs A to be refunded the repair cost she 
paid for the damage to the bonnet.
Ref: DRN59635023my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Tesco Personal Finance Plc (trading as 
Tesco Bank)  should pay Mrs A £300 for the cost of the repair plus 8% simple interest on this 
amount from the date of payment until the date of settlement.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 February  2019.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5963502