K821x#15complaint
Miss S has complained  about  the handling of her claim  under a mobile home  insurance  
policy by XL Catlin Insurance Company UK Limited  (Catlin).
background
I have previously issued  a provisional  decision  regarding this complaint. The following 
represents excerpts from my provisional decision,  outlining the background to this complaint 
and my provisional findings, and forms part of this final decision:
In March 2018, Miss Ss mobile home suffered  an escape of water, causing significant  
damage. Catlin appointed  a loss adjuster (who I will call loss adjuster A) to help deal with 
the claim on its behalf. A contractor was appointed to dry and strip out the home. Miss S also 
obtained estimates from two contractors  for the repair work (who  I will call repairer  C and 
repairer D). Repairer C was appointed to start the repair works.
Drying of the home was initially carried out through the use of dehumidifiers.  However, both 
loss adjuster A and repairer C then informed Miss S that this method of drying  might  cause  
additional damage and cracking  to the external  timber walls. The dehumidifiers were  
removed, and it was agreed that instead,  all wet materials  in the home  would be removed 
and replaced.
Based on repairer  Cs estimate, Catlin paid Miss S a sum that it said covered the repairs  to 
her home. However a few days later, during an inspection  of her home with her neighbour, 
Miss S became concerned about the quality of repairer Cs work, stating that dry flooring had 
been fitted over a wet, damaged floor. Following discussions between  Catlin,  loss adjuster  A 
and Miss S, it was agreed that repairer C would do no further work on the property. Repairer 
D was appointed to complete repairs.
Repairer C invoiced Miss S for the work it had completed.  Miss S was unhappy with certain 
elements of the invoice, and contacted Catlin and loss adjuster A about this. Repairer C then 
told Miss S that if the invoice was not paid shortly, it would commence court proceedings. 
Loss adjuster A advised Miss S to pay the invoice, which she did.
A plumbing  contractor (plumber E) recommended that a new pump costing £250 plus VAT 
be fitted to the central heating system, and this work was carried  out. It also advised that 
there was a blockage  in one of the pipes. Another  plumbing contractor  (plumber F) was 
appointed to carry out various works that included installing  a new central heating system  
and replacing  the boiler. Catlin agreed  to pay an element of this cost that related to repairs to 
reactivate the heating  in respect  of insured damage caused by the escape  of water.
Once plumber  F had carried out these works, Miss S expressed dissatisfaction with some of 
them. She was also concerned  that plumber F had caused the home electrics to malfunction.  
Plumber F agreed to carry out some  further actions that included rerunning a gas pipe under 
the floor. However plumber F also commented  that in its view, its original work was of an 
appropriate standard and in line with regulations.
Earlier in the claim, Miss S had requested that a surveyor be appointed to inspect the repairs  
for the water damage. She had asked  that this be a specialist in mobile homes. Once 
repairer D had completed its works, Catlin agreed to arrange for a surveyor to visit the home.  
Ref: DRN57274912However Miss S cancelled this appointment because she considered the surveyor  was not a 
specialist.
Miss S returned to her home once repairer  D had finished its work  on 14 July. She was told 
by Catlin  that her alternative accommodation would not be paid for from this date.  Miss S 
has said that when  she returned home she had no heating until 17 August,  and that until 
31 August she had no cooking facilities. Miss S considers  the home was therefore not 
habitable during this time, and she says that this has had a detrimental effect on her health. 
She has also mentioned  that the stress of dealing with her insurance  claim caused her to 
lose her job, and the claim itself has delayed her attempts to sell her home and move 
overseas, which  Miss S says is for health  reasons.
Miss S told Catlin that she was concerned  about  the ventilation  in her home following the 
works carried out by repairer D. She stated that she had asked repairer D not to cover the 
vents in her home, but her request  had been  ignored, and carpets  had been placed  over 
them. Miss Ss concern  was that gas was building in her home,  leading  to the potential of 
carbon monoxide  poisoning, or bronchial  problems due to her existing health conditions.  She 
also considered  that this might cause an explosion.
Catlin agreed Miss S should return to the alternative accommodation it had previously  paid 
for her to stay in, and that it would arrange  for a different loss adjuster (loss adjuster B) and 
a different plumber (plumber G) to complete  a full inspection of her home.
At this time, Miss S was also being pursued by plumber E for the cost of the pump it 
installed. Having  asked a number of times  whether she would need  to pay this, Catlin  
confirmed that she did not. However, Miss S remained unhappy that she had been asked to 
pay for this when it seemed it was not necessary. Having carried  out some  research, she 
was also concerned that one of plumber Fs engineers who worked at her property was not 
gas safe qualified  to work on mobile  homes.
Following its inspection, loss adjuster B reported that it was satisfied no further  ventilation  
was required.  However,  as an advisory measure, plumber G suggested the insertion of two 
drop vents in the boiler cupboard and two vents under the cooker.  Catlin agreed to arrange  
for these  vents to be installed, and that it would pay for Miss S to stay in alternative 
accommodation whilst this took place.
Our investigator initially suggested  that we would  not be able to consider this complaint. 
Following Miss Ss response to this, the investigator agreed that we could look at this 
complaint. However  he concluded that Catlin had provided a good service to Miss S, and did 
not uphold the complaint.
Miss S disagreed with these findings. In summary,  she made the following points:-
Miss S says that she was put in a position  where  she had to find the repairers, rather 
than Catlin sourcing them. If Catlin and/or loss adjuster A had found a repairer  and 
dealt with it directly, she considers that she would not have experienced the 
problems she has.
She considers  she was made  to return  to her home after repairer D completed its 
works when it was dangerous for her to do so, due to the absence  of vents for the 
gas boiler and cooker. Miss S says this led to her life being put at risk. She also 
considers that one of the gas technicians  from plumber  F who carried out repairs was 
Ref: DRN57274913not qualified to work on mobile homes.
Miss S experienced a period where she had no hot water,  heating  or cooking 
facilities in her repaired home,  making  it uninhabitable. The effects on her health  will 
continue for the rest of her life, and require her to take vitamin supplements.
Catlins actions led to Miss S being  threatened with court  action by repairer  C.
Finding that repairer C was installing new fittings over wet wood caused Miss S 
significant stress.
The repair works have  not been inspected by a mobile home specialist surveyor,  
putting her home at risk of long term structural damage due to the initial drying of the 
property. Miss S does  not consider the 12 month guarantee  she has received from 
repairer D is a suitable replacement  for an inspection by a specialist surveyor.
Loss adjuster A put her home at risk of long term structural damage  due to it initially  
being dried with dehumidifiers.
Miss S has asked for compensation for her experiences during the claim,  and has 
said that she would be happy  for Catlin to also be fined  for its conduct.
Miss S says that she asked to have  a gas hob and integrated oven installed, but 
instead was given an electric oven and hob that was fitted by repairer D. She has 
explained that it is necessary to get permission to have an electric  oven on the 
mobile home site. Although the hob has now been changed,  Miss S is unhappy that 
she has been left with a gas hob and electric oven. Miss S has commented  that 
following the escape of water, Catlin agreed  that an equivalent gas cooker would be 
fitted.
Shortly after this, Miss S contacted this office to state that she had noted  cracking  to the 
walls of her home. She stated that these  were the walls that there  had initially  been an 
attempt to dry at the start of the claim. Miss S was concerned that the drying had therefore 
caused long term structural  damage, and she asked that the cracking she had observed 
form part of this complaint. She said that she had also detected possible damp in the walls, 
which she considered  might relate to the insurance related repairs.
Catlin appointed  loss adjuster B to visit Miss Ss home, inspect the cracking in the walls and 
consider the probable cause. In the same  visit, a disaster restoration specialist was to take 
moisture readings and inspect any damp. Based  on these inspections,  Catlin  concluded that 
the property was free from damp, and that there was no evidence  of any rotting  materials, or 
traces of any insect presence. Catlin said that the minor cracking loss adjuster B observed 
was not the result of insurance repairs, but instead  was likely due to normal  historical  
movement of the property.
Loss adjuster B observed slight damage  to the back panel of a cupboard near the fireplace. 
Catlin stated that it would pay Miss S £320, which represented £200 for the cost of the 
replacement panel,  and a further  £120 which it described as a goodwill gesture  to cover 
repairing cracks in the bedroom. Catlin stated that it considered Miss Ss home to be 
habitable, that the claim had been  closed, and that it had paid £320 directly into Miss Ss 
bank account.
Ref: DRN57274914Miss S was unhappy  that Catlin had paid £320  directly into her account, and asked for bank 
details so that she could return this. She has stated that by making this payment to her, 
Catlin is relying on Miss S to find her own repairer to complete these works. She considers 
that this is unreasonable, bearing in mind that Catlin did not arrange a repairer  for her at the 
start of the claim. Miss S also states  that Catlin has breached regulatory principles by paying 
money into her account without giving her an option  to decline it.
Miss S has also reiterated her request that an independent mobile  home specialist surveyor 
be appointed to inspect her home  in respect of the insurance repairs.  Miss S says that her 
home has rotten wood  and insects in its perimeter.  She also says that the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA),  the industry regulator, has instructed  her to ask Catlin to arrange  such  a 
surveyor to inspect her home.  Miss S also says that the FCA has provided an indirect 
instruction to this service  to require Catlin to reopen  the insurance  claim,  and then require it 
to appoint a specialist surveyor.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
At outset, I should explain that both parties  have provided extensive details regarding this 
insurance claim. The above is a summary of the events that have  occurred. The complaint 
that I am considering relates to the actions  of Catlin up to any including  its recent decision to 
pay Miss S £320 in conclusion of the insurance claim.
I should also clarify that in this case, Miss Ss dissatisfaction  relates  to the way in which her 
insurance claim has been handled. The underwriter  of her Residential  Park Homes 
insurance policy is Catlin, and Catlin is therefore responsible for dealing with the claim. I 
appreciate that Catlin has used  various parties  to handle the claim, including  an insurance  
broker who Miss S has referenced extensively in her submissions. However, that broker is 
carrying out its actions  on behalf of Catlin in the course of handling the claim. It is for this 
reason why this complaint is set up against Catlin, and I refer to Catlin in this provisional  
decision, rather than the insurance  broker.
Although our investigator initially  suggested  that this service would not be able to look at the 
actions complained about by Miss S, I consider that I am able to do so. In the course of 
dealing with the claim, Catlin has used  the services  of two loss adjusters. The loss adjusters 
are carrying  out actions on behalf  of Catlin in dealing with the insurance claim. I consider  
that I can therefore look at the loss adjusters actions on behalf of Catlin  within this 
complaint.
For ease of reference, I am using sub headings to cover  what  I consider to be the main 
aspects of this complaint.
The appointment of a repairer
A key element of Miss Ss complaint is that she feels Catlin  placed  her in a position where 
she had to find a repairer  to deal with the insured  damage, instead  of Catlin  finding  a 
repairer. Under the section of Miss Ss policy entitled Settling claims, it states that the 
insurer will pay the full cost of repairs. The policy does not confirm whether Catlin will 
appoint its own repairer.
Ref: DRN57274915In a conversation  between Miss S and Catlin on 8th March 2018, Miss S explained that for a 
claim she made some years previously, the loss adjuster appointed the repairer. In that 
earlier claim, repairer D had been  the contractor  who did the insurance works. Catlin told 
Miss S that loss adjuster  A had been  appointed only to assess the damage caused by the 
escape of water. It asked Miss S if she had spoken  to the park on which  her home is sited  
about possible contractors who could carry out the repairs. It was left that Catlin would  
discuss with the loss adjuster about  possible repairers, and that Miss S would also speak to 
the park about  this.
On the same  date Catlin spoke to loss adjuster A, and it confirmed  that whilst it did not have 
recommended contractors, it could look to appoint someone. When  Catlin  then spoke to 
Miss S, it explained that loss adjuster A should  be able to source a repairer if she was 
unable to do so. At this time, Miss S said that she was looking  to use the same repairer that 
dealt with her previous  claim  (repairer D).
After discussions with repairer D, Miss S informed Catlin that she did not want it to carry out 
repairs. She asked for assistance to find an alternative repairer. Catlin  stated that it did not 
have approved repairers, but that it would ask loss adjuster  A. As I understand it, in the 
absence of Catlin/loss  adjuster A finding a repairer,  Miss S then obtained a quote  from 
repairer C.
Loss adjuster A asked  Miss S some questions about  repairer  Cs quote.  Catlin  asked loss 
adjuster A if all the quoted  work was necessary, and it responded that it was making 
enquiries with Miss S to establish costs before authorising the work to proceed.  Loss 
adjuster A later told Miss S that it agreed repairer C should be authorised  to carry  out the 
insurance works. It also said that it would arrange  for payment from Catlin  to be made 
directly to Miss S, so that she could  pay this to repairer C.
In my view, Miss S made it clear to Catlin that she required  some assistance to find a 
repairer. As the policy  was branded as being suitable for mobile homes, I consider that it 
was reasonable  for Miss S to believe that Catlin would be able find a repairer for such  a 
property. What seems to have happened is that, in the absence of Catlin/loss adjuster A 
sourcing a repairer, Miss S felt that she had to find a contractor in order  for work to 
commence on her home. Bearing  in mind that the damage to the home appears to have 
been significant, I consider that Catlin should have given Miss S much greater assistance in 
finding a repairer.
The implications of Miss S finding her own contractor were that if the repairs  went wrong,  
there was the possibility  that Miss S, rather than Catlin, would be left to rectify  the problems. 
In my view, Catlin did not properly explain  the significance of this to Miss S. In addition, on 
Miss Ss previous claim, it was the insurers loss adjuster  who appointed the repairer. I 
consider that Miss S made it clear that this is what she was seeking  Catlin  to do with this 
claim. Instead, it seems  to me that Miss S was largely left to arrange repairers herself, to 
ensure that the insured  damage was dealt with.
 
Miss S was subsequently threatened with court action by repairer  C. Had Catlin  better 
assisted Miss S in finding a repairer,  or had it appointed the repairer  itself,  my view is that it 
is unlikely Miss S would  have found herself  in this position. As a result, my view is that Catlin 
caused Miss S unnecessary distress  in the course of dealing  with her claim.  I explain my 
thoughts on what  represents fair compensation for this distress caused to Miss S at the end 
of this provisional decision.
Ref: DRN57274916Should Catlin be required to arrange for a survey from a specialist in mobile homes?
I understand that Miss S first requested that a surveyor  inspect her home after she became 
concerned that repairer C had left wet wood and hanging insulation  in her home, and that 
damage may have  been caused to the timber walls due to the drying regime  that was carried 
out. In my view, it was understandable  that Miss Ss confidence with the quality of repairs  
had been affected by these issues.
I can see that from early June 2018, Catlin was considering whether to appoint  a surveyor  to 
inspect the repairs.  It then arranged a date for a surveyor  to inspect Miss Ss home. 
However in July 2018, Miss S declined the offer of the surveyors  visit, on the basis  that the 
surveyor chosen by Catlin was not a specialist in mobile homes.
The surveyor proposed  by Catlin was an independent consulting  engineer.  I have carefully 
considered Miss Ss comments where she has questioned whether this surveyor  has the 
appropriate expertise to inspect the insured repairs carried out in her home. Whilst I am 
sorry to disappoint  Miss S, my view is that Catlins offer to arrange  an inspection by the 
surveyor that it chose  to appoint was a fair one.
I do not have sufficient evidence to conclude  that this surveyor  would not have been  suitable 
to inspect the repairs, or did not have sufficient  expertise to do so. In the circumstances, I 
also consider that Catlin acted  reasonably  when it stated that if Miss S wanted a different  
surveyor to inspect her home,  she would  need  to cover the cost of that inspection.
Miss S has mentioned contact she has had with the FCA regarding this matter, and has 
suggested that this service should  require Catlin to send a mobile  home specialist to her 
property. However, on balance I consider Catlins proposal to send the surveyor that it 
offered was a fair one, and I do not therefore  intend  to require Catlin  to send a different 
surveyor that is a specialist in mobile  homes.
Did Catlin move Miss S back into her home when it was not yet habitable?
Once repairer D had completed works  at the property, Miss S was told that Catlin was no 
longer going to be paying for her alternative accommodation because her home  was 
habitable. After  she moved back home, Miss S says that it was just over a month before she 
had heating, and around six weeks before she had cooking facilities.
In terms of cooking, my understanding  is that there was an electric cooker installed when 
Miss S returned in July. However,  the ampage  of the cooker  meant it could not operate  
effectively in the home. Although Miss S had electrics, these would trip if she had the 
cooker on at the same  time as anything else. It is for this reason that Miss S says she had 
no cooker when she returned to her home,  until the end of August.
I also understand that Miss S did have hot water  when  she returned home, as this was 
supplied via an immersion  heater. However,  with regard to heating, the report  provided by 
plumber F four days after Miss S had moved home stated that the heating system was 
empty and appears to have a blockage  in the cold feed. In terms of whether the system had 
been tested, it stated that with this blockage, this would have been impossible.
Subsequently plumber  F quoted for and then installed a new central  heating  system. This 
was in place around a month after Miss S returned  to her home. I appreciate that looking at 
the temperatures one would expect to see at the time of year Miss S returned to her home,  it 
Ref: DRN57274917is unlikely she would  have  needed to make  extensive use of a central heating system for the 
month in question. Nevertheless, Miss S has said that she found her home  to be cold in the 
mornings. With regard  to the cooking facilities it seems that, due to the issues  with the 
ampage of the cooker, Miss S could not effectively use it to cook for six weeks after she 
returned home.
In the circumstances, my current  view is that Catlin did cause Miss S unnecessary difficulties 
by removing her alternative accommodation  in July 2018 and expecting her to return  to a 
home which did not have fully operational  heating or cooking  facilities. I explain at the end of 
this provisional decision  what compensation I consider Catlin should pay to reflect  the upset 
caused to Miss S.
Was Miss S put in danger when  Catlin  stated her home was ready to move back in to?
Miss S believes that her life was put at risk when  she returned to her home due to the lack of 
ventilation following the installation of the gas cooker and boiler. It is clear from Miss Ss 
submissions that she holds genuine concerns that she was either at risk of carbon monoxide 
poisoning, or that there was a danger  of explosion.
In order to assess this issue, I have considered the weight of evidence  provided by the 
parties. Catlin arranged  an inspection of the home  by loss adjuster B and plumber G. Loss  
adjuster B reported that (h)aving completed a room by room  inspection, we are satisfied 
that the ventilation in each  room, which generally  takes the form of wall vents, is adequate 
and therefore  no further ventilation is required. It also stated that plumber G considered  the 
system poses no risk in respect of exposure to carbon  monoxide.
Plumber G did suggest that, as an advisory measure, two drop vents  be inserted in the boiler 
room, and two further vents be fitted  underneath  the cooker. Plumber G also stated that 
there was no risk in respect of exposure to carbon monoxide.
Catlin confirmed that it would cover the cost of installing the additional  vents suggested by 
plumber G. It said it would manage  the appointment of plumber  G to do these works, and 
cover the cost of alternative accommodation for Miss S whilst these vents were installed. I 
understand that these vents  have  now been installed.
I appreciate the strength of Miss Ss concerns  that she was placed  into a dangerous 
situation when  she returned to live in her home.  However, having considered  the weight of 
evidence provided,  my view on balance is that Catlin did not act unreasonably  with regard to 
Miss Ss safety. The expert evidence provided  indicates that Miss S was not placed at risk 
by Catlin  when she moved back to her home.
I have also noted  Miss Ss comments that one of the gas technicians  from plumber F who 
carried out repairs on her home was not qualified to work on mobile homes.  Overall  
however, taking into account  the results of the inspection carried  out by loss adjuster B and 
plumber G, I do not consider that Catlin placed  Miss S at risk by using the services of 
plumber F.
Miss Ss concerns regarding the replacement oven and hob fitted in her home
Miss S has maintained that when  repairs  started,  Catlin agreed that an equivalent gas 
cooker would  be fitted, which is what she had asked  for. However repairer D instead 
Ref: DRN57274918installed both an electric  oven and an electric hob. The hob has now been changed to a gas 
one, but Miss S is dissatisfied that she has been left with an electric oven.
On 14th July 2018, Miss S e-mailed Catlin and confirmed, amongst other things, that she had 
said to repairer D that she would like a gas top and electric oven. An e-mail from Catlin to 
loss adjuster A on 16th July also noted that Miss S had agreed to have an electric oven. I 
note Miss Ss comments that it is necessary to get permission to have  an electric oven on 
the site where  her mobile  home is. However,  on balance my view is that it was reasonable 
for Catlin to pay to install an electric oven,  based  on Miss Ss wishes at the time repairer D 
fitted this.
Possible cracking  and damp at Miss Ss home, and Catlins closure of the claim
In more recent months, Miss S has been concerned that cracking she has observed at her 
home might have been caused by the insurance repairs paid for by Catlin,  and that the 
repairs might  also have  caused damp. In particular, I understand that Miss S believes the 
drying regime that took place at the start of her claim  may have structurally  damaged her 
home.
I consider Catlin  acted reasonably when it offered to appoint  loss adjuster B together with a 
disaster restoration specialist to inspect the cracking  and any possible damp issues. Loss  
adjuster Bs report stated  our investigation revealed normal moisture  readings throughout 
the unit with no evidence to suggest that the structural integrity of the unit has in any way 
been compromised.
With regard to the cracking,  loss adjuster B suggested that this may have been  caused by 
normal historic  movement.  Catlin  did however agree to cover  repairing cracks in the 
bedroom, which it described as a goodwill gesture.
Based on the evidence  provided, I do not consider  there is persuasive evidence  to show  that 
the repairs carried out as part of the insurance claim have caused either cracking  or damp at 
Miss Ss home. I appreciate that Miss S is dissatisfied that Catlin has chosen to pay her 
£320 to cover repairs to the cracks  in the bedroom plus damage seen to the back  panel  of a 
cupboard. I understand that Miss S would  prefer Catlin to appoint its own contractor to carry 
out this work, and she has reiterated  that she considers the problems  with her claim 
originated when Catlin did not appoint  its own repairer to carry out the necessary works. In 
addition, she does  not consider that Catlin should have paid the £320 directly into her bank 
account, saying  that this has breached regulatory  principles  because  she was given no 
option to decline  the money.
On balance, my view is that it is reasonable for Catlin to settle the claim at this stage in this 
way. The further  work  identified  by loss adjuster B in its latest  inspection  is, in my view, 
relatively minor. I am mindful that as the claim has progressed, Miss S has not always  been  
satisfied with the work of parties  appointed by Catlin to deal with this insurance  claim. Taking  
this into account,  and the stage at which the claim  has reached, my view is that Catlin  has 
acted reasonably by paying Miss S the sum identified to deal with the final elements of her 
claim.
It also seems  reasonable to me, at this stage, for Catlin to say that the insurance claim is 
now closed. Clearly if it were to be identified that there was still damage at the property 
caused by the initial  escape of water, or by any substandard repairs carried out to deal with 
that initial claim, Miss S could approach Catlin and request  that it consider any such damage 
Ref: DRN57274919found. However, based on the evidence provided, my view is that Catlin  has acted fairly 
when stating it considers  the claim is now at an end. 
Compensation
Miss S has stated that she would be happy  to see Catlin fined for its conduct surrounding 
her insurance claim. I should clarify that it is not the role of this service  to fine or punish a 
business. However, when assessing a complaint, we do consider  both whether  a business 
has unfairly caused a consumer  a financial loss, and also whether a business  has caused a 
consumer unnecessary upset.
As I explained above, my view is that Miss S made it clear to Catlin that she required 
assistance finding a repairer,  but in order  to get repairs started on her home, felt she had to 
find her own contractor. I consider Catlin should have given Miss S much greater assistance 
in this regard.  It seems to me that if Catlin had provided more help to Miss S, she is unlikely 
to have found herself threatened with court action by repairer C. Indeed, the chain of events 
that led to Miss Ss ongoing  dissatisfaction with the quality of the repairs carried  out at her 
home appears to have  started when Catlin failed  to provide better  help to Miss S regarding 
the appointment of a repairer.
I have also explained  above why I consider Catlin caused Miss S unnecessary  upset by 
removing her alternative accommodation  and expecting  her to return  to a home which did 
not have fully operational heating or cooking facilities for a period of around  six weeks.
In my view, in more  recent months  Catlin has made  significant efforts  to try and bring this 
insurance claim to a satisfactory  conclusion. But I consider Miss S has suffered additional 
distress, over and above that which one might normally expect to experience with an 
insurance claim of this nature, due to the failings I have identified above by Catlin.  Taking 
into account the types of award  this service might make for distress and inconvenience in 
complaints with similar circumstances, I currently propose to award Miss S £750 
compensation for the difficulties caused to her by Catlin.
I appreciate that Miss S is likely to be disappointed  that I am not proposing to require Catlin 
to carry out any further actions along  the lines that she has suggested.  But for the reasons 
outlined, I do not consider  that it would be reasonable for me to do so, based  on the 
circumstances of this complaint.
responses to my provisional  decision
In summary,  Miss S has made  the following points:-
Miss S says that it has been the insurance broker,  not Catlin, which  has dealt with 
her claim.
She has stated that there is black wood and there are insects between  the wall and 
floor of her home, despite Catlin saying that there are no insects  or rot.
Loss adjuster B did not lift flooring that would  have  revealed black wood in the 
wooden perimeters  of her house. Miss S considers it failed to do this because  it was 
aware there was damage under the flooring that is the result  of poor insurance 
related repairs.
Ref: DRN572749110Miss S has said that she will accept the inspection report  from loss adjuster B on the 
caveat that Catlin  and its agents  will be responsible for any accident or problems that 
might occur in the future relating to damage caused by the initial escape of water or 
the subsequent repairs carried out.
Catlin should be required  to send an independent mobile home  specialist surveyor  to 
fully inspect her home. Miss S says that she is unable to afford  to pay for such a 
report.
Miss S says that she paid for a new central  heating system because she was advised 
that this was an efficient and cost effective action to take, not because this new 
system was needed.
She has stated that she would  not have renewed the policy  if she had known that 
Catlin would not appoint its own repairer in the event of a claim.
My provisional decision did not mention important points that Miss S has raised, such  
as the fact that her policy was cancelled in error  by Catlin.
Miss S says that Catlin may have  broken  regulatory rules, and the terms of the 
policy, by paying a sum of money directly  into her bank account in relation  to 
outstanding repairs.  
Miss S is concerned that if she applies for insurance cover  elsewhere, she might  be 
in danger of misrepresenting the condition  of her home, due to the repairs that Catlin 
has carried out.
Dealing with this insurance claim has left Miss S exhausted.
Miss S has also emphasised the amount of equity she has in her home. She has 
provided two estate agent valuations from 2018  to show the proposed offer price  of 
her property,  and to demonstrate that she was planning  to sell it.
Miss S has been copying this service into the recent requests she has made  to 
repairer D to confirm how it repaired the perimeter of her home where she says there 
was black rotten  wood with insects in it.
Catlin responded to the provisional decision to say that it agreed  with the majority of the 
points which  had been made,  and it agreed  to my proposed award of £750 compensation. It 
has commented that during the claim, Miss S changed her mind about which contractors she 
wanted to work on her home. Catlin also considers that it has assisted Miss S throughout the 
time the claim has been running.
In terms of habitability,  Catlin  has suggested that the boiler at the home was not working 
prior to the insurance claim. Despite its opinion in this matter, Catlin has commented that it 
investigated the fault with the heating, and contributed  to the cost of a new boiler. It also 
considers that installing the electric cooker  highlighted inadequacies with the homes 
electrics that pre-dated the insurance  claim. Catlin does however accept that moving  Miss S 
back into her home without a cooker was not the right decision to make.
Ref: DRN572749111my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I explained at the start of my provisional  findings, I have been provided with extensive 
details from both parties about  the circumstances of this complaint. I have summarised 
matters in order to focus on what I consider to be the essential elements of this case. In 
doing so, I have not found it necessary to comment on all the points that have been  raised.  
However, with regard to Miss Ss comments that Catlin cancelled  her policy  in error, I can 
confirm that in reviewing  this file, I was aware that this had occurred. In February 2019, 
Catlin explained to Miss S that a letter had been  generated  and sent to her in error, but that 
her policy remained in force. I do not consider this particular issue  affects my conclusions  
about this complaint.
Miss S has stated that in considering her complaint, I have not taken into account the actions 
of the insurance  broker who she was in contact with during the insurance claim. As I 
explained in my provisional decision,  as the underwriter of the policy, it is Catlin who is 
responsible for how Miss Ss claim has been dealt with. In dealing with the claim, Catlin is 
able to utilise the services  of other  parties.  I can reassure Miss S that I have therefore 
considered the actions  of the insurance  broker. Those actions though  have been taken on 
behalf of Catlin,  in the course of the claim being  dealt with. It is for this reason that I have 
only named Catlin in this decision, as it is ultimately responsible for the actions of any of the 
parties that it might use to deal with the claim.
Miss S remains concerned that her home  is suffering from damage that has resulted from 
the escape of water  and subsequent inadequate related repairs.  Recently, Miss S has been 
e-mailing repairer D with questions about  the work  it carried out on the perimeter of her 
home. I have  thought  carefully about Miss Ss comments regarding this. However, when 
reviewing the evidence provided,  I consider  it reasonable to give weight to the findings of 
loss adjuster B and the disaster restoration specialist following their visit in March 2019.  
They reported that there was no evidence to suggest rotten materialswithin the home, or 
any evidence of insect infestation.
I acknowledge that Miss S says the flooring in her home was not lifted  because it was known 
that damage would  be found underneath this. But on balance,  Im not persuaded that it has 
reasonably been shown  the inspections Catlin has arranged have attempted  to deliberately 
avoid finding the damage that Miss S has suggested is there.
I also appreciate that Miss S has said that she is unable  to afford to arrange for a further  
surveyor to inspect her property. What I need  to consider is whether Catlin has acted fairly 
when investigating  Miss Ss concerns  relating to the quality of repairs carried out. On 
balance, my view is that Catlin has acted fairly in this regard. For the same reasons, I do not 
consider it would be reasonable for me to require Catlin to appoint a specialist mobile  home 
surveyor to carry out a further  inspection.
I have noted Miss Ss comments  about Catlins liability to deal with any accidents or 
problems that may occur  in the future as a result of the damage caused  by the initial  escape  
of water,  or by the insurance repairs. I explained  in my provisional decision that Miss S could 
approach Catlin if this were to occur  but that it was reasonable at this stage for Catlin to 
say that the claim  is closed. My view remains that, for the reasons explained in my 
Ref: DRN572749112provisional decision, it was also reasonable of Catlin to pay Miss S what it considered  to be 
the cost of outstanding repairs for the claim.
In terms of Miss Ss concerns about applying for future insurance  for her home, it will be for 
Miss S to answer questions asked of her by any potential insurer or broker  to the best of her 
knowledge and belief. Miss S has provided  estate  agent valuations  for her property, and 
emphasised that she has considerable  equity  in her home. As I have explained,  based  on 
the evidence forwarded my view is that Catlin has now dealt with this insurance  claim. In 
doing so however, I consider Catlin did cause  Miss S unnecessary  distress.
Catlin has provided some comments about  my provisional findings,  although  I note that it 
accepts my conclusions regarding the compensation award I provisionally proposed. I am 
sorry to learn that this claim has left Miss S feeling  exhausted. Overall, having  considered  
again certain failings by Catlin in its handling of the claim that I identified in my provisional  
decision, my view is that it is fair to award Miss S £750 compensation.
Miss S has said that she would not have renewed her insurance  with Catlin  if she had known 
that it was not going to appoint a repairer in the event of a claim. These comments  relate to 
the selling  of the policy. As this issue has not been considered  as yet, if Miss S believes that 
the policy was mis-sold  to her for this reason, she will need  in the first instance to raise  her 
concerns with the business that sold her the policy.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part, and require XL Catlin Insurance 
Company UK Limited to pay Miss S £750 to reflect unnecessary distress and inconvenience 
caused to her.
I do not make any other award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 August 2019.
John Swain
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5727491