K820x#14complaint
Mrs A has complained that Marks & Spencer Financial Services  Plc mis-sold her a credit 
card payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mrs A applied for the card and PPI by filling out a form in 2001.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs A disagrees with the adjudicators opinion 
and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve  set out our general approach to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account  in deciding  
this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs As complaint and Ill explain why.
Mrs A says that she wasnt aware  that PPI had been applied to the credit  card account.
Ive seen a copy  of the application form that Mrs A completed. There is a separate section 
for PPI. Mrs A has ticked a box to request the policy. She has then printed her name and 
date of birth as the person  to be insured, and then added her signature.
Mrs A could have left that section of the form blank if she hadnt wanted  the policy. On 
balance, given the available evidence, I consider that Mrs A must  have been fully aware that 
she was taking out the PPI. I also consider that she decided to buy the policy,  knowing that 
she didnt have to.
Mrs A says that the PPI wasnt discussed. Thats because she applied  for the card and PPI 
by filling  out the form herself. As M&S  didnt advise  Mrs A to take out the policy,  it didnt 
need to ensure that it met her needs. But it did need  to provide Mrs A with enough 
information for her to make an informed choice about whether or not the policy  was right for 
her.
I think Mrs A must have  known  something  about  the policy  that it would cover her 
repayments if she was unable to work due to sickness or unemployment  because  I dont 
consider that she would have decided to take it out without knowing anything  at all about it.
As this was a non-advised sale, Mrs A had to weigh  up in her own mind  the cost of the policy 
against the benefits offered and the potential consequences if she didnt insure against the 
risk of being  unable  to work. As I have found  that Mrs A chose to take this policy  out, I 
consider it reasonable to conclude she had some interest in the benefits  offered by this type 
of insurance.
Mrs A has told us that her employer would have given her six months sick pay. But the 
policy would have paid out in addition to this, and potentially for longer than she would have 
received full pay for. Mrs A has said that her parents would have helped. But other people 
cant always be relied upon as their circumstances can change,  and presumably asking 
Ref: DRN52421342family to pay your debt for you would be a last resort, which could be avoided  by having the 
policy. So I think the PPI could have provided  a useful benefit at what would have been a 
difficult time.
Its possible that M&S didnt provide as much  information about the policy  as it should have, 
particularly about  the things that it didnt cover. But Mrs A wasnt  affected by any of those 
things. As I have concluded  that she had an interest in the policy and decided to buy it, I 
dont think that further  information would have caused her to change her mind. So she isnt 
any worse off as a result of anything M&S may have done  wrong,  so theres  nothing  that 
M&S needs to do to put things right.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  Mrs As complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 November 2019.
Carole Clark
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5242134