K820x#14complaint
This complaint is being made  by Mrs D on behalf of her husband, the late Mr D, and herself. 
In the hope that Mrs D wont mind,  I will refer to the late Mr D as Mr D throughout this 
decision.
Mrs D says Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold  them a payment protection  insurance  (PPI)  
policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Mr and Mrs D bought  the policy in 1999  at the same  time as taking out a mortgage. They  
applied for the mortgage and PPI policy in branch.  
The policy provided  cover  for Mrs D for accident, sickness,  and unemployment  subject to 
its exclusions and limitations.  Barclays has told us it offered to repay £277.36  a month 
towards Mr and Mrs Ds mortgage balance in the event  of a successful claim. At the time, 
Barclays says it cost £15.57 a month. 
At the time,  Mrs D was employed  as a manager.  She has told us she was entitled  to 
statutory sick pay but didnt have any other means of repaying their mortgage should she be 
unable to work. Mrs D told us she had been employed in this role for one year but the 
mortgage application shows that she had been with this employer for eight years so I think it 
is likely  she would have been  entitled to statutory redundancy  pay. Mrs D has said she was 
in good health at the time of the sale, although  I am aware that on a separate complaint to 
this service she has told us about a medical condition she suffered from in 1987.  
Mr D wasnt covered by the policy but I note that Mrs D has told us he was self-employed.  
The mortgage application completed at the time of the sale states  Mr D wasnt working  and 
had been medically retired.
Barclays has sent us documentation to show that the mortgage account closed in 2002. 
Mr and Mrs Ds representative has made lengthy  and substantial  representations on their 
behalf. 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr and Mrs Ds representative says:
Barclays failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr and Mrs D 
wouldnt have taken  out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  
Mr and Mrs Ds representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that 
presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
Ref: DRN52585102claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Barclays should have 
told Mr and Mrs D about the poor value;  
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Barclays should have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mr and Mrs D 
and the impact they would have had on their chances of making a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
The information Mr and Mrs D received was misleading. These  policies were  
promoted as providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations 
on the scope of the cover meant  this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. 
Mrs D disagreed with the adjudicators opinion for several reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Ds. I dont intend to set that 
out in much detail  here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ds complaint.
This sale took place  in 1999 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2002. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
Ref: DRN52585103There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Barclays at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take the ABI Code  and 
these other  publications into account when deciding, what  is in my opinion,  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of Mr and Mrs Ds case. 
There was also the Mortgage Code which was a voluntary code followed by subscribing 
lenders and mortgage intermediaries. While predominantly about  mortgage related matters, 
it also included some insurance related commitments. 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, contract  (including the express  and implied duty on professional advisers to give 
advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence; the law relating to the utmost  duty of good 
faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness). 
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Banking  
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. 
I note that under the Banking  Ombudsmans terms of reference  the Ombudsman  was 
required to decide  complaints by reference  to what was, in his opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances   and that the Ombudsman was required to observe any applicable 
rule of law or relevant judicial authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Barclays was required to take into account the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were  
guidance when  considering Mr and Mrs Ds complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all circumstances of this 
complaint, are:
-If Barclays gave advice, whether it advised  Mr and Mrs D with reasonable care and 
skill  in particular,  whether  the policy was appropriate or suitable for them,  given 
their needs and circumstances. 
Ref: DRN52585104-Whether Barclays gave Mr and Mrs D sufficient, appropriate and timely information to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take out the policy,  
including drawing  to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions of the policy  and significant  limitations  and 
exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of 
Mr and Mrs D, I must then go on to consider whether and to what  extent they 
suffered loss or damage and what  I consider  would amount to fair compensation for 
that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mrs D and 
Barclays, Ive decided  not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ds complaint. Ive set out my reasoning 
below. 
did Mr and Mrs D know they had a choice?
Barclays had to make it clear that the PPI policy  was optional.  
Ive been given a copy of the mortgage application  which was completed  at the time and this 
includes a section about PPI. In this section there are options to tick to accept  or decline to 
take out the cover and the type of cover  wanted. If the cover is taken out, there are boxes  to 
complete to confirm  how the benefit  should  be split between the applicants. On 
Mr and Mrs Ds form, the box agreeing to take out PPI for accident,  sickness and 
unemployment has been ticked and 100% of the benefit has been allocated  to Mrs D. 
Mr and Mrs D have both signed the mortgage application which suggests they agreed  with 
everything that had been entered. If Mr and Mrs D didnt  want  to take out the PPI they could 
have ticked the no box.
Ive also seen that a direct  debit mandate form has been completed  to allow  for the premium  
to be deducted  from Mr Ds bank  account.  This was a separate form to the one for the 
mortgage payments  and so I think Mr and Mrs D would have known this was a separate 
product.
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mr and Mrs D knew the policy  was 
optional and they agreed to take it out without undue pressure. 
did Barclays provide  advice?
Barclays has told us that advice was provided during this sale.  Mrs D has been  unable to 
recall if they received advice or not. Looking at what  Barclays says happened when it sold 
Mr and Mrs D the PPI, I think  Barclays did provide advice. 
This means  Barclays had to advise Mr and Mrs D with reasonable care and skill, in particular 
whether the policy  was appropriate or suitable  given their needs and circumstances.
the advice
I dont know what steps Barclays took to establish  whether the policy was a suitable 
recommendation for Mr and Mrs D. It seems  Mrs D cant  remember  clearly  what  happened 
Ref: DRN52585105and there  is no record of what the adviser discussed in relation to the policy.  This is 
unsurprising in respect of a sale during a meeting.  The adviser had some  limited information 
about Mr and Mrs Ds financial circumstances as part of the mortgage  application,  but there 
is no specific evidence to show  the adviser took steps to establish whether Mrs D would  
have been caught by the significant exclusions and limitations which might have meant the 
policy did not fully meet their needs.  For example, there is nothing to suggest Barclays 
considered whether Mrs D had any pre-existing  medical  conditions.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded Barclays  did all it should have 
done to determine whether the policy was suitable for Mr and Mrs D given their 
circumstances. So Im not persuaded Barclays advised with reasonable care and skill.
Due to the time that has passed,  Barclays has been  unable to provide a copy  of the policy 
wording which it says would have been issued  to Mr and Mrs D. But I have seen a document 
which was from around the date of the sale and I think it is more likely than not that the 
terms are the same  as those that Mr and Mrs D saw. While Im not persuaded Barclays did 
all it should have done to make sure the policy was suitable  for Mr and Mrs D, I do think  its 
more likely than not that the policy was ultimately suitable  for them.  In reaching that 
conclusion Ive taken  into consideration:
-Mrs D met the eligibility criteria  for the policy.
-Mr and Mrs D had a need  for the policy  based  on whats  been recorded on their 
mortgage application, Mrs D was the only wage  earner and it seems likely 
Mr and Mrs Ds finances would be put under strain if she was not working   even 
allowing for the statutory sickness and redundancy benefits  she was entitled  to and 
the benefits Mr D was receiving. The policy would have helped Mr and Mrs D 
manage the consequences  were  Mrs D unable to work.
-The monthly cost of the policy appears  to have  been affordable for Mr and Mrs D. 
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mr and Mrs D. 
There was nothing  about Mrs Ds employment  or occupation which would have made  
it difficult for her to claim. Regarding pre-existing medical conditions, I am aware  that 
Mrs D has advised  us on another complaint  about the medical problem  she had 
some time before the sale. But from what we have been told about this condition         
I dont think this meant the policy was unsuitable. There  were  also no additional 
restrictions on cover for mental health  or back problems.
-While  the policy would  only pay benefits  for a maximum of 12 months for each claim 
for accident, sickness or unemployment, it still provided useful cover given 
Mr and Mrs Ds circumstances.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Barclays  gave Mr and Mrs D sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable them to understand what 
Barclays was recommending to them and make  an informed decision about whether to 
follow that advice  and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr and Mrs D were given a broad description  of 
what the policy was intended to cover  (that is that the policy  would protect their payments if 
Mrs D was unable to work through accident,  sickness or unemployment)  and of the 
Ref: DRN52585106approximate costs. I have  reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely  Mr and Mrs D 
would have taken  out the policy  without any sense of what the policy  was for and of how 
much the premium might be. 
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Barclays  gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost or about  the exclusions or 
limitations before Mr and Mrs D agreed to take out the policy.  
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr and Mrs D, Im not persuaded 
Barclays did enough to present information  about the policy  it was recommending  in a way 
that was fair and reasonable to them. Im not persuaded  Barclays gave Mr and Mrs D all of 
the information they needed about the policy to make an informed decision about whether  to 
follow the recommendation  and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr and Mrs Ds representative has raised a 
number of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like 
Mr and Mrs Ds. Ive considered these carefully  and summarised them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr and Mrs Ds representative considers to be 
poor value   and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business rather than 
the insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr and Mrs D about the limitations  and exclusions,  it should have gone further 
and explained  the significance of them  to them. 
Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Ds representatives views on this. The duty of utmost 
good faith in insurance law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose 
material facts and not to make material misrepresentations.  While I cant be certain what a 
court would say  I think its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer  
having to disclose the claims ratio information or explaining the significance of the limitations 
and exclusions in the way Mrs D has suggested.  And taking into account  the law, industry 
codes and standards of good industry  practice  applicable to this complaint, I dont think  its 
fair and reasonable to conclude that Barclays ought  to have done either. 
what effect did Barclayss shortcomings  have on Mr and Mrs D? To what extent did 
Mr and Mrs D suffer  loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that Barclays  didnt  do all it should  have done when it sold this policy  to 
Mr and Mrs D. So I have gone on to consider  whether it would be fair and reasonable to 
conclude Mr and Mrs D suffered loss and damage as a result.  To answer  this, I must decide 
whether or not Mr and Mrs D would have still taken out the policy,  had Barclays done things 
properly. 
Ref: DRN52585107While Im not persuaded Barclays took the steps  it should have done to establish whether  
the policy it recommended was suitable  for Mr and Mrs D, I have found that the policy was 
ultimately suitable for them.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr and Mrs D have suffered loss 
or damage  in this case primarily  depends  on whether, if Barclays had explained things 
properly, Mr and Mrs D would have acted  differently,  or whether they would have taken  out 
the policy in any event.
Mrs D says they wouldnt have taken it out and believes I should presume this to be the case 
given the significant failings identified  above.  Ive considered  the representations of both 
sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mr and Mrs D had some  interest  in taking out 
payment protection insurance. By this I mean when Barclays advised  them  that there was a 
suitable product  they could buy that would protect their mortgage payments in the event  
Mrs D was unable to work because of accident, sickness or unemployment,  they concluded 
they wanted that product.  But they made  that decision  based on incomplete  information, 
meaning what they thought they were  getting  is not exactly  what  they got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr and Mrs Ds circumstances at 
the time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally  wrong  or unsuitable  for them.
Although I consider it more likely than not that Mr and Mrs D knew  they would have to pay 
something for the policy, it doesnt appear Barclays told them the exact premium  at the point 
Mr and Mrs D applied for the policy. Having said that, it seems likely  Mr and Mrs D would 
have been told the cost before the policy started and they paid for the policy for a number of 
years, so if the costs were  significantly at odds  with their expectations at the point of sale, its 
possible they might have raised  that with Barclays at the time,  or reconsidered their decision.
Overall, Im not persuaded Mr and Mrs D would have found the cost unacceptable if they 
had been given the exact figure during  the meeting in which  they agreed to the policy.
In addition, Im not persuaded  Barclays made clear exactly what  Mr and Mrs D would get 
back in return in the event they made  a successful claim. But I think  its unlikely 
Mr and Mrs Ds expectations about what the policy would pay in the event of a claim (an 
amount sufficient to meet their mortgage  payment) were significantly different to what  the 
policy actually did.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr and Mrs D thought they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to any sickness or medical conditions which 
Mrs D knew about  or for which she had received  advice, treatment or counselling 
from any doctor during  the 12 months immediately before the start date of the policy;  
Ref: DRN52585108The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mrs D 
wasnt a permanent employee;
The policy excluded claims for unemployment  unless Mrs D had been in continuous 
employment for 12 months  prior to the unemployment;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mrs D be unable  to 
do any paid work  which  her experience, education  or training reasonably  qualified  
her to do; and
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Mr and Mrs D pause for thought  and may well have caused them to conclude the policy 
wasnt as good  as they thought and they might have  decided not to proceed.  The limitations 
on the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might  have dissuaded  
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs D from taking out the 
policy. 
The evidence about Mr and Mrs Ds circumstances at the time of sale shows that the policy 
wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for them. Mrs D was eligible for its benefits and it 
provided cover that, despite its limitations  and exclusions, couldve proved  valuable to them 
should the insured risks have become a reality. Although Mrs D says she had suffered from 
a medical condition prior to when the PPI was taken out and the policy  wouldnt have 
provided cover had she needed time off work because of this condition, I dont think  better 
information about this exclusion would have  put them off agreeing to it. I say this because 
the problem occurred over 11 years  before  the date of this sale and we havent been told 
that Mrs D suffered from any ongoing  issues with this condition following this episode. So I 
dont think Mrs D would have thought that she would be off work  (for longer than the 30 day 
period required  by the policy) and need  to make a claim.
And I havent seen  any evidence  to suggest  she wouldve been caught by any of the other 
significant exclusions. So I still think they had some good reasons to take the policy  out.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions, or place  any additional 
restrictions or more onerous  evidential  requirements in the event of a claim on those 
grounds than would have applied to any other  disability claim. And I think its unlikely 
Mr and Mrs D would  have expected to make a disability  claim on the policy  without first 
providing some evidence to support that claim.
The policy excluded claims for unemployment  if Mrs D hadnt been  in continuous 
employment for 12 months  prior to the unemployment leading to the claim. But I dont think  
this would have  affected Mr and Mrs Ds decision to take out the policy.  I say this because, 
from the details  on the mortgage application, Mrs D had been  employed continuously with 
the same  employer for eight years prior to taking out the PPI and appears  to have been a 
long service employee in her previous  role too. So I dont think  Mr and Mrs D would have 
thought it likely that Mrs D would have a break in her employment which would have meant 
they would  be unable to make a claim.
If Mr and Mrs D had known they could only claim for disability if Mrs D was unable  to do any 
paid work  which, in the insurers  view,  her experience, education  and training might  
reasonably qualify her to do, it might have played  into their thinking  about what  they would 
have done. And I accept  it may have given  them pause for thought   although  its possible 
they may not have been overly concerned  given that if Mrs D was unable  (through disability) 
Ref: DRN52585109to carry on her own occupation the chances  that she would be able to take up another  
occupation would also, in all probability, be limited.
Barclays may not have  told Mr and Mrs D that any claim they made would be limited to a 12-
month period.  This may have differed from what they expected and might have hoped for, 
but they had limited other means to fall back on. 
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mr and Mrs D would still have thought a policy that 
paid up to 12 monthly mortgage  payments  would  have been of benefit to them and would 
help them manage the consequences  should Mrs D be unable  to work in the circumstances 
covered by the policy. The policy allowed for multiple claims to be made,  it could help reduce 
their outgoings at a difficult  and uncertain  time, ensuring their home was not placed at risk.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs D would still have taken out the policy. The policy was suitable for them, 
was sufficiently close to what  its likely  they thought they were getting  and provided  benefits 
that would  help them manage  the consequences  if Mrs D was made redundant, or unable  to 
work through  accident or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely  than not 
Mr and Mrs D would  have taken out the policy in any event notwithstanding the limitations  on 
cover.
Mr and Mrs Ds representatives say the rules  about  how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP 
App 3) make it clear that, where a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr and Mrs D would not have bought the PPI they bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr and Mrs Ds 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  
Mr and Mrs D found themselves in as result of the sale was the same  position they would 
have been in had the breach or significant  failings  not occurred. 
Mrs D believes  the presumption may only be rebutted  when the flaws in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including her own comments  that they would not have  taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mrs D in the position she would have been in if they had 
not bought the policy.  
Ref: DRN525851010That is because,  while I accept it is possible that they would not have taken  out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that they would still have 
taken out the PPI had they been  given clear, fair and not misleading information about the 
policy they were buying. So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude Barclays should  pay Mrs D compensation, as that would put her 
in a better position  than she would have been in if everything had happened as it should  
have done. 
Im also aware that Mrs D thinks Barclays misrepresented the terms of the policy  in how it 
described the PPI. While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
Barclayss statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why Barclays  
failed to act fairly and reasonably was not because of what  it did or didnt say in the 
information it provided  but because the overall  information Barclays  gave Mr and Mrs D, in 
the way it did, was insufficient  to meet the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to 
expect it to have  met in 1999 when providing information about  an insurance policy. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs Ds representative says a court  might  take 
if it were to find Barclays negligently misrepresented the contract to Mr and Mrs D and about 
the remedy a court  might award if it were to find that Barclays had been in breach of its duty 
of utmost good  faith. But this doesnt persuade me to alter my conclusions  about what is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mrs D in a better position than if everything  had 
happened as it should have done. 
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 May 2019.
Jenny Giles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5258510