K821x#15complaint
Mrs B, represented by Mr B, is unhappy  with the service she received  under her AA 
European Breakdown  Cover when their car broke down  in Europe. As the policy was 
underwritten by Acromas Insurance Company Limited (Acromas)  her complaint is against 
them.
background
Mr and Mrs B were  on holiday in Spain when their car broke down. They  called the AA 
European Operations call centre (acting for Acromas) and a mechanic attended. The car 
couldnt be fixed at the roadside.  They were towed to a local garage.  The garage was unable  
to look at the car that day, so Mr and Mrs B were  told to pay for a taxi back  to their 
accommodation and claim the fare back later.
Acromas agreed to provide a replacement vehicle  (the policy included the cost of alternative 
travel arrangements  in Europe), and sent an email to a local agent asking for a car, similar to 
Mr and Mrs Bs own. One was booked for the following  morning.
When Mr B called Acromas to check what arrangements had been  made,  he was told that 
the replacement  vehicle was 100km away from their accommodation. So, he asked for a 
closer option. Acromass agent found  one approximately 50km away, but when Mr and 
Mrs B went  to collect it they were unhappy as they felt it wasnt  big enough  for them. 
Acromas set about trying to identify an alternative, but by the time they called to speak  with 
Mr B again,  he told them  hed managed to sort it out with the car hire company himself.
On 14 August, a week after the breakdown, Mr B called Acromas  with the garages quote to 
fix the car. Acromas had the quote translated into English, but Mr and Mrs B decided  to get 
their car repaired back home  and requested  that it be taken back to the UK (recovered).
Acromas discussed with Mr B the familys options for getting home at the end of their 
holiday. He said flights werent an option because they had their pet dog with them  and a lot 
of luggage. Mr B explained that theyd need  a car from Spain to France,  and then one which 
they could take from France to the UK. Acromas agreed to start looking.  Meanwhile  they 
sought authorisation for Mr Bs recovery request.
A couple of hours after this conversation Mr B called  Acromas and enquired about whether 
they had any cover for parts  and labour costs to help with the repair  of their car. If he could 
get the repairs done in Spain  he wouldnt  need  his vehicle recovered or help getting home. 
Acromas advised that Mrs B didnt appear  to have this cover but the sales call would be 
listened to and theyd call him back.
Recovery was authorised  later that day, but Acromas  didnt  find a Spanish  replacement 
vehicle that could be dropped off in France. They made enquiries  to check whether  Mrs B 
had parts and labour cover.
The next day Acromas  instructed  a recovery agent  to arrange recovery of Mr Bs car. They  
also booked a replacement vehicle that Mr and Mrs B could drive from France to the UK. 
Mrs B was called and told that they were still searching for a replacement vehicle to get them 
from Spain  to France, but theyd be unlikely  to hear back that day due to a Spanish public 
holiday.
Ref: DRN54170852Shortly after this conversation Acromas chased  up on their enquiries about parts and labour 
cover, and it was confirmed that Mrs B didnt have this. Acromas  were also advised that the 
current Spanish replacement vehicle would need to be dropped off before they reached the 
French border, but that a taxi could be arranged to take the family to France.
Mr B called Acromas the following day (16 August) and explained that their current Spanish 
replacement vehicle was too small to transport  them, their luggage  and their pet dog on their 
homeward journey.  He asked for a larger vehicle and one that he could drive  all the way to 
France so that they could  avoid a long taxi journey. Acromas advised that Mrs Bs policy 
didnt include cover for personal  belongings or pets, and that the current  Spanish  
replacement vehicle was adequate for the people  in the party. But they agreed to see if 
anything could be done to improve the familys journey home.
Mr B also asked again about  parts  and labour  cover. It was then he was advised that the 
sales call had been listened to, and that the policy didnt include cover  for parts  and labour 
(Mrs Bs complaint against the broker that the policy was mis-sold is being dealt with 
separately).
Later that day Acromas  called Mr B. He asked  again  about  getting a larger replacement 
vehicle and made it clear  that his dogs cage  wouldnt  fit in the current  one. He was again 
told that the cover didnt  extend to personal belongings or pets, and he asked to speak  with 
a manager. As one wasnt available, a note was made that Mr B asked for a call back within  
two hours.
Two hours later Mr B called Acromas for an update. He was told that all options had been 
exhausted and it looked likely theyd have to take a taxi from the Spanish drop off point to 
France.
Mr B called again the following day repeating that his current Spanish  replacement vehicle 
was too small for the dogs cage. Acromas  said theyd  search  for something  larger  but 
couldnt promise anything. The call handler made a note that Mr B wanted  to be kept  in 
the loop.
By the following morning nothing  larger had been found. To free up some  space in their 
current replacement vehicle Acromas  suggested Mrs B take some  luggage to the garage for 
transportation back to the UK with their car. Meanwhile Acromas continued to search for a 
larger vehicle and by noon said theyd found  one that Mr and Mrs B could  drive  to the 
Spanish drop off point  before  being  taken by taxi to France. When Mr and Mrs B went to 
collect it they found theyd been  given incorrect details for the hire car company so had to 
queue twice.
When the family arrived in France the replacement vehicle was again  too small for the dogs 
cage. Acromas said it wouldnt be able to source a larger car until the following day. They 
offered to arrange  accommodation for the night but Mr B declined. He explained  that theyd 
miss their ferry crossing  and had work  commitments to meet.  So Acromas spoke to the hire 
company (Company H). Mr B was given a different  car.
back home in the United  Kingdom
When nearing home on 20 August, Mr B called  Acromas  to ask where their car was. He was 
advised that it was still in the Spanish  garage. Mr B wasnt  happy  the recovery  hadnt 
happened yet, and said he wanted recordings of all his calls with the AA European 
Ref: DRN54170853Operations call centre, and the sales call, to be sent to him. His complaint was logged.  Mr B 
said he thought  Acromas should  continue  to provide a replacement  vehicle in the 
circumstances. They said the policy only covered  a replacement  vehicle for up to two days in 
the UK.
On 29 August Mr B told Acromas that Mrs Bs credit card had been charged 284.40 euros  by 
Company H. He also expressed his dissatisfaction with the number of calls hed had to make 
to Acromas. They agreed to check what Company H had charged for. Mr B chased  a 
response two days later and was promised a call back. Acromas later explained  that they 
hadnt been able to get in touch with Company H but would keep trying.
On 3 September Company H confirmed  to Acromas that the charge was a mistake and 
would be reimbursed less any amounts for fuel and insurance. When  Mr B called that 
evening he was informed  of this. He said this charge  was fraud.  He was advised to contact  
the claims department  about this.
damage to car
Mr and Mrs Bs car arrived back in the UK on 5 September. The following day Mr B called 
Acromas to report that the cars  front grill had been  damaged in transit,  and the rear bumper 
had a dent. He was advised to send in photographs  by email,  and was sent a text message 
directing him to the AA claims  department.  On 7 September  Mr B sent three photographs of 
the car, a short video  of the car being  loaded  on to the recovery  transporter, and a 
photograph of a taxi fare receipt  to the AAs customer support email address.
On 11 September  Mr B advised  AA customer support  that: he was still waiting for call 
recordings, and hed had no response  to the evidence hed sent about the damage.
On 26 September  Mr B was sent an encrypted USB stick containing  recordings of calls hed 
had with AA Insurance Services Limited.  He was told that the calls hed had with the AA 
European Operations call centre wouldnt be provided as they were protected by French  law. 
He couldnt open the audio files from the USB stick, so transcripts  were  posted to him on 
10 October.
Acromas response to the complaint
Mr B and Mrs B received a final response  to their complaint  about  the service  received from 
Acromas on 18 October.  It said:
The difficulties with providing a replacement vehicle in Spain and then France were  
due to the fact it was peak holiday season and stocks were low across car hire 
companies;
Whilst the policy covered Mrs B for a replacement vehicle it did not extend  to 
guaranteeing like for like;
It could not require the hire car companies to accept international drop-offs;
Mr B should contact Company H directly about  any outstanding charges;
The recovery was actioned on the day it was requested and Mr B had been advised  
that it could take longer than usual  in peak holiday season;
The AA European  Operations call centre had been proactive in contacting him 
where updates  were  available, but the local agent they were using hadnt  always 
been responsive;
Ref: DRN54170854To progress the claim for the damage to his car Mr Bs evidence and full details of 
claim should be sent to the claims department.
Acromas apologised  that the service had failed to meet Mr and Mrs Bs expectations, and for 
the issues theyd  experienced with communication. They  also offered £20 compensation for 
the slight delay  in recovering the vehicle, and £50 for the cost of their calls.
Mr B found  this response inadequate. He pointed out hed already provided evidence for his 
damage claim, and said no one had apologised for taking so long to provide the call 
recordings. Mr B didnt accept it was his responsibility to pursue Company H for a refund.
our investigators view
Our investigator partly upheld the complaint. She said Acromas  should reimburse Mrs B for 
the outstanding taxi fare. She also thought Acromas had made the situation  more stressful 
for Mr and Mrs B with poor communication. She recommended they pay £100 for the trouble 
and upset caused. With regard to the charge applied by Company H, she said it should be 
refunded or a further explanation given as to what it was for and why it wasnt  covered.
The investigator said the £20 already offered for recovery delay, and the £50 offered to 
reimburse call charges was fair and reasonable. And she said Mr B should raise  his 
concerns about  how his requests for call recordings had been handled with the Information 
Commissioners Office  (the ICO).  Finally, she said that the relevant team should contact 
Mr B to confirm the information needed  and investigate  his damage claim.
responses to the view
Acromas agreed to contact Mr B about his damage  claim but did not accept the 
investigators view about the service  theyd provided. They  said Mrs B hadnt submitted a 
receipt for the outstanding  taxi fare, and that they werent responsible  for the charge made 
by Company H.
Acromas thought theyd  done enough to try and help Mr B in line with the terms and 
conditions of the policy. They said they werent  responsible for what  the local agent or car 
hire companies did and, in any event,  the policy didnt guarantee the size of the car.
Mr B asked for an Ombudsman  to look at everything again. He said they felt let down by the 
service theyd had.
my provisional decision
I looked into the case. I came to a different conclusion to the investigator, so I issued a 
provisional decision setting out my thoughts  against  each  point of complaint. I said:
taxi fare from garage to accommodation
I dont think theres any debate here that Acromas agreed to reimburse  this cost. The 
policy covered the cost of alternative  travel  if the car couldnt be repaired within eight 
hours. Ive seen evidence that Mr and Mrs B submitted  their receipt for this journey 
on 7 September  to AAs customer support team. Although I appreciate  that this 
wasnt directed to the claims  department  I see no reason  why it couldnt have been 
Ref: DRN54170855redirected on behalf of the customer and paid earlier. Acromas should  pay this fare if 
they havent already done so.
provision of replacement  vehicles
It is very unfortunate that Mr and Mrs Bs car couldnt be easily fixed when it broke 
down and they had to rely on the policys  cover for Alternative  travel arrangements in 
Europe. Having  to use a different and unfamiliar vehicle, when your own provides 
well for all your particular  family needs, is bound to cause a certain amount of stress  
and disruption  to a holiday, however well handled. But I do think Acromas could have 
done better in communicating with Mr and Mrs B, and this part of the service  added 
to the upset felt.
The policy covered the cost of hiring  an alternative vehicle up to £120 per day. The 
general conditions  explained:
3. Replacement/ Hire vehicles
1. Car hire availability or equivalent replacement for Your Vehicle cannot be 
guaranteed. Multi purpose vehicles,  four wheel drive vehicles, minibuses, 
vans, motorcycles and vehicles with automatic transmission in particular are 
difficult to hire 
4. Unless otherwise agreed, hire car costs will only be covered where the AA 
have arranged the hire. It cannot be guaranteed that hire cars will be 
available in all circumstances 
7. In parts of Europe, hire cars are not permitted to cross national frontiers 
and it may be necessary  to change hire cars at national borders.
The terms and conditions  booklet also included:
Transportation of animals
Your European Breakdown Cover does not extend to arranging  transportation  
for any animals. You are responsible at all times for making alternative 
arrangements for the transportation  of any animal accompanying You.
Given the policy terms and conditions I think Acromas did arrange  replacement 
vehicles in line with what they were obliged  to do. And staff in the AA European 
Operations call centre did, I think,  really try to make arrangements that met the 
familys needs.
They requested a car similar to Mr and Mrs Bs own, changed  the original booking so 
that Mr B didnt have  to travel so far, talked through the options for getting home, 
explained the difficulties with international car hire, tried to manage expectations, and 
continued to search  for a larger Spanish vehicle. As it got closer to the departure  day 
they also made practical suggestions about  sending some luggage home in the 
recovered car to make  space.
However, there were  occasions when the service fell down: they didnt promptly  tell 
Mr and Mrs B when  they had an answer to their enquiries about parts and labour 
Ref: DRN54170856cover; they didnt  always keep Mr and Mrs B in the loop about what they were  doing; 
and they didnt always give them accurate information. So I agree with the 
investigator that Acromas  should pay Mrs B £100 in recognition of the additional 
upset caused  by poor communication.  This is in addition  to the £50 theyve  already  
offered to reimburse  the numerous calls Mr and Mrs B felt they needed to make to 
progress things.
charges made by Company  H
Acromas say that they arent responsible for the charges  made by Company H for 
fuel (69.67  euros) and insurance (10.00  euros). These charges were applied to 
Mrs Bs credit  card in relation to the replacement vehicle they took from France  to the 
UK. Ive looked carefully at the policy and I agree with Acromas  here. The policy says 
that the following are not covered:
1. Any additional charges arising  from Your use of the hire car such as fuel 
costs, any insurance excess charges,  You must pay these direct to the 
hirer.
So I think this is something  Mrs B would have  to raise with Company H directly,  if 
hes not done so already. If Mr and Mrs B had been  travelling in their own car theyd 
have been responsible for fuel costs so I cant say theyve lost out here.
the time it took to recover the car
Mr B requested recovery on 14 August and the car arrived  back in the UK on 
5 September  16 working days later. The policy covered the cost of recovering the 
car to the UK. It said the average time for recovery was 8 to 14 working days from 
arrangement, but it could  take longer at busy times. I note that Mr and Mrs B arrived  
back in the UK on 20 August and were  allowed to keep their replacement vehicle for 
48 hours in line with the policy.
Acromas have already  recognised that the recovery took longer than the average  
timescale and offered  Mrs B £20 by way of apology.
Given that the car was broadly recovered in line with the expectations set out in the 
policy Im not minded  to ask Acromas  to do any more about this. I appreciate  that it 
must have  been  very inconvenient for Mr and Mrs B to be without their car in the UK 
for so long, but I cant say that Acromas  missed opportunities  to recover it much  
sooner than it did.
response to subject access request
Mr and Mrs B exercised their rights under data protection  law to request access to 
recordings of calls.  On 20 August  Mr B made it clear they wanted  recordings of all 
conversations theyd had with staff in the AA European Operations call centre, and 
the policy sales call.
After some difficulties with accessing the audio files he was first sent on 
26 September, transcripts of the recordings were posted to them  on 10 October. Mr 
and Mrs B werent happy about the length of time this took, or that they were  refused 
recordings from France.
Ref: DRN54170857Our investigator advised Mrs B that this isnt something were  able to look at. 
However, because  this part of the complaint is very closely linked to the regulated 
activity here  carrying out a contract of insurance   I think it is within our jurisdiction.
Data access requests should  generally  be responded to without undue  delay and 
within one month of receipt of the request. Given this timescale I do think  there was 
some delay on Acromas part. This clearly  added to Mr and Mrs Bs frustration about 
their dealings with Acromas.  So I think Acromas should recognise  and apologise for 
the additional upset caused,  by paying  them £50 to compensate for the delay.
A data subjects right to access personal  data usually extends to recordings of 
telephone calls theyre party to. But Acromas told Mr and Mrs B any call recordings 
made in France couldnt be shared because of French national law.
It is not our role to decide if a business  has breached data protection  laws. But 
different rules do apply  to listening to and recording calls in the workplace in France. 
Having looked  at these I cant say Acromas  acted unfairly by explaining  they couldnt 
supply all the recordings requested, and providing  Mr and Mrs B with the system 
notes instead.
I appreciate that Mr B doesnt  think these system notes accurately reflect  the number 
of calls they had to make, or the poor level of service. But I dont think our 
consideration of this complaint had been compromised by not being able to hear 
these conversations. Its still been  possible  to get a clear  idea of the upset  both he 
and Mrs B experienced, and identify the occasions  when Acromas  service could 
have been better.
summary
I understand Mr and Mrs B were  unhappy  with the service provided throughout the 
claim and its clear  this experience wasnt one they expected to have while on their 
holiday. Breaking down abroad  is inherently stressful  and disruptive. But I can only 
look at whether Aromas  acted fairly  and reasonably,  and in line with the policy.  And 
having done so Im satisfied that a total offer of compensation of £220 is fair.
Mr and Mrs B didnt  wish to add anything in response to my provisional decision. Acromas  
accepted it.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party provided any detailed comments in response to my provisional  decision  I 
still think it should be upheld to the extent,  and for the reasons,  I set out in that decision.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  I require Acromas Insurance Company Limited  to:
Reimburse Mr and Mrs Bs taxi fare from the garage to their accommodation;
Ref: DRN54170858Pay Mrs B £100 in recognition of the additional  upset caused  by poor communication 
(this is in addition to the £50 theyve already offered to reimburse the numerous calls 
Mr and Mrs B felt they needed to make to progress things, and the £20 offered for 
the slight recovery delay); and
Pay Mrs B a further £50 for the upset  caused  by their delay in responding to the 
subject access request.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 May 2020.
Beth Wilcox
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5417085