K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains about Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax charges and fees on his 
account.
background
Mr A says Halifax  had charged him £1,073 in charges and fees over the last few years.  He 
says that has contributed  to a cycle of debt and the charges are unfair.  He also says that he 
was a student between 2015  and 2016 and should have been entitled to a student account,  
which would have meant he wouldnt be charged  for using his overdraft at that time.
Halifax says its not made  a mistake and the charges were correctly applied  in line with the 
account terms and conditions. It says it has waived charges  in the past but says Mr A didnt 
make it aware of any financial difficulties until recently. Halifax says it agreed to stop any 
charges to allow Mr A an opportunity to speak to its specialist team. Its also given Mr A 
details of organisations that could help with any money problems.
Halifax says it cant confirm if Mr A was eligible for a student account but has said Mr A 
would have needed to provide it with information  about his course including  an end date.
Mr A says he gave Halifax details of his college  course  but was told the information was 
insufficient.
Mr A brought his complaint to us but our adjudicator thought Halifax had dealt fairly with it. 
The adjudicator didnt think there  was any evidence that Halifax  hadnt applied  the charges 
in line with the account terms  and conditions. He also thought Halifax had dealt positively 
and sympathetically  with Mr A by offering to suspend  charges and allowing  Mr A to speak to 
its specialist department. The adjudicator looked at the documents Mr A provided  to Halifax  
about his college  course and thought that they didnt meet Halifaxs requirements  and so 
didnt think Halifax made a mistake by not offering him a student account.
Mr A doesnt  accept that view and says that Halifax has swindled him. He would like the 
charges refunded.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall conclusions  as the adjudicator  for the same  reasons. I realise Mr A will be 
disappointed by my decision.
Ive not seen any evidence that the charges were not made  in line with the account  terms 
and conditions which I think  Mr A would have agreed to when  the account was opened. Im 
also satisfied that Mr A has used his overdraft and has had the benefit of it. I appreciate that 
Mr A complains about the level of the charges but following a Supreme Court case it has 
been decided  those charges cant be challenged on the basis that they are too high. So I 
dont think the charges  were unfairly  made.
Banks and building societies should treat cases of financial  difficulty  positively and 
sympathetically. But in this case I dont think Mr A told Halifax about  those  difficulties until 
2018 so I dont think Halifax could have either known about them or tried to help him until it 
was told. Im satisfied  that when Mr A did tell Halifax about his position  that it did treat him 
Ref: DRN56392622positively and sympathetically. I can see that it suspended charges and gave Mr A details  of 
its specialist debt team and provided  details of other  organisations that could help him.
Ive looked at Halifaxs criteria for a student  account  and I dont think the information Mr A 
gave it was sufficient  as it didnt appear  to have details of the expiry of his course. So I dont 
think Halifax made a mistake by not allowing Mr A to have a student account  and in any 
event I think its up to Halifax to decide  if it wishes to offer such  an account.
Overall I dont think Halifax  has made a mistake  or acted unfairly and so I cant fairly order  it 
to refund the charges  as Mr A would like.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 May 2019.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5639262