K820x#14complaint
Miss C complains about the manner in which Santander UK Plc dealt with fraudulent  activity  
on her account. Miss C has received a refund of the transactions that were  debited to her 
account but had been authorised by someone  else; and shes  been  paid £300  compensation 
for failings  in how Santander dealt  with Miss Cs fraud claim and with her.
But Miss C would like to be paid a higher level of compensation.
background
On 23 January 2019 Miss C received an email saying her credit  card had been automatically 
renewed and sent. She didnt receive the card but thought it had just been delayed.  She 
didnt know a personal identification number  (PIN) was being sent - and didnt receive that 
either  as Miss C was a victim of fraud  by way of someone calling Santander, passing 
security and ordering a new PIN for use in connection with the intercepted card.
Miss C says she checks her online banking daily and had no reason to believe her card had 
been intercepted.  But she lives in a communal  block with individual key locked letterboxes 
and a fraudster  was able to intercept the card and PIN and make six fraudulent transactions. 
On 19 February 2019, Miss C accessed her online  banking facility and noticed the 
transactions, made the previous day. She phoned the bank immediately to report the fraud 
and told Santander  the new card hadnt been  received  by her. 
Santander accepted Miss C was a victim of fraud,  that a fraudster with enough personal 
information about Miss C was able to call the bank, clear security and order a new PIN. It 
refunded the fraudulent transactions in full. But the incident has caused Miss C distress  and 
inconvenience. Santander acknowledged  this and paid £300 compensation to Miss C.
Our investigator noted that after Miss C contacted  Santander on 19 February 2019 to report 
the fraud,  it blocked  her card, initiated a fraud  investigation and refunded  the fraudulent 
transactions the same day. He didnt consider that Santander was at fault for the fraudster 
having been able satisfy  the banks security requirements and therefore be able to access 
the PIN or indeed be able to intercept Miss Cs post and obtain the card.   
He also noted  that Santander  had unblocked  Miss Cs card on 23 February  2019 but, as part 
of its investigation,  it placed blocks again on her card between  4 and 26 April 2019. And 
because of the inconvenience caused by Miss C not having access  to her account  during 
this time, Santander not having  investigated the fraud in a timely manner, in February,  and in 
recognition of how certain phone calls were  dealt with, Santander had paid £300 to Miss C.
The investigator thought this level of compensation was appropriate for those matters Ive 
just set out and that Santander could have  dealt with matters better. He didnt,  though, think 
that compensation was due to be paid by the bank  for someone,  who wasnt Miss C, having 
passed security or for what led from that. 
He said that someone  had obviously  been able to breach  the security of Miss Cs private  
information to an extent they could  pass security with the bank  and that wasnt Santanders  
fault. It therefore didnt  need to pay compensation for the PIN havent been  despatched, or 
for any subsequent  actions the fraudster was able to then take in stealing Miss Cs identity. 
Ref: DRN57959512Miss C thinks  she should be entitled to more compensation  and shes asked for the 
complaint to be reviewed  on that basis.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For what I believe are obvious reasons, Ill focus only on whether the bank ought to pay 
more compensation  to Miss C than the £300  already paid. Santanders position is as already 
set out and endorsed by the investigator.
Miss C has recently said that she understands Santander isnt at fault for the fraud taking 
place. But shes concerned that not enough attention  was paid by the investigator to how the 
bank has dealt with the investigation and handled calls with her. She considers she was 
accused, in calls, of carrying out the fraudulent transactions herself. She says the 
investigator didnt  comment on this and its relevant to the level of compensation to be paid. 
Key to this aspect  of Miss Cs complaint is two conversations  she had with Santander on 29 
April 2019. Ive listened to them and Ill revert  to the content of the calls later.  
Having looked  at everything, I consider the bank  should pay additional compensation to Miss C. 
There isnt new evidence  for any party to consider though, nothing  additional  to share  or indeed 
arguments to be made  out. All the evidence that Im taking into account has been available to 
both parties in some form and indeed the investigator. So, as the matter  has been  referred  to 
me purely  for an assessment of what compensation the bank ought to pay to Miss C, Im 
addressing that by way of a final decision.  
Dealing with the timeliness of the investigation, it isnt ideal that the disputed transactions 
took place in February and their investigation  occurred  two months later.  Although Miss C 
was refunded the value of the transactions quickly, she was advised that the refund could be 
reversed and she wasnt to learn the result of that investigation for a fair period given that 
she shouldnt have  had any certainty about whether  the refund would be reversed. Its also 
the case that when the investigation  took place in April, there  was a further restriction  on use 
of the account,  itself inconvenient.
Santander also acknowledges that when the disputed transactions were  first considered,  for 
the purpose of whether an immediate refund would be given, there was a failing at the bank 
in it not more fully having  regard for the wider circumstances  in which  the security of Miss Cs 
PIN was breached   and at that time looking at those circumstances in the context of Miss C 
disputing that she should be liable for the transactions that she disputed making. 
If that had happened at the time, then the delay  in bringing this matter to a conclusion would 
have been avoided and the later conversations would have been avoided.   
And it is in a later call, where Miss C alleges she was accused of receiving the new PIN and 
indeed making  the disputed  transactions.  I dont consider that an explicit accusation  was 
made to Miss C in the calls of 29 April 2019.  But she is questioned  about the receipt  of the 
PIN and on how she could have made the transactions she admits to making (ones after the 
issue of the new card but before it had been  activated)  and also ones she disputes  making  
(where the questioning alludes to the fact that no one else could  have known the new PIN).
Ref: DRN57959513So I understand why Miss C felt she was being accused of making the disputed  transactions, 
even if that wasnt  explicitly  alleged. Of course, banks do have to investigate  matters where 
their customer is claiming a debit transaction on their account wasnt  made by them and they 
are therefore  expecting the bank to credit the account. And that must inevitably involve a 
degree of hard questioning and seeking  to get to the bottom of where the evidence,  such  as 
the banks records,  appears to contradict  what the customer of the bank says has happened.
The difficulty  here though is that during the conversation of 29 April 2019, the banks  employee  
was mistaken in her understanding  as to how long it would have been possible  for Miss C to still 
make transactions using  the card in her possession and the old PIN, e.g. she effectively says that 
the old card and PIN are redundant after the issue  of the new card and PIN. This is how the line 
of questioning appeared to be around  how Miss C could make undisputed transactions (after the 
issue of the new card and PIN, therefore it being suggested the new card and PIN must  have 
been used) but then a fraudster go on to use the new card and PIN for the disputed  transactions.
Given that misunderstanding, Miss C was never  going to be able to satisfy the banks fraud 
investigator who was understandably unconvinced. It was also the case that the banks fraud 
investigator misunderstood for a short time that the new PIN had been  requested  by online 
banking which Miss C was unable to explain but also refuted.
I accept this didnt  go on for a long time;  and, of course, mistakes are made by us all. But I 
have to consider  the impact of that call on Miss C. She  as is now accepted by all  had a 
genuine fraud claim, not having  made  the transactions she was disputing  having made; but 
was left failing to explain to the bank how it could be that someone else could. And of course 
this was all happening sometime  after already receiving a refund. 
Being a victim of fraud is stressful and after the delay that occurred with this conversation 
taking place, Miss C having been warned that even after two months  the credit  she received 
could be reversed, I accept the questioning she endured in April was difficult for her. And 
there was also the issue of the further  blocking of the account. In light of everything,  I 
consider it fair and reasonable that Santander  pay to Miss C a further  £150.
my final decision
My final decision is that Santander UK Plc should  pay to Miss C £150 in full and final 
settlement of her complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 May 2020.
Ray Neighbour
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5795951