K822xcomplaint
Mrs P complains that Lloyds Bank Insurance Services Limited (Lloyds)  has treated her 
unfairly with how it has priced the cost of her buildings and contents insurance policy for a 
number of years.
background 
Mrs Ps son has brought this complaint on behalf  of his mother  but for ease, Ive referred to 
them collectively as Mrs P throughout  my decision.
Mrs P was insured with Lloyds from 2002 through  until 2018. During this time she had little 
or no engagement with Lloyds about  the cost of her policy and what it was charging her. 
In May 2019  Mrs P complained about  the cost of her insurance  after she became aware  she 
could find a suitable alternative  for significantly less than she had been paying.  Mrs P felt her 
lack of engagement on the price  of her insurance  over the years had been taken advantage 
off and she asked  Lloyds to compensate her for the overpayments she feels  shes  made.
When the complaint  was first brought to this service, Lloyds didnt think  we could consider it 
 it felt because  Mrs P had questioned the price of her insurance in 2005,  she ought 
reasonably to have  been  aware there was potential cause to complain  about  the price  of the 
insurance sooner.  So it thought the complaint  had been brought to us too late. 
I issued a jurisdiction  decision on the complaint in February 2020 explaining why I felt we should 
be able to consider  the premium increases from 2005. I didnt think  it was fair to say information 
about the prices  prior to this gave Mrs P the knowledge to be aware she might need to question  
future increases. So while she ought  reasonably to have been  aware  there was cause  for 
complaint about  any earlier changes in price, it didnt seem  fair for this to preclude her from now 
challenging the price increases beyond this point. Lloyds agreed with this and provided the 
information to this service  on how its priced Mrs Ps policy  from 2005  onwards.
From 2002  until 2010 Lloyds  explained  how the price increased as it recouped  new 
customer discounts applied at the start as well as the impact of a few claims  on the policy.  
Lloyds couldnt  explain why the price  increased after this point. 
Our investigator thought something  had gone  wrong and that Lloyds failed to treat Mrs P fairly 
when pricing her policy. She felt that by 2010 Lloyds should have been aware Mrs P wasnt 
engaging with the cost of the policy  and taken steps to ensure any price rises where applied fairly  
 so in line with it changing its view of the risk and not simply because  she wasnt  engaging. 
She recommended that from 2010  Lloyds  should  effectively freeze the price, bar allowing for 
inflation in line with the consumer price index (CPI).  And refund Mrs P anything she paid for 
the subsequent years she had her policy which exceeded this price.
Lloyds agreed  but said it was able to show what Mrs P should have paid for her insurance  
from 2014 onwards  based on it applying its target view of the price.  This is based on how it 
views the risk and the margins applied above  this and is applied to all customers.  So it can 
retrospectively demonstrate what Mrs P should  have paid if this was in place at the time.  It 
said from 2014 onwards,  it was fairer to use this as the comparison for each year and refund 
Mrs P the difference paid against this. This meant  some of these years, the target price it 
said it should have  charged was lower  than the price of the policy  in 2010. 
Ref: DRN58479762Lloyds offered to refund  the difference in price Mrs P paid for her insurance  above the 2010 
price until 2013   allowing for CPI inflation. And from 2014 until the policy was cancelled,  it 
offered to refund the difference  paid each year above the target  price  of the policy  with 8% 
interest added.  It also offered pay an additional  £100.00 for distress and inconvenience.
Our investigator felt this offer was fair and explained this to Mrs P. 
Mrs P doesnt think this is fair. She acknowledged that as a service it isnt our role to set the 
price of an insurance premium but feels the cost of the policy for her house  should be much  
lower. She doesnt think its fair to say a premium of around £500.00 per annum is a fair 
price for the risk insured.  She wasnt engaging or able to engage with the cost so she wasnt 
accepting this each  year and feels shes been taken advantage off with this cost.
She feels if the price  of the insurance  is around £500.00 per year,  then this policy  needs  
looking at more widely.
Because Mrs P didnt  agree,  the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
outcome as our investigator, for much  the same reasons.
As our investigator has said, our role isnt to set the price  of insurance and tell a business 
how it should price  the risks it offers to insure.  This is a commercial judgement and 
something for it to decide. But we can make sure customers  have been treated fairly when 
businesses have priced their policy and that they havent been  taken advantage off.
Mrs P is unhappy that the cost shes been able to insure her house  for now is significantly  
cheaper than what she was paying with Lloyds and significantly less than £500.00 a month 
(roughly the figure at which  Lloyds has said represents what  it views the target price of 
Mrs Ps property  to be). I understand this concern and that this price seems  expensive and 
so a feeling of it not being  fair is natural. However,  the price each business  chooses to 
charge for its insurance is its to make. 
Price comparison websites demonstrate the huge range in price  for similar insurance for the 
same risk item that can be purchased. Each  price  is correct to that business and their view of 
the risk and all are based on different  things.  Some will include more substantial  new customer  
discounts, other may only be operated  online and so have cheaper costs  which  can maybe  be 
reflected in cheaper fees. And others  may offer a dedicated specialist claim handling  service  
and support lines, all increasing the cost but potentially the level of service offered too. Overall, 
insurers offer a product which they feel represents  fair value for what  they are providing.  
Just because Mrs P is now able to insure her house  for significantly less, I dont think its fair 
to say Lloyds  price was wrong  providing  it was in line with how it viewed this or similar 
risks for all customers   and was treating Mrs P fairly with how it applied  any price  increases.
Mrs P didnt engage with the cost of her policy for many years and the reasons behind her being  
less able to do this have been  made  clear.  Its apparent she was vulnerable to price increases  
being accepted that maybe wouldnt otherwise have been had she not been vulnerable. 
Ref: DRN58479763We expect businesses to take account  of customers circumstances  when pricing their policies. 
And with Mrs P not having  engaged on the price  of her policy since 2005,  I think  Lloyds should 
have been aware  she wasnt doing so by 2010 and taken care not to increase the cost of her 
policy unfairly. Lloyds  hasnt been  able to explain the price  increase from 2010 until 2013, bar 
the application of inflation in line with CPI. And from 2014 onwards has been able to show  
what it should have  charged Mrs P had it applied its target pricing  model at the time.
The target pricing model demonstrates whether Lloyds treated Mrs P fairly. It allows us to 
see whether what she was charged was in line with how it has said it treats all customers   
regardless of engagement. I cant share  the detail of this with Mrs P as its commercially 
sensitive, but I can see Lloyds did charge more than it should  have done for these years had 
this been in place at the time. 
I think the recommendation made  by our investigator and subsequent offer made by Lloyds, 
is a fair way to put this complaint right. I appreciate Mrs P still feels  the effective price of the 
policy is too high when compared  to other  policies. But as Ive explained  above  its not my 
role to tell Lloyds what is should charge and there  are many reasons why the cost of 
insurance can vary significantly between insures. 
Lloyds did treat Mrs P unfairly with how it priced her policy but it has made an offer which  I feel 
is fair to put this right and I see no reason to direct  it to do anything above the offer made.
If Mrs P accepts,  Lloyds should refund for the difference in price she paid for her insurance 
above the 2010 price until 2013   allowing for CPI inflation. And from 2014 until the policy  
was cancelled, refund the difference paid each year above the target price of the policy. 8% 
interest should be added to all refund amounts with tax deducted at the standard  rate if 
needed. It should also pay an additional  £100.00 for distress and inconvenience.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, Im upholding this complaint in favour of Mrs P.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 November  2020.
Thomas Brissenden
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5847976