K820x#14complaint
Mr B has complained to Family  Equity Plan Limited  (OneFamily) about  a child trust fund 
(CTF) that was taken out for his daughter in 2006.   He says the investment was not 
suitable and so hasnt performed as intended.
background
The CTF was originally taken out by Mrs B in a branch of Barclays,  but has since been 
transferred into Mr Bs control.  Since  2006, around  £8230 has been paid into the CTF 
(including a government bonus), but the growth  over 12 years was only about  £400 after 
annual management  fees were deducted.
Mr B has made a number  of points, but in summary hes complained that:
Only one type of CTF was available at the time of sale.
The fund is linked  to the FTSE 100, but the CTF growth has been minimal in 
comparison.
The 1.5% annual  fees are high for a tracker based fund.
A fund with a minimum 30% cash position  is not suitable for a long term investment 
of 18 years.
The investment  information indicated that a greater proportion  of the funds (up to 
70%) would be invested in equities as the FTSE index improved.  But  that hasnt 
happened during periods of strong FTSE performance.
One of our investigators  reviewed the complaint  but recommended  that it shouldnt  be 
upheld.  Whilst he recognised the points  Mr B had made, he highlighted the CTF had been 
sold on an execution only basis, and that no advice was given to Mrs B at the time.
The investigator also explained that the 1.5%  annual  management  fee was within  the 
permitted fee scales  agreed by government.   Although the growth  of the CTF was lower  than 
Mr B had anticipated, the investigator felt that it wasnt unsuitable.  He said the key features 
document explained the levels of risk associated with the CTF, and how the fund would be 
invested in cash  and equities.
Mr B didnt agree with the opinion.  He  acknowledged the sale had been non-advised, but 
argued that the fund could not be suitable for a long term horizon  when  weighted  so heavily 
towards cash.  The result of that is an erosion of real value due to inflation.
As no agreement could be reached, Ive now been asked to review  everything afresh and 
make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   Having done so, Ive reached the 
conclusion as the investigator, and for broadly the same reasons.
I understand there was a delay in OneFamily initially responding to Mr Bs concerns, but that 
it offered compensation for the delay.  So I havent  considered that point, but have  focussed  
on the issues central to the complaint.  Namely, whether the CTF was suitable or has been 
incorrectly administered.
Ref: DRN53017232Although Mr B has raised  concerns that only one fund was available  as the time of sale,  
thats not a reason for me to conclude its unsuitable.  OneFamily  has confirmed that it did 
offer different  types of CTF, but only one fund was offered through  Barclays.  There  was no 
obligation for OneFamily or Barclays to offer more than one fund, and there were others 
available within the marketplace.  There was no advice given to Mrs B comparing the 
differences between  CTFs and ultimately the sale was on an execution basis,  meaning that 
she was responsible for the choice of CTF taken.
I realise that Mr Bs complaint is more  fundamental than that.  He feels that the way the CTF 
was offered and set up means it could not be suitable in any event.  But I disagree  and Ill 
explain why.
We now know with the benefit of hindsight  that the fund has not provided growth to the levels  
Mr B has hoped for, and in fact it has provided a return below inflation.  But when the CTF 
was sold the future  market conditions could not have  been known, and the key features 
document (KFD) set out how the CTF would operate.
Section 6 of the KFD explained  that the fund was lower risk than investing directly  in the 
stock market, but higher risk than investing  in cash.   This is achieved by maintaining  cash  
levels at a minimum of 30% of the fund value.   Whilst I understand Mr Bs concerns that the 
growth of the CTF didnt  mirror the recovery and performance of the FTSE index, the 
reasons for this are also explained  in the KFD.  Section  3 explains that if there  is a sudden 
drop in the FTSE,  the exposure to equities  reduces significantly  (and move  to cash) to 
protect the CTF value, which could also mean that if the index subsequently rose, the CTF 
would rise less than the index.
Another reason  that the CTF growth has not mirrored the rise in the FTSE index  is the 
annual management  fee of 1.5%.  I note Mr B says the fee is high, but as the investigator 
explained, its within the maximum cap set by government.  The  fees were  also set out in the 
KFD with a worked example of how they would apply.  So  Im satisfied the fees were 
transparent and fairly applied by OneFamily.
So overall I cant reasonably uphold the complaint as Im unable to say OneFamily has done 
anything wrong  or that the CTF is unsuitable.  I realise that Mr B will likely be disappointed 
with my decision, but as the sale was execution only I have to focus on how it was explained 
the CTF would operate, and overall  Im satisfied the KFD did that sufficiently.
I also note that OneFamily has confirmed that the CTF can be transferred to an alternative 
CTF or Junior ISA without  any charges being  applied.  In the circumstances I think that is fair 
and reasonable.
my final decision
For the reasons  detailed  above, my final decision is that I dont  uphold  Mr Bs complaint 
against Family Equity Plan Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 April 2019
Ref: DRN53017233Ross Hammond
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5301723