K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain about  mortgage  advice given by an appointed representative of 
Legal & Partnership Services Limited.
background
Mr and Mrs H took out a mortgage through L&G. Their  representative  now complains that 
the mortgage included funds raised to buy advice about a will, and complains about fees the 
broker charged. It says they shouldnt have been  referred to a solicitor to complete the 
mortgage when  they could have  got a free legal  service  from the lender.
L&G agreed Mr and Mrs H shouldnt have  been  advised to add the cost of the will to the 
mortgage. It offered  to refund  the interest charged  on it. It also offered to refund commission 
the broker received  from the solicitor. And it offered £250 compensation in total. Our 
investigator thought  that was a fair offer so Mr and Mrs Hs representative  asked for an 
ombudsman to look at the complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the mortgage offer and I can see that it didnt include a free legal service as an 
incentive, so Mr and Mrs H couldnt have got free legal advice with this mortgage. Whether 
or not they used the solicitors recommended by L&G they would have had to pay for legal 
services, and I cant see that the solicitors fees were unusual  or unreasonable.  While other 
mortgages may  or may not  have  been  available with free legal services at this time, in 
my view thats a relatively minor point and I wouldnt  generally think thats a reason to 
choose a mortgage over one thats, in other  ways, more suitable. I note L&Gs  offered to 
refund the commission paid to the broker, which I think is fair.
I dont think the fees charged to Mr and Mrs H by the broker should fairly  be refunded. I think  
they were clearly explained to Mr and Mrs H, and they received the service they paid for in 
that the mortgage was arranged for them. Other  brokers  may charge  differently, or in a 
different structure,  but theres no obligation  to use one method over another.  The key point is 
that the fees were set out clearly and fairly to Mr and Mrs H so they knew  what they were  
agreeing to.
I agree  that it wasnt good advice to add the relatively small cost of the wills package  to the 
mortgage. I think L&Gs offer to refund  the interest  incurred  is a fair one. Any concerns about 
the wills fee itself are a matter for the service provider.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I think  Legal & General Partnership 
Services Limited has made a fair and reasonable offer to settle this complaint. I dont require 
it to take any further action beyond the settlement offer.
Ref: DRN59338732Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  2 April 2020.
Simon Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5933873