K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs E say Bank of Scotland plc (BOS) mis-sold them a mortgage  payment 
protection insurance (MPPI) policy in 1991.
background
This complaint is about a monthly  premium MPPI policy taken out to protect  the payments to 
a mortgage. Mr and Mrs E had a joint mortgage and the monthly  benefit  was split 50:50.  
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Mr and Mrs Es complaint. Mr and Mrs E disagreed  so the 
complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of MPPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Es case.
Having thought about everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Es 
complaint. Id like to explain why in a little more detail.
BOS hasnt been able to give us any documents Mr and Mrs E may have completed when 
the policy was sold. But I dont think thats unusual  in this case, given how long its been 
since the policy was taken out  some thirty years ago. So as I dont know exactly  what  
happened at the time,  Ive instead looked  at everything weve been given, along with what  
I know about how BOS  usually sold these policies around the time Mr and Mrs Es cover  was 
sold, to decide  what I think more likely than not happened.
The information Ive seen shows that Mr and Mrs E were sold an accident, sickness and 
unemployment (ASU) with a 50:50  benefit  split. The policy  benefit being  split in this way 
leads me to think its more  likely than not there  was a discussion about the different options 
available and how a policy  could best meet Mr and Mrs Es needs.  
Equally the MPPI being sold a few months after the mortgage had already started  leads me 
to think that Mr and Mrs E wouldve known they didnt  have to have the policy to obtain  a 
mortgage. Id also add that BOS  being  unable to provide a copy  of the MPPI application form 
isnt in itself surprising given the sale took place close  to 30 years  ago and the mortgage was 
redeemed over 20 years ago. So taking everything together  I think  its more likely  than not 
that BOS made Mr and Mrs E aware that the MPPI was optional and they chose to take it.
BOS recommended Mr and Mrs E take out the PPI. So it had to make sure that it was right 
for them. And it doesnt look like the policy as a whole was unsuitable  based  on what Ive 
seen of Mr and Mrs Es circumstances at the time. Mr and Mrs E dont appear to have  had 
any other reliable means of making their mortgage  payments in the event they had to stop 
working suddenly.  So I think that the MPPI  couldve proved useful in the event Mr and Mrs E 
had to make  a claim especially as it was protecting the payments to their mortgage and it 
wouldve proved  much more reliable  than relying  on family whose circumstances may have 
changed over time.
Ref: DRN52668882Im open  to the possibility BOS couldve explained  the cost of the policy better. But the policy 
wasnt that expensive  and Ive not seen dont have enough here to make  the finding  that    
Mr and Mrs E couldnt afford  the premiums  especially as what theyve said to us suggest 
that they had a real need for the cover.  So even  if BOS  had explained the cost better, I still 
think that Mr and Mrs E wouldve bought it. 
Its possible that BOS didnt tell Mr and Mrs E everything it shouldve done  about the policy  
and the main things  it didnt cover.  But from what Mr and Mrs E have told us, I dont think    
they wouldve  been affected  by any of the main  limitations or exclusions. It looks like they 
were eligible  for the policy and theyve told us they were  in good health. So I think that       
Mr and Mrs E wouldve still taken the MPPI even if BOS had told them  everything  it needed  
to when it sold it to them.
Id like to reassure Mr and Mrs E that Ive thought  about everything theyve told us. But 
overall I dont have enough  here to be able to safely say that the MPPI  was mis-sold to them.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Es complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs E to 
accept or reject my decision  before  20 April 2019.
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5266888