K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Santander UK Plc (then trading as N&P)  mis-sold  Mr P payment  
protection insurance (PPI).
background
This complaint is about a monthly  premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 1994. 
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mr and Mrs P disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint.  I will explain  why.
Mr P has said that he was led to believe the PPI was part of the mortgage.  Mr P has 
suggested that because Santander  was recommending  it, he had to tick the box to take it. 
The problem I have,  in making a decision on this, is that I couldnt  know the exact words 
used by the adviser and the tone in which they were  said.  It isnt necessarily wrong to 
strongly advise someone to buy an insurance  policy, even if the adviser  is partly  motivated 
by making a sale  as long as the policy is actually something worth  recommending.  And, 
although the value of PPI in many situations was questionable, PPI for mortgages  was often 
a sensible idea: finding yourself  unable  to pay a mortgage can lead to significant difficulties. 
But, as I say, I cant be sure exactly what was said. And it wouldnt be fair to say the bank 
did something wrong unless I had stronger evidence of this. 
Also Ive looked at the mortgage  application form, and I think Santander did do enough on 
the form at least to present the PPI as a choice. Mr P has pointed out that the form says, 
The Society requires the property to be adequately insured.  But I dont agree that the way it 
is set out means  you have  to have PPI. I can see that Section 5 of the form is titled  Your 
Home Insurance  Requirements. It then says 
The Society requires  the property to be adequately  insured. We can arrange  various  
types of insurance  cover  for you, details of which including a specimen policy are 
available from your local branch. Premiums will be debited monthly and included in 
your mortgage payments.  Please  complete  EITHER A OR either or both B and C.
A is: Homepack (buildings  and contents  combined.  B is: Separate buildings  insurances. C 
is: Separate contents insurance
PPI is only mentioned under section 6, which is titled Redundancy, Accident and Sickness  
Protection. And in that section  the form says:
Ref: DRN59587532We recommend that your monthly mortgage payments are protected against the 
event of Redundancy, Accident and Sickness. This can be arranged  through  
ourselves
The form then describes circumstances where cover wouldnt  be available. And then, if you 
want PPI, there are boxes  to tick to show which type of cover you are choosing.
So I do think  Santander did enough  to show that the PPI was optional. 
Ive looked to see whether there  are other  reasons the PPI might  have been mis-sold  but 
having done so, I dont  think  they apply. Ill explain why.
I think Santander recommended the PPI to Mr P, and this means it had a higher standard to 
reach during the sales process  it had to make  sure the PPI was suitable  for his particular 
circumstances. But it looks to me as though a recommendation would have been a suitable  
one, based on what Ive seen of Mr Ps situation at the time. 
I say this because  its likely Mr P was eligible for the policy, and so able to make  a claim if 
the need arose. The PPI would have paid benefits  at the same time as Mr P received any 
employer sick pay, and potentially for longer. It would have paid unemployment benefits in 
addition to any redundancy  pay. And it would have put off the time when he would need to 
fall back on any savings  or other means  he may have had for paying the mortgage and other 
living costs.  
This all would have  put Mr P in a more secure  position, if hed eventually lost income due to 
long term sickness or unemployment.  And Ive not been told anything to suggest he couldnt  
afford the PPI when  he took it out. So I think the PPI would have been potentially useful, and 
so a recommendation was suitable.
Its hard to know how well Santander explained the costs and benefits of the policy.  But I 
dont anyway think its likely that full and clear information about the costs would have 
affected whether  Mr P took the PPI.
Its possible Santander didnt clearly point out the main things the policy didnt cover.  But its 
unlikely Mr P would  have been affected by any of these. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  4 November 2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5958753