K820x#14complaint
Mr F complains that VFX Financial Plc (trading as EasyFX) didnt tell him about  a change to 
the issuer of his prepaid card.  As  a result, the card didnt  work when he needed it whilst 
abroad to pay for medical treatment.  
background
VFX provides foreign  exchange services which are delivered through  EasyFX,  its online 
foreign exchange  service  brand.  Mr F has an EasyFX account  and was given a prepaid card 
linked to his account.  In  late 2018, VFX planned to change to a new card issuer.   The  old 
cards would stop working from February  2019  and cardholders would have to contact the 
new provider directly  to get their new card.   VFX says that it told Mr F that he would have  to 
do this by email in December 2018 with two reminders the following month as well as a 
push notification to Mr Fs phone. Mr F says that he didnt receive  the original email, the 
reminders or the push notification.
In March 2019 Mr F travelled to Romania  for medical treatment. He planned to pay for the 
treatment using his EasyFX  card.  But  he couldnt  as the card had stopped working  the 
month before.   Mr F had to find a different way to fund his treatment and incurred fees of just 
over £35 when he did so.  As a goodwill gesture, VFX agreed  to cover these fees which  
were rounded up to £40.  
Mr F complained to VFX in April 2019.  It wasnt upheld and Mr F asked  us to consider it.  
One of our investigators  looked into what had happened but didnt think that Mr Fs 
complaint should  be upheld.   He felt there wasnt enough evidence to show  that VFX had 
made a mistake.   Mr F didnt agree; he thinks there isnt enough proof to show  that he was 
kept informed  about his card not working. He also wants  compensation for the 
inconvenience caused. The case has now come to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In looking at Mr Fs complaint, I considered the communications between both parties and 
the efforts made by VFX to let Mr F know that he needed to get a new card. I have to decide 
whether the business is at fault for Mr F not receiving their emails or the notification. Where 
the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, Ive reached my decision on the 
balance of probabilities; in other words, what I consider  is most  likely to have happened in 
light of the available evidence and wider  circumstances.
The crux of Mr Fs complaint is that he says VFX didnt let him know  that his card would stop 
working in February  2019. VFX says it sent emails  to all its customers, including  Mr F, in 
December 2018  with two reminders  sent in January  2019. VFX cant  produce copies of the 
emails sent to Mr F because  they were sent by a third-party marketing  company. The emails 
were deleted after being sent as required by the General Data Protection  Regulation  
(GDPR). VFX has, however, produced copies of template emails sent to customers, but 
these cant be identified  as being sent specifically to Mr F. Ive also seen screenshots of 
Mr Fs email inbox  which appear to show that he didnt receive the emails. But its possible 
that the emails  could  have gone into Mr Fs junk/spam folder and then been  deleted.  If so, I 
dont think its reasonable to hold VFX responsible for this.
Ref: DRN55373292VFX says it also sent a push notification to Mr Fs phone  in January 2019. Mr F says he 
didnt receive it. Ive seen  evidence  from VFX which shows that the push notification was 
sent, and the correct  number was used. So I think its likely Mr F received this notification.
VFX used  two separate ways  of communicating - email and a push notification  - the first of 
which was sent about two months before his old card would expire. I think VFX has taken a 
reasonable and timely approach to try and contact Mr F, let him know  of the changeover of 
card issuer  and the action  needed to get a new card.
On balance, and looking at the available  evidence, Im satisfied that VFX has done enough 
to inform Mr F of the change of card issuer  and that the card would need  to be replaced.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 February  2020.
Geoff Pearson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5537329