K820x#14complaint
Mr Z complains about Amigo Loans  Ltd asking him to pay back  money  under a guarantee.
background
Mr Zs friend  (who Ill call Miss B) took out a loan and Mr Z agreed  to act as the guarantor.  
The application was made online and Mr Z was accepted as guarantor. He signed a 
Guarantee and Indemnity in August 2017. Amigo  Loans advanced the money  to Mr Z, who 
passed it on to Miss B. Miss B has since failed to make repayments under the loan 
agreement and so Amigo Loans are relying  on the guarantee  and asking Mr Z to pay 
instead.
Mr Z is struggling  with his finances  and finding it hard to make the repayments. In addition, 
he feels that Amigo Loans shouldnt have accepted him as a guarantor  because he doesnt 
think he met their criteria. He also says he didnt understand the role and never  could have 
afforded the repayments. He doesnt feel that Amigo Loans have worked with him to help 
him repay the loan. 
He complained to Amigo  Loans, who didnt uphold his complaint so he came  to this service.  
Our investigator looked into it and thought that Amigo Loans had clearly explained the 
obligations of a guarantor.  He also thought that the information Mr Z provided at the point of 
application gave  them no reason to think he couldnt  afford the repayments or that they 
should investigate  further.
Mr Z wasnt happy with that view and asked  for his case  to be looked at by an ombudsman. 
He says that the information presented to him at the time he signed  the agreement  was 
misleading and contradictory and that he didnt meet Amigo Loans  criteria for being a 
guarantor. He says that he was never able to afford the loan and Amigo  Loans didnt carry 
out sufficient credit  and background checks to find this out. He doesnt think Amigo Loans 
should be able to rely on the guarantee.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are two main points I need  to consider here.  The first is whether Amigo  Loans should 
have accepted Mr Z as a guarantor. The second is whether they made clear to Mr Z what he 
was committing to by acting as a guarantor.  Ill look at these in turn.
When a lender accepts  someone as a guarantor, it needs to assess  what  the impact will be 
on that persons  financial  situation  if they are asked to pay the debt. In doing  this, the lender 
must consider enough information  to enable it to make a reasonable assessment. It doesnt 
need to carry  out the same assessment as it would do for the borrower, and there  arent set 
checks which the lender  should make. But they should be thorough  enough to reflect the 
obligations which the guarantor is potentially taking on. I think Amigo Loans met these 
requirements and Ill explain why below.
Mr Z completed an income and expenditure  assessment online. Amigo  Loans say that, 
whilst they expect the information given  in that assessment to be honest and accurate, they 
do carry out further checks to make  sure its realistic. They  say they compared Mr Zs stated 
Ref: DRN52580242salary to the national average for someone  in his position  and found  it to be reasonable.  
They did the same  for his expenditure  and, where  this was less than the national average,  
they asked for a reason.  The example they have given is that, because  Mr Z said he didnt 
budget for Council  Tax, they asked why. His answer  was that he lived at home so this was 
paid by his parents and Amigo Loans  were  satisfied with that. I think that was a reasonable 
approach.
Amigo Loans say that the information provided by Mr Z during his income and expenditure 
assessment passed  their checks and so they didnt find it necessary to ask him for proof  of 
his income. They say their checks showed that Mr Zs monthly disposable income  was 
enough for him to be able to comfortably  afford  the loan repayments  if he was ever called 
upon as guarantor to pay. They say they didnt  see anything  which  gave them cause  for 
concern and I think that was a reasonable conclusion for them  to reach, based on the 
information Mr Z had provided.
Before the loan money was paid out, Amigo Loans also spoke  to Mr Z on the phone. During 
that call, they queried why Mr Z had missed  a payment on his phone  bill. So, in line with their 
stated approach, Amigo Loans  did query information which  might  affect  Mr Zs suitability as 
a guarantor. Mr Z explained that he had been  querying the charges but had now settled the 
bill and Amigo Loans were satisfied with that response, which  I think  was reasonable.
Mr Z says that he never met the criteria  for being  a guarantor because he wasnt  and isnt a 
homeowner. Amigo Loans say that they might be more likely to accept someone as a 
guarantor if they are a homeowner  but it isnt part of their criteria. Ive looked  at the 
information both Mr Z and Amigo Loans  have provided on this point and I agree with what 
Amigo Loans have  said. Their website sets out that a guarantor will (amongst other  things): 
Be a UK homeowner, or have a very strong credit history (a homeowner  is more likely to be 
accepted).
So whilst a homeowner is a more  desirable  guarantor from Amigo  Loans  point of view, its 
not essential as long as the person has a very strong credit  history.  Its up to lenders to set 
their own credit checks, but the information  I have seen shows  that Amigo Loans did carry 
out a credit check on Mr Z which he passed. 
So I think Amigo Loans carried  out enough checks before  accepting  Mr Z as a guarantor. 
And I think it was reasonable for them  to conclude from the information they had that there 
was no cause for concern. So I think it was reasonable for Amigo Loans to accept Mr Z as a 
guarantor here.
This leads  on to the next issue of whether Mr Z understood what  he was committing  to. 
Before a guarantor  commits  himself, I would expect a lender to explain clearly the 
circumstances in which the guarantee could be called on and what  this would mean for the 
guarantor. I think  Amigo Loans did this and Ill explain  why.
On 17 August 2017, Mr Z signed a Guarantee and Indemnity. This set out clearly the amount 
being borrowed, the monthly repayments, the rate of interest and the total amount to be paid 
back, that is, the amount  borrowed  plus interest  and other costs. It said Under  this 
Guarantee & Indemnity  YOU MAY HAVE TO PAY INSTEAD of the Borrower  and fulfil any 
other obligations under the Guarantee & Indemnity.
It also said This is a Guarantee and Indemnity subject to the Consumer Credit Act 1974.  If 
the debtor  fails to keep to this Agreement with Amigo  Loans, YOU MAY HAVE TO PAY 
Ref: DRN52580243INSTEAD and fulfil any other obligations  under the Guarantee & Indemnity. Sign only if you 
want to be legally bound by its terms.
I think this information  is clear and the way it was set out on the signature page  means  it was 
clearly visible to Mr Z when he signed.  I have  also seen  the Guarantor  Terms  and Conditions  
which Mr Z agreed to. These also explain  the responsibilities of the guarantor  clearly and set 
out what could  happen if the borrower/guarantor were to default.
Amigo Loans also spoke  to Mr Z on the phone before paying out the loan. During that 
conversation, the agent told Mr Z that as guarantor,  he is responsible  for any payments Miss 
B fails to make and that this could mean  him being  responsible for the loan until it was all 
repaid. She explained briefly what that could mean  in terms of court action and also said that 
Mr Z could  take independent  advice before going ahead if he was unsure. He said that he 
was happy with everything. Having listened  to the call, Im satisfied that Amigo Loans fulfilled 
their obligations  in terms of what they told Mr Z, particularly as this was in addition  to the 
written warnings.
Its also relevant here that the loan paid out in August 2017 was a top-up loan. Miss B had 
already borrowed  £5,000  from Amigo Loans  in June 2017 and had used Mr Z as a guarantor 
on that occasion as well. Amigo Loans have  provided a copy of the Guarantee and 
Indemnity from June 2017. It has the same wording  as the August guarantee and was 
signed by Mr Z on 26 June 2017. So Mr Z had two opportunities to read the Guarantee and 
the terms and conditions. (For completeness I should also say that Amigo  Loans have 
confirmed that they carried out the same  credit checks and income/expenditure assessment 
in June 2017 and that Mr Z met their criteria for being a guarantor with no cause for concern 
on that occasion either. I havent seen anything in the information they have provided which 
suggests that was an unreasonable  conclusion for them to reach.)
So, based  on what Ive said above, Im satisfied  that Amigo  Loans clearly  explained  to Mr Z 
what his responsibilities were as guarantor and that he understood what  he was taking on. 
He has made some  repayments to Amigo Loans  and so has previously accepted his 
responsibilities.
I realise that this will be disappointing  to Mr Z, particularly as he feels  let down by the 
borrower, but I think Amigo Loans  have acted fairly. I understand that the relationship 
between Mr Z and Miss B may have broken down, but that doesnt mean that the obligations  
Mr Z agreed  to under the guarantee can be set aside.
I understand that Mr Z is struggling  with his finances. Amigo Loans are aware of this and 
they have put the account on hold while Mr Zs complaint has been  looked into. I would  
expect them to treat Mr Z positively and sympathetically in this situation. They  have said they 
are willing to work with him to get the loan back on track by setting up a repayment plan 
which is affordable  to him. I think that sounds a reasonable  way forward. In light of my 
findings above though,  and whilst I know this wont be the outcome Mr Z is hoping  for, I 
wont be asking Amigo Loans  to do any more here.
my final decision
For the reasons  above, I dont uphold this complaint.  Under the rules  of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Z to accept or reject  my decision before 
1 March 2019.
Ref: DRN52580244Katy Kidd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5258024