K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2001. Mrs T says Bank of Scotland plc (BOS) mis-sold her the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ts case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Both parties  agree the sale took place in branch.  BOS has provided me with a copy of the 
credit card application completed  at the time. In order to get PPI, a box on the credit  card 
application needed to be selected  and a separate signature was required. Having looked at 
Mrs Ts application  I can see that this box was ticked and that she signed separately from 
the credit  for the PPI  which  I think indicates she wanted the cover.  If she didnt  want  PPI, 
she didnt have to select it or sign for it separately. So I think BOS made it clear that Mrs T 
didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose to take it out  although I can understand why 
she cant remember this.
Ive thought carefully about what Mrs T has said about how she was made  to feel she had to 
have the policy and that the salesperson was pushy. But pressure is a subjective area and 
what one person may think is pressure another may not. I cant say what  was discussed 
during the meeting when  the PPI was sold. And I think its possible the sales  representative 
couldve said to Mrs T that it was a good idea to take the policy  but that isnt the same as 
saying she must have it. So without stronger evidence of this I cant fairly  uphold the 
complaint on this basis. 
BOS recommended the PPI to Mrs T so it had to check that the PPI was right for her  and 
based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For example 
she wasnt affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover  and she seems to 
have had a need for the cover.  
Mrs T has said she didnt  need the PPI as she would have received six months full followed 
by six months half sick pay from her employer at the time as well as having  some savings 
she could use. But this policy would cover 10% of the outstanding balance of her account for 
up to 12 months if she was too sick to work  or for up to 10 months if she lost her job. And 
this would be in addition to, and potentially  for longer than, any other pay she would receive  
at a full rate. And it wouldve allowed her to use any savings she had for other  expenses, or 
keep them intact for the future.  
Mrs T has said her family couldve helped her if she needed it. But that depended  on her 
family being able to do so when she needed it which wasnt guaranteed. So overall,  I still 
think the PPI would have been  useful.
Its possible the information BOS gave Mrs T about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve 
been. But she chose  to take it out - so it looks like she wanted  this type of cover. And it 
seems like it would have  been useful for her if something went  wrong.  It also looks  like it was 
Ref: DRN59375492affordable. So I dont think better information  about  the PPI would have put her off taking out 
the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mrs T has said but these  points  dont change  my decision.
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So BOS doesnt need to refund everything 
Mrs T paid for it. But BOS has already offered to give Mrs T back  some of the cost of the 
PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.  
BOS will make arrangements to pay Mrs T now Ive issued my final decision.  
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs T to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 February  2019.
Sonia Hussain
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5937549