K820x#14complaint
Mr S is unhappy with what DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limited did after he 
got in touch to make  claims  on his legal expenses insurance policy.  
background
In May last year Mr S contacted DAS as he had an employment dispute. It asked him to 
provide more information about this. Mr S contacted  DAS in August to say its 
correspondence wasnt in a format that met his needs. DAS apologised and sent the 
information in the correct  format that day. 
Mr S made a separate claim  to DAS in August about  a mortgage related dispute.  During  that 
call he mentioned the disabilities that affected him. DAS then emailed Mr S to explain  why it 
wouldnt be able to help with this claim. That correspondence  wasnt on the large font and 
coloured paper that Mr S needed. 
Mr S complained about this. He also said that under  the terms of his policy  he had the right 
to speak to a solicitor  about his claim. And he asked  DAS for the transcript  of a call hed had 
with it. DAS said it hadnt previously been  aware  of his needs but would make sure future  
correspondence on these  claims  was sent in the correct format.  It said a solicitor  was only 
available if one was appointed to look into a claim.  And it said it couldnt provide a transcript  
of the call but was happy  to send a recording.  
Following our investigation DAS accepted Mr S had told it about his needs on a previous 
claim in 2017. But it said its systems  wouldnt carry this information  across to the new claims 
Mr S subsequently made. So it relied on customers making it aware  of any needs  they had 
when submitting a claim. 
Our investigator didnt  think DAS had done  anything  wrong but Mr S didnt agree. He said 
DAS should have proper systems in place and hadnt complied with a request for a 
reasonable adjustment in the way it communicated with him. He said providing a transcript  of 
the phone  call he had with DAS would be a reasonable adjustment for his needs. And he 
said DAS told him he could speak to a solicitor if he asked for this. He also said that DAS 
delayed in responding to a subject access request he made. So I need to reach a final 
decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Reasonable adjustments
I appreciate Mr S is unhappy he was sent correspondence in a format that he could easily 
read. And the law does  say that businesses  (and other organisations) must take steps to 
remove barriers  people  face as a result  of their disability so that, as far as possible, they 
receive the same service as someone  who doesnt  have a disability. This is the duty to make 
reasonable adjustments. 
Ref: DRN58079472I think the conditions  affecting Mr S mean  it would have been fair for DAS to make 
reasonable adjustments for him. Mr S says DAS refused  to do that. But I dont  think  thats 
right. DAS appears  to have accepted the need for adjustments  and put these in place  once 
Mr S told it about his disabilities. The issue is whether it should have done  that earlier. And 
its now clear that Mr S did tell DAS about his disabilities  when he made  a claim in 2017. 
However, DAS says its systems dont carry that information  across to new claims. 
Mr S has suggested we should  tell DAS to put in place a different system. That isnt our role 
and its for DAS to decide what claims handling  systems to use. Having said that I do 
appreciate why it would have  been frustrating for Mr S to have to provide  information about 
his disabilities to DAS when hed already done  so on a previous claim. And from the 
information Ive seen its not clear  if when Mr S called to report  his employment  dispute claim 
he was given a specific prompt to let DAS know whether he had any communication needs 
for that claim. I think it would have been  better  if that been done  given  DAS was aware its 
case handling system wouldnt carry across any needs hed previously  reported  to this claim.     
However, I dont think that delayed  the progress of his claim. DAS sent Mr S information 
following his initial call and while I appreciate that wasnt in his preferred format  he didnt 
contact DAS about that until August  2018. Mr S has told us he wasnt  able to contact  DAS 
earlier because he was unwell. But as soon as he did get back in touch  DAS provided him 
with information  in a format that met his needs.  So I dont think  DAS is responsible  for any 
delay in this claim being  progressed. And I can see DAS apologised at the time for not 
sending the information in a format he could read. I dont  think  theres more it needs to do to 
put things right here. 
I appreciate it was frustrating for Mr S that DAS didnt realise hed told it about his needs on 
the previous claim  when  he made  his complaint to it. Hes right it only realised this after the 
complaint had been made to us. But this is something which  relates to complaint handling. 
And complaint handling isnt one of the regulated activities our rules  allow  us to consider. 
The way those rules  work  mean I could only direct DAS to do something to put things right 
here if I was also making an award  for something to do with the handling of his insurance  
claim. As Im not doing so this isnt an issue I can help him with. 
Mr S has also requested a transcript of the call he had with DAS in relation to his other 
claim. But I dont think  DAS treated him unfairly  in saying it would instead provide him with a 
recording of the call. Mr S said he wanted  a record of the call because of his memory issues.  
However, it seems to me that either a transcript or a recording would address his need for a 
permanent record of the call  in fact a recording would  potentially better meet  his needs 
because it would make  clear exactly what was said. I appreciate  Mr S had concerns about 
his ability  to access the recording but I understand he does have some assistance from 
friends who could  have helped him with that. So I dont think  DAS treated him unfairly in 
offering to provide this and not a transcript.  
Contact with solicitor
Mr S is unhappy he wasnt able to speak to a solicitor about his mortgage  claim and says 
DAS told him he could do this when he made his claim. However, while  I can see his policy  
does offer the services of a legal helpline to provide first stage legal advice it says that will 
be provided by a legal advisor and doesnt  say it has to be provided by a solicitor. 
Ref: DRN58079473After Mr S logged his claim DAS turned this down in part because the issue  he was 
complaining about wasnt an insured event and so wasnt covered by his policy.  I dont think  
DAS needed to seek advice from a solicitor  (or allow Mr S to do so) in order to decide  that 
issue; a solicitor would only have become involved with the specifics of this claim if an 
insured event had taken  place and so was something  his policy  could potentially  cover.  
And the notes of his initial call with DAS dont suggest he was told hed be able to speak to a 
solicitor. Even if that did happen I can see DAS explained he wouldnt be able to do so soon 
afterwards. I dont think theres more it needs  to do in relation to this issue.  
Subject access request
Mr S says DAS delayed in dealing with a subject access request he made in September 
2018. However, those  issues  arose after DAS issued its final response  to the complaint Im 
looking at and arent part of what Im looking  at in this decision.  If DAS has responded  to this 
issue as a complaint  (or had an opportunity  to do so) thats something we could consider 
separately. Mr S should let our investigator  know if he wants us to do so. 
my final decision
Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint.  Under  the rules  of the Financial  Ombudsman  
Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept  or reject  my decision  before 18 January 2020.
James Park
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5807947