K821x#15complaint
Mr W complains that CashEuroNet  UK LLC, trading as QuickQuid, lent to him in an 
irresponsible manner.
background
Mr W took out ten loans  with QuickQuid between April 2015 and May 2018. He refinanced 
loans seven and eight and took out a top-up loan in relation to loan nine. Mr Ws final loan 
with QuickQuid hasnt  been repaid. A summary of Mr Ws lending  with QuickQuid is as 
follows:
date £ amount 
borrowedno. of
repayments 
at outsetdate repaid
1 11 April 2015 100 2 8 May 2015
2 14 June 2015 150 3 18 September 
2015
3 13 November 2015 450 3 8 January 2016
4 24 January 2016 500 3 13 April 2016
5 2 June 2016 50 2 5 July 2016
6 7 July 2016 500 3 28 October 2016
7 23 November 2016/23 January 
2017300/200 3 17 March 2017
8 28 June 2017/19  September  
2017550/175 3 3 November 2017
9 9/12 December 2017 600/300 3 18 April 2018
10 28 May 2018 800 3
One of our adjudicators assessed  Mr Ws complaint. He thought that QuickQuid shouldnt  
have agreed to lend to Mr W after and including loan three.  The adjudicator set out what 
QuickQuid should  do to put matters  right.
QuickQuid didnt agree with the adjudicators assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been  
resolved informally, it has been  passed  to me, an ombudsman, to decide.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
QuickQuid needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly.  In 
practice, this means that it should have  carried out proportionate checks  to make sure Mr W 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
Ref: DRN51564812But certain factors might  point to the fact that QuickQuid should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that QuickQuid was required to establish 
whether Mr W could  sustainably repay  his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to 
make repayments on time,  while meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without 
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont  be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ws complaint.
Given the amounts  Mr W borrowed, what was apparent about  his circumstances at the time 
and his history with QuickQuid, I dont  think it would have been proportionate for QuickQuid 
to ask Mr W for the amount of information  needed  to show that the lending was 
unsustainable at the time of loans one and two. 
But Ive also looked  at the overall  pattern of QuickQuids lending history  with Mr W, with a 
view to seeing if there was a point at which QuickQuid should reasonably have seen that 
further lending  was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so QuickQuid should have 
realised that it shouldnt have provided any further  loans. 
Given the particular  circumstances of Mr Ws case,  I think  that this point was reached by 
loan three  taken in November  2015. I say this because by loan three, Mr Ws overall pattern 
of borrowing  suggested  he had become persistently  reliant  on short-term loans. Mr W had 
taken three  loans for increasing amounts in a seven month period. 
Ref: DRN51564813From loan three onwards, in broad terms and with the exception of the loan for £50 in June 
2016, the amounts Mr W borrowed  generally  increased. Mr W wasnt making  any real 
inroads to the amount  he owed QuickQuid. Loan ten, taken  in May 2018, was over three 
years after Mr Ws first loan. And it was for a substantially larger  amount than he had 
borrowed initially. Mr W had paid large  amounts of interest  to, in effect, service an 
intermittent debt to QuickQuid over an extended  period.
I think that Mr W lost out because QuickQuid continued to provide borrowing from loan three  
onwards because these loans had the effect  of unfairly prolonging Mr Ws indebtedness by 
allowing him to take expensive  credit  intended for short-term use over an extended period of 
time. And the sheer number of loans and deferrals was likely to have had negative 
implications on Mr Ws ability  to access mainstream credit and so potentially  kept him in the 
market for these high-cost loans.
So Im also upholding  the complaint about loan three onwards  and QuickQuid should  put 
things right.
putting things right  what QuickQuid  needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr W paid on loans three to ten;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
write off any unpaid interest and charges on the outstanding loan;
use this refund to reduce the capital owing on the outstanding loan and pay any 
balance to Mr W;
the number  of loans taken from loan three  onwards  means any information recorded 
about them  is adverse. So all entries  about  loans three  to ten should  be removed 
from Mr Ws credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires QuickQuid to take off tax from this interest. QuickQuid 
must give Mr W a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im upholding  Mr Ws complaint in part. CashEuroNet  UK LLC,  
trading as QuickQuid  , should pay Mr W compensation  as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 July 2019.
Louise Povey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5156481