K821x#15complaint
Mr G says the system applied by Plus500UK Ltd (Plus500) for its margin  calls is defective 
and/or unfair; that his Brent Oil Contract  for Differences (CFD) trades in May 2018  were 
affected by this; and that Plus500 applied  the wrong  (and/or  unfair) spread to his trades.
background
In the main,  Plus500  disputes the claim that application of margin  calls was defective and/or 
unfair; it says the margin calls which were applied to Mr Gs trades  were  triggered by a 
margin breach in his account and were in compliance with the terms of the account; that it 
was his contractual duty to monitor and maintain  his account margin; that margin call 
closures generally applied first to the smallest  positions but it had discretion  to apply it 
differently based  on a variety of factors; that the Brent Oil CFD trade has a dynamic spread; 
that the rates applied to the margin call closures were consistent  with the underlying  market  
at the time; and that the spread at the time was within its tolerance levels.
Mr G says the spread  was typically 0.02; that it would sometimes  increase by around 0.05; 
that the terms for the account say the spread  would  increase in periods of market volatility; 
however when the spread  increased to 0.45 this was excessively beyond the usual spread 
range and it happened in the absence of market volatility.
Mr G also says that the problem with the spreads unfairly triggered the relevant margin  calls,  
which created another problem as trades were closed at random, unfairly and without 
consideration for the financial impact on the account. He argues that this additional problem 
arose from the potential  for margin calls to be abused, whereby they are not applied  to 
protect the account  but to cause more financial harm to the account than required.
One of our investigators  looked into the complaint.  She referred to terms about the 
determination of margin and she accepted that the dynamic spread applied to Brent  Oil CFD. 
However, she was concerned that evidence of the relevant market spread (on the 
Intercontinental Exchange (ICE)) for Brent  Oil futures contract  the basis  for the Brent Oil 
CFD  was 76.97/77.02, whilst Plus500s  was 77.36/77.52. She  concluded that there  
appeared to be a mismatch between Plus500s rates/spread and that of the underlying  
market, so it should adjust Mr Gs closed positions  (based on the 0.02 spread) in order  to 
address this and it should pay him £100  for the trouble and upset caused  by the matter.
Plus500 agreed to settle the matter  with a £100  goodwill payment but disagreed  with the 
proposed price adjustment. It said that it is unfair  to apply  the fixed spread of 0.02 when the 
product spread was dynamic/variable;  that the spread increases happen automatically 
through its price  feeds  and are market  driven; that the complaint  was made too late for it to 
retrieve evidence of the actual price feeds  used at the time; that, however, there is third party 
charting evidence showing rates of up to 77.57  and there is no evidence that Plus500s rates 
were not indicative  of the underlying market  at the time;  and that the ICE rates mentioned  by 
the investigator only showed the general  market situation at the time.  
The matter  was referred to me. I considered it and I formed a provisional conclusion  that 
broadly agreed  with Plus500s position. The investigator conveyed, to Mr G, my concern 
about adjusting  his closed positions based  on the ICE spread (and the implication of a fixed  
spread) when there is evidence that a dynamic/fluctuating spread applied  to his positions. In 
response, Mr G disagreed  and mainly said:
Ref: DRN524309120.02 was often  the spread for Brent Oil CFD on Plus500s platform and was the 
spread that partly  induced him to open  the account.
Plus500 never disclosed to him the potential  range (lowest to highest)  of the spread.
The spread  he has complained about  was abnormal and was applied  in the absence 
of market volatility or illiquidity at the time.
The burden should be on Plus500  to justify the spread.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have noted Mr Gs allegation that Plus500s  margin call system was defective and/or unfair. 
As his complaint  progress to and beyond  the investigators view,  its focus  has shifted mainly 
to the matter of the spread. However,  in terms of the margin calls (and their applications), I 
have not seen evidence to establish  the alleged  defect.  I also do not consider that they were 
applied unfairly.  They were applied in response to margin breaches within Mr Gs account  
and were applied  in line with the terms of the account. 
Mr G does not appear to dispute the margin breaches, but his argument is that the wrong  or 
unfair spread was the main  reason  why the margin breaches (and resulting margin calls) 
happened. I address the matter of the spread further  below. 
With regards to the margin breaches  and margin calls,  the terms made it Mr Gs 
responsibility to monitor  and manage margin  in his account (and for his trades) in order to 
avoid margin breaches. Plus500s platform was entitled to automatically apply the margin 
calls when margin breaches occurred.  I understand Mr Gs point about the manner in which 
the margin calls were  applied. However the terms  which he agreed  also gave Plus500 
discretion in this respect, depending on varying factors, so there does not appear  to be a 
basis to conclude that the margin  calls were required to apply in a precise way, but did not. 
I agree  with the payment  of £100 to Mr G for the trouble and upset caused to him by the lack 
of certainty about whether (or not) Plus500s spread  for Brent Oil CFD, at the relevant time, 
was consistent  with its price feeds  (and the underlying market). However, whilst it cannot  
prove the relevant price  feeds there  no evidence within the complaint which, on balance, 
shows that its spread  was not reflective of its price feeds (and the underlying market) at the 
relevant time(s). The allegation in this respect  inherently belongs to Mr G  as it is his 
complaint  so it is arguably not for Plus500 to disprove what  has yet to be proven.
I do not consider  the allegation has been  proven. Brent Oil CFD was based on a dynamic  
spread, as stated  in its platform description.  Mr G has not suggested otherwise and he 
appears to concede that he was aware  of this. This defeats the arguments about  what  the 
spread usually was or what Mr G expected  it to be. Being  a dynamic spread meant  it was 
subject to change  and fluctuation. Plus500s  Order Execution Policy  does  not limit the 
circumstances for such change to market  volatility  and/or illiquidity. The policy  says it may 
take such factors into account in terms of the setting for the dynamic spread, but that does 
not mean these  were  the only relevant or potentially relevant factors.  
The lack of evidence  to explain the 0.45 spread  or to establish  the relevant price  feed is 
unhelpful. For the sake of clarity, I do not suggest that Plus500 had a fair reason  for it. It 
concedes that it does not have evidence to explain a precise reason. However,  I also note its 
Ref: DRN52430913evidence to Mr G that spreads around  the level of 0.45 were rare  it said the spread went  
above this level only seven times  between  January 2017  and January 2019.
I do not have a sufficient basis to conclude that the spread was unfair  or arbitrary.  Evidence 
that spreads around the level of 0.45 were notably rare  over the two years  period  does 
not lend itself to the notion  that the dynamic  spread was being arbitrarily  set or was being 
abused. Plus500  says there was a spike in Brent  Oil price  on the relevant date in May 2018,  
it referred to evidence from a third party data provider  showing  the price  going up to around 
77.57 during the relevant  time frame  on that date (comparable to Plus500s  spread for Brent 
Oil CFD at the time) and to media reporting about  the price spike (around 77.21). 
I do not suggest that the above points prove  a fair reason  behind  the disputed 0.45 spread, 
but they outweigh the suggestion  (or assertion) that the spread was unfair. They  also do not 
lend support to the suggestion that the spread was inconsistent with the underlying market. 
Overall and on balance,  I am satisfied  that Mr G should receive £100 for the reason given 
above, but I do not consider there are grounds  to order Plus500  to make adjustments to his 
closed positions  on the basis of a substitute spread. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I uphold Mr Gs complaint only in relation to trouble and upset. 
I order Plus500UK Ltd to pay him £100 in this respect. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or reject  my decision before 
3 April 2020.
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN5243091