K820x#14The complaint
Mr H1 brings this complaint in his capacity as Executor of the estate of his late father, Mr H2. 
The complaint is against Aviva  Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva) and concerns an equity 
release mortgage.  Mr H1 says that the mortgage  was mis-sold to his father  (who  died in 
2013). He is also unhappy that, after the property  was sold and the mortgage repaid  in 2018, 
he was personally  liable  for the outstanding debt owed to the managing agents of the 
property and for legal  fees of over £10,000.
Mr H1 is asking Aviva to compensate the estate.
What happened
In 2000 Mr H2 took out an equity release mortgage with Aviva  (then  known as Norwich 
Union), after discussing his circumstances with one of Avivas  advisers.
At the time Mr H2 lived in a property which  was worth £60,000. The maximum equity release 
he could have was £20,400. The documents from 2000 show that Mr H2 had a very modest 
income and had o savings.  Other  options  to raise funds were discussed  but werent suitable 
for his circumstances. Mr H2 went ahead with the equity release mortgage,  after confirming 
to Aviva that hed discussed the matter  with his family. Mr H2 also took independent legal  
advice. The mortgage completed in January 2001.  
Mr H2 borrowed the full amount  of £20,400,  at a fixed  interest  rate of 8.25%. No monthly  
repayments were due under the mortgage;  instead interest rolled  up and the total debt was 
payable within 12 months of the death  of Mr H2, or if he had to go into long-term nursing 
care.
I am sorry  to note that Mr H2 passed  away in May 2013. Under  Mr H2s will, Mr H1 was 
appointed Executor of his estate and as such was required to deal with the administration  of 
the estate. This included  obtaining a Grant of Probate, selling  Mr H2s property and paying 
off the mortgage  to Aviva. The terms and conditions of the mortgage say that this must be 
done within 12 months of the death  of the borrower. Mr H1 instructed solicitors  to deal with 
the administration of the estate. In 2013 and 2014 redemption statements were  issued to the 
solicitors, but the mortgage wasnt repaid.
Throughout 2015 and 2016 Aviva asked Mr H1 to update  it about  the sale, but wasnt able to 
contact him or his solicitors. In early  November 2016 Aviva was contacted  by solicitors 
acting for the managing agents  about unpaid service  charges. In late November 2016 new 
solicitors acting for Mr H1 contacted Aviva, explaining they were now dealing with the estate.  
They confirmed they were aware of the outstanding unpaid service charges.
Under threat  of forfeiture  of the lease by the managing agents,  in February 2017 Aviva paid 
the outstanding service  charges of just over £15,000 and added this to the mortgage 
balance. Interest was charged on it at 5.34%.
Probate was eventually granted on 6 July 2017, more than four years after Mr H2 had died.  
In September  2017 Aviva  wrote  to Mr H1, as it was concerned  that the property was still 
unsold and the mortgage was in default as it hadnt been repaid within 12 months of Mr H2s 
death. There were still outstanding  service  charges and Mr H1s solicitors  said there were no 
funds available  in the estate to pay these. 
Ref: DRN59501752The property was eventually sold on 31 May 2018. The original loan balance (including 
interest) was £80,990.28 and the service charges (including interest)  were  £16,058.89, 
making a total redemption  figure  of £97,049.17.
In January 2019 Mr H1 complained to Aviva that the mortgage  had been mis-sold. He said 
that this type of property wasnt suitable for equity release. He wanted  Aviva to explain why 
the mortgage was sold to Mr H2 without  any outside advice having been given. Mr H1 said 
that he didnt think his father had been thinking straight at the time and that he was 
vulnerable. Mr H2 wanted  the money  to buy a car so he could visit his wife in a care home, 
but it would  have been cheaper for him to use taxis.
Mr H1 said that he had had to engage  solicitors to act for him in the administration  of the 
estate and this had cost him more than £10,500.  
Mr H1 wanted Aviva to pay compensation to a charity, which  was one of the original  
intended beneficiaries of Mr H2s estate. Mr H1 felt the charity  lost out as a result of Avivas  
actions in selling this lifetime mortgage and in the way it had handled matters  after Mr H2s 
death.
Aviva didnt uphold  the complaint so it was brought to us where an investigator looked at it. 
He didnt think Aviva had done  anything  wrong.  He was satisfied the mortgage hadnt been  
mis-sold, and that Aviva had acted reasonably in adding the service charges to the 
mortgage. The investigator explained that we could only consider the complaint in relation to 
the estate of the late Mr H2, and not Mr H1 personally.
Mr H1 didnt accept the investigators findings and asked for an ombudsman  to review  the 
complaint. He made some further points, which I summarise as follows:
Mr H2 had previously  taken out an equity release product on a previous house but he 
(Mr H1) had no knowledge that Mr H2 had done  this again. By the time the family found  
out, they werent in a position to pay it off again.
Other than the property there  were no assets  in Mr H2s estate out of which to pay the 
monthly maintenance fees. The management company had already issued a County 
Court Judgement against Mr H1 as executor. This left Mr H1 with the threat of a charging 
order on his property  and the worry that he might have to sell his own house to pay the 
management companys fees.
He was trying to sell the property  after Mr H2s death and if Mr H2 hadnt taken out this 
mortgage, thered  have been  ample funds to pay all liabilities, notwithstanding that it took 
five years to sell the property.
Aviva  wont  now accept  this type of property as security for equity release mortgages.
The whole episode has been  a complete nightmare for him as executor. His first solicitor 
was struck off so all initial paperwork was lost.
Mr H1 doesnt understand why he has had to pay personally  to sort out the mess.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN59501753The evidence in the case is detailed, running to several hundred pages of documents.  Ive 
read everything, and its apparent that some  parts of the evidence  are less relevant  to the 
underlying case  than others.  There are also a lot of duplicated documents and repetition  of 
arguments. In what  follows,  I have, by necessity, summarised  events in rather less detail 
than has been  presented.
No discourtesys intended by that. Its a reflection  of the informal service  we provide, and if I 
dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think  it 
was material to the outcome of the complaint.  This approach is consistent with what  our 
enabling legislation requires of me. It allows me to focus on the issues on which  I consider a 
fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by matters which, although presented as 
material, are, in my opinion peripheral or, in some instances, have little or no impact  on the 
broader outcome.  
I will begin by explaining  that, under our rules,  we can consider a complaint from a 
consumer. Mr H2, as Avivas customer,  was a consumer and so would have been eligible to 
complain about  the mortgage in his own right during  his lifetime.  
I must explain  that Mr H1s role is to bring a complaint on behalf of the estate, but this does 
not entitle Mr H1 to air his own grievances  about  Aviva for consideration by the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. I note from the detailed correspondence that Mr H1 has expressed  his 
own concerns about what  he perceives to be Avivas  failings  and I do not doubt his 
strength of feeling  about this. But because Mr H1 is not Avivas customer, his own concerns 
about Aviva  dont form part of this complaint.
Turning now to the issues in the complaint, my findings are as follows.
Mis-sale of the mortgage:  Mr H2 didnt complain about sale of the mortgage  during his 
lifetime; it was only after his death  that a complaint was raised with Aviva by Mr H1 that it 
had been mis-sold. So in this final decision I have looked at the sale of the plan. Without a 
specific complaint from Mr H2 about it, I have  considered generally  whether Aviva did 
anything wrong  when the mortgage was taken out.
I can understand Mr H1s concerns about  the mortgage. This type of mortgage provides that 
no repayments are made, and interest  rolls up. As a result, the amount of the overall debt to 
be repaid can sometimes  come as a shock to family  members. 
When these products were first offered to the market from the late 1980s  onwards, it was 
envisaged that there was the potential  for family members to be unhappy once they learned 
that their relatives had taken out an equity  release  mortgage. Precisely because of this, even 
before mortgage  regulation came into effect  on 31 October 2004, the sales  process  for these  
products has always been  very robust,  with borrowers required to take advice from a 
solicitor, as well as a financial advisor.  (In this case,  the financial adviser worked for Aviva, 
and sold only Aviva products. There is nothing  untoward about  this, as it was disclosed at 
the outset.)
The mortgage was sold in line with the requirements of the code of practice of the Safe 
Home Income Plans (SHIP)  (now known as the Equity Release Council) and in line with the 
Mortgage Code  (which was a voluntary  code  of conduct for mortgage lenders and advisers).
Aviva was entitled to rely on the information given by Mr H2 as being accurate in relation to 
his financial position  and his individual circumstances.  Although Mr H1 has said his father 
Ref: DRN59501754was vulnerable, Mr H2 did not disclose any health conditions to the adviser. Im satisfied 
that, if it had been  apparent to the adviser  that Mr H2 lacked mental capacity,  the adviser 
would not have proceeded with it. 
I also note that Mr H2 had independent  advice from his own solicitors  (not Avivas).  If the 
solicitors had thought  Mr H2 wasnt able to understand  the nature of the transaction  he was 
entering into, they were under a duty to inform Aviva, under the SHIP  rules.
Given this, Im not persuaded there was any reason for Aviva  to conclude that Mr H2 didnt 
enter into this transaction with full understanding of what he was doing. 
Im also satisfied Avivas advisor  would  have explained at the interview the importance  of 
Mr H2 providing accurate  information in answer  to the questions asked. It was not for Aviva  
to question whether  Mr H2 was being  truthful about  his circumstances or about the 
information he was providing. 
In this regard, Mr H2 told Aviva hed discussed  his plans with family members.  Aviva was 
entitled to accept this as being a truthful  answer.  In my experience of dealing  with equity 
release cases,  I have  to say that it is not uncommon for parents to want  to keep their 
finances private from their children. If Mr H2 decided not to discuss  his plans with the family, 
that was entirely  his prerogative. Aviva was under no obligation to contact any family  
members to obtain their consent before Mr H2 went ahead  with the mortgage; it would be 
both a breach  of data protection legislation and a gross invasion of Mr H2s privacy  if Aviva 
had done so.
Mr H2 had valid reasons for wanting to borrow the money, and there was nothing  untoward 
in his explanation of how he would  spend  it.
It is correct that Aviva  no longer lends on this type of property, but it met Avivas lending 
criteria at the time. Lenders  are entitled to change their lending  criteria from time to time,  but 
the fact that Aviva no longer lends on this type of property  doesnt mean  that the lending in 
2000 was unsuitable.
In the circumstances, Im unable to find that Aviva  did anything wrong and so Im unable to 
uphold Mr H1s complaint  that the mortgage was mis-sold.
Events after  Mr H2s death: Ive looked at the time line of events in relation to the sale of 
the property and redemption of the mortgage.  I note that in 2013  and 2014  the solicitors  who 
were then acting for Mr H1 in relation  to the estate  were sent redemption statements. But 
then things went quiet  for several years and Aviva  wasnt able to contact Mr H1 until 
September 2017.
Before then, however,  in February 2017 the managing agents had threatened to forfeit the 
lease for unpaid service  charges. The terms and conditions of the mortgage allowed Aviva to 
pay these charges and I find it was reasonable for Aviva to do so. If the lease had been  
forfeited, there would have been no security  for the mortgage. The service  charges  just 
over £15,000  were  added to the mortgage  account at the rate of interest Aviva was 
applying at the time  5.34%. 
It wasnt until 2018 that the property was eventually sold and the debt to Aviva was repaid. I 
think Aviva  showed considerable forbearance in waiting an additional  four years after the 
Ref: DRN59501755point the mortgage should have been  repaid had passed (within 12 months of Mr H2s 
death). 
Ive noted what  Mr H1 has said  that the solicitors hed previously instructed had been 
closed down and the paperwork was lost. But that doesnt explain why Mr H1 made no 
contact at all with Aviva about  the mortgage  for several years. I think its likely Mr H1 also 
knew that service charges  were continuing to accrue after the managing agents obtained a 
County Court Judgment against him in 2017 and that they would be payable right up to the 
point where the property  was sold.
In all the circumstances, I think Aviva would have been within its rights to sell the property. 
But given that there  were  other properties in the development  which were also proving hard 
to sell, Avivas decision  not to go ahead with a forced sale was reasonable and ultimately 
maximised the funds  available. 
After payment of the mortgage (including the additional £15,000  + interest  for the service  
charges), there was a surplus of around  £8,000  from the proceeds of sale.  I dont know what  
other expenses the estate  had  estate agents and solicitors fees  but once the mortgage 
was redeemed, Avivas  involvement  in the estate was at an end.
After reviewing everything that happened  after Mr H2s death, I dont think  Aviva  acted 
unfairly or unreasonably. This means that Im unable to uphold  this part of the complaint.
Mr H1 has said hes left with debts  he is having to repay in relation to service charges and 
legal fees. He doesnt understand why, as Executor, he is personally  liable for these. If 
Mr H1 has questions about this, he will need to ask his own solicitors. 
I know this isnt the outcome Mr H1 was hoping for. I understand that he didnt know his 
father had taken out another  equity release mortgage  having  taken  one out previously that 
had been repaid. I know Mr H1 was hoping that the charity chosen  by his father to benefit  
from the bequest  left in his Will would receive  a substantial  sum of money out of the estate.  I 
am sorry that didnt  happen, but, for the reasons  given above, Im satisfied Aviva isnt 
responsible for this.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means  that we are unable to consider the complaint any further,  nor enter  into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H1, on behalf 
of the estate of the late Mr H2, to accept or reject my decision before 28 November 2020.
Jan OLeary
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN5950175