K822xcomplaint
Ms F is unhappy with the increases in premiums on her home insurance with 
St Andrews  Insurance Plc. 
background 
Ms Fs insurance  policy  started in 2004  and cost £325.31 for the year.  For 2015 the renewal 
quote was £766.59. Ms F called in 2015  to discuss her premium and she was offered a 
discount of £170.75. She didnt accept this discount  and didnt renew the policy. 
Ms F thinks St Andrews  has taken advantage of her by unfairly increasing the cost of the 
policy every  year. She says she was charged  too much and should be reimbursed for the 
extra she had paid over the years. 
St Andrews  offered to refund some of the cost of the insurance  for the 2012 premium 
onward. It offered  £331.28 as a refund of some of the premiums  and 8% additional 
compensation for Ms F being out of pocket of that money. St Andrews has also offered a 
further £200 as compensation  for the trouble and upset Ms F has been caused.  Our 
adjudicator thought the offer was a fair way to resolve things.
Ms F disagreed and didnt think the offer was fair. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont have the power to tell a business  what its insurance should  have  cost.  I would be, in 
effect determining  or telling a business how it should  operate  and thats not my role. But I 
can look at whether St Andrews has treated Ms F fairly throughout the period she held her 
insurance policy. 
If I find that St Andrews  hasnt treated Ms F fairly, I will look to see what  compensation 
would be fair and in this case whether  I think what St Andrews has offered is fair.
When Ms F took out her policy in 2004, it cost £325.31 for the year. Often  new policies will 
have introductory  discounts. This isnt uncommon and policies may well initially be priced 
lower to attract new customers. I dont think its unfair for an insurer to seek to recoup that 
cost over the first few years. 
St Andrews  says Ms F contacted it in 2008  to increase one of the limits on the policy. At this 
point its likely there would have been some  discussion about the cost and St Andrews  
records show Ms F asked for a breakdown of the annual premium  during that call. Ms F 
didnt query  or complain  about the cost of her insurance at this time, so it would have been 
reasonable for St Andrews to think that, having been given details of the cost,  Ms F was 
happy with the premium  she was paying.
But after 2008  the cost of Ms Fs policy continued  to increase each year and it renewed  
without Ms F engaging  with St Andrews about  the premium. She didnt speak to St Andrews 
again about her premium  until 2015.  
Ref: DRN55866192Ms F says she assumed she was paying  competitively priced premiums for her home 
insurance. She says she trusted St Andrews and believed they would look after her best 
interests. And it wasnt until 2015  that she called to discuss her premium that the cost was 
challenged. Her policy  was cancelled  shortly after this. 
If St Andrews increased the price just because Ms F didnt engage  at each renewal, that 
wouldnt be fair. St Andrews has offered to refund  some of the costs  of the insurance 
premiums from 2012 onwards.  
St Andrews  has offered  to keep Ms Fs premiums from 2012 at the same  amount she was 
charged in 2011   £567.04. So it will refund the difference on the payments she made on her 
premiums from 2012 until 2015  when the policy was cancelled. For example, Ms Fs 
premium in 2012 was £641.62. St Andrews  has offered to refund the difference between  the 
2011 and 2012 premiums,  plus interest. And its done this for every  yearly premium after 
2011. St Andrews total offer is £331.28  plus interest  of 8% for the time she was out of 
pocket. 
Ms F says she is owed more than this in compensation and the cost was too high from the 
outset. In particular  she has pointed to the cost of the cover she was able to secure  with 
another insurer in 2015. Ive thought about this. But these policies would  not have been 
identical and so cant be compared like for like. Along  with a difference in premium, there 
also wouldve been differences  in cover and difference excesses. I must also take into 
account that as this was a new policy being set up in 2015 Ms F possibly received a discount  
on the premium cost as well. So it wouldnt be fair for St Andrews to use this different policy 
cost when working out its offer.  
Having considered St Andrews offer, I think its fair. It makes sure Ms F hasnt lost out if 
St Andrews  did increase  the price just because she didnt engage at each renewal
I also think St Andrews additional compensation offer of £200 that it made  later on for the 
trouble caused  to Ms F, is fair.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, St Andrew's Insurance Plcs offer to refund some of the costs  
of Ms Fs policy from 2011 is fair.
St Andrews  Insurance Plcs additional  compensation offer of £200  for the trouble caused to 
Ms F is also fair. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 November  2019.
Gemma Farrell
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN5586619