K820x#14complaint
Mr L complains  that MBNA  Limited  rejected his section 75 claim when he complained  about  
the service he received  from a garage. Hes also unhappy about the service he received 
from MBNA  when he complained.
background
In April 2017 Mr L took his van to a garage  to have a pump fitted.  Following the fitting of the 
pump, Mr L experienced issues with the van not reaching the speed it achieved previously. 
Mr L returned the car to the garage  who told him to obtain an independent report.  
The report  concluded  that the pump hadnt  been  fitted correctly.  The garage re-fitted the 
pump but found no fault with the pump  itself.
Mr L says the van still isnt running as it was before the pump  was fitted. He complained to 
MBNA seeking a refund  of the total sum paid to the garage (£1002) and a refund of the costs 
of obtaining the report (£170).
MBNA told Mr L it couldnt accept a section 75 claim because it wasnt satisfied that there 
had been a misrepresentation or a breach of contract. As a gesture of goodwill, MBNA  
credited Mr Ls account with the cost of the report.
Mr L wasnt happy with MBNAs response  so he complained to this service. He feels that 
MBNA didnt  investigate his section 75 claim  properly and that the service  he received from 
MBNA when  he complained was poor.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. The investigator said that on the available 
evidence there was nothing to suggest  that the pump itself was defective  or that the re-fitting  
of the pump had not been carried out correctly. 
Mr L didnt agree. He said that an independent garage had confirmed that his van was still 
under powered after the pump  had been  re-fitted. He also said that there was evidence  that 
the pump hadnt been fitted  correctly the first time.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr L says that the pump wasnt of satisfactory quality and was fitted incorrectly so as to 
amount to a breach of contract. A breach of contract  is where the supplier fails to do what 
the contract  says it must, either expressly  or by implication.
I need to decide whether, on the available evidence, the garage supplied a defective pump 
and/or fitted  the pump incorrectly. In relation to the fitting of the pump, I would need to be 
satisfied that the garage fitted  the pump  incorrectly  on both occasions in order to find that 
there has been a breach of contract.  This is relevant because  if the garage has successfully 
re-fitted the pump, then any earlier breach has been remedied. 
Ive considered the report which Mr L obtained  after the pump had been  fitted  for the first 
time. The report says that the pump  hasnt  been fitted correctly. It also says that the crank  
Ref: DRN55699122sensor was difficult to remove. The report doesnt say that there is any defect with the pump 
itself. 
Although Mr L said that he intended to obtain a further report  after the pump  was re-fitted,  I 
cant see that hes done this. As such, the only evidence about  the condition  of the pump 
itself is the report.  The report says that the pump  isnt defective. Because of this, Im unable 
to conclude that the pump isnt of satisfactory  quality.
Turning to the fitting of the pump Mr L has provided  an explanation of why it is relevant that 
the crank  sensor  was difficult  to remove. He says that in order to insert  a pin to lock the 
crankshaft the sensor has to be removed. Mr L says that the pin has to be removed  in order 
to fit the pump correctly  and that because  the sensor was hard to remove, this means that 
the garage didnt  access  the crankshaft to lock/unlock it whilst fitting the pump.
Mr L has said that he is a qualified mechanic. I have no reason to disbelieve what  he says 
but Im unable to treat his evidence or opinions as independent. In any event, theres no 
dispute that the pump was fitted  incorrectly the first time. This is supported by the report 
obtained by Mr L.
Theres no evidence to suggest that the pump wasnt fitted  correctly  on the second occasion.  
Mr L says that the van still isnt running as it should,  but theres no expert  evidence  as to 
whether or why this is the case. And crucially, although Mr L feels  that the van still isnt 
running as well as it did before,  theres  no evidence to suggest that the re-fitting of the pump 
wasnt successful.
For this reason Im unable  to say that theres been a breach  of contract because on the 
available evidence the pump  has now been  fitted  correctly at no additional  cost to Mr L. 
Therefore I wont be asking MBNA to refund the costs of supplying and fitting the pump.
Mr L has also complained  about the service he received from MBNA when he made his 
section 75 claim. He feels that MBNA  hasnt investigated his claim properly.
Ive looked at how MBNA handled Mr Ls claim. Its fair to say that the claim was ongoing for 
longer than usual.  This was partly due to Mr L having some  medical  treatment whilst the 
claim was being investigated.  I can also see that MBNA asked Mr L to provide some 
information and gave him a reasonable time to provide it. But there  came  a point where it 
was reasonable  for MBNA to determine  the section 75 claim on the available evidence.  And 
from what Ive seen,  the available evidence isnt sufficient  to show that the pump was 
defective or that there  has been  a breach of contract. 
Taking all of the circumstances into account  Im satisfied that MBNA dealt with the section 75 
claim fairly. I also think that the refund of Mr Ls costs of obtaining a report as a goodwill 
gesture was reasonable.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Emma Davy
Ref: DRN55699123ombudsman
Ref: DRN5569912