K821x#15complaint
Mr D is unhappy with a car he got financed with Black Horse Limited. He says there is a 
paintwork defect on the car, and he wants to reject it.
background
Mr D got a brand new car in March 2018.  The car cost £77,200.  Mr D paid a deposit  and the 
remainder of the balance was financed  using a hire purchase agreement with Black Horse.
Around six months after getting the car, Mr D noticed a blemish on the paintwork under a 
headlight. Mr D complained to Black  Horse in September 2018 and said he wanted to reject 
the car. 
Black Horse  said the dealer confirmed dust particles  had become stuck  to the panel and 
painted over at the factory.  It agreed  the issue was there when the car was supplied  and 
upheld the complaint - offering to have the area resprayed. It also offered Mr D a total of 
£300 for the trouble and upset caused  and £230.95 for a weeks repayments while the car 
was repaired.  But, it said it wasnt willing  to allow Mr D to reject the car.
Mr D was unhappy with this and brought the complaint to our service.  Our investigator 
upheld the complaint. He said he didnt believe respraying  the panel  would be the same as a 
factory finish, so he thought Mr D should  be able to reject  the car. Black  Horse disagreed, so 
the complaint  has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I think  this complaint 
should be upheld.  Ill explain  why.
This complaint is about a regulated hire purchase agreement. We can consider complaints 
against the supplier   Black Horse - about the quality  of goods under this type of 
arrangement.
When considering  whats fair and reasonable, I take into account relevant law. The 
Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA)  is relevant  to this complaint. This says that when Mr D got 
the car, the supplier had a responsibility to make  sure it was of satisfactory  quality. 
Satisfactory quality is what  a reasonable person would  expect  taking into account  things  
like the cars  age, price, mileage, description  and other relevant factors.
Its important to note in this case that the car Mr D acquired was brand new,  from a premium  
brand and cost over £77,000. Im satisfied this means a reasonable person would have  very 
high expectations  for the quality of the car. I think  they would expect it to be in mint condition  
and be free from even  minor defects.
In this case, Black Horse  has offered a repair, so it seems to accept the car wasnt of 
satisfactory quality. However,  for the sake of clarity,  its worth  considering  this myself. The 
CRA specifically says that, in appropriate  cases, freedom from minor defects should be a 
part of considering satisfactory quality. 
Ref: DRN52192232Looking at the photos provided, Im satisfied  the car has a defect in the paintwork.  I 
appreciate Black Horses  comments that the paint defect is a very small area of the car. And, 
I accept this could  be a minor defect. But, given the car involved and the cost, Im satisfied 
this is an appropriate  case to expect freedom from minor  defects. So, it follows  that Im 
satisfied this issue meant the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when Mr D got it. 
Ive considered what Black Horse  has said about  the fact that Mr D didnt notice the paint 
defect until around six months  after getting the car. But, this doesnt change  my opinion  that 
it makes the car of unsatisfactory quality  regardless  of when it was spotted. 
I now need to consider  what  would be reasonable to put things right.
Black Horse  has said that Mr D has a right to allow it to repair  the issue. And, its offered to 
do this. So, Ive considered if I think this will meet Black Horses obligations under the CRA. 
In this particular  case, I dont think  it will. Ill explain why.
In the CRA when  discussing repairs  Section 23 (8) explains:
In this chapter, repair in relation to goods  that do not conform  to a contract, means 
making them conform
So, a repair would  need to make the car conform to the original contract. In this case, Mr D 
got a brand new,  prestige  vehicle. So, I think in order to make the car conform to the original 
contract this would mean repairing  it to a factory condition finish.  
I dont think that respraying the panel would achieve  a factory  finish. I say this as I think  its 
unlikely a respray could  be of the same  standard as the initial paintwork shouldve been  
done to. And, given  the car has now been  exposed to sunlight, rain, washing etc. for some  
time, I dont think its likely the panel  would look exactly  the same  as the others after a 
respray. 
I appreciate the CRA does allow Black Horse  the opportunity to repair.  But, Im satisfied the 
repair wouldnt make  the car conform to the original contract. So, thinking about whats  
reasonable, Im satisfied  its fair in this particular case to go against the criteria in the CRA 
for this reason.
Black Horse  has provided commentary from who it says are two expert paintwork 
specialists. One of these  is an email from the dealer,  where they say in their opinion the 
respray would be undetectable. I appreciate they explain theyve spoken  to what  sounds  
like another company for their opinion. But, Ive considered that this email  is from the head  
of customer service  not a mechanic  or someone who works in a body shop.  So, I dont 
agree this is the opinion of an expert paintwork  specialist.
The second  piece of commentary is in another email. They  say all car manufactures (sic) 
repair paint defects to a warranty standard, provided it is a warranty approved  repairer the 
paint there  should  be no problems (sic).  Ive thought carefully about this. But, I dont think  
repairing to a warranty standard is the same  as a factory finish   which  is what  Im satisfied 
the CRA  requires Black  Horse to do.
Thinking about  this, the testimonies Black Horse  sent in dont change  my opinion.
Ref: DRN52192233Ive considered what Black Horse  said about the costs involved in rejection  and that we 
should be fair to it, as well as Mr D. Its mentioned the Financial Services and Markets  Act 
2000 (FSMA) and the Dispute Resolution Complaints Handbook  (DISP).
But, I believe  my decision is fair and reasonable in the specific  circumstance of this case.  
And I believe its in line with the guidance  and rules we work under. I dont believe the fact 
that rejection may be more expensive than a repair for Black  Horse is a reason to change 
my opinion.
Black Horse  has mentioned a specific case  Wilson v AGCO Finance Limited 2018. It says 
the court explained that if a consumer continues to use goods,  they lose the right to reject  
them.
But, there are some  substantial differences in the circumstances between this case and 
Mr Ds complaint. Wilson  v AGCO Finance Limited 2018 involves a tractor  for farming,  rather 
than a car for personal use. Although the judgement doesnt explain all the specific  issues  
with the tractor, the pursuer argues it was out of commission for 390 hours  so it seems the 
issues werent purely cosmetic as is the case here. The case  was heard around three and a 
half years  after the request to reject the tractor had been made, so it had been in use much  
longer than Mr Ds car after requesting rejection. And, when the case  was heard the tractor 
had been purchased after initially being supplied under a hire purchase  agreement  which 
is not the case here.
Thinking about  Wilson v AGCO Finance Limited  2018, I dont think this shows,  under the 
specific circumstances of this complaint, that Mr D has lost his right to reject because he 
continued to use the car. But, even if my assessment of case law is incorrect,  in this 
particular case given  the issue is purely  cosmetic, I dont think driving the car couldve made 
the issue any worse. So, I dont think it was unreasonable for Mr D to continue to use the car 
- and for that reason  I still think it would be fair and reasonable  to allow him to reject it. But, I 
do think Mr D should pay for his use of the car. So, I think  its reasonable for Black Horse  to 
retain all of the repayments made  under the agreement. 
Ive thought about everything else Black Horse  has said in relation to this complaint, 
including all of its comments following the investigators assessment.  But, this doesnt  
change my opinion.
Finally, Im satisfied Mr D has been  caused  trouble  and upset because of whats gone 
wrong. I say this as it mustve been  upsetting to discover the issue  on an expensive,  
premium item. I think the £300 already offered by Black Horse is reasonable to reflect  this.
Ref: DRN52192234My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I instruct Black  Horse Limited to put things 
right by doing the following:
Cancel the agreement with nothing further  to pay
Collect the car at no cost to Mr D at a time and date convenient to him
Refund Mr Ds deposit of £2,971*
Pay Mr D £300 for trouble and upset caused**
*This repayment  should have 8% simple interest added  from the time of payment to the time 
of reimbursement.  HM Revenue & Customs requires Black  Horse to take off tax from this 
interest. Black Horse  must give Mr D a certificate  showing how much  tax its taken off if he 
asks for one.
**If Black Horse has paid Mr D this amount already, it does  not need to do so again.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 November  2019.
John Bower
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5219223