K822xcomplaint
Mr P complains that National Westminster Bank Plc declined his claim under  Section 75 of 
the Consumer  Credit Act 1974.
Background
In June I issued  a provisional decision  saying  that I was minded to uphold  Mr Ps complaint.  
I then invited both parties  to let me have  any further  submissions before I reached  my final 
decision. Both parties have responded to my provisional decision.
Mr P has accepted my position articulated  in my provisional decision without further  
comment.
NatWest has now said it is willing to settle  this long-standing complaint by paying £15,080 
(the transaction amount), £72 (Notary  Fee), £500 (paid  to Company C), plus 8% interest  
from 4 October 2017 until date of acceptance.
The key details of Mr Ps complaint were set out in my provisional decision as follows.
In 2016 Mr P had a fractional ownership agreement (which I will refer to as a 
Timeshare for short)  on a property abroad  which he wanted  to sell. Around  that time 
he was contacted by Company A who said it provided Timeshare Relinquishment 
services and it could get him out of the timeshare agreement.  In January 2017 Mr P 
used his NatWest  Mastercard  credit  card to pay Company A £1000. This transaction  
went through another party called Company B before reaching Company  A (both  
Company A and Company  B are referred  to on Mr Ps credit card statement in this 
transaction). Mr P also transferred just over £15,000 directly from his bank account to 
Company A that day. At the same time Mr P paid a notary £72 for the notarys  work  
in relation to these matters.
In September  2017 Mr P was told Company A had gone into liquidation,  having  not 
got him out of his Timeshare. He was later told the remains of Company A had been  
bought by yet another company (Ill call this Company C) which had not taken on any 
debts or liabilities  of Company A when it bought it. Mr P paid Company C £500 using 
his NatWest credit card as a deposit  in his quest to get out of the original Timeshare 
agreement. On further investigation Mr P decided  to not pay Company C any more 
money to get him out of the Timeshare  as he had concluded that they werent  
reputable. 
Unhappy with the situation Mr P complained to NatWest in an attempt to recoup the 
money hed spent. In November 2017 NatWest raised a chargeback through 
Mastercard on the credit card transaction of £1000. This wasnt contested  by 
Company A (the supplier  of the timeshare  relinquishment service)  so Mr P got the 
£1000 refunded to his account. But Mr P wanted  the £15,080 back  as well. 
NatWest considered this but said the money had been paid to Company  B (not 
Company A -the supplier  of the service  of Timeshare Relinquishment) and that as 
such the required relationship between the parties set out in the Consumer Credit Act 
1974 wasnt in place (often  referred  to as the DCS  relationship). And accordingly 
NatWest said it wasnt  liable for the £15080 and so wasnt going to refund it to Mr P.
Ref: DRN56287472Mr P felt that this was unfair, so he brought his complaint to this service. Our 
Investigator agreed with Mr P that NatWest should refund him the £15,080. NatWest 
disagreed for similar reasons that it had done  so earlier. NatWest  said that Company 
B was more than a simple gateway and that it actually takes the payment as a 
"master merchant" in a five-party transaction. It also said that the leading  authority on 
the applicability of section 75 to a credit card transaction is OFT v Lloyds  TSB plc 
2007. Specifically  NatWest said; 
in that case  it was held that a four-party  structure (comprising the debtor, creditor, 
merchant acquirer and supplier) involved "pre-existing  arrangements"  between  the 
creditor and the merchant as they were members of the same card scheme.  In the 
present case,  there are five parties (the debtor, creditor, merchant acquirer, master 
merchant [Company B] and sub-merchant  [the supplier]) (here  Company A) and 
there is no legal  authority  which  establishes that section 75 applies in this situation. 
Further, we note that the merchant is not a direct  member of the same card scheme  
as the Bank (NatWest) and therefore are unknown  to us; in such  circumstances, we 
do not agree  that a pre-existing arrangement exist between the Bank  and the (sub-
merchant) supplier.
So this complaint came to me and I issued  a provisional decision which both parties  have 
responded to.
my final findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Considering my findings in my provisional decision and the responses from both parties 
described above this complaint is successful.
I appreciate both parties are now happy  with the position and may not see the need for a 
final decision. But these  are complex  matters  with regard to the application of the law in this 
area which I think needs publication through  a final decision for public interest reasons. And I 
think it worthwhile for certainty  reasons  also. And hence this final decision. Accordingly now I 
will describe  my key findings  on these  important matters. Ive only addressed  the key 
aspects of my rationale in this decision as both parties have the complete provisional 
decision already.
Section 75
As an Ombudsman I have  to decide  what I think is fair and reasonable, having regard to, 
amongst other things,  any relevant law. In this case, the relevant law is s75 of the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974 (the Act) which says that, in certain circumstances, if Mr P paid for goods  
or services on his credit card and there was a breach  of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier (Company A), NatWest can be held responsible.
I think it worthwhile  to explain that historically credit cards worked within  a commonplace 
three-party structure.  Specifically that there was:
an agreement between the card issuer  (the creditor) and the cardholder  (the debtor) 
to extend credit  by paying for goods or services purchased by the cardholder  from 
suppliers who had agreed to honour the card; 
an agreement between the card issuer  and the supplier under which the supplier  
Ref: DRN56287473agreed to accept the card in payment and the card issuer agreed to pay the supplier 
promptly;
an agreement between the cardholder and the supplier for the purchase of goods  or 
services.
And accordingly this three-way relationship  is often  referred to as DCS as it represents  the 
interrelationships between  Debtor, Creditor and Supplier.
As time went by a new type of party  entered  the market and specifically these types of 
transactions, known  as the Merchant Acquirer. This led to the creation of four party  
relationships where instead of the agreement being  between the card issuer and the 
supplier, there were  two agreements:
an agreement between the merchant acquirer and the supplier,  under which  the 
supplier undertook to honour the card and the merchant  acquirer undertook  to pay 
the supplier; and 
an agreement between the merchant acquirer and the card issuer, under which the 
merchant acquirer  agreed to pay the supplier and the card issuer  undertook  to 
reimburse the merchant  acquirer.
The impact  of this development on the application  of s75 was considered  by the Court of
Appeal in the case of Office of Fair Trading v Lloyds  & others [2006] (the OFT case).
The Court of Appeal first considered whether the introduction of the four-party structure
meant that the system  had evolved  significantly beyond the state  of affairs  to which  s75 had
been directed.  They  concluded  that it had not, stating at paragraph 55 of their judgment:
From the customer's point of view  it is difficult to see any justification  for drawing a
distinction between  the different [three-party and four-party] situations. Indeed, in the case of
those card issuers such as Lloyds TSB, who operate  under  both three-party and four-party
structures, the customer has no means  of knowing whether any given transaction  is
conducted under one or other arrangement. Similarly, from the point of view of the card
issuer and the supplier  the commercial nature of the relationship is essentially the same:
each benefits  from the involvement of the other  in a way that makes it possible to regard
them as involved in something akin to a joint venture,  just as much as in the case of the
three-party structure.
They went  on to say;
It is clear  that, whether the transaction is entered into under a three-party or four-party  
structure, the purpose of the credit  agreement is to provide the customer with the means to 
pay for goods or services. It follows that in both cases  the card issuer finances the 
transaction between  the customer and the supplier by making credit available  at the point  of 
purchase in accordance with the credit  agreement.  The fact that it does so through  the 
medium of an agreement  with the merchant acquirer  does not detract from that because it is 
the card issuer's agreement to provide credit to the customer that provides the financial 
basis for the transaction with the supplier.
Bearing in mind some of NatWests arguments  made previously in this case  its also 
important to note that in the OFT case the court saw evidence about  the particular rules  
governing the activities of merchant acquirers. The Judge at first instance drew  attention  to 
the following  features  (paragraph 30) which I think have relevance here:
Ref: DRN56287474The evidence showed that the rules of the four-party card schemes control  which suppliers
may participate in the schemes by, for example, (i) stipulating that merchant acquirers  must
only put transaction details into interchange for suppliers with whom they have  valid and
subsisting merchant  acquirer agreements; (ii) requiring  merchant acquirers to screen
suppliers before entering into agreements with them, in order to establish  that the suppliers
are creditworthy and carrying on bona  fide businesses; (iii) requiring merchant acquirers to
monitor suppliers to deter wrongful activity; (iv) requiring merchant  acquirers to forward
information to the network merchant databases  where, for example, a supplier is suspected
of fraud  or where a supplier's ratio of transactions charged back by the card issuer exceeds
established criteria.  Likewise card issuing creditors exert  leverage  over suppliers, through
the networks [operated by MasterCard, Visa and American Express], in that the networks
reserve rights to insist that suppliers'  merchant acquirer agreements  are terminated and to
exclude suppliers  from entering into merchant acquirer agreements.  Thus some sort of
leverage is available,  at least in domestic  four-party  transactions, but even if it were  not, that
would not affect  my conclusion.
Having provided  some important context  to the circumstances in Mr Ps case, I need to now 
establish the exact nature of Company  Bs role and involvement. And whether or not that 
meant that there  were the relevant  arrangements between NatWest  and the supplier under 
which Mr Ps purchase was financed, and therefore  whether or not there  was the DCS link. 
This is the crux of this complaint. I say this because in many  cases  where there is a DCS link 
established the focus of the complaint is actually whether  or not there was a 
misrepresentation or breach of contract  by the supplier.  But NatWest hasnt made any 
persuasive arguments on whether or not there was a breach  of contract or misrepresentation 
here by the supplier  (Company A). Indeed NatWest has argued mainly  on the DCS point 
with this service. So much  so that back in February  2019 our Investigator wrote to NatWest  
and Mr P and explained  from the start that;
I don't think there's any dispute about  the facts of Mr P's case. I feel that It's clear there's 
been a misrepresentation made  by Company  A (the supplier) which induced Mr P into the 
agreement. Ultimately, Mr P didn't receive  the services promised by the supplier.
NatWest didnt contest  this position in its response  to this service and the amounts paid by 
Mr P are well known  by the parties. I shall return to this point, but it is clear  that the crux of 
this dispute hangs on the DCS issue. 
The DCS issue
I have considered the particular facts of Mr Ps case.  In order  for s75 to apply there has to 
have been arrangements  between NatWest and the supplier to finance  transactions  between 
NatWests cardholders and the supplier. Its clear that there  was no direct arrangement 
between them, but this isnt necessarily fatal to the application of s75.
I say this because  the Judge who heard the OFT case at first instance ([2005] 1 All ER 843) 
had also considered the meaning of the word arrangements, as used in section 12, and 
whether there existed  relevant arrangements  between creditors  and suppliers in the four-
party situation. She said that the use of the word showed a deliberate intention on the part of 
the draftsman to use broad, loose language, which was to be contrasted with the word
agreement. She went on to say at paragraph 26:
In my judgment, in the natural ordinary sense of the word, there are clearly arrangements  in
place made  between the card issuers and the suppliers, notwithstanding the absence  of any
Ref: DRN56287475direct communication between them, or any direct  contractual relationship, or even of
knowledge on the part of the issuer of the identity of the particular supplier. The fact that
there are a number of different  arrangements,  reflecting  the various roles, contractual or
otherwise, played  by different participants in the network, does not mean that there is not an
arrangement in place between  the issuer and the supplier. I consider that it is unrealistic to
look merely at the individual links in the chain; rather one should stand back and look at the
whole network of arrangements that are involved in the operation  of the schemes. If one
does so, one can, in my judgment, properly conclude that, by virtue of the supplier and the
issuer being subject to the rules and settlement processes common  to all participants in the
card network, there is indeed an arrangement  (albeit indirect) between  them.
In the Court  of Appeal, the creditors argued  that arrangements should be given a narrower
meaning that took the four-party structure outside the definition. But the Court of Appeal
agreed with the Judge that arrangements  had been used to embrace a wide range of
commercial structures having  substantially the same effect. They  held it was difficult to resist
the conclusion  that such arrangements existed between credit  card issuers and suppliers
who agreed to accept their cards, and stated;
Moreover, we find it difficult to accept  that Parliament would have been willing to allow  some
consumers to be disadvantaged by the existence of indirect arrangements when other
consumers were protected  because the relevant arrangements were  direct.
Accordingly to arrive  at a fair outcome I need to stand back and consider  the whole network 
of arrangements that were involved in Mr Ps transaction and, in particular, what  Company 
Bs role was within that network.
Ive considered Mastercards  rules regarding the scheme it operates.  I note from its rules  
from 2016 it recognises a number  of different types of service  providers including  those 
described as Third Party Processors and Payment Facilitators and it then goes on to give 
examples of the types of services the different service providers provide and requirements 
the scheme has of them.
I see that in the email  dated 19th January 2017 from Company B to Mr P which  Mr P has 
provided Company  B states that it is the preferred payment processor of (Company A). It 
goes on to explain the payment was made on a Mastercard, the amount paid and how it 
would appear  on his statement. And I can see that under Mastercards  explanation of what 
Third Party Processors do it includes Chargeback processing for Acquirers or Issuers  and 
Chargeback  processing for Merchants  or Sub merchants. And as is already accepted 
NatWest raised a chargeback in this case in 2017 which  wasnt  defended, and Mr P got his 
£1000 back as a result. This is prior by some  time to when Company B went into liquidation.
So our Investigator  looked into Company B to try and get confirmation of its role in this 
transaction. Company B is in liquidation, so our Investigator contacted the Liquidators of 
Company B who confirmed it did not have access Company  Bs books  and records,
including its historic financial data.  It was therefore  unable to provide any information in 
relation to this transaction or indeed any real detail of the services provided by Company B 
at all. It is of note that Companies House lists Company Bs nature of business as being 
Data processing, hosting and related  activities.  So although the evidence  here is 
incomplete it is clear that Company B described itself to Mr P in 2017 as a payment 
processor. 
Ref: DRN56287476NatWest has said that Mr Ps transaction was channelled through  a merchant  acquirer and 
has argued that this means that its different to the situation in the OFT case  as Mr Ps 
situation was a five-party transaction rather than four. It says the merchant (Company A) is 
not a direct member of the same  card scheme (Mastercard)  as NatWest and therefore is 
unknown to it and in such circumstances, it does not agree that a pre-existing arrangement 
exists between NatWest  and the sub-merchant/supplier (Company A).
So I needed  to decide whether Company Bs role and involvement interfered with what 
appears to have been the usual underlying four-party structure  in a way that meant the 
relevant creditor-supplier arrangements didnt exist in this case. I dont think its role and 
involvement caused an interference for the following reasons.
Having considered Mastercards rules I note that The Acquirer  is responsible for all acts and 
omissions of a Payment  Facilitator and of any Sub merchant. Having seen this and 
considered the rules  as a whole it seems  clear that in the situation that NatWest describe Mr 
Ps transaction to be, it seems clear that Company B act as an agent for the merchant 
acquirer. Plus it is clear that as part of the scheme rules the Merchant Acquirer can only act 
in such transactions  under the scheme whilst it meets the scheme rules which include it 
being responsible for the activities  of facilitators  and sub-merchants. So clearly  there  is an 
arrangement between these parties  in this part of the transaction. And although Company A 
maybe unknown  to NatWest (as it argues) considering the relationships here it is clear there 
is an arrangement in this case. So I dont think it makes a difference  whether they are known 
or unknown  parties  as clearly there is an arrangement in place.
In short,  it appears  that Company B operated a formal and structured system which enabled
parties, such as Company  A in this case,  to receive  payments  made by credit and debit card 
to pay for the supply  of goods  and services to the cardholders such as Mr P. Further, both 
NatWest and the supplier  were bound to the same network rules through  the arrangements  
here and therefore  subject to the rules  and settlement processes of the network (albeit 
indirectly). These features  are all consistent with the existence of the required  arrangements, 
for the purposes  of s.75, between NatWest and the supplier.
I would also note that both NatWest and Company A undoubtedly  benefit commercially
from the involvement of the other,  through the intermediation of Company B, in a way that
makes it possible to regard them as in something akin to a joint venture. Specifically, by
financing purchases  from the supplier  NatWest are able to lend money to their customer
and make interest and/or other charges  for that service, whilst the supplier is able to obtain
payments from NatWests credit card holders and so benefit  from the credit  NatWest
extended (albeit indirectly).
Furthermore, not every commercial entity accepts  Mastercard. So where a supplier such  as 
Company A does  agree to accept Mastercard that results in NatWest providing restricted 
use credit,  regardless of whether NatWest has a direct agreement  with the supplier or not.
Taking this into account, and looking  at the principles outlined in the OFT case and what we 
know of the situation here, it seems to me that NatWest  provided finance to Mr P which
enabled him, through the medium  of the suppliers  account with Company B, to pay for 
goods from the supplier. The purpose of the credit agreement between NatWest and Mr P is 
to give him the means to pay for goods and services, which is what  he did when he paid the
supplier. So, following  the reasoning in the OFT case, NatWest financed that transaction
by making credit available  to Mr P at the point of purchase in accordance with his credit
agreement.
Ref: DRN56287477The Courts  have considered tenuousness in relation to s75. NatWest didnt in the end argue 
that Mr Ps relationship  here is too tenuous for S75 to apply. But I think  the issue of 
tenuousness in such DCS cases  is important and accordingly I think  it worth  describing my 
position on the matter.
The High Court considered s75 in the case of Governor and Company of the Bank of 
Scotland v Alfred Truman  (a firm) [2005] EWHC 583, (the Truman  case) the High Court 
held that its the nature  of the role that each party plays  and the nexus between the supplier 
and creditor thats  the relevant consideration. I do not propose to recount all the details of 
the case here. However I would note the following. In the Truman  case it involved the court  
considering a five-party structure in which the fifth party (like Company A is in this case),  had 
no contractual or other  direct relationship  with the relevant scheme. But it was held that it did 
not matter that the card issuers  had no direct contractual  or other  relationship with the fifth 
party or that the card issuers had no idea of the existence of the fifth party. There still existed 
arrangements sufficient for the requisite DCS  link.
In Mr Ps case, I think there are stronger indications  of relevant arrangements  than those in
the Truman case given that Company  B was specifically and publicly in the business of 
processing or facilitating payments. 
So, in Mr Ps case the creditors issuing cards  within  the Mastercard network,  (that is 
NatWest here) would  seem in a stronger position both to know  about the activities  of the
Company B than the card issuers were in the Truman case, whilst the Mastercard
network itself was well placed to decide  whether it would permit  Company B to carry on that 
business in relation to its cards and to influence the terms on which it could do so. I therefore 
dont consider the arrangements  to be more tenuous than those examined by the court in the 
Truman case, but rather the opposite.
For all of these reasons, my provisional  and my now final conclusion  is that there were 
arrangements between NatWest and Company B under which  NatWest financed  
transactions between  their card holders and Company A, including  Mr Ps purchase from 
Company A in this case. Meaning that DCS  is intact  and s75 applies.
The liability  issue
As described  previously  NatWest hasnt contended that Mr P was misrepresented to or that 
there was a breach of contract. From  the evidence Ive seen relating to the payment it is 
clear that both the card transaction and the transfer were ultimately destined for and 
received by Company A. It is also clear that the service Mr P bought was that of getting  him 
out of his timeshare.  Company A didnt provide this service. It is also clear that 
representations were made to Mr P about  this service which he relied on to his detriment in 
entering the agreement. And as Ive stated NatWest has known for an extended period of 
time that this service was of the opinion that the facts regarding  the merits of the claim were 
not in dispute. So I am glad to see that Natwest has decided to refund Mr P the £15080 he 
paid.
With regard to the £500 paid to Company C and the £72 he paid to the Notary I see NatWest  
has offered to pay these  as well. I consider this a fair and reasonable position and in line 
with my findings in my provisional decision.
Putting things right
Ref: DRN56287478Further to my provisional decision I see NatWest has made an offer which replicates my 
position in that provisional decision. Namely:
To pay Mr P £15,080 (the transaction  amount)  plus £72 (Notary Fee) plus £500 (paid to 
Company C) plus 8% interest from 4 October  2017 until date of acceptance.
I therefore direct Natwest to pay Mr P this amount within 28 days  of notification  by this 
service of Mr P accepting this decision.
my final decision
For the above reasons and those described in my provisional decision I have  decided  to 
uphold this complaint National Westminster Bank Plc as I have  described  above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 October  2021.
 
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN5628747