K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B say Lloyds Bank  PLC (trading at the time as Cheltenham & Gloucester) mis-
sold them  a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a monthly  premium PPI policy which  was added to Mr and Mrs Bs 
mortgage account when they took out a further  advance in 2001. The policy covered the 
whole mortgage,  including  previous advances.  Both the policy  and the mortgage were in 
Mr and Mrs Bs joint names. The monthly benefit would have covered their mortgage  
payments for up to 12 months per successful claim. It was split between  Mr and Mrs B so 
that if Mr B had made  a successful claim on the policy for accident,  sickness  or 
unemployment, it would have paid 60% of the monthly benefit, and if Mrs B had made  a 
successful claim, it would have paid 40%.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs B disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion so the complaint has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Bs case.
Where, as in this case, the evidence is incomplete or inconclusive  I need  to decide what  
I thinks most likely  to have happened, based on the information I have.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs B say they werent asked about  PPI, when they applied  for the further  
advance. And they say theyve never agreed  to PPI when they have  been  asked.
Lloyds no longer has copies of all the paperwork Mr and Mrs B signed when they took 
out the further advance. I wouldnt expect it or Mr and Mrs B to have  kept these records 
for so long, especially as the mortgage account was closed  around  15 years ago. 
But I cant fairly rely purely  on what Mr and Mrs B might be able to remember about  the 
sale after such a long time. In order to uphold  the complaint on this point, Id need to 
conclude that its more  likely than not that Mr and Mrs B werent given a clear  choice 
about whether to take the PPI, or that it was added to their mortgage account without 
their consent. And Im not persuaded that I can safely  reach  this conclusion, based on 
the limited  information I have.  
Ive borne in mind  that Mr and Mrs B dont appear to have had PPI on the mortgage 
before they took out the further advance  in 2001. So I think  its likely theyd have known 
that they didnt  have  to take PPI  at least on their existing borrowing - in order  to be 
given the loan. And I think the fact that the policy benefit was divided unequally between  
Mr and Mrs B suggests that its likely that a discussion  took place about their needs. 
Ref: DRN56297362I also think its likely that Mr and Mrs B would have received a policy document and 
schedule for the policy soon after they took it out. Whats  more, its likely that the 
payments for the PPI would have shown on their annual mortgage  statements. And if 
they hadnt agreed to take PPI, Id have expected  them  to query this. But Ive seen 
nothing to suggest that they did so.
I appreciate that its frustrating for Mr and Mrs B that Im having to reach my decision 
without the benefit  of copies of any documents they signed at the time. But I think  its 
more likely than not that Lloyds made it clear to them that the PPI was optional, and that 
they chose to take it out for reasons that theyve forgotten due to the passage of time.
Mr and Mrs B say they applied for the further  advance in a face-to-face meeting, but that 
they werent asked about  PPI. Lloyds no longer has a record  of how the policy was sold.  
But for the purposes of my decision, Ive assumed that the PPI was sold at a meeting, 
and that Lloyds  recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs B. This means that it had 
responsibility to check  that it was suitable  for them. So its to Mr and Mrs Bs advantage  
to make  this assumption.
Mr and Mrs B have  told us that Mr B would have been entitled to six months full pay, 
followed by six months half pay, and Mrs B to three weeks full pay from their respective 
employers at the time if theyd been  off sick. And theyd both have been entitled  to 
redundancy packages. But if either  of them  had made a successful claim on the policy, it 
would have paid the relevant proportion of the monthly benefit for up to 12 months   
much longer than either of them would have  been entitled to full sick pay for. Whats 
more, it would have  paid out in addition to any payments they received from their 
employers, allowing them to use those to meet other day-to-day expenses.
Ive borne in mind  that Mr and Mrs B have told us that in addition to his salary,  Mr B was 
receiving a pension  from a previous employment. But hes provided  evidence that shows  
that this only amounted to a few hundred pounds per month,  after tax. So I think  its likely 
that thered still have  been a significant  impact on Mr and Mrs Bs household income if 
Mr B had been off sick for an extended period, given that his sick pay would have halved 
after six months. The mortgage was a sizeable long-term financial commitment, secured 
on Mr and Mrs Bs home. And I think Mr and Mrs B would have found the PPI a useful  
benefit in the circumstances  even  allowing for the pension  payments Mr B was receiving.
Ive also taken account of the fact that Mr and Mrs B have told us that Mr B had received 
a significant lump  sum payment  from his previous employer some years earlier. But 
theyre (understandably) not sure how much was left when Mr and Mrs B took out the 
further advance in 2001. However,  Ive borne in mind that Mr and Mrs B chose to protect 
any savings they had, rather  than taking out a smaller advance.  So even if a significant 
proportion of the lump sum remained,  Im not convinced that theyd have wanted to use it 
to make  their mortgage repayments.  
Taking everything into account,  not only do I think that its more likely than not that 
Mr and Mrs B chose  to take out the PPI, but Im satisfied  that it was suitable for them.
It may be that Lloyds could have explained the cost of the policy better  than it did. But 
the policy was competitively  priced,  and it looks as if Mr and Mrs B could  afford it. So 
even if Lloyds had provided clearer information  about the cost of the policy, I think 
Mr and Mrs B would still have  bought  it.
Ref: DRN56297363Its possible  Lloyds  didnt point out the main  things  the policy didnt cover (for example, 
unusual employment  arrangements or existing medical conditions). But from what  
theyve told us about their circumstances at the time, its unlikely  Mr and Mrs B would 
have been affected  by any of these. So I dont think clearer information would have put 
them off taking the policy  out.
Ive taken into account all Mr and Mrs Bs comments, including what theyve said about not 
having been told they could buy PPI elsewhere to cover the mortgage. But Lloyds wasnt 
obliged to tell them about products that may have been available  from other  providers. 
Mr and Mrs B have  also queried why Lloyds  would have recommended PPI when they took 
the further advance, given that they hadnt  had PPI on the original mortgage or previous 
further advances. In the absence of any record  of what was said at the meeting, I cant  be 
sure whether  Lloyds  recommended the PPI  or if it did, what its reasons were. But whether 
or not it did, Im satisfied, on balance, that Mr and Mrs B chose to protect their mortgage  with 
PPI when they took the further advance in 2001. I can fully understand why they may no 
longer remember this, or their reasons for doing so, so many years later. Taking everything 
into account, I think that if Lloyds did recommend the PPI, the recommendation was 
reasonable.
Finally, I note that Mr B has commented  that hes never  been  unemployed, so he didnt  need  
PPI. But he couldnt  have been sure at the point at which the PPI was taken out that hed not 
lose his job or have to take an extended period off sick. And insurance is designed to cater 
for situations that arent expected.
So Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs B. Its clear  that they feel strongly that they didnt 
agree to have  PPI on their mortgage. But having  thought carefully about what  theyve said,  
these points dont  change my conclusion. Looking  at all the information Ive been given, I 
dont think I can fairly  say the PPI was mis-sold.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  5 August  2019.
Juliet Collins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5629736