K820x#14complaint
Miss H is unhappy that HSBC UK Bank Plc sent her a statement with an incorrect  loan 
repayment period  on it. She considers this to be a variation to her loan which  she hasnt 
agreed to.
background
Miss H entered  into a loan agreement with HSBC  back  in 2016. Her March 2019 statement 
indicated that her loan agreement  was for 47 months, although  she only ever agreed to a 46 
monthly instalment  loan.
Miss H was concerned  that HSBC had unilaterally varied her loan agreement and so shed 
be charged more than shed originally agreed to pay. She thinks this variation voids  her 
agreement and that she no longer needs  to pay the balance.
On complaining to HSBC,  it couldnt see a copy of the statement  in question on its file. Its 
said thats because  its systems only retain the data and not the statement itself. So, it asked 
Miss H for a copy of the statement. Miss H thinks this is a data protection breach given that 
HSBC doesnt  have a copy of what it has sent out to her.
HSBC investigated  Miss Hs complaint and reassured her that its records clearly show  that 
she has a 46-month  loan and that the incorrect figure of 47 months on the statement must 
have been a clerical error. It offered her £50 compensation  for this which  Miss H rejected.
Whilst the complaint  was ongoing, Miss H had not been making  her monthly  payments.  This 
had led to the collections team contacting her in writing and by phone on quite a few 
occasions. This upset  Miss H as she wasnt prepared to pay anything until she was satisfied 
with the outcome of her complaint. HSBC apologised  for this and offered to increase the 
settlement offer to pay the then three  outstanding loan payments totalling about £195.  
Miss H still wasnt  happy with this so bought  her complaint to this service.  Our investigator 
looked into it but didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. He thought that the 
compensation offered was fair and reasonable. Miss H didnt agree so the matter  has come  
to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate how upset Miss H has been  as a result  of this error  on the banks behalf. She 
was worried that she may end up paying more for her loan than she originally agreed.
Having looked  at everything weve been  sent,  Im sorry to disappoint Miss H but I dont think  
that HSBC needs to do any more  than its already offered to do. Something  has clearly  gone 
wrong and I think that compensation should be paid. But what HSBC has offered is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances. Ill explain why.
HSBC has sent us copies of all the loan documentation and this clearly states that the loan 
is for 46 months. Indeed, the 46 loan payments add up to the original loan of £2980  
approximately £65 a month.
Ref: DRN52809752Its clear that an error occurred on the statement in March 2019. HSBC hasnt offered an 
explanation as to how this happened, so I wont speculate. But HSBCs  internal records are 
very clear about the length of the loan - and that its only 46 months not 47.
I understand why this will have worried Miss H. And she was right to bring it to HSBCs 
attention. Its also unfortunate that the bank didnt have a copy of the rogue statement itself.  
But I accept thats  because only the data is held on its systems and not a copy of the 
physical statement. Thats why it had to ask Miss H for a copy. But this isnt a data protection  
breach. Miss Hs data was safe with the bank. Its just that a system  error occurred on that 
figure in one of Miss Hs statements.
I know that Miss H thinks that the error was a variation of the agreement  and so under the 
terms of the Consumer Credit Act 1974, she doesnt  think she now needs to pay the 
balance. But I dont  agree. Theres been  no variation  of the agreement, just a clerical/system  
error. The loan remains in place for 46 months, which  is what Miss H and HSBC originally 
agreed. 
Its also important to note that I cant consider a complaint  about  something which  is yet to 
happen - and indeed is unlikely to. I accept that Miss H is worried that shell  be asked to pay 
an extra  instalment. But HSBC say thats not the case. So, I cant pre-empt something that 
hasnt yet happened. Miss H should rest-assured though that if she does have a problem in 
this regard when  the loan comes to be paid off in due course,  then she can always  raise a 
complaint about  it at the time. If shes then unhappy with any response from the bank,  she 
can bring her complaint  to this service.
Miss H was unhappy to be chased by HSBCs collections  department.  And I can understand 
why, given her complaint  was being  considered at the time and the complaint then came to 
this service. But as HSBC has explained,  its systems  auto-dial  customers and send out 
letters. So thats  why she got so many  calls. HSBC has acknowledged  this and offered an 
increased amount  of compensation  by agreeing to pay off three of Miss Hs outstanding 
instalments in the sum of £195. I think this is fair and reasonable compensation.
Its unfortunate that this statement error  has led to the upset and confusion  that it has. But I 
do think that the settlement offered by HSBC is enough here.
my final decision
HSBC UK Bank Plc has already made  an offer to pay off three of her loan instalments in the 
sum of £195  to settle Miss Hs complaint.  And I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances. 
So, its my final decision  that HSBC UK Bank  Plc should settle three of Miss Hs loan 
instalments in the total sum of £195.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 March  2020.
James Kennard
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5280975