K821x#15complaint
Mr W has complained about the way Great  Lakes  Insurance  SE (Great Lakes) dealt with a 
claim on his home emergency insurance policy. 
All references to Great Lakes  include  its agents.  
 
background
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint earlier this month and I copied an extract 
from it below:
Mr W had a home emergency  policy with Great Lakes  as part of his agreement  with his 
energy provider. 
He made  a claim to Great Lakes  after his boiler stopped  working. An engineer  attended and 
said the problem  was electrical.  Great  Lakes  says that the boiler  was also unsafe as the 
front cover was missing. Mr W said he wasnt told this at the time and only found out when 
Great Lakes called him later and refused  to cover the claim. He also said that whilst at his 
house the engineer had asked for a quote for a part the engineer suggested  fitting to the 
boiler. 
Great Lakes later called Mr W and said it wouldnt provide  insurance  cover as the boiler 
hadnt been maintained  properly and this breached the terms of the policy.  It also said the 
front cover is missing  and this is against  manufacturers specifications.  
Mr W didnt agree. He said he had a home emergency policy  immediately prior to this one 
and his old provider  (B) was regularly servicing  the boiler without any issues.  
In the meantime Mr W went back  to B and asked it to look at the boiler.  B said the issue was 
that the gas supply had been turned off and so the problem wasnt electric. It said once 
Mr W replaced the boiler cover it would carry out the necessary repairs.  Mr W replaced  the 
cover and the boiler was repaired.  Mr W paid B a call out fee and also took out a new policy 
with it. 
Mr W complained  to Great Lakes.  He said it had:
Misdiagnosed the problem. He said B told him a basic  check shouldve involved 
checking the gas supply. But Great Lakes didnt check this and said it was a problem 
with the mother  board  which  wasnt  the case.
Though B also said the boiler was at risk it said it was still allowed to run and wasnt  
considered to be immediately dangerous. 
He was left without hot water for three  days because of Great Lakes mistakes.  
He had to pay a call out fee to B and had also since  taken out a new policy with it.  
Great Lakes paid Mr W £50 compensation for poor service; which  is what  hed paid for his 
policy excess; but otherwise didnt uphold the complaint. It agreed it had misdiagnosed the 
problem but said it was very unusual for the gas supply to be turned off and for this to be the 
reason for a broken boiler. It also said it had asked  for the boilers service history  but Mr W 
had failed to provide it. It said it thinks its unlikely B was servicing  this boiler  without it having  
a cover.  And that having no cover was against manufacturers standards.  So it didnt think  
Mr W had been regularly  maintaining and servicing  his boiler as required by the policy.   
Ref: DRN51975672Mr W said the policy with B was in his ex-partners  name and it would be difficult  to obtain 
the information Great Lakes had asked  for. He was still unhappy with Great Lakes and 
complained to us. He wanted a refund of all his payments  to B and compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience Great Lakes caused him.  
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld in part. He thought Great Lakes  
should reimburse Mr Ws call out fee to B because this couldve been avoided  had the 
engineer diagnosed the problem correctly. He also thought it should  pay Mr W £100  for the 
distress and inconvenience it caused him. He didnt think  Great  Lakes should pay for Mr Ws 
new policy premium with B because he is having the benefit of that policy. He also didnt 
think the boiler cover costs should be reimbursed as this wouldnt have been covered under 
the policy in any event. 
Mr W agreed with our investigators view.
Great Lakes didnt agree.  Its arguments  included the following:
The boiler was dangerous  and couldve emitted  dangerous gasses.
B agreed  the boiler  was at risk. 
If B had been servicing this boiler regularly it wouldve realised there was a problem 
with the boiler  sooner. 
Great Lakes thinks its very unlikely the gas supply was turned off by accident.
Mr W breached  the terms of his policy by not maintaining the boiler. And he failed to 
provide evidence B had been servicing  the boiler as he said.  
The boiler wasnt made unsafe by the gas supply being  turned off. 
Our investigator responded with the following:
The missing cover wouldnt  have  prevented  the engineer from noticing the gas 
supply had been turned off.
Mr W didnt  know the gas supply was off so he didnt know  the boiler  wasnt 
dangerous.
Mr W replaced the cover. Theres no reason why he wouldnt have done this earlier if 
hed known it was a problem. 
Why would Mr W take out a policy with B again  if he thought  it wouldnt  cover  his 
boiler?
There were  five months between the start of the policy and the claim.  Its unlikely 
Mr W had no working  boiler over that whole period.
Great Lakes didnt agree  for broadly the same  reasons as it did before and asked for an 
ombudsmans decision.
Before going ahead  with my decision  we asked Great Lakes  if it has copies of Mr Ws bank 
statements which Mr W said would show  payments to B. It said it couldnt find any on its 
system but it didnt  think this wouldve been proof of Mr W having  a previous policy with B in 
any event. It said B provides a number of other services and the payments  couldve  been 
towards those services.
In the meantime Mr W provided us with details of his new policy with B and an email from it 
saying hed been charged a £99 call out fee. The email from B also said Mr W had knocked  
off the gas supply accidentally and that B fitted  a new cover  on the boiler. 
Ref: DRN51975673my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided to uphold  it 
in part. 
Both parties  raised a number of points in the evidence they provided and in their 
correspondence with us. But for the purposes  of this decision  I will focus on what I consider 
to be the parties  main  points.
The policy broadly covers boiler failure and pays for up to three claims in any period of 
insurance and up to £500 per claim.  The policy also includes a requirement for the boiler to 
be regularly maintained and kept in a good  condition. There  is also a £50 excess  payment 
per claim. 
Great Lakes accepts that its engineer misdiagnosed the problem with Mr Ws boiler. But it 
says the boiler  was unsafe because the front cover was missing. It says this shows  that the 
boiler wasnt maintained  properly  or in line with manufacturers standards, which  means 
Mr W was breaching his policy. So, even without the misdiagnosis, it wouldnt have repaired 
the boiler.  
Mr W accepts  that the front cover was missing.  I can also see that B insisted on the front 
cover being  replaced,  which I think suggests that B also thought  the boiler was at risk 
without the cover. Also, Mr W hasnt been able to provide  the boilers service history  though  
he says the boiler  was serviced regularly. So I can see why Great Lakes might have some 
concerns about  how well maintained the boiler was. 
I havent seen  any evidence either  way, but even if I were to accept that the boiler hadnt  
been properly  maintained,  this still doesnt  mean Great Lakes was necessarily acting fairly 
and reasonably when it refused to deal with the claim. So, the issue for me to decide is 
whether Great Lakes acted fairly in rejecting Mr Ws claim because  he was in breach of a 
policy condition requiring him to maintain his boiler  and keep it in good condition.
ICOBS (Insurance: Conduct of Business) is a sourcebook of rules  and guidelines  that 
applies to Great Lakes  when, among  other things, effecting and carrying  out contracts  of 
insurance and activities  connected with these.  ICOBS 8 sets out the rules  around claims 
handling and this includes a rule that an insurer must handle claims promptly and fairly and 
not unreasonably  reject  a claim.  This part of ICOBS  also says that rejecting a consumer 
policyholders claim  is unreasonable if it is for a breach of condition unless the 
circumstances of the claim are connected to the breach.
From what  Ive seen I dont think; and my understanding is that Great Lakes doesnt itself 
claim; that the fact that the cover was missing or the alleged  lack of maintenance were the 
reasons why the boiler stopped working.  From  what B and Great  Lakes said the reason the 
boiler stopped  working was purely in relation to the gas supply. It follows that I dont think 
that the alleged lack of maintenance or the absence of a boiler  cover  were related to Mr Ws 
claim. So I dont think  Great  Lakes was acting fairly or reasonably when it refused to do 
further work  on Mr Ws boiler. 
I also think it wouldve been  reasonable for Great Lakes to advise Mr W to replace the front 
cover, just like B seemed  to do, and then carry out the necessary work. Under ICOBS 8 
Great Lakes is also obliged to provide  reasonable guidance to help a policyholder make a 
Ref: DRN51975674claim. Ive seen that Mr W replaced  the cover  without  delay when B told him to do so, so on 
balance; I think he wouldve done  the same thing  had Great  Lakes advised him to do this 
too.
For these reasons, I think Great Lakes should pay the £99 call-out fee Mr W paid B. Had 
Great Lakes acted fairly and reasonably it wouldve asked Mr W to replace the cover  which  I 
think he wouldve done without delay. And if it had diagnosed the problem correctly  it 
wouldve got the boiler working again without Mr W having to call B out.  
It follows that I also think Great Lakes  actions put Mr W through  the unnecessary  
inconvenience of having to call B out to repair  the boiler- when  he already had cover with 
Great Lakes.  Also as a result of the misdiagnosis Mr W says he was left without hot water for 
three days. For these  reasons I think it should pay him £150 compensation.
Great Lakes said it is very unlikely that the gas supply was turned off accidentally, which is 
what Mr W maintains.  Ive seen no evidence to suggest that Mr W turned off the gas supply 
intentionally. And I find it very unlikely that he would,  bearing in mind he had nothing to gain 
from this- as far as I can see. 
Mr W said he wants Great Lakes  to reimburse  him for the premium  hes paying  to B. Im not 
going to ask Great Lakes to do that. I think it was Mr Ws decision to take out a new policy  
with B after his boiler was repaired. And, from what I can tell, Bs policy provides more cover 
compared to his Great Lakes policy; such as drains  and electrics  cover;  and for that reason I 
dont think it was a like for like replacement. I also understand that Mr Ws Great Lakes 
policy was not cancelled and also that it was provided for free. 
my provisional decision
For the reasons  above I am considering  upholding Mr Ws complaint against Great Lakes 
Insurance SE and requiring it to do the following:
Reimburse the £99 call-out  fee Mr W paid to B plus 8% simple interest per year from 
the date Mr W made this payment to the date it pays him back.
Pay Mr W £150 for the distress and inconvenience  it caused  him.
developments
Mr W confirmed  that he accepts my provisional  decision. Great  Lakes didnt accept it. It 
made a number of points  including  the following:
It still believes the boiler was isolated by another engineer due to lack of 
maintenance. 
The relevant  regulations  say that an engineer may turn off the gas supply if a boiler is 
deemed to be at risk.
The gas supply tap cannot be knocked  into the on or off position easily. It wouldnt be 
possible to turn the gas tap off fully by knocking  the bin onto it. 
Mr W is yet to provide any servicing  documents  to show the boiler was being  
serviced regularly. The complaint  has been going  on for a year. 
The compensation I awarded isnt fair and reasonable as Mr W was going to be 
without heating or hot water while waiting for replacement  parts.  
Ref: DRN51975675my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
change the findings I made in my provisional  decision. 
Great Lakes hasnt really  raised any new arguments  in response to my provisional  decision. 
I have already addressed the issue of the alleged lack of maintenance and the non-provision  
of servicing documents in that decision. 
I note Great  Lakes insists  that another engineer mustve turned the gas supply off because  
the boiler was at risk and because its difficult to turn the gas supply off by accident. If Great  
Lakes believes the reason  the boiler was at risk was because  of the missing cover, it 
couldve asked Mr W to replace it, as B did, and then carry out the work. Also as I said in my 
provisional decision, B was able to get the boiler  up and running by turning the gas supply 
on. I think Bs unlikely  to have done this if it felt it was dangerous to do so and that another 
engineer turned the gas supply off for safety reasons (other than to do with the missing 
cover). 
Great Lakes doesnt  agree with the compensation I awarded because it says Mr W wouldve 
been without hot water and heating for a few days in any event while  it was waiting for parts  
to arrive. But, the boiler was repaired by turning the gas supply on. And, as I said in my 
provisional decision Mr W replaced the boiler cover as soon as he was advised to do so by 
B. If Great Lakes had asked him to do so I think he wouldve acted with the same speed. So 
I still think Great Lakes misdiagnosis of the issue with the boiler led to avoidable  delay in it 
being repaired. And I think  this caused  Mr W distress and inconvenience.   
my final decision
For the reasons  above I am upholding Mr Ws complaint against Great  Lakes Insurance  SE 
and requiring it to do the following:
Reimburse the £99 call-out  fee Mr W paid to B plus 8% simple interest* per year from 
the date Mr W made this payment to the date it pays him back.
Pay Mr W £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience it caused  him. 
Great Lakes Insurance SE must  pay the above within  28 days  of the date on which we tell it 
Mr W accepts  my final decision.  If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year 
simple*.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 July 2019.
Anastasia Serdari
ombudsman
* If Great  Lakes Insurance  SE considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs  to withhold income tax 
from that interest, it should tell Mr W how much its taken off. It should also give Mr W a tax deduction certificate if 
he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN5197567