K820x#14complaint
Mr H says Lloyds Bank  PLC mis-sold him payment protection insurance (PPI).
background
I understand Mr H bought  the PPI in 1996 at the same time as taking out a personal loan. 
The loan included an amount to pay for the policy,  which  Mr H was also charged interest on.
Mr H says the PPI was sold in a meeting  and over the phone.  Lloyds cant  confirm this but 
has assumed the sale took place during a meeting at a branch.
Mr H says Lloyds led him to believe taking PPI increased his chances of getting  the loan. He 
says he didnt need the cover because he got very good sick pay from his work and also he 
and his partner  had savings in excess of the loan amount.
The adjudicator who looked at Mr Hs complaint didnt uphold it. Mr H disagrees and so his 
complaint has come  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account here.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Hs complaint. I know this will disappoint him 
but I hope the reasons  Im about to give help him to understand why Ive reached this 
conclusion.
Because the sale was so long ago neither  Mr H nor Lloyds has been able to give us much 
detail about what  happened at the time of the sale. Nor do we have many details about the 
loan or the PPI, except the loan was for £2,000  and lasted  for two years.
Lloyds hasnt been able to give us a copy of Mr Hs signed loan agreement. But we do have 
a sample of a loan agreement it says wouldve been used at the time for PPI sold in a 
branch meeting. I think its likely  this is representative of what Mr H wouldve  seen.  Theres a 
section about  PPI which is headed Optional Loan Repayment Protection. There  are two 
boxes next to this  Yes  and No. 
From what  we know about how Lloyds sold PPI with personal loans in branch meetings at 
this time, I think its likely an adviser  discussed  PPI with Mr H. And I think its likely Mr H 
agreed to the PPI, knowing  he had a choice about  it, and thats  why the Yes to PPI box 
was selected on his loan agreement and why PPI was added to his account. I think  if Mr H 
hadnt wanted PPI the No option wouldve been selected.
Lloyds says it recommended the policy to Mr H, so it needed to make sure it was right for 
him in his circumstances.  I dont  know what steps  Lloyds took to do this. But Ive looked  at 
what Mr H says of his circumstances at the time.  And, although Lloyds doesnt have a policy 
document for the time when Mr H bought the cover, it has shown us one from a number of 
months later and I think this is likely to be representative of the policy  terms that applied to 
Mr Hs PPI. From these  things, I think the PPI was right for him because:
Ref: DRN57155402Mr H was likely to have been  eligible for the policy. He wasnt  affected by any of the 
things the policy  is likely  to have excluded or restricted  like known health problems 
or unusual employment terms. So I think its unlikely there was anything to stop Mr H 
claiming the full policy  benefit  if hed needed  to.
Mr H says he worked in his parents  business  and wouldve got very good  sick pay. 
But the PPI wouldve paid his monthly  loan repayments for up to the length of his two 
year loan if he was off work  sick  and it wouldve paid out on top of his sick pay. It 
would also have covered his loan repayments for up to a year if he lost his job. So, 
even with his workplace  benefits, I think  the PPI could still have been of use to Mr H.
Mr H also says he and his partner  had accessible savings as well as premium bonds  
they couldve used  to repay the loan if needed. Mr H has sent in various financial 
statements to support what he says. But most of them post-date the sale of the PPI 
and many of them are in his partners name  only. So they dont change  my 
conclusion that, at the time he bought it, the PPI gave  Mr H a potentially useful 
benefit. 
Looking at the likely total cost of the cover  (including the interest Mr H is likely  to 
have been charged  by Lloyds)  and at his likely monthly loan repayment amount, if he 
made a claim the amount he couldve got back under the policy couldve been quite a 
bit more than he paid for it. And I havent seen anything to suggest Mr H couldnt 
afford the premium.
Mr H would only have got a limited refund if he cancelled the policy before the end of 
the two-year loan term. I dont know if Lloyds thought about this when it 
recommended the policy to Mr H or explained to him how any refund  would be 
calculated. But I havent seen anything to suggest Mr H thought  at the time of the 
sale he might repay his loan early.  So I dont think this made the PPI unsuitable for 
him.
As well as making sure the PPI was right for him, Lloyds also had to give Mr H information 
about the key features of the policy that was clear, fair and not misleading.  From  the sample 
loan agreement Ive got, it seems  the cost of both the loan and the policy over the term and 
the individual monthly repayments wouldve been  shown. There were, however, some  
failings, in that neither the total interest  on the PPI loan nor its total cost was shown.
Lloyds says the interest Mr H wouldve been  charged over the loan term is likely to have 
been around £67. Ive already said I think its likely Mr H agreed to buy the cover  and it was 
suitable for him. I dont think knowing more about  the amount  of interest hed be charged,  
which it seems  wouldnt  have significantly increased his borrowing, wouldve  stopped  him 
buying the PPI.
I dont think Mr H has lost out because of anything Lloyds did wrong during the sale. So 
theres nothing it needs  to do to put things  right.
Ref: DRN57155403my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 June 2019.
Jane Gallacher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5715540