K820x#14complaint
Mrs C complains about (the company now known as) Fairmead Insurance Limiteds decision 
to decline her home insurance  claim for damage caused by an escape of water.  
background
At the start of September 2018, a pipe burst in Mrs Cs bathroom. She called out an 
emergency plumber  to trace the source  of the leak which he found to be on the main on 
supply to the shower in the bathroom which he accessed by removing some tiles and 
bursting open  a stud wall. He found that the main compression joint had blown off. He cut 
out the faulty connector and capped the mains supply. 
Mrs C contacted Fairmead to make  a claim under her home insurance policy. It appointed a 
claims company to validate  the claim. Mrs C appointed a loss assessor to assist  with it as 
shed never  had to make  a claim before and, as she worked full time,  she thought itd be of 
benefit to her. 
Two days later Fairmeads surveyor  met Mrs Cs loss assessor at the property to inspect the 
damage noting that the shower  tray had been removed. The surveyor  thought the damage  
looked like itd been going on for some time likely to be as a result  of failed grout/sealant in 
the shower area. And it thought the water had likely travelled along the tongue  and groove 
kitchen ceiling spreading to the kitchen cupboard under the stairs where there  was decay to 
the laminate floor evident. The surveyor also thought the damage  to the laminate floor in the 
lounge was historic  in nature. 
The surveyor also observed that the tongue and groove timber on the kitchen  ceiling that 
had become detached, supposedly as a result  of the burst  pipe, was dry and showed no 
signs of moisture damage. The surveyor thought that the damage wasnt indicative of a one-
off unforeseen incident and was likely to have been  caused gradually. Finally the surveyor 
noted that the loss assessor was very aggressive  and continually  said that the claim was 
likely to be a major  five figure loss. 
The surveyor advised Fairmead advised  to decline the claim on the grounds that the 
damage didnt  fall within the policy terms. 
Two days later the loss assessor sent Fairmead  a repair estimate for over £25,000. Shortly  
after, he sent Fairmead a report  from Mrs Cs plumber about the cause of damage. As there  
was a significant difference between the works  the surveyor thought were required and 
those included on the loss assessors  invoice, Fairmead sent both documents over to the 
claims handler to consider  as part of its validation of the claim.  About three  weeks after the 
claim, the loss assessor called Fairmead  to say hed not received a cash  offer,  he was 
unhappy with the delays  and that Mrs C was having  to manage without bathroom facilities.  
Fairmead noted that the loss assessor  still hadnt sent it a signed mandate  authorising  him to 
deal with it on Mrs Cs behalf.  
Approximately a week  later, at the start of October 2018, the loss assessor complained that 
no-one was contacting him and that he wanted a complaint referred to Fairmead's CEO. The 
claims handler advised it was still considering the claim in light of the plumbers report. 
The claims handler reported to Fairmead on 11 October that it thought  the claim had been 
staged and exaggerated. The claims handler called the loss assessor about a week  later to 
Ref: DRN50527102explain why it was declining the claim and it followed up the call with an email setting out its 
reasons for doing so. 
Fairmead issued a final response  letter  to Mrs C on 22 October 2018. The decision to 
decline the claim was maintained  based on the findings  of its surveyor namely that the 
damage being claimed for was the result of a lack of sealant/grout as opposed  to a sudden  
one-off incident.  
Unhappy with Fairmeads findings, Mrs C complained to this service. She said that shed 
seen no evidence of an ongoing leak before the main pipe burst. She explained the plumber 
had removed the shower tray and parts of the tongue and groove  kitchen  ceiling when he 
attended to trace and access the leak. Mrs C said she and her husband were upset to be 
accused of staging the claim and that the laminate in the under stairs cupboard was left over 
from her daughters bedroom and had never been fitted properly. 
Mrs C also said she hadnt heard from the loss assessor since Fairmead called  him to 
decline the claim and that the first she heard about him submitting a repair estimate for over 
£25,000 was when Fairmead mentioned it in its final response letter. She said she thought  
such an amount was far too much  to claim.  Mrs C said shed had some  of the repairs  done  
the bathroom had cost her £5,000, the kitchen ceiling had cost £300 as had the lounge  floor.  
She said she now just had the kitchen to repair. Mrs C said that she thought she shouldve 
been offered some  alternative accommodation  too because shed been left without washing 
facilities. 
Our investigator looked into Mrs Cs complaint and recommended  that it was upheld.  She 
thought that whilst there was evidence a gradual  leak had occurred she was satisfied that 
Mrs C was unaware it was going on. She also thought  most  of the damage was the result of 
the burst pipe and that the loss assessors  repair estimate led to Fairmeads  belief that the 
claim had been  staged.  So she thought Fairmead should reassess the claim and pay Mrs C 
compensation of £350 for the inconvenience of having to live without washing facilities.
Fairmead disagreed  with our investigators  findings.  It said damage caused  by a failure of 
grout and sealant  was excluded from cover regardless. Fairmead said it was concerned  with 
the level of strip out allegedly undertaken by the emergency plumber which wasnt  
mentioned in his invoice.  It said there  was clear  evidence  of an on-going problem and a clear  
policy exclusion that applied. 
Our investigator asked  Mrs C if she could obtain  a report from the plumber, which she did. 
He reported that there had been water cascading through the ceiling and down the kitchen  
walls when  he arrived and that there  were 2 inches of water  on the kitchen floor.  He said he 
thought the damage had been  caused by a burst  water main in the stud wall behind the 
shower because  he found that area to be completely  saturated.  He said that he couldnt 
comment on whether there  was also an ongoing leak but given Mrs C had a false tongue  
and groove ceiling fitted  to the existing plasterboard  ceiling a gradual leak couldve gone  
undetected. 
Our investigator issued  her follow up findings to both Mrs C and Fairmead.  She said that she 
was satisfied that there appeared  to be two separate events. The gradual damage caused  
by the defective  grout/sealant,  which she was satisfied  could be declined by Fairmead, and 
the burst water main,  the damage from which she thought should be reassessed  by 
Fairmead in light of the plumbers report.  She still thought Fairmead  should  pay Mrs C 
compensation of £350. 
Ref: DRN50527103Mrs C accepted our investigators findings but Fairmead didnt.  It disputed  the plumbers  
findings because  its surveyor had noted  there was no evidence of a leak on the other side of 
the stud wall. And it said the photos taken  by its surveyor  seemed to show a pipe 
disconnected rather than a pipe burst and there was no evidence of any saturation or water 
damage such that could  be expected by such an event. So it maintained its view that an 
insured event hadnt occurred and it asked for the complaint to be referred  for an 
ombudsmans decision. 
I considered the complaint and issued  my provisional decision in May 2020. I didnt think the 
complaint should  be upheld  and I made  the following provisional findings:
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
The policy terms permit Fairmead to decline claims for damage caused by an escape of 
water where that damage is a result  of a failure of sealant or grout. 
I can see that the shower tray had been  removed before  Fairmeads surveyor attended. So 
there are no photographs of the shower  tray and the condition  of the sealant. But I have 
seen photographs of the shower enclosure  after the tray and some of the tiles had been  
removed. And Ive seen  photographs of the floor joist beneath the shower. There  is visible  
evidence of extensive dampness, mould and decay such that, its reasonable to conclude, is 
the result  of water getting behind the tiles, or beneath the tray over a period of time. Mrs C 
has said this damage mayve been historic in nature but Im unable to agree, from viewing 
the available  photographs, that that is the case.  And I cant ignore that Fairmeads surveyor  
noted the dampness. Dampness, by its very nature, is the result of water escaping recently 
rather than historically.
So I think that Fairmead can reasonably decline any damage caused  as a result  of the failed 
sealant/grouting in the bathroom. And it can do so regardless of whether Mrs C was aware it 
was going on or not. So, insofar  as Fairmead  has declined any of the damage at Mrs Cs 
property as a result  of such a cause, Im satisfied it did so reasonably  because  the policy 
terms permit it. I appreciate that Mrs C said she didnt know such damage might  have been 
occurring but it is a policyholders  responsibility to make  sure the grouting/sealant is checked 
regularly and is well maintained. 
Ive also considered whether there  was a separate incident of a burst pipe that allowed water 
to escape and Ive thought about whether Fairmead  unfairly declined  Mrs Cs claim for 
damage caused as a result. 
Mrs C says she came home to find water  in her kitchen which was pooling  on the floor and 
running down  the walls so she called an emergency  plumber  out to trace,  access  and stop 
the leak. In the call she made to Fairmead to report the claim shortly  after,  she says she 
came home and found water all over the kitchen floor. She says the plumber found a burst 
pipe in the bathroom behind the wall of the shower.  And she says the plumber had to 
remove the shower tray and tiles and that part of the kitchen ceiling  had come  down. 
Mrs C has provided a copy  of the plumbers invoice.  In it he sets out details of the work 
carried out which include a Burst Water  main  on supply  to shower in bathroom. To access  
had to remove tiles and bust open stud wall.Water  main compression blown off cut out 
Ref: DRN50527104faulty connector and capped mains supply.  Turned water back  on for client. The plumber 
charged Mrs C £190.
At the request of our investigator, Mrs C approached  the plumber for a more detailed  report 
on what had happened. Ive set out above what he said. 
Fairmeads surveyor has said it thinks the claim was staged. It says that the photographs 
show that the areas around where  the pipe was said to have  burst are dry as were the 
tongue and groove timbers in the kitchen. So it said it thought there  was no indication  that 
the pipe was the source of the leak. Fairmead discounted the plumbers invoice because  it 
didnt find it credible (that he did the amount of work for so little a fee). And it said its 
surveyors moisture readings  didnt  indicate  thered been a one-off escape of water from a 
burst pipe. Consequently  it said all the indications were that the damage being  claimed  for 
was historic and failed to line up with a one-off sudden and unforeseen event having 
occurred. 
Its my role to decide whether Fairmead  has acted fairly by declining  Mrs Cs claim. I have to 
weigh up the available  evidence to reach a fair and reasonable decision.  The evidence  in 
this case is finely balanced. On the one hand  there is Mrs Cs plumber who states there was 
a burst  pipe that he attended to access and stop.  And on the other hand there is Fairmeads 
surveyor and its expert  view in assessing and validating escape of water claims.
But I find the most persuasive evidence of all to be the photographs taken by Fairmeads 
surveyor. I cant ignore the lack of any staining,  saturation or discolouration to the stud wall 
such as I would expect  to see from a significant escape of water from the pipe in the 
photograph. And Fairmeads surveyor has also said that a leak such  as reported  wouldve 
been evident on the wall in the room the other  side of the stud wall but that no such  evidence 
was noted. The photographs of the kitchen ceiling also show the tongue and groove timbers 
to be dry. And the moisture metre readings  dont indicate a one-off escape of water incident 
occurred. 
I make  no finding at all on whether the claim was staged. I only need decide  whether 
Fairmead fairly and reasonably declined Mrs Cs claim and, on balance, I think it did. Its 
surveyor assessed the damage observed to have  occurred over time as a result  of failed 
sealant/grout in the shower not as the result of a one-off incident of an escape of water.  The 
photographs and meter readings support this conclusion. As there is a specific  policy 
exclusion for damage that results from failed sealant/grout, I dont think  Fairmead  unfairly 
relied on it in order  to decline Mrs Cs claim.
Fairmead replied to say it agreed with my provisional decision and had nothing further to 
add. Despite being contacted by our investigator  to ask if she had any further comments she 
would like to make, Mrs C hasnt replied.
The complaint was returned  to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any substantive comment in response to my provisional 
decision my provisional findings  remain unchanged and now form part of this, my final 
Ref: DRN50527105decision. For the reasons I gave in my provisional  decision, Im satisfied that this is a 
complaint that cant fairly or reasonably  be upheld.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 July 2020.
Claire Woollerson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5052710