K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains that Santander UK Plc wont refund a cash withdrawal he says he didnt 
make from his credit card account.
background
Mr P disputes a withdrawal of £180 made at a cash machine at 3:22pm on 9 April 2018.  He 
says he lost his card on the bus at about  9pm the night before 
Santander said it wouldnt be refunding this money  as it thought hed made the withdrawal. It 
said that Mr P had initially told it that he hadnt  written his PIN down. But that when  it told him 
it wouldnt refund the money he appealed this saying  his PIN was written  down. It also said 
that hed made similar  claims before and that one had been about a disputed  withdrawal at 
the same  cash point the year before.
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld. The previous transaction on the 
account was nearly  two months earlier so it was unlikely  someone had seen Mr P enter his 
PIN then. In her view hed changed  his account of what happened because  hed previously 
received a refund when hed told Santander  hed written his PIN down with this card. And a 
fraudster in possession  of the card and PIN would be unlikely  to wait until the next afternoon 
to attempt a withdrawal and then not try and take out any more money. Shed tried to contact  
Mr P to go through  this explanation without success and hed provided very limited  
information to this service  despite her requests.
Mr P didnt agree. He said that he wasnt happy  to be told to report the matter to the 
authorities when  they didnt  help him either. He wanted his complaint to be reviewed.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to take account of the Payment Services Regulations 2017. And to think about 
whether Mr P authorised the payment  from his account. Thats  more  than the payment  being 
authenticated but would require him to consent to it. If he didnt authorise it then generally 
Santander wouldnt be able to hold him responsible  for it. The disputed payment was made 
using a credit card and so where credit  is involved,  the Consumer Credit Act 1974 applies 
and it states that a consumer wouldnt be liable for an unauthorised payment unless they 
consented to someone  else having possession of that card.
The withdrawal was made at a cashpoint and Mr P said hed lost his card. Im satisfied that 
the genuine card would have been used and the PIN required so that the payment  was 
authenticated. The issue I need to consider  is whether  Mr P consented to it.
Ive listened to recordings of two calls Mr P had with Santander in which he clearly  said hed 
his PIN memorised. He said he hadnt written it down or told it to anyone. I didnt hear any 
ambiguity in either the way he was asked about  this or how he answered. Hes later given a 
different account  and that is that he wrote the PIN down and kept it with his card.  At best that 
means his account  is unreliable but I agree  with our investigator that I think its most likely he 
changed this to try and get a refund. As has been  set out he made a very similar claim of 
fraud before and had said his PIN was then kept with the card.  I note that Santander says he 
Ref: DRN56959492was then told about the security risks of doing  this. So taking into account the change in his 
version of events now and the past history  I dont find on balance that hed written the PIN 
down this time.
That being  the case there is no explanation of how an unknown third party  would have 
obtained his card and discovered  the PIN. Someone in possession  of the card and PIN 
would likely  have attempted to take as much  money as quickly  as possible. I appreciate     
Mr Ps account balance was close to the limit but Santander says that there was no balance  
enquiry or declined  attempts to use the card.  And that the withdrawal was made at the same 
cashpoint used for a previous claim. I find this an unlikely coincidence and the use of the 
card and PIN inconsistent  with the behaviour of a fraudster.
Mr P said he was alone on the bus when the card was lost and he hadnt  given his PIN to 
anyone else. Im afraid that taking into account the available evidence Im not persuaded that 
this withdrawal was made without  his consent and I find it was authorised.  So I dont have a 
basis to require Santander to do anything further.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 March  2020.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5695949