K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (VWFS)  unfairly terminated his 
hire purchase agreement.  He wants the agreement  to be reinstated.
background
Mrs W represents Mr W in his complaint but for ease, I will refer to Mr W throughout my 
decision.
In August  2015,  Mr W entered into a hire purchase agreement with VWFS  to acquire a brand 
new car.
Mr W says he wrote  to VWFS in March 2016  advising  it of his new address and in 
November 2017,  he went on an extended working  holiday. He says he had arranged  for 
there to be sufficient funds in his account  and he was unaware the payments had been 
missed until he was contacted in September 2018  by a third party  collection agent. He 
contacted VWFS.  It said it hadnt  received any notification regarding  a change  of address 
and had written to the address it had on file. It said his agreement had been terminated  as 
the account was in arrears. 
On 1 October 2018, Mr W paid £666.64  to bring  the account up to date but VWFS said 
unfortunately the agreement couldnt  be reinstated.
VWFS says Mr W maintained his payments until March 2018.  When VWFS attempted to call 
the payment on 7 March 2018  it was rejected  due to insufficient funds. The payment was 
attempted again  later in March but was rejected for the same reason. VWFS issued an 
arrears letter  to the address it had on file on 21 March 2018.
The payment due in April was rejected for the same  reason and a second arrears  letter  was 
issued by VWFS on 11 April 2018.  No payment was received  and so another arrears letter 
was sent on 5 May 2018.
In May 2018, the May payment was made  but the arrears for March and April remained 
outstanding. The June payment was also rejected and another  arrears letter was sent on 
11 June 2018.
On 12 June 2018, VWFS issued a default  notice.  It required Mr W to pay £499.98 by 
1 July 2018. The default notice said if Mr W failed to pay this amount by the stipulated date, 
then he would be deemed to have repudiated the agreement and the possible 
consequences included:
 the termination  of the agreement
 recovering possession  of the car, arrears  of rentals and any late payment  interest
 demanding earlier payment of all sums  due under the agreement on early 
termination
 recovering damages for breach of contract through  the courts or otherwise
 enforcing  any guarantee and/or indemnity given in respect of the agreement
The default  notice  also said Mr W might be able to avoid further action  by making  immediate 
contact with a member of their team.
Ref: DRN50154202Following the default notice,  VWFS attempted to call the June payment again, which was 
unsuccessful. VWFS had no contact  from Mr W so on 29 August 2018, VWFS called Mr W 
but they werent able to get through to him. A voicemail was left advising him to call them 
back. The default notice had already expired but VWFS extended it to give Mr W an 
opportunity to respond to the voicemail.
Mr W didnt return  the call and as the account was not brought up to date, VWFS issued a 
termination notice  on 5 September 2018.
Mr W complained  to VWFS. In its final response  of 27 November 2018. It said; payment 
reminders and the default notice had been  sent to the address it had on file and this address 
corresponded to the address on Mr Ws signed agreement. VWFS said it had no record  of a 
notification of a change  of address. And it was Mr Ws responsibility to ensure they were 
updated with any change in his contact  details. It went on to say the agreement was 
terminated as the account  remained in arrears and the default notice wasnt satisfied. It 
acknowledged that Mr W said he was abroad  when the payments were  missed but that it 
remained Mr Ws responsibility to ensure  his payments were  made  in line with his agreed 
payment schedule. It said it was unable to reinstate the agreement and the collection activity 
would continue in relation  to receiving the outstanding balance or alternatively  Mr W could 
voluntary surrender (VS) but he would still be liable for any shortfall.
An investigator looked into things for Mr W. She looked at all the information from VWFS 
system notes and couldnt see it had received a notification of a change  of address. She also 
listed to the call recordings between  Mr W and VWFS including a voicemail left asking him to 
call which was left on 4 September 2018. She found that VWFS  had followed its policies and 
procedures and had acted fairly  and reasonably  and so she didnt  ask it to do anything 
further.
Mr W disagreed.  He feels VWFS should have  done more to contact him. He didnt know the 
payments hadnt  been made  until September 2018  and when he realised he brought them  
up to date. He feels  its unreasonable to terminate the agreement  and asks for it to be 
reinstated.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive looked at all the information from both 
parties afresh. Having  done so, Im in agreement with the investigators view. I realise this will 
disappoint Mr W, Ill explain why. 
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think  I need  to comment on it in order  to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr W doesnt dispute the payments were missed.  The crux of his complaint is that he was 
unaware of this, as he was abroad, and as soon as he became aware,  he brought the 
account up to date. He maintains he advised  VWFS of a change of address and that it had 
his email and telephone  details and should have  made more  attempts to contact home 
before terminating  his agreement. 
Ive looked closely  at the hire purchase agreement  Mr W signed.  Clause 2.5 says:
Ref: DRN50154203Missing payments could  have severe consequences and make obtaining credit  more 
difficult. It may lead to us serving a default notice on you, on the expiry  of which  we may 
terminate the agreement,  with the consequences  set out in clause 10. 
So Im satisfied the implications of missing payments were clear in the agreement. I 
appreciate Mr W felt he had arranged to ensure there were sufficient funds within his 
account to make the payments whilst he was abroad,  but unfortunately, this wasnt the case.  
It remains Mr Ws responsibility to make  his payments under the agreement. 
Ive looked at VWFS contact notes and I cant see any notification of a change  of address. I 
dont doubt that notifications  were  sent as suggested  but as it wasnt  sent by a traceable 
method, I cant say for certainty it was received  and again it remains  Mr Ws responsibility to 
ensure his contact  details  were up to date. I cant say VWFS are at fault for writing to the 
address it had on file. 
I can see VWFS issued  a default  notice  and when the arrears were not brought  up to date by 
the given date, it attempted to speak  to Mr W by telephone and extended the notice to allow  
Mr W time to respond. I appreciate Mr W says he didnt get a voicemail message but Ive 
listened to the telephone recording of a message left asking Mr W to contact VWFS on 
4 September 2018 and so Im persuaded VWFS have acted in accordance with its own 
policies and procedures  and its regulatory  obligations. 
I appreciate Mr W has made the point  that the outstanding payments could have been taken 
with the September payment in order to bring  the account up to date. But, as our investigator 
has already said, VWFS  are not permitted to request any more than the monthly payment  
without Mr Ws permission, and so this wasnt an option it could pursue.
From what  Ive seen VWFS have been  fair in reasonable in the steps taken before 
terminating the agreement and so Im not able to direct it to reinstate the agreement.
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or reject my decision 
before 16 May 2020.
Wendy Steele
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5015420