K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
2003. Mr and Mrs C say The Co-operative  Bank  Plc, trading as Britannia  Building Society,  
(Britannia) mis-sold  them the PPI.
background
Mr and Mrs C took out a PPI policy with a mortgage in 2003.  The policy provided cover for 
accident, sickness and unemployment. After the initial six month free period, they paid a 
monthly amount  for the policy. 
Even though  this was a joint mortgage, only Mr C was covered by the policy. If he had 
made a successful claim, the policy would have  paid out the repayment benefit for up to 12 
months.
In late 2004 Mr and Mrs C amended the policy and removed the accident and sickness 
cover. So from this point  until the policy was cancelled in 2006,  Mr C was covered for 
unemployment only.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs C disagreed with the adjudicators  
opinion, so the complaint has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Cs case. 
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
Mr and Mrs C said they didnt know the policy was optional and that they could refuse the 
cover. But I think Britannia  made  it clear  that Mr and Mrs C didnt have to take out the PPI 
and they chose to take it out. I say this because Ive been given a copy  of the mortgage 
application from the time and I can see that there is a section about  PPI. In this section there 
is a question that asks for the level of cover  required to be entered  if PPI is wanted. I can see 
on their form that this section has been printed  with the level of cover chosen. Whilst this 
information was printed  on the form, I think  its likely this was a reflection of their telephone 
conversation with the mortgage advisor.  I can see that Mr and Mrs C have  signed  this 
application which suggests they agreed  with everything it contained. On the same  form there  
is a declaration to sign if you didnt wish to take out the PPI. This indicates that they had a 
choice in taking  out the policy.
Ive also seen that a separate PPI application form has been  completed with some  personal 
information about Mr C and includes the amount of benefit to be provided. This form has 
again been signed by them.  If Mr and Mrs C didnt want to take out PPI, they didnt have to 
sign these forms.
In 2004 Mr and Mrs C took out additional borrowing against their mortgage and Britannia has 
given us copies  of the documentation from that application. I can see on the forms that 
Ref: DRN55286902Mr and Mrs C chose not to take out PPI to cover  this further advance and so it appears  they 
knew that it wasnt a condition of the borrowing.
Mr and Mrs C have also said they werent  aware that the PPI had been added  to their 
account. But I do have  to take into consideration that memories  can be affected over time as 
it appears they made an amendment to the policy approximately a year after taking out the 
PPI (when they reduced the cover  down to unemployment only). So this would suggest  that 
they were aware  of the PPI policy  and decided to amend the cover  to suit their 
circumstances at that particular time.
So, on balance,  based  on everything Ive seen and been told, I think  Britannia  made  it clear  
the policy was optional and that Mr and Mrs C agreed to take it out, knowing they could 
refuse it if they didnt  want it.
Both parties  agree that this sale took place over the telephone. Britannia has said it didnt 
recommend the cover  but Mr and Mrs C think they received  advice about  taking  the policy. 
Mr and Mrs C havent given much  detail as to why they think  Britannia recommended the 
cover. From  my review I havent seen  anything to suggest Britannia took steps  to assess  
Mr and Mrs Cs circumstances with the intention of recommending  the policy to them. And 
Ive noted Mr and Mrs C have told us that they werent asked about their sick pay. So based  
on what I know about how Britannia  sold policies at the time, and what  Mr and Mrs C have 
said, I dont  think  it did recommend the PPI to them. This means it didnt have to check  if the 
cover was right for them.  But it did have to make sure Mr and Mrs C got the information they 
needed to decide for themselves if it was right for them.
Its possible  the information Britannia  gave Mr and Mrs C about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But they chose  to take out the PPI for Mr C only - so it looks  like they wanted 
this type of cover. Based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it doesnt  look 
like he was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover  - so it would have 
been useful for him if something  went  wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  So I 
dont think better information  about  the PPI would have  put them off taking out the cover. 
Which means Britannia doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs C.
But Britannia  has paid back  some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs C because: 
Britannia got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs C about that. Because Britannia didnt tell 
Mr and Mrs C, that was unfair.  
To put that right, Britannia has paid back the amount of commission and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs C have said - including  what they have  said about 
not needing the policy as Mr C was entitled  to good employee benefits  and they had savings 
they could have used. Mr C has told us he would receive up to six months full pay from his 
employer if he was too ill to work, but this policy would  have paid out the monthly benefit for 
up to 12 months which would be in addition to, and potentially for longer than, any sick pay 
he would  receive.  And whilst Ive noted  that Mr and Mrs C did have savings, by having this 
policy they could  protect  those funds for another  purpose or use them to cover other 
essential living expenses. And as I mentioned previously, this sale was completed  on a non-
advised basis, so it was for Mr and Mrs C to make the decision as to whether the cover was 
Ref: DRN55286903right for them based on what  they knew about their circumstances. So these points  dont 
change my decision.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so The Co-operative Bank Plc does not have to pay back  
all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs C.
But The Co-operative Bank Plc does have  to pay back to Mr and Mrs C any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  I understand it has already 
done this, so I dont  award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  21 February  2019. 
Jenny Giles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5528690