K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains about the charges  that Arval UK Limited applied when he handed  back a car 
hed acquired  under a hire agreement.
background
In June 2015, Mr S entered into a hire agreement with Arval to acquire  a car. On its return  at 
the end of the agreement,  an inspection was carried out on the car. The report recorded  
scuffs on two wheel trims  and also reported  damage  to the tailgate. Arval explained that this 
level of damage to the car fell outside the British  Vehicle Rental & Leasing  Associations 
(BVRLA) fair wear  and tear guidelines. As a result, they said Mr S would be charged a total 
of £255 to cover this damage. 
Mr S said the wear and tear damage came from his normal day to day use and therefore, he 
thinks the damage fell inside  the scope of guidelines.  
Our adjudicator looked into this complaint. She said Arval  hadnt done anything  wrong  in 
charging Mr S for the damage to the car as they had fairly  charged him in line with the 
BVRLA guidelines. 
Mr S disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to consider his complaint. So the complaint  
has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The BVRLA has produced  industry guidance to help determine what a finance  company can 
charge for when  a car is returned. This is the starting point  for me as it represents good  
practice across the industry and is fairly detailed. Ive taken this guidance  into account when 
deciding whether Arval acted fairly and reasonably in this case. 
Ive also looked  at the terms  and conditions of Mr S hire agreement which say At the end of 
the Contract Term the Hirer will make  the vehicle available for collection.  A representative 
on behalf of Arval will complete an initial report on the mechanical and bodywork condition  of 
the Vehicle  The Hirer or its representative  will sign a copy of that report  upon agreement  
of its contents Arval shall invoice the Hirer for the costs of repairs  (whether or not carried  
out) to a Vehicle returned  to Arval that is subject to damage which, in accordance with the 
BVRLA Fair wear and Tear Guide  for the Contract Hire Industry, would constitute unfair wear 
and tear and/or for the diminution  of the value  of the Vehicle:
The BVRLA indicates that minor  scuffs and scratches to wheel rims and wheel trims are 
acceptable levels of wear and tear. But scuffs to the wheel rim totalling over 50mm are not. 
The guidance says any damage to the wheel spokes, wheel fascia  or alloy hub is 
unacceptable. The BVRLA also indicates  surface  scratches of 25mm  or more where the 
primer or bare metal  is showing arent  acceptable,  if they cant  be polished  out.
Arval have sent us a copy of the report which has been produced to show the nature of the 
damage. The report included close up photos of the damage with a ruler sitting  alongside 
each of the damages caused. From these  photos,  I think the damage to wheel trims exceeds 
Ref: DRN52165562what the BVRLA guidance  considers  acceptable  - there is a scuff  on the two wheel trims and 
each scuff exceeds 50mm. And I can also see the scratch  to the tailgate  exceeds 25mm.
Taking this into account, along with the relevant  industry guidelines, I consider the scuffs on 
both the wheel trims  and the scratch on the tailgate fall outside of the fair wear and tear 
guidelines. 
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr S, but having considered all of the above and all of the relevant 
circumstances, I dont  think  Arval  has acted unfairly or unreasonably here. So for this 
reason, Im not going  to direct Arval to remove or reduce the damage charges.
I note that Arval have  told us that they also charged Mr S a sum for penalty  fines.  Mr S 
hasnt complained about this, so I havent  considered it in this decision. But I note that Arval  
have said theyre likely to write this figure  off anyway.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 October  2019.
Leanne McEvoy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5216556