K820x#14complaint
Mrs C complains that Ageas Insurance  Limited  have unfairly declined her insurance claim for 
legal expenses.
Ageas appoint intermediaries  to administer legal expenses insurance  claims on their behalf.  
For ease, any reference to Ageas in this decision will include the acts and or omissions of 
their appointed intermediaries.   
background
Mrs C holds a buildings  insurance policy that includes additional cover for legal expenses. 
She entered  into an agreement with contractor K in April 2018 for a rear extension and front 
porch to be built on her property within a six week period. But after the building works 
commenced, Mrs C fell into a dispute  with the contractors and the work was left unfinished.
Mrs C made  a claim on her legal expenses insurance in September  2018 as she wanted 
legal assistance  with the dispute that had arisen with her contractors.  But Ageas declined 
the claim,  citing a policy exclusion  in relation to claims arising from constructing buildings  or 
altering their structure.  Mrs C complained as she felt it was unfair that her legal expenses 
insurance would not cover  her for claims against building  work  on her home, particularly as it 
was linked to her buildings insurance  policy. 
Our investigator didnt  uphold Mrs Cs complaint. She didnt think Ageas had acted unfairly in 
applying the exclusion, and neither did she consider the term to be inherently unfair. Mrs C 
disagreed, so the complaint has been  passed to me.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold it.
Mrs Cs legal expenses insurance policy covers her for a variety of different insured perils 
such as employment  disputes, property protection and motoring disputes. It also offers cover 
for contract  pursuit and defence which Mrs C sought to claim under. This section of the 
policy provides cover  for:
Advisers costs to pursue  a legal action following a breach of contract you have  for buying or 
renting goods  or services  for your private use. This includes the purchase of your main 
home. 
However, cover under  this section is subject to the remaining  terms and conditions  of the 
policy, including the general exclusions listed within the policy  document. Ageas declined to 
indemnify Mrs Cs legal action against her contractors as a result of a policy  exclusion that 
states:
There is no cover for any claim directly or indirectly  arising fromconstructing buildings  or 
altering their structure . 
Mrs C submits that Ageas have  declined her claim unfairly; she says that the term 
constructing buildings infers a new building in its own right and that altering their structure 
Ref: DRN54188802is referring to the dwelling that is already in situ being altered. She doesnt  believe this 
applies to the work  shed  contracted  to have carried out at this was an addition to her original 
home, rather than an alteration. 
The policy doesnt  provide any further  definition of what is meant by constructing or 
altering in this context, so Ive construed the policy term using the ordinary  meaning  of 
these words. And while I appreciate Mrs C had contracted to have a rear extension and 
porch added to her property, this would naturally amount to an alteration of its structure,  as 
the work  she had planned  would ultimately  change the size and layout of her property from 
its original dimensions. I consider it would be a strained interpretation to say that such  a 
change would not amount  to an alteration of the structure of the building,  and I dont think  
the exclusion is misleading in that regard. So I dont think Ageas have acted unreasonably 
by declining  Mrs Cs claim on this basis. 
Mrs C further  argues that no alteration has in fact taken place, as the contractor failed to 
actually build the porch for which she had contracted. But the breach of contract in which  
Mrs C is seeking to pursue legal  action is a contract for structural  alterations to be made to 
her home. The exclusion  does not require any alterations to have been physically carried  out 
for it to apply, and I consider the underlying agreement for such  plans to be carried out to be 
enough for the exclusion to apply. 
Mrs C has argued  that the exclusion itself is unfair  because the policy is linked to her home 
insurance, and she says she has a reasonable expectation that her legal expenses  
insurance will cover her for claims related to her home. I appreciate that Mrs C may have 
come to expect her claim  to be covered  in the context of her home insurance. But the legal 
expenses insurance  is not specifically aimed at home or buildings  related disputes. It is an 
add-on insurance that covers a variety  of insured perils  some  of which are related to the 
property and others that are not. And an insurer is entitled to choose what risks they will and 
will not indemnify. The fact that an insurer has chosen not to cover certain risks does not 
mean theyve acted unfairly, or that an exclusionary term to that effect would be unfair either.  
So I dont  agree that the exclusion in this context  is unfair just because Mrs C expected  such 
cover to be afforded to her by virtue of it being  linked  to her home insurance. 
Depending on how the policy  was sold, it is also generally for the policy  holder themselves to 
ensure that the insurance theyre taking out covers the risks and eventualities they would 
want to have indemnified. So unless there is a particular reason why Mrs C was led to 
believe that her claim would be covered in these circumstances  such  as receiving advice 
to that effect when  she purchased the policy  then Im not persuaded Ageas have acted 
unreasonably or unfairly in these circumstances.  And if Mrs C did receive any advice to this 
effect when she purchased  the policy, this would be a complaint shed need to raise 
separately with the financial  institution  that sold it to her. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 June 2019.
Jack Ferris 
Ref: DRN54188803ombudsman
Ref: DRN5418880