K820x#14complaint
Mrs E complains about the way Bank of Scotland plc have treated her since  her interest-only 
mortgage term ended. She believed the term had been extended for nine years rather than 
one, and is unhappy with the way the bank  have communicated with her since  the term 
ended.
Mrs Es husband has often handled things  on behalf  of Mrs E but for simplicity,  Ill refer to 
Mrs E in this decision.
background
In 2016, Bank of Scotland agreed  to extend the term of Mrs Es mortgage. Her mortgage  
was split into four sub-accounts,  two of which were on a repayment basis and two on 
interest-only. The total amount of interest-only  borrowing  in 2016 was for £166,147. The 
mortgage offer issued  in December 2016  states the two interest-only sub-accounts had a 
term of one year. The two repayment sub-accounts, totalling £8,603  had a term of nine 
years.
Bank of Scotland wrote to Mrs E in 2017  explaining that her mortgage  term was due to end 
in January 2018. Mrs E explained  to the bank that she was trying to sell another property, 
the proceeds of which would  be used  to repay the mortgage. 
After the mortgage  term ended  in January 2018,  Mrs E told Bank  of Scotland that she was 
still waiting for the property to sell and didnt have any other way of repaying the interest-only 
part of the mortgage. She believed shed agreed to extend the term for nine years in 2016,  
and so could repay  it once the property had sold.  Unfortunately, during this time Mrs Es son 
was very ill, and sadly passed away  in June 2018.
Mrs E spoke to Bank of Scotland about extending  the term further, but following a review  of 
Mrs Es income and expenditure, they didnt agree to this and referred  her to get 
independent financial  advice or speak  to a debt advice charity.
Mrs E contacted a solicitor who complained  to the bank on her behalf. She said her 
mortgage term should not expire for nine years, as this is what was agreed when it was 
extended. She was also unhappy that the banks communication had been unclear. 
Bank of Scotland responded directly to Mrs E as they said they didnt have the authority to 
write to the solicitor  on her behalf.  They  didnt  uphold  the complaint. They said the interest-
only sub-accounts had only been extended  for one year in line with Mrs Es plans, as they 
were selling a second  property to repay  the mortgage. They  were  satisfied with the advice 
they gave at the time the mortgage term was extended. The bank  asked Mrs E to call them  
to discuss her options to repay the outstanding mortgage balance. They also said they were  
satisfied that their correspondence  had been  appropriate.
Ref: DRN57685152Mrs E brought her complaint to our service  and our investigator looked into things. Mrs Es 
circumstances have  changed during the time the complaint  has been with us. She has sold 
the second property and is looking to sell her residential property too. In his last view, the 
investigator said that Bank of Scotland had acted fairly, but should now allow Mrs E some 
time to sell her existing property, providing she can show  them  its on the market.
Mrs E disagreed so the complaints been  passed to me to issue a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
the 2016 term extension
In 2016, Bank of Scotland extended the term of Mrs Es mortgage after giving her advice. 
Mrs E was trying to sell a second  property and wanted to use the proceeds  of that sale to 
repay the majority of the mortgage. Looking at the internal notes,  I can see Mrs E felt this 
would be a quick sale and could be achieved within a year. So it was agreed that the 
interest-only sub-accounts would be extended for one year. The repayment sub-accounts  
were extended for nine years,  in line with what Mrs E could afford at the time. Looking  at the 
notes of the discussions that took place, and Mrs Es specific circumstances  and plans, Im 
satisfied this advice  was suitable for her.
Mrs E has said that she was confused and believed that the entire mortgage balance had 
been extended for nine years. She said there were two mortgage  contracts  which were 
different and she didnt  realise she had to repay the interest-only balance in one year. Ive 
looked at the documents that were produced around  the time,  and note that the mortgage 
illustration Mrs E initially received was slightly different to the mortgage  offer that she 
eventually agreed  to. 
However, the mortgage illustration was not a contract, it just showed  what  the bank were 
prepared to lend based on their conversations. I also note that whilst  the sums  in the sub-
accounts were slightly  different between the two documents, both of them showed the 
majority of the mortgage balance being on interest-only, and for a term of one year.  So from 
looking at the documentation, I cant see how Bank of Scotland would  have given Mrs E the 
impression that the whole  mortgage balance was extended for a term of nine years.  The final 
mortgage offer produced in December  2016 was sufficiently clear  to show  the mortgage 
balance and the terms for each of the sub-accounts.  Considering  all of this, Im satisfied that 
the majority of Mrs Es mortgage  was due to be repaid in January 2018, and Bank of 
Scotland made this clear  to her.
Mrs E has also made reference to an error  made by Bank of Scotland with the sub-accounts. 
But this error  related  to the way Mrs Es contractual monthly payments had been assigned to 
the different  sub-accounts.  Mrs E complained  about this at the time and the bank responded 
in 2016. As Mrs E didnt bring this complaint to us within the six month  time limit given I 
havent considered this under this complaint.  However,  I have considered whether this error  
had a bearing on Mrs Es current  complaint, and Im satisfied that it didnt.
Bank of Scotlands handling of the end of the mortgage term
Ref: DRN57685153From looking  at the contact notes  for the mortgage account, I can see that both parties  were  
actively discussing the end of the mortgage  term and potential  next steps  from January 2018  
onwards. Bank of Scotland  allowed Mrs E time to review her situation, but eventually 
declined another term extension, as it wasnt affordable for her. They  referred Mrs E to a 
debt advice charity and advised  her to seek independent financial advice.
Unfortunately during  this time Mrs Es son was very unwell and sadly  passed  away in June  
2018. This would  have  been a very difficult time for Mrs E, and I understand why her 
mortgage would not have  been her priority during this time. But when Bank  of Scotland  were 
aware of the situation, they put another hold on the account and gave Mrs E more time 
before considering further action. Im satisfied this was fair. The bank havent  taken any 
further recovery action  as Mrs E then brought her complaint to our service.
Mrs E has since sold the second  property  but didnt use the proceeds of this sale to repay 
the mortgage. I understand shes now trying to sell her residential property too before 
repaying the outstanding  balance. I appreciate the sale of the second  property may not have  
been enough to cover the total amount  outstanding on the mortgage, so I would encourage 
Mrs E to discuss  her plans with Bank of Scotland so they can agree a way forward. It seems 
Mrs Es circumstances have changed  since they reviewed  things in 2018, so Id expect Bank  
of Scotland to take that into account.
Looking at everything thats  happened since the mortgage term ended,  Im satisfied Bank of 
Scotland have  acted  fairly. The mortgage balance was due to be repaid, and Bank  of 
Scotland were  not obliged to extend  the term again  for a second time.  At the time of these 
discussions, Mrs E had received offers on the second property but was holding  out for the 
market to pick up and was waiting for a higher offer. Whilst I can appreciate her reasons for 
this, I do think it was fair for Bank  of Scotland to expect their money back  when it was due, 
and they gave Mrs E enough time to explore her potential options.  
Ive also considered the correspondence Bank of Scotland sent Mrs E, as she didnt think 
shed received clear  responses to her letters,  and shes also said she felt harassed. Looking 
at the contact history, Im satisfied Bank  of Scotland  responded  to Mrs E either by phone or 
in writing when she contacted them. Each time they encouraged Mrs E to call them so they 
could discuss a way forward.  I dont find this unreasonable, as there was a lot of information  
that needed to be discussed,  which would have been easier to do on the phone rather  than 
by post. Ive not seen anything to suggest that discussing things on the phone would have 
been difficult for Mrs E, although I note her husband  did often speak to the bank on her 
behalf.
I also dont consider Bank of Scotlands attempts  at contact to amount to harassment. The 
conversations between Mrs E (or her husband) and the bank seemed to be productive and 
the bank often agreed for Mrs E to have more time to consider things. The bank were  
required to keep in contact with Mrs E to ensure she was aware of the mortgage position 
and the potential next steps. Im satisfied  they did that.
Whilst I appreciate things have been  difficult for Mrs E, Im not satisfied this is a result  of the 
way Bank  of Scotland have handled  the term expiry  of her mortgage.  So considering 
everything, I dont uphold  this complaint. However, Id encourage Mrs E to discuss  her 
current position with Bank  of Scotland, and Id expect the bank  to engage with this and 
attempt to agree a reasonable  way forward now that Mrs Es circumstances have  changed.
Ref: DRN57685154my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 June 2019.
Kathryn Billings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5768515