K820x#14complaint
Mrs P doesnt think its fair for The Royal Bank of Scotland  Plc (RBS) to use her payment 
protection insurance (PPI) compensation to reduce a debt from which she was discharged  
when her protected trust deed came to an end.
background
I issued a provisional decision on 6 September 2019. A copy of my provisional decision is 
attached and forms part of this final decision.
My provisional decision sets out the background to this complaint. It explains why I think  its 
fair for RBS to use Mrs Ps PPI compensation  to reduce monies owed and left unpaid when 
her trust deed came to an end.
RBS has confirmed that its received my provisional  decision. It says it has nothing to add.
Mrs P has confirmed  that shes received my provisional decision. Someone else has replied 
on her behalf. Ive summarised and addressed this reply below.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In reply to my provisional decision,  someone  on behalf of Mrs P says:
Scots law is clear: a business  cant pursue  a consumer  for, or seek  repayment  of, 
any debts from which the consumer  was discharged when  her trust deed came  to an 
end;
This case  involves an important principle: if a consumer in financial  difficulties  
discloses fully her situation and faces the music, then the consumer should have a 
chance to make a fresh start and move on with her life.
In my provisional decision,  I explained  my understanding of the relevant law. I didnt say it 
was ambiguous. Indeed, I cant see a difference between whats  been  said on Mrs Ps behalf  
 which  Ive summarised above   and what I said about the relevant law in my provisional 
decision  except that one of the key decisions is being appealed. But I didnt think  it was fair 
to follow  the law in this case,  and I explained why in my provisional  decision.
Its been said, on behalf of Mrs P, that she should be able to make a fresh  start and move  on 
with her life. But it was Mrs P who chose  to complain about  something that happened before 
her trust deed was granted.  
I dont think RBS has done anything to stop Mrs P from making a fresh  start.  Instead, its 
simply responded to her complaint  by pointing out that she borrowed,  and now wont  ever 
repay, more than she paid for PPI. In the circumstances, I dont think thats unfair.
Ref: DRN59893422my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above and in my provisional decision, I think its fair for 
The Royal Bank of Scotland  Plc to use Mrs Ps PPI compensation to reduce the monies 
owed and left unpaid when her trust deed came to an end.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 November 2019.
Christopher Reeves
ombudsman
Ref: DRN59893423my provisional decision
complaint
Mrs P doesnt think its fair for The Royal Bank of Scotland  Plc (RBS) to use her payment 
protection insurance (PPI) compensation to reduce a debt from which she was discharged  
when her protected trust deed came to an end.
background
In 2016, Mrs P contacted RBS to say it had mis-sold her a credit card PPI policy.  RBS 
agreed  and offered to refund the PPI premiums and any interest charged on those 
premiums. It also offered to refund some  over limit fees and the interest charged on those  
fees. In total, it offered Mrs P £300.79.
However, Mrs P granted a trust deed  which appears to have become a protected trust 
deed  for her creditors in 2009.
A protected  trust deed is an alternative to bankruptcy (which is called sequestration in 
Scotland). It is a legally-binding agreement  between a consumer and her creditors,  which  is 
administered by a trustee. The consumer transfers  her property  to the trustee,  who has the 
power to collect and realise assets, and distribute the estate among the creditors  according 
to their respective  rights and preferences. The right to compensation for a mis-sold  PPI 
policy is, as an asset, usually vested in  or transferred to  the trustee for the benefit of the 
creditors. A trust deed  will invariably include provisions relating to the discharge of the 
consumer from her debts, the restoration to her of any surplus,  and the discharge of the 
trustee.
Mrs P was discharged from her trust deed  in June 2012.
RBS wants to use the PPI compensation in partial payment of monies owed and left unpaid  
when the trust deed came  to an end. Mrs P doesnt think this is fair.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  When considering what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of the case, Im required by DISP  3.6.4 R of the 
Financial Conduct  Authority (FCA) Handbook  to take into account:
(1)relevant:
(a)law and regulations;
(b)regulators rules,  guidance and standards;
(c)codes of practice; and
(2)(where appropriate)  what [the ombudsman] considers to have been  good industry 
practice at the relevant time.
Where the evidence is incomplete,  inconclusive or contradictory, Ive made my decision  on 
the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely  to have happened given the 
available evidence.
Ref: DRN59893424Should I consider  this complaint?
RBS says I cant consider  this complaint.  It says it is out of jurisdiction because Mrs P 
accepted its offer in full and final settlement of her complaint.
This complaint isnt out of jurisdiction. Theres nothing  in the rules that says I cant consider a 
complaint if the consumer  has accepted  an offer.
But the rules say I can choose not to consider a complaint  if I think  it would seriously impair  
the effective operation of our service  to do so. As our service is here to resolve complaints 
that consumers  and businesses cant resolve themselves, it may not be appropriate  for us to 
get involved if the consumer has already accepted an offer. But it will depend on the 
individual circumstances  of the each complaint. 
Ive looked at the settlement form Mrs P signed. It says:
If I am, or have been, subject to[a] Protected  Trust Deedany  payment will be 
made to the relevant account I hold with you. Any disbursements due under the 
terms of the arrangement will then be managed by the Groups  Insolvency  Team.
I understand that the offer will take into consideration any arrears  on my credit card 
balance.
But given the legal  uncertainty about whether or not an account  or arrears survive after a 
trust deed has come to an end, I dont think it would be appropriate to dismiss this complaint 
without considering its merits.
As RBS has upheld Mrs Ps complaint that the PPI policy was mis-sold, I dont need to 
decide whether  or not it was. And Mrs P hasnt said the amount of compensation offered for 
the mis-sale of PPI isnt fair. So all thats  left for me to decide is whether or not its fair for 
RBS to use her PPI compensation in partial payment of a debt from which  she was 
discharged in 2012.
Is it fair for RBS to use Mrs Ps PPI compensation to reduce monies owed and left unpaid 
when her trust deed came to an end?
Above, Ive explained  that I must take into account  the relevant law when  deciding  what I 
think is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of the case. Im not bound  to follow  it. 
But if I decide to depart from it, I must  say so and explain why.
The relevant  law in this case is Scots law.
The Supreme Court has recently clarified the effect  of a trust deeds  termination on the final 
distribution of the estate.
In Dooneen Ltd (t/a McGinness Associates)  v Mond  [2018] UKSC 54, the Supreme  Court 
unanimously held that a consumer, and not the trustee, was entitled to his PPI compensation 
because his standard form trust deed  was terminated on the final distribution of the estate, 
which had taken place  before either the consumer or the trustee  knew  of the potential PPI 
claim. 
Ref: DRN59893425And the Inner  House of the Court of Session will shortly hear an appeal  from the Sheriff 
Appeal Court in a case very similar to this complaint.
In Donnelly  v Royal Bank of Scotland Plc [2017] SAC (Civ) 1, the consumers protected  trust 
deed came  to an end in December 2013 when the trustee paid a final dividend. The 
business was not paid in full  and said it was still owed more than £20,000 after it had 
received the dividends paid under the trust deed.  In early 2014, the business upheld  the 
consumers PPI complaint. But it used her compensation (about £10,000) to reduce the 
unpaid debt. (Specifically,  the business pleaded compensation or set-off, by application of 
the principle of balancing of accounts  in bankruptcy.)
The court  relying on the decision of the Inner  House in Dooneen , which was subsequently 
affirmed by the UK Supreme Court  and which Ive mentioned above  held that the business 
couldnt plead compensation or set-off of an extinguished debt against the consumers claim. 
In other  words, it said the business couldnt use the consumers PPI compensation to reduce 
a debt from which she was discharged  when  her trust deed came to an end.
The business has appealed this decision to the Inner House.
I accept that, unless and until the Inner  House  reverses the decision  of the Sheriff  Appeal  
Court, and on the assumption that the relevant terms  of the trust deed in Donnelly are the 
same as those in this case, then RBS might  not, in court, be able to successfully plead 
set-off in this case.
And Ive considered the letter Mrs P has sent us from her former trustee, which  says her 
creditors cant pursue her for, or seek repayment  of, any debts included  in the trust deed.
But I must apply an over-arching  test of whats fair and reasonable in the particular 
circumstances of Mrs Ps complaint.
And I simply  do not think it would be fair to tell RBS to pay Mrs P her PPI compensation 
when she borrowed more  money from RBS and now wont  ever repay it.
It may be helpful to provide some  context.
Mrs Ps PPI compensation is about  £300.  Mrs P owed RBS just over £2,000 on her credit 
card when her trust deed came to an end.
Put simply, I think it would be manifestly  unfair to tell RBS to pay Mrs P £300 when she 
doesnt now have  to pay back more than £2,000. Its hard to see how anyone would think  
this was fair.
my provisional decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, I think its fair for The Royal  Bank of Scotland Plc to 
use Mrs Ps PPI compensation  to reduce the monies  owed  and left unpaid when her trust 
deed came  to an end.
Ref: DRN59893426So unless the comments and information I get by 6 October 2019 change  my mind,  I wont 
tell it to do anything.
Christopher Reeves
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5989342