K820x#14complaint
Its been agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL),  as the 
insurer, should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to 
FICL as the seller  in my decision.
Mrs W says FICL mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out alongside a store  card in 2001 it was sold 
during a meeting.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs W disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ws case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Ws complaint and Ill explain why.
FICL had to make Mrs W aware  that the PPI was optional and gain her consent  before 
adding it to her card.  I dont know for certain what was said at the time the policy was sold,  
but FICL  has provided a copy of Mrs Ws store card application form. 
The form had a separate section for PPI that Mrs W signed separately from agreeing to the 
card to take the policy. As Mrs W was agreeing to an important financial commitment I would 
have expected her to have read over the form before signing in agreement  with it. So I think 
its likely  FICL made it clear that Mrs W didnt  have to take out the PPI and she chose to take 
it out.
FICL didnt  recommend the PPI to Mrs W so it didnt have to check if it was right for her. But 
it did have to make sure Mrs W got the information  she needed to decide if it was right for 
her.
Its possible the information FICL gave Mrs W about  the PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve  
been. Mrs W has told us she was entitled to generous sick pay from her employer and she 
could have relied on her partner to help her make  the repayments if she wasnt able to. But 
the PPI would have paid out in addition to Mrs Ws sick pay and for longer  than she would 
have received full pay. While Mrs Ws partner would have wanted to help, their ability to do 
so would have  been dependent on their circumstances at the time, which  could have 
changed.
 
Based on what Ive seen  of Mrs Ws circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it would have been useful 
for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  So I dont think 
better information about the PPI would  have put her off taking  out the cover.
Ref: DRN51458152Mrs W has also told us that she wasnt made aware  she could take a policy  elsewhere  and 
as she took it out in store that she was likely just told where to sign on the application form. 
But FICL didnt have to make Mrs W aware of products available from other providers. And 
as Ive said above, Mrs W signed separately  for the PPI so I think she would have known it 
was for something other than the card itself. So these points dont change my decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ws complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 June 2019.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5145815