K820x#14complaint
Mr Ms complaint is that Foresight Group  LLP (Foresight) did not send him a new share 
certificate he should have received in July 2018   or did not ensure its safe delivery to him. 
He says he lost a buy-back opportunity, related to his shares, in April 2019 and was unaware 
of the problem prior to that. He seeks compensation for this lost opportunity.
background
Due to a merger event, shares Mr M held in a Venture Capital Trust  run by Foresight  
were converted. Foresight  says the previous C shares were converted to Ordinary  shares in 
early July 2018 and that prior to this a circular had been sent to shareholders, like Mr M, 
giving them notice.  It says the new share certificate  was posted to Mr M (amongst those 
posted to many others) by the shares  registrar  on 11 July 2018.
Mr M says he received neither the circular  nor the share certificate and that he remained 
unaware of the event  until April 2019 when he learnt, through  his financial adviser, about the 
buy-back opportunity and sought to take part in it; in doing so he learnt he did not have the 
requisite new share certificate and then learnt that he should have received it in 2018  but 
had not.
Without the new share certificate Mr M could  not take part in the buy-back exercise and he 
complained to Foresight  about the matter   and about the buy-back  price (to sell his stock) 
he had lost. Foresight  did not uphold his complaint.  It concluded that whilst Mr M might not 
have received the new share certificate  in 2018  it is satisfied that it was sent to him. It 
referred to confirmation  from the registrar that it had been sent to him and to the invoice  it 
received from the registrar for that service. It also referred to other correspondence that was 
sent to and received by Mr M in late 2018 which it said confirmed that its record of his 
address was accurate.
Mr M used  the same  correspondence  as a basis to question why they were received but the 
share certificate was not. He considered it probable, for this reason and because of an 
incident around 2016 and 2017 in which Foresight  admitted a database error related to his 
records, that the share certificate had not been  sent. He also did not consider the registrars 
confirmation to be reliable and he questioned why the share  certificate had not been sent by 
recorded delivery to ensure safe receipt. Foresight says it has no reason to doubt the 
registrars confirmation and that only certificates  for shares worth  more than £50,000 were 
sent by recorded delivery,  those for shares worth  less (like Mr Ms) were sent by first class 
mail.
Mr M referred the complaint to this service and one of our investigators  looked into it. She 
said the complaint  should not be upheld. She said it is plausible that a postal problem 
prevented the share certificate  from reaching Mr M; but she was persuaded by the balance  
of evidence that the certificate was sent to him; and that Foresight could not reasonably  be 
held responsible for any postal problem in the matter. The investigator also did not consider 
it unreasonable that the £50,000  value related criteria was applied  to determining which 
certificates were sent by recorded delivery and which by first class mail. 
Mr M disagreed with this outcome and asked for an ombudsmans review. He said there was 
not enough evidence to support the investigators  conclusions; that she had not given due 
weight to the arguable implications of the historical  database issue; that he disagreed  with 
the view that the £50,000  value related criteria  was reasonable; and that it was Foresights  
Ref: DRN50229052responsibility to ensure  that a valuable  share  certificate like his was safely delivered. The 
matter was then referred to an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I consider that Mr Ms assertion about  not receiving  the circular and the share  certificate in 
2018 is sincere. I have  not seen cause to doubt the credibility of that assertion. However,  I 
consider this to be a secondary matter. Primarily, the matter to determine is whether (or not) 
Foresight ensured that the share  certificate was sent to him in 2018.
The balance of available evidence supports  the conclusion that Foresight arranged for the 
new certificate to be sent to Mr M in July 2018.  Foresight  has presented sufficient evidence   
of the circular and of documentation related to the issuing and the despatch  of the new 
certificates  to conclude  that, on balance, the new share certificate was sent through  the 
registrar and in what appears  to have been a bulk mail fashion to Mr M and many other 
shareholders whose  shares had been  converted.
I have taken on board the historical database  problem Mr M referred to. It happened 
between 2016  and 2017 and available evidence suggests it had been resolved by 2017.     
Mr M concedes that he received communications related to his stock  during 2018 so I am 
persuaded that accurate  correspondence details were held for him, and used without 
problems, by Foresight  (and/or the registrar) in that year. It does  not appear that the 
historical problem  continued  to 2018 or that it prevented the share certificate from being sent 
to Mr M in that year.
With regards to Mr M not receiving the share certificate, Foresight cannot  reasonably  be held 
responsible for that unless it sent the certificate  to him in a negligent manner. I do not 
consider that the use of first class post can reasonably  be said to be such  a manner. I 
understand his point  that such a valuable document  should have been sent by recorded  
delivery. I accept that it could have been  sent in that way. Foresights  explanation  that 
certificates for shares worth more than £50,000 were given such  treatment supports this 
observation. 
However, I am not convinced that Mr Ms certificate should, as a reasonable minimum, have 
been sent by recorded  delivery. It was not unreasonable for the costs associated  with 
sending the certificates   to what appears  to have been around 800 shareholders  to be 
managed efficiently. This seems to have  been  the purpose of the £50,000  value related 
criteria and the value  of Mr Ms shares was below this threshold.  I also do not consider the 
threshold value  to have been unreasonable.
Overall and on balance,  I consider  that the share  certificate was sent to Mr M but, 
unfortunately, was not received by him; however,  I do not consider Foresight responsible for 
the latter having discharged, in a reasonable manner, responsibility for the former and 
having had no control over the postal service.
Ref: DRN50229053my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I do not uphold Mr Ms complaint. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or reject my decision 
before 3 March  2020.
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN5022905