K820x#14complaint
Mr B has complained that Calpe Insurance Company Limited charged him too much when 
he cancelled  his motor  insurance policy.
Reference to Calpe includes its agents.
background
Mr B took out a policy with Calpe in 2018 which renewed in January 2019.  Mr B was paying 
for his premium to a credit  provider by monthly instalment which was arranged by his broker.  
In April 2019 Mr B sold his car and cancelled his policy. Calpe said that, in line with his 
policys terms and conditions it would  keep 50% of his premium. That meant that although 
Mr B had cancelled his policy he still had to make  payments to his credit provider for the 
remaining amounts  owing  for his premium.
Mr B didn't  think that was fair and brought his complaint  to us. Our investigator  didn't think  
Calpe had done anything wrong. Mr B didn't agree so his complaints been passed to me to 
decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not going to uphold 
it. 
As well as his complaints  about Calpes actions,  Mr B has also complained about the 
manner in which the broker set-up  of the credit  agreement. And were looking at Mr Bs 
complaint about  the brokers actions under a separate reference  number. So I don't intend to 
comment on those points  in this decision.
It might help if I explain that Mr B was paying  for his policy  by monthly instalments. In order  
to arrange that Mr Bs broker  arranged for a credit provider to provide funds for the broker to 
pay Calpe  for the full premium up front. Mr B then then repaid the credit  provider in monthly 
instalments. And after he cancelled  his policy Calpe refunded 50% of the premium  to the 
broker. But as, at that time, Mr B hadn't yet paid the remaining 50% of the premium that 
meant that he still owed  money to the broker.
I can understand that, given his policy had only been in place for a little over two months  
Mr B might have expected  to only need to pay Calpe a premium for the time he was on 
cover. But Mr Bs policy is clear that in the event that its cancelled  early then Calpe will only 
refund a percentage of the premium. And the policy says that where, as here, a policys  
been in place for up to three  months then it will only refund 50% of the policy premium. And 
thats what Calpe did. And I think it did so fairly.  I note that this is something that the broker 
told him about before he bought his policy initially.
For completeness Ill add that we asked Calpe to show us on what basis  it concluded that it 
was reasonable  to retain half the premium when it hadn't provided  50% of the cover. In 
response Calpe provided  some statistics showing the number and frequency  of the claims 
that it pays out on to support that decision. And those show that the risks to it arent  evenly 
spread across the lifetime of the policy. That information is commercially sensitive so I cant  
share it with Mr B. But having  considered  it carefully I think it does support Calpes reasoning 
Ref: DRN51238592for calculating premium refunds as it does. And thats clearly set out in the policy.  So I think  it 
dealt with Mr B fairly.
Finally Mr B initially  complained that Calpe had charged him an unfair  cancellation fee. But 
as far as I can see Calpe  didnt charge  a cancellation fee. So I dont think  it did anything  
wrong when Mr B cancelled his policy.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 June 2020.
Joe Scott
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN5123859