K820x#14complaint
Mr J says Bank of Scotland, trading as Halifax, plc mis-sold him a payment protection  
insurance (PPI)  policy.  
background and summary to complaint
Mr J bought the policy in 1995 at the same time as taking out a mortgage. He most likely 
applied for the mortgage and PPI policy in a branch of Halifax.
The policy provided  cover  for Mr J for accident, sickness  and unemployment  subject to its 
exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay  £300 a month towards Mr Js mortgage  
balance in the event of a successful claim. It cost £20.70 a month.  
At the time,  Mr J said he was employed  in the retail sector  and didnt have any sick pay with 
his job. Looking at the company he worked  for, I think  he could have had a moderate amount 
of sick pay, so Ive considered this in my findings.  His representatives said he would have 
also had redundancy pay, but again, I think this would have been quite moderate due to the 
short time hed been employed. Mr J said hed had some illnesses at around the time of the 
PPI sale. There is only brief information  from him about these illnesses and when they 
occurred; he said he had back pain around 1995 and stress related illness a few years after 
this. The former looks to have been treated with over the counter medication and the latter  
condition seems to have post-dated the PPI sale by some years,  so its not relevant to my 
decision about the PPI being  mis-sold.  
Halifax has sent us information to show that the mortgage account started in 1995  and 
ended in 2004.
Mr Js representative has made lengthy and substantial representations on his behalf. I will 
not restate  them all here,  but I have read and considered them  all carefully. In summary,  Mr 
Js representative says:
Halifax failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr J wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr Js representatives 
believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Halifax  should have 
told Mr J about the poor value;  
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Halifax  should have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mr J and the 
impact they would have had on his chances of making a claim;
Ref: DRN59430482The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
The information Mr J received was misleading. These policies were promoted as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  think we should uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and 
provided their responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr J disagreed  with the adjudicators 
opinion for several  reasons. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been  
passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Js. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here, but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Js complaint.
This sale took place  in 1995 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2004. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
Ref: DRN59430483I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Halifax at the time. So, Im satisfied I should  take the ABI Code  and these 
other publications into account  when  deciding, what is in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of Mr Js case.  
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Banking  
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Banking  Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman  was 
required to decide  complaints by reference  to what was, in his opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances   and that the Ombudsman was required to observe any applicable 
rule of law or relevant judicial authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Halifax was required to take into account the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were  
guidance when  considering Mr Js complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If Halifax gave advice,  whether it advised  Mr J with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for him, given his needs  
and circumstances.  
-Whether Halifax gave Mr J sufficient, appropriate  and timely information  to enable  
him to make  an informed  choice about  whether to take out the policy, including 
drawing to his attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading  way  
the main provisions of the policy and significant  limitations and exclusions.  
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr J, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mr J suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr J and 
Halifax, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.  Ive set out my reasoning  below. 
did Mr J know he had a choice?
Ref: DRN59430484Halifax had to make it clear that the PPI policy  was optional.  There is no point  of sale 
documentation left to refer to in this case,  which makes finding out what  happened more 
difficult. However, businesses arent required to keep records  indefinitely  and its not 
unusual, or indeed unreasonable, for a sale from 1995 to have very few sale documents still 
available for us to see.
To help with this, Ive used my experience of PPI and in particular what  I know about  Halifax  
mortgage sales from that time period.  Ive seen a great many similar sales  to this one, and 
my experience is that consumers like Mr J were  required to choose from either having PPI 
with their new mortgage  or deciding not to have it. This usually involved ticking one of two 
boxes on the mortgage application form or signing ones name against a certain  option  to 
confirm the PPI was something they wanted to have. In short,  there was usually a clear 
choice.
Mr J implied he was pressured and received no documentation about  the policy. Whilst I 
have no doubts  Mr J has provided his honest  recollections now,  theres no supporting  
evidence about  what pressure was actually applied, and I think hed have been presented 
with two distinct choices  when asked about the PPI cover. 
I also consider it very unlikely that having  sold Mr J PPI - of which there is no dispute - 
Halifax would have  not provided  the relevant insurance schedules  / documents in the normal  
way. These  would have  explained who and what was covered and how much  the cover cost. 
Having agreed  to pay £20 per month  for the PPI, I think  Mr J would have immediately 
questioned if no documents were forthcoming,  but the evidence  is that he did not do this and 
he kept the policy running for quite a while.
So, Im afraid that on balance, I think its more likely that Mr J was indeed  given a choice. He 
also agreed and arranged payment for the policy - and I think he did all this without undue  
pressure. I think the proper consent  to add PPI was most probably  obtained.
did Halifax provide advice?
Both Halifax and Mr J agree that advice was provided during this sale.  This means Halifax  
had to advise  Mr J with reasonable care and skill, in particular  whether the policy was 
appropriate or suitable given his needs  and circumstances.
the advice
I cant say what steps  Halifax took to establish whether the policy  was a suitable 
recommendation for Mr J. There is no record of what the adviser discussed; they had some 
limited information about  Mr Js financial circumstances,  but there is no specific evidence to 
show the adviser took steps to establish whether Mr J would have been caught by the 
significant exclusions and limitations which might have meant  the policy did not fully meet his 
needs. For example,  there is nothing to suggest Halifax considered  whether Mr J had any 
pre-existing medical conditions. So overall,  on the balance of probabilities, Im not 
persuaded Halifax did all it should  have done  to determine whether the policy was suitable 
for his circumstances. Im not persuaded Halifax advised with reasonable care and skill.
However, while Im not persuaded Halifax did all it should have done to make sure the policy 
was suitable for Mr J, I do think its more likely than not that the policy was ultimately suitable 
for him. In reaching that conclusion Ive taken into consideration:
Ref: DRN59430485-he met the eligibility criteria  for the policy.
-he had a need for the policy  it seems  likely  that Mr Js ability  to continue to meet his 
mortgage repayments would have been  put under strain  if he was not working for an 
extended period  of time  even  allowing for the moderate work-related benefits he 
may have been entitled to.
-In my view, the monthly cost of the policy appears to have  been  affordable  for Mr J. 
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for him. There was 
nothing about  his employment  or occupation  which would have made  it difficult  for 
him to claim. Regarding  pre-existing  medical conditions,  Mr J has told us about a 
back pain hed had. But he wasnt  specific about  when this was and from what  hes 
said, the circumstances dont appear  to be caught  by the policy limitations and 
exclusions anyway. 
-While  the policy would  only pay benefits  for a maximum of 12 months for each claim 
for accident, sickness and unemployment,  it still provided useful cover given Mr Js 
circumstances.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Halifax gave Mr J sufficient information 
about the cover provided by the policy to enable him to understand  what Halifax  was 
recommending to him and make an informed decision about whether to follow  that advice 
and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr J was given a broad description of what  the 
policy was intended  to cover (that is that the policy would protect his payments if he was 
unable to work through accident,  sickness or unemployment) and of the approximate costs.  I 
have reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely Mr J would have taken out the 
policy without any sense  of what the policy was for and of how much  the premium  might be.
But because the lack of evidence from the time of sale, I cant say us whether Halifax  gave 
sufficient information  about the actual monthly  benefit, the actual cost or about the 
exclusions or limitations before Mr J agreed to take out the policy.  
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr J, I cant  say Halifax did enough to 
present information  about the policy it was recommending in a way that was fair and 
reasonable to him. Im not persuaded Halifax gave Mr J all of the information  he needed 
about the policy to make an informed decision about whether to follow the recommendation 
and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  may have been failings in this case. 
In addition, Mr Js representative has raised  a number of general points in regards  to the 
requirements on a business  when providing  information in PPI sales.  It suggests these 
points apply to all PPI complaints,  like Mr Js. Ive considered  these carefully and 
summarised them as:
Ref: DRN59430486-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr Js representative considers to be poor 
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr J about the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to him. 
Im not persuaded by Mr Js representatives  views on this. The duty of utmost  good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mr J has suggested. And taking into account  the law, industry  codes and standards  of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that Halifax ought to have  done  either. 
what effect did Halifaxs  shortcomings  have  on Mr J? To what extent did he suffer 
loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that Halifax  didnt do all it should  have done when it sold this policy  to Mr J. So I 
have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude he suffered 
loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide whether  or not Mr J would have 
still taken out the policy,  had Halifax done  things properly. 
While Im not persuaded Halifax took the steps  it should have done to establish whether  the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Mr J, I have found that the policy was ultimately 
suitable for him.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr J has suffered loss or damage  
in this case primarily depends on whether, if Halifax had explained things properly, Mr J 
would have acted  differently,  or whether he would have taken out the policy  in any event.
Mr J says he wouldnt have taken it out and believes I should presume this to be the case  
given the significant failings identified  above.  Ive considered  the representations of both 
sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mr J had some interest in taking out payment 
protection insurance. By this I mean  when Halifax advised him that there  was a suitable 
product he could buy that would protect  his mortgage payments in the event he was unable 
to work because of accident, sickness and unemployment, he concluded he wanted that 
product. But he may have  made  that decision based on incomplete  information, meaning 
what he thought  he was getting is not exactly what he got. 
Ref: DRN59430487As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr Js circumstances at the time 
of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable  for him.
I consider it more likely  than not that Mr J knew he would  have to pay something for the 
policy. It seems  likely Mr J would have been  told the cost before the policy started  and he 
paid for the policy for quite a while, so if the costs were significantly at odds with his 
expectations at the point  of sale, its possible he might  have  raised that with Halifax at the 
time, or reconsidered  his decision.
Overall, Im not persuaded Mr J would have found  the cost unacceptable even if he hadnt  
been given the exact figure during the meeting in which he agreed to the policy.
In addition, Im not persuaded  Halifax made clear exactly  what Mr J would get back  in return  
in the event he made a successful claim. But I think its unlikely his expectations about what 
the policy would pay in the event  of a claim (an amount sufficient to meet his mortgage 
payment) was significantly  different to what  the policy actually  did  if anything, it is more 
likely than not that the policy actually  paid more in the event of a claim than he would have 
expected as there was an additional  cash payment.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr J thought he had bought and what  
he actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded any sickness, disease, condition or injury  which  was known 
about or should have been known about or for which the policyholder  received 
advice, treatment or counselling from any doctor during the 12 months before the 
start date;
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr J 
wasnt a permanent employee;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mr J be unable  to 
do his own job, a similar job or any paid work  which his experience, education or 
training reasonably qualified him to do;
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage. 
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations or exclusions above might  well have caused 
Mr J pause for thought   and may well have  caused  him to conclude the policy wasnt as 
good as he thought, and he might have decided not to proceed.  The limitations on the cover,  
when coupled with other shortcomings  in this sale, might have dissuaded some consumers 
in slightly different circumstances from Mr J from taking out the policy. 
But the evidence  about Mr Js circumstances at the time of sale shows that the policy  wasnt  
fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. He was eligible for its benefits and it provided 
cover that, despite its limitations and exclusions, could have proved valuable to him should 
the insured risks have become a reality. I also havent seen any evidence  to suggest  Mr J 
would have been caught by any of the significant  exclusions  he didnt have any pre-
existing medical conditions as defined by the policy rules and was in permanent  
employment. So, I still think  he had some good  reasons  to take the policy out.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were  more onerous than Mr J might 
reasonably have expected. But its unlikely he would have expected to be able to make a 
disability claim without  having to provide some evidence to support that claim.  And while this 
Ref: DRN59430488limitation might have dissuaded  some consumers in slightly different circumstances to Mr J 
from taking out the policy,  Mr J, in his circumstances, still had some good  reasons to take it 
out.
If Mr J had known he could only claim for disability if he was unable  to do both his job and 
any similar  gainful occupation  which in the insurers view he might  reasonably  become 
qualified for, it might  have  played into his thinking about what  he would  have done.  And I 
accept it may have also given him pause for thought  although its possible he may not 
have been overly concerned given that if Mr J was unable (through disability) to carry on his 
own occupation the chances  that he would be able to take up a similar occupation  would 
also, in all probability, be limited.
Halifax may not have  told Mr J that any claim he made would be limited  to a 12-month  
period. This may have  differed from what he expected and might have hoped  for  but 12 
months was a much longer period than Mr J would have received full sick pay for in his job 
and his statutory  redundancy entitlement was very significantly less than 12 months income.
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mr J would still have thought  a policy  that paid up 
to 12 monthly mortgage payments would have  been of benefit  to him and would help him 
manage the consequences  should  Mr J be unable to work  in the circumstances covered by 
the policy. The policy allowed for multiple  claims to be made, it could help reduce his 
outgoings at a difficult and uncertain time and ensure his home  was not placed  at risk.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr J would still have taken out the policy. The policy was suitable  for him, was 
sufficiently close to what its likely he thought he was getting  and provided benefits that 
would help him manage the consequences  if Mr J was made redundant, or unable  to work 
through accident or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely than not Mr J 
would have taken  out the policy  in any event notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Mr Js representatives say the rules  about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) make 
it clear that, where a significant failing is identified,  it should be presumed  the consumer 
wouldnt have taken  out PPI, unless there is evidence to outweigh  the presumption.  They  
say we should follow this other than in exceptional  circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration, so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr J would  not have bought the PPI he bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr Js 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr J 
found himself in as a result of the sale was the same  position he would have been in had 
any breach or significant failings not occurred.  
Ref: DRN59430489Mr J believes  the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including his own comments that he would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr J in the position  he would have been in if he had not 
bought the policy. 
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that he would not have taken out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that he would still have 
taken out the PPI had he been  given clear,  fair and not misleading  information about the 
policy he was buying. So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those  
circumstances, to conclude Halifax should  pay Mr J compensation, as that would put him in 
a better  position than he would have been in if everything had happened  as it should have 
done. 
Im also aware that Mr J thinks Halifax misrepresented the terms of the policy  in how it 
described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
Halifaxs statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why Halifax  
failed to act fairly and reasonably was not because of what  it did or didnt say in the 
information it provided  but because the overall  information Halifax gave Mr J, in the way it 
did, was insufficient  to meet the standards I consider  it fair and reasonable to expect it to 
have met in 1995 when providing information about  an insurance policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mr Js representative  says a court might take if it were 
to find Halifax negligently misrepresented the contract to Mr J and about the remedy a court 
might award if it were  to find that Halifax had been  in breach of its duty of utmost good faith. 
But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what  is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mr J in a better position  than if everything had happened  as it should 
have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 March  2021.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5943048