K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs O complain Automobile Association  Insurance Services Limited  (AA) wont 
suspend their breakdown  policy - or cancel it and give them a pro-rata refund.
background
Mr and Mrs O have held roadside assistance  policies with the AA for several years.  Their  
policy renewed in April 2010. And around  February 2011 they bought a new car that came 
with AA cover as part of the warranty. Mr and Mrs O asked to cancel their policy and get a 
pro-rata refund.  But the AA said this wasnt possible because they were outside  the 14-day 
cooling off period. However, the AA agreed  to suspend the policy.  This meant  Mr and Mrs O 
could restart the policy when they needed it and use the remaining 20 days  of cover.  
The AA say Mr and Mrs O reactivated their policy in July 2012  when they had problems with 
one of their cars. The AA provided cover  under  the policy and it ran for the remaining 
20 days. Then at the end of August 2012,  the AA says Mr and Mrs O contacted them  again  
to extend and suspend their policy.  And each year theyve  contacted  the AA to suspend their 
policy because the warranties for their new cars during this period have come  with roadside 
assistance policies  provided by the AA.
In March of this year Mr and Mrs O received a letter saying their policy would start again at 
the end of the month. Mr and Mrs O didnt need  this to happen as the warranties for their 
cars came with AA cover. Mr and Mrs O asked for their policy to be suspended again, but 
the AA said they didnt  suspend policies for more than five years. Mr and Mrs O were 
unhappy with this response and raised  a complaint.
The AA maintained their position when they issued  their final response  letter.  So, 
Mr and Mrs O asked our service to get involved. Our investigator didnt think Mr and Mrs Os 
complaint should  be upheld.  She explained the policy terms and conditions didnt allow for 
policies to be cancelled  outside the 14-day  cooling off period. She also said it wouldnt  be 
fair for Mr and Mrs O to receive a refund as they benefitted from cover in 2012.
Mr and Mrs O disagreed  with our investigator. They said they used the cover  under their 
warranty in 2012.  They also didnt agree with our investigator relying on the policy terms and 
conditions because they werent  brought  to their attention when the policy  was taken  out, nor 
when it was suspended.
Our investigator wasnt persuaded to change  her opinion, so Mr and Mrs Os complaint was 
passed to me to investigate. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding 
Mr and Mrs Os complaint.  I know this isnt the outcome they were hoping  for. But Ill explain  
my reasons  below.
Ref: DRN50527112Ive taken on board what Mr and Mrs O have said about us relying  on the policy terms and 
conditions. But I cant agree that its unfair us to consider them  when dealing  with their 
complaint. Thats because the policy terms and conditions  set out whats expected of them 
and the AA while the policy is in place. And we would expect both parties  to act in line with 
these conditions. They form the basis of determining whether the AA has treated 
Mr and Mrs O unfairly.
Having reviewed the policy terms and conditions, Ive seen it says policyholders arent  
entitled to a pro-rata refund if a policy is cancelled outside the 14-day cooling off period. 
Ive taken on board what Mr and Mrs O have said about this term not being  brought  to their 
attention. But it wouldnt be reasonable for an insurer to go through every  policy  term with 
their policyholders.  What  we would expect is that the policyholders are provided with the 
terms and conditions so that they can review and understand what  theyre agreeing to. 
Ive not seen any evidence to suggest  Mr and Mrs O werent  provided  with a copy  of their 
terms and conditions. I also cant ignore the fact that most insurance  policies have  a cooling 
off period  so I dont consider Mr and Mrs O were  treated unfairly  if this wasnt explicitly 
highlighted to them. This means,  I cant fairly  say the AA treated Mr and Mrs O unfairly when 
they didnt agree to provide a pro-rata refund  in 2011.
While Mr and Mrs O couldnt get a refund in 2011,  the AA did agree to suspend  their policy.  
But I cant see that Mr and Mrs O were  told how long this could go on for  and that would 
have been helpful information.  Having said that, there is no provision in the policy terms and 
conditions for a policy to be suspended. The AA offered  to do this as a gesture  of goodwill. 
That is above and beyond what I would have asked the AA to do at that time.  So, Im 
satisfied that was a reasonable  way to help Mr and Mrs O resolve the problem  they faced 
when their warranty provided AA cover.
The AA has now told Mr and Mrs O that policies  cant  be suspended for more than five 
years. And given  that suspending policies isnt common practice for the AA, Im not 
persuaded the AA has acted unreasonably  by bringing the suspension to an end. As above, 
it would  have been helpful if the AA had mentioned how long the policy could  be suspended 
for in 2011.  But the AA werent to know what decisions  Mr and Mrs O were going to make 
about their future vehicles, and the subsequent cover theyd need. They also played  no part 
in these decisions. And its for this reason Im not persuaded  it would be fair to ask the AA to 
suspend Mr and Mrs Os policy any longer.
Im also persuaded  that Mr and Mrs O did benefit from their policy in 2012. The AA has 
provided screenshots from their internal systems  showing Mr and Mrs O upgraded their 
cover at that time, and details of the claim that was made. Our investigator  asked 
Mr and Mrs O to send us any information  they had to confirm they claimed  under a different 
policy in 2012.  But I cant see that we received a response. So, in the absence  of any 
additional information, Im persuaded Mr and Mrs O did make  a claim under this policy  
theyve complained about. And as they have benefited from this policy,  it wouldnt be fair to 
ask the AA the give them a refund.
Taking everything into consideration, Im not persuaded the AA has treated Mr and Mrs O 
unfairly. And its for this reason I wont be asking the AA to do anything to put things right.
Ref: DRN50527113my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Os complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs O to 
accept or reject my decision  before  20 January 2020.
Sarrah Turay
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5052711