K822xcomplaint
Mr P says Lloyds Bank plc misled him about the cost of a balance transfer deal.
background 
Mr P wanted  to arrange a balance transfer. He found a deal with Lloyds he was interested  in. 
He thought the marketing  material indicated his transfer could be completed without a fee 
and with interest charges on the balance  of 4.9%  over 60 months.
Mr P called Lloyds and says his understanding was confirmed by one of its advisers.  So he 
entered into the arrangement in July 2018.  He thought that, all things being equal,  the 
interest charged on his balance would be about £230 over five years.
However, Mr P was surprised when  in September 2018 a charge of £18 interest was added 
to his account  this was much more than hed expected. When he contacted Lloyds it 
became clear the cost of interest on his account  would  be much higher  than hed been  led to 
believe.
Lloyds looked  into matters for Mr P. It found hed been given the wrong advice when he 
originally asked about interest  costs. To put things right it offered him £50, reimbursed his 
interest and waived 3 further months  of interest.  Mr P wanted to swap to a 0% interest 
account, but Lloyds said this wasnt possible.  While disappointed he accepted  the offer.
Unfortunately, the following month another interest charge was made  to Mr Ps account. 
Lloyds apologised  again and offered him a further  £75 in recognition  of what it got wrong.
Ultimately the investigator upheld  this case. She thought Lloyds should extend  the interest 
charge waiver period to the end of January 2019 to give Mr P more time to seek an 
alternative arrangement.
Mr P disagreed with the outcome of his case. He feels Lloyds has got away  with mis-selling 
his account. So his complaint has come to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this case.  Im upholding  Mr Ps complaint, but only to the 
extent which  the investigator did. Ill explain why.
Mr P has provided various documents  in support of his case, including annotated marketing 
material which records his early conversation with Lloyds about the interest costs associated  
with the balance transfer. So Ive no doubt that when  opening  his account his expectation 
was hed be paying a lot less than he actually had to.
Actually theres no dispute that Lloyds didnt  give Mr P the service it shouldve.  It gave him 
incorrect advice about costs when he was looking into opening his account. It then failed to 
do what it said it would to rectify things. So whats left for me to consider is what  detriment  
Mr P has suffered as a result and what needs to happen now to put things right.
If Lloyds had got everything  right,  Mr P is likely to have responded in one of two ways.  He 
mayve accepted the Lloyds arrangement with the costs clarified.  Or, more  likely given what 
hes told us, he wouldve looked around  to see if there was a more competitive deal.
Ref: DRN59578222I cant know what alternative accounts with other lenders were  available  in July 2018, nor 
indeed whether any application for a balance transfer from Mr P wouldve been  successful. 
But even if I assume he wouldve been successful in securing a much better deal than the 
one he now has with Lloyds, I dont think it would make a difference to the position he finds 
himself in.
I say this because  I think  the steps Lloyds has taken to put things right have mitigated any 
potential loss he mayve  suffered.  Lloyds has reimbursed Mr Ps interest  for August and 
September 2018. It also agreed to waive any interest charges for a further three months.  
The investigator ultimately recommended Lloyds should extend  this waiver period until 
January 2019  - its now agreed to do this too.
Effectively Mr P has had an interest free period on his balance transfer of around 6 months.  
And hes had some  time to explore alternative  banking arrangements. Lloyds has also 
confirmed that if he does want to close his account there wont  be any exit fees.
So, I dont think it would  be reasonable for me to direct Lloyds to extend the interest  waiver  
period further.  And I cant insist it offers Mr P an alternative product  altogether   thats a 
commercial matter.
I also think Lloyds has recognised the trouble and upset  its responsible  for causing  Mr P. Its 
now made three separate money awards totalling £155. One of these awards for £30 was 
made while this Service  was looking into his case. So I dont think  it would be fair for me to 
require it to do anything  further.
my final decision
I am partially  upholding  Mr Ps complaint for the reasons Ive already set out.
I require Lloyds Bank plc to extend  the interest waiver period on his account until January 
2019. If it hasnt done  so already, it should make arrangements to pay Mr P any balance  
outstanding from the £155 its awarded  him for trouble and upset.
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Kevin Williamson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5957822