K820x#14complaint
Its agreed that Financial  Insurance  Company  Limited (FICL),  as the insurer, should accept
responsibility for this complaint. To keep things simple, Ill just refer to FICL in my decision.
Mr B says FICL mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
Mr B bought the policy in 1997  at the same time as taking out a store card.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr B disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint was passed to me.
I sent Mr B and FICL  my provisional  decision on 6 December 2018  explaining why I wasnt 
intending to uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Mr B responded to my provisional decision and said, in summary, that:
He was advised to take out the PPI, and he was told that without the PPI he wouldnt be 
eligible for the credit.
He didnt tick any boxes but only shown  where to sign. 
He wasnt even  aware what a PPI policy was. 
His employment  status, salary  and savings at the time havent been taken into 
consideration. 
It could be argued that he needed the protection  if the credit card limit was in the 
thousands of pounds.  But the credit card limit was a mere £350. Is it reasonable that 
cover should be provided  on such a small credit based  product?  Hed always maintained  
his finances well. He was paid £500 per week and would  never have gone into financial 
difficulty. 
Mr B also requested to see a copy of the credit  agreement  that I referred to in my provisional  
decision. A copy of this was sent to Mr B allowing further time to comment, but no further 
comments from Mr B, in response, have been  received.
FICL did not respond  to my provisional decision.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Bs case.
Ive reached the same  conclusions as in my provisional decision, and for the same reasons. 
Ref: DRN53153122Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Bs complaint because:
FICL has sent us a copy of the credit agreement completed at the time, which I can see 
Mr B signed. Theres a separate section for the PPI on the credit agreement, and in this I 
can see theres  a tick next to the statement to say Mr B wished  to take out the PPI. Ive 
thought carefully about what Mr B has said  including that he didnt tick the box for the 
PPI and was simply shown where  to sign  but overall I just dont think  theres  enough 
evidence here that Mr B wasnt given a choice or that he was pressured. So I think its 
most likely that FICL made Mr B aware that he had a choice about buying the PPI, and 
that he chose  to take it.
FICL didnt provide a personalised recommendation to Mr B to take out the PPI so FICL  
didnt have  to check if it was right for him.
Its possible the information FICL gave Mr B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve  
been. But Mr B doesnt appear  to have been affected by any of the main things the policy  
didnt cover   and based on what I know about his circumstances  including  his 
employment, salary and savings  it looks  like the policy couldve been useful to him. So I 
dont think better information wouldve stopped him buying  it.
Ive taken into account Mr Bs comments,  including what  hes said about his sick pay, 
redundancy pay, savings, vehicle, family and the cards credit limit. But the policy was 
designed to protect  against the unexpected. And if Mr B had lost his job or been unable to 
work he could have been facing quite a difficult financial period.  Even  given the credit cards  
relatively low credit  limit, I still think Mr B couldve found the PPI useful in these 
circumstances. So for these reasons, and the reasons explained above, these points dont 
change my conclusion.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 June  2019. 
Neil Bridge
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5315312