K820x#14complaint
Ms D complains about Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited,  trading  as Volkswagen 
Finance. Shes unhappy that theyve  terminated  her hire purchase agreement.
background
I attach my provisional decision of 15 August 2018, which forms part of this decision. In my 
provisional decision I set out why I intended  to not uphold Ms Ds complaint. I invited both 
parties to provide any further evidence or arguments  that they wanted me to consider before 
I made  my final decision.
Volkswagen Finance didnt add anything further.
Ms D provided details of the difficult circumstances shes experienced recently, including 
financially, and that she felt disheartened with how Volkswagen Finance has handled this 
matter. She said she hoped that that some sort of agreement,  that wasnt too harsh, could 
be reached.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to again  acknowledge Ms Ds personal circumstances and assure her that I dont 
underestimate the impact  this matter had had on her. But Im afraid,  in the absence of 
anything to persuade me otherwise, I see no reason to depart from the findings I set out in 
my provisional decision. And so I remain of the view that I dont think Volkswagen Finance 
acted unfairly or outside of the agreement when terminating it.
I would however like to reiterate to Volkswagen  Finance  about  their responsibility to treat 
Ms D fairly. So they should take her financial circumstances in to account  when  coming to an 
arrangement with her to ensure any outstanding amounts  owed under the agreement, if any, 
are paid.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 November 2019.
Daniel ODell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN54399682Copy of provisional  decision
complaint
Ms D complains about Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited,  trading  as Volkswagen  Finance. 
Shes unhappy that theyve terminated her hire purchase agreement.
background
Ms D took out a hire purchase agreement with Volkswagen Finance for a car in August 2015.  The 
agreement was set up over four years  with monthly payments of about  £200.
Volkswagen Finance wrote to Ms D on 15 September 2017  saying that her banking provider  had told 
them that the direct debit had been cancelled.  They asked Ms D to contact them to confirm how she 
intended to pay the remaining balance.
Ms D, and with the assistance  of a family member,  contacted Volkswagen  Finance on 19 September  
2017 to make  a lump sum payment of £2,500 towards the agreement. This paid off one months  
arrears on her account  and reduced the monthly payments to about £90.
Ref: DRN54399683A few days later Ms D got in touch with Volkswagen  Finance and changed her direct debit payment 
date to the 26th of each month. Volkswagen Finance  confirmed this had been successfully  changed 
and the next payment would be on 26 October 2017.
Volkswagen Finance attempted to take the monthly payments by direct  debit on 25 October, 24 
November and 22 December 2017 but their attempts  were unsuccessful.
Volkswagen Finance wrote to Ms D on 5 December 2017 informing her of the arrears  on her account.  
Their letter explained that she needed to bring  her account up to date to avoid  a default notice being  
issued which may end in the termination of the agreement.
Volkswagen Finance sent a notice of sums in arrears letter to Ms D on 15 December  2017 before 
sending a default notice  on 29 December  2017. This gave Ms D until 17 January 2018 to pay the 
arrears on her account  to avoid further action.
Due to non-payment, Volkswagen Finance  wrote to Ms D on 22 January 2018 to inform her that 
theyd terminated the agreement. They then wrote to her the next day to explain that the agreement 
would be passed  to a third party  to settle.
Ms D complained to Volkswagen  Finance after receiving  a letter from the third party saying theyd 
been instructed to take possession of the car or obtain settlement. She was unhappy that the direct 
debit payments hadnt been  made  and that Volkswagen Finance had terminated the agreement.
Volkswagen Finance didnt uphold  the complaint.  They said theyd notified her of the direct debit  
being cancelled and the arrears on the account in writing. And that it was the customers responsibility 
to ensure payments  are made on the agreed date each month.
The complaint was brought  to our service. Our investigator  thought something had gone wrong with 
the direct debit when it was changed but he hadnt seen anything to show Ms D cancelled  it. So he 
thought Ms D should be given  the chance to pay the arrears  so that she could keep the car. 
Volkswagen Finance disagreed. They said the agreement had been  terminated correctly  and fairly. 
The matter has been passed  to me to review.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
Id like to firstly say that I dont underestimate the impact this matter  has had on Ms D. Im aware that 
shes been experiencing some difficult personal circumstances recently and that shes told us that she 
relies on her car for work. So her concern at the agreement being terminated is understandable. But 
what Ive considered is whether Volkswagen  Finance has acted unfairly,  or outside of the agreement, 
when doing this. And while  I know this will come as a disappointment to Ms D, for the reasons  Ill 
explain I dont think they have.  
Ms D was experiencing financial difficulties  and with the help of a family member  she made  a lump  
sum payment  of £2,500 to reduce her monthly repayments - making  the agreement  more affordable.  
She also changed the date her direct debit repayments would be taken to something more  suitable. 
So I think Ms Ds intention was to continue making  the repayments to fulfil her contractual  obligations  
under the agreement.
It is however unclear as to why the direct debit payments werent made. Volkswagen Finance has 
shown that their attempts to claim  the money were unsuccessful due to the direct debit being  
cancelled and theyve  explained that they cant  cancel a direct debit.  But Ms D had the money  
Ref: DRN54399684available in her account at the time and shes also provided a letter  from her bank that says there 
werent any direct debit cancellation letters  sent to her. Nor had any payments  been requested  or 
attempted to be taken  in October, November or December. Its therefore  difficult  for me to establish  
whether Volkswagen Finance is responsible for the direct debit payments not being  made due to the 
conflicting information.
Ive therefore considered what happened  following  the payments being  missed. And Volkswagen 
Finance wrote to Ms D on 5, 15 and 29 December  2017  to inform her of the arrears  on her account. 
The latter of these letters was a default notice and it warned that a consequence of not paying the 
arrears before 17 January 2018 may include  the agreement  being  terminated.
Ms D says she didnt receive any of these  letters  and that, as far shes aware,  shes not had trouble 
with other post. The letters were correctly  addressed to Ms D and Volkswagen  Finances records 
show they were sent. As the vast majority of post is delivered successfully I think, on balance,  that its 
more likely  than not that Ms D wouldve received them. But even if they werent  received,  I dont think 
it would be fair to hold Volkswagen Finance responsible as the delivery of mail is outside of their 
control.
Ms D has questioned why Volkswagen Finance didnt try to contact her by a different method rather 
than simply  by post. Although I understand why this might  have been helpful  for her, I dont think 
Volkswagen Finance was required to do this. Ive also not seen  anything  to show Ms D informed them  
of a particular communication  preference. So I think it was reasonable for Volkswagen  Finance  to 
correspond by post to inform  Ms D of the arrears on her account.
It was the responsibility  of Ms D to ensure the monthly repayments were made. Ms D says she didnt 
cancel the direct  debit and that she was unaware  Volkswagen Finance wasnt receiving  the 
payments. I therefore appreciate why Ms D thought  the payments were being made  as she expected.  
But even so, I dont think this means Volkswagen Finance are necessarily  at fault here. 
Ms D was in breach of the agreement as a result of the missed payments and arrears  on her account.  
And under section 10 of the agreement Volkswagen Finance is allowed  to terminate it in these  
circumstances. Volkswagen Finance did this after three payments were missed and they also wrote to 
Ms D on several  occasions to bring  this to her attention. So while  Im aware of how strongly Ms D felt 
about maintaining the agreement  and thereby  retaining  the car, I dont think  Volkswagen Finance 
acted unfairly  or outside  of the agreement when terminating it.
On a final note, I understand the agreement  is due to end shortly. And so unless Ms D chooses to 
exercise her right to purchase the car and make  the final payment  (as well as any other outstanding  
amounts), the car is due to be returned.  Given Im aware  that Ms D has been  experiencing financial 
difficulties Id like to remind  Volkswagen Finance of their responsibility to treat her fairly. And so they 
should come  to an arrangement with Ms D to ensure any outstanding amounts  owed to them under 
the agreement are paid. 
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Daniel ODell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5439968