K821x#15complaint
Mr Y complains about the way Advantage Insurance Company  Limited  has handled a claim 
on his motor insurance policy, in particular that it delayed dealing  with the claim, accepted 
liability for claims without investigating  them properly and failed to keep him updated.
background
In September  2016 Mr Y was involved  in a collision  on a motorway. He phoned Advantage 
to make a claim on his policy. His vehicle was written off and he received payment of the 
cars value.
The insurer  for another car (which  Ill call Car A) alleged that Mr Y had driven into the back  of 
that car, shunting it into a third car (Car B). So three  vehicles were said to be involved.
There was also a claim from the driver of a fourth car (Car C), who said that Mr Ys car had 
also hit them. The driver of Car C said only Mr Ys car and her car were involved  in this 
collision.
Advantage started investigating the claims.  In October 2016,  Mr Y contacted Advantage to 
say hed changed his address. He also gave the registration number of his new car, which  
he insured with Advantage.
There was no further contact with Mr Y until July 2017 when an accident investigator 
instructed by Advantage called him. Mr Y said he wouldnt  give any information  to the 
investigator as he didnt know who they were  and hadnt been  told by Advantage someone  
would be contacting him.
Eventually Advantage accepted liability for damage to the three other  cars. Mr Y wasnt  
happy about this and complained. He said he was left with a fault claim recorded against  him 
with a much  higher value than it should have been.
In reply, Advantage said Mr Y accepted he had hit the car in front of him. That car had hit 
another car. And without  any evidence to the contrary  it said it was correct to settle the 
claims for both of those  cars. But it accepted there  had been some  poor service   for 
example not telling him he would be contacted by the accident investigator,  and problems 
getting through on the phone when he called.  Advantage sent Mr Y compensation of £100  
for this. 
Mr Y wasnt  happy with the response and complained  to this service. Advantage explained 
that as well as the claims by Car A and Car B, it had received the claim from Car C, which 
Mr Y hadnt  reported.  Because of the complex  circumstances of the claim it decided to 
instruct an accident  investigator. But it didnt  explain  this to Mr Y and so he didnt  reply  to the 
investigator. In the end, it decided to settle the claim by Car C as it didnt  have evidence  to 
dispute that claim.
Court proceedings were  issued against Mr Y by the driver of Car A. Advantage accepted  if it 
had dealt with things more quickly these proceedings might not have been issued. But it 
instructed solicitors to deal with the proceedings to make sure no judgment  was entered 
against Mr Y, and paid £100 compensation for this and two payments of £50 for further 
delays dealing with the claims.  The total compensation was now £300.
Ref: DRN55560182Our investigator concluded that the claim relating to Car C hadnt  been investigated properly.  
She said Advantage should remove any reference to that claim from the Claims and 
Underwriting Exchange  (CUE) database,  where information about the claims was recorded. 
She also felt there had been failings in the way Advantage had dealt with the claims and its 
communication with Mr Y. But she thought  the compensation already paid was fair and didnt 
recommend any further payment.
Advantage said it accepted the investigators view about what had happened but not about 
how to put things right  it didnt record each individual vehicle on CUE  and so, regardless of 
the claim by Car C, the incident  would  still be recorded in the same way. This meant the 
impact on Mr Y was the same regardless (which is why it decided to settle  all the claims). 
Mr Y didnt agree with the investigators view. He said he was shocked  to learn about the 
claim by Car C as he wasnt even aware  of this claim.  He didnt think that car had been 
involved or that any claim relating to it should have been considered. He also said he 
couldnt understand why the claim was still open some two years after the accident  and why 
Advantage was still failing to keep him updated  about what was happening. He said there 
had been serious  failings  over a very long period and didnt  think the compensation of £300 
was enough to acknowledge what had happened.
Advantage offered a further payment of £50 for the additional delay in finalising the claim 
(which was still open at this point)  and failing  to update Mr Y on the costs  being paid out on 
the claim.
Another investigator reviewed the complaint. She agreed that Advantage hadnt investigated 
the claim from Car C adequately and that there  had been  further  delays and failure to update 
Mr Y. But she thought the compensation (now totalling £350) was fair. She thought the costs  
of the claim for Car C should  be removed from CUE.  And if Mr Y had any concerns about  
higher premiums being charged by another as a result of these claims, he could take that up 
with that insurer.
Mr Y agreed with the recommendation of Advantage reducing  the costs  of the claim on CUE.  
But, while he accepted  this was a complex claim, he said it had been ongoing for over two 
years. And he was advised by Advantages lawyers around July 2018 that the court issues 
had been settled, but the claim was still open and he hasnt  been  updated  on the increasing 
costs in the months since. He also said the substantial amount of the claim would probably  
have affected  the premium he pays to his current insurer. He asked why he should take this 
up with his current insurer,  if it was caused by the way Advantage had dealt with these  
claims.
As no agreement was reached, the case was passed to me to make a final decision. Mr Y 
had raised a concern about  his premiums now being higher as a result of how the claim had 
been settled and recorded - he said its likely  that a £20,000 claim would have less of an 
impact than a £35,000 claim. And he said he assumes  his claim is still open and if he was to 
update his insurer with a new claim value,  hed be charged an amendment fee by the new 
insurer. So our investigator  asked Mr Y if he could  provide any evidence  about this. 
Mr Y provided comments from his insurer, confirming that claims is one rating factor  on 
which the policy price  is decided, and on policies where there  are no claim or incidents  the 
policy premium differs  to those where  there have been claims.
I issued a provisional decision on the complaint. In the provisional decision I said:
Ref: DRN55560183Its not for me to decide who was at fault for the accident; the policy  terms allow Advantage 
to decide how to deal with a claim,  including whether to admit  liability concerning any event 
likely to give rise to a claim under the policy,  and make a payment, instruct  solicitors  or 
contest any court proceedings. It doesnt need  Mr Ys agreement. But just because these 
terms are in the policy, that doesnt mean Advantage can simply do as it pleases. I can 
consider how Advantage made  its decisions and whether it dealt with the claims fairly and 
reasonably.
I agree  there have  been some  failings in the way Advantage has handled the matter, 
particularly the claim  from Car C. Ill explain why this is and what I think Advantage should  
do to put things right.
The accident  was in September 2016  but the claims  were still open some  two years later. It 
was a complex matter,  with three  claims and conflicting information about  the incident;  it still 
isnt entirely clear exactly what happened. So I can see why investigations would take some  
time. But I dont think the investigation into the claim concerning  Car C was dealt with fairly, 
for the same reasons  as those given by our investigators. And I note Advantage has to some 
extent accepted this.
Where there is a dispute, is about the consequences of this. Our investigator pointed out that 
there was no contact with Mr Y between October  2016 and October 217, but during that time 
Advantage was talking  to the other insurers and accepted liability  for the claim from Car C. It 
didnt contact Mr Y about that claim at all or give him the chance to contest the allegations 
made.
Advantage cant explain why it didnt contact  Mr Y but says this has made no difference to 
the outcome.  Based  on the evidence, it says Mr Y would  be liable for at least  some of the 
damage; even  if it had investigated further  it doesnt think the position  would  be any clearer;  
and as a fault claim would be recorded in any event, it makes no difference to Mr Y what  the 
details are. Thats true up to a point.  CUE  will record the claim. And I cant tell Advantage to 
amend that record  the overall amount recorded  on CUE must reflect what the insurer has 
paid out on the claim.  If, however, the value recorded is higher than it should be due to the 
extra costs  from Car C, that could  affect  Mr Y.
.
Not all insurers use CUE for pricing,  so it could be that the claim payment showing as higher 
makes no difference  to premiums he will have  to pay. And, even if an insurer  does use CUE 
for pricing,  its unlikely  a small increase in the cost of the claim would make a difference. But 
in this case, the value recorded  as a result of the claim relating to Car C is more  substantial.  
So Ive considered what difference this might  make.
Mr Y has provided information from his current insurer which confirms that claims is one 
rating factor it uses. But all it has said is that premiums will differ  between  cases  where there  
have been claims  and those with no claims. So although Mr Ys premium is likely  to be 
higher as a result of having made a claim, theres no evidence  to confirm that the size of the 
claim has affected the premium hes currently paying.
It might make  a difference in future  he will have to disclose the claim for potentially  up to 
five years.  And other insurers may use the value  recorded as a factor when deciding what  
premium to charge.  So theres a potential impact  but I cant  say at the moment what  that 
might be.
Ref: DRN55560184Finally, Mr Y says the compensation already  paid  £350  isnt enough  to acknowledge all 
the distress hes suffered  and the trouble hes been put to. Ive thought  about this carefully 
and I dont think its enough.
The way the claim  has been handled has led to distress for Mr Y over a lengthy period of 
time  its now well over two years since the accident. It was a complicated  claim and would  
have taken some time to investigate in any event. But there have been some  delays  and 
Mr Y wasnt  always  kept informed. Hes had to raise  several complaints. Hes had court 
proceedings issued against him, with the extra worry that would cause. And after two years 
he discovered Advantage had settled a claim that he wasnt  even  aware of, and had no 
chance to comment  on at all. In addition, there  is the possibility that Mr Y may pay higher 
premiums as a result  of the higher value recorded on CUE.
Taking all of these actors  into account,  in my judgment a payment of £600 would be fair to 
reflect the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr Y.
I understand the compensation  payments totalling £350 have already been  paid to Mr Y, in 
which case a further payment  of £250 should be made.
developments 
Both parties  replied to the provisional  decision. Advantage had no further comments  to add, 
but Mr Y has made some further comments.
He says: 
He cant agree that as Advantage doesnt  record each individual vehicle on CUE, the 
impact on him is the same  the total value of the claim does impact future premiums 
and settling the claim by Car C increased  the total value. 
There wasnt enough for Advantage to settle the claim by Car C, when the evidence 
contradicted the declarations of the other drivers  involved. This is a grave  error  of 
judgement by Advantage. 
He doesnt  agree a fair outcome has been reached when a company the size of 
Advantage is only being asked  to compensate £600 despite clear proven  failings.  
As far as hes aware the claim is still open and Advantage is still failing to provide  
updates; hes received  nothing since he contacted them  to seek the claim value back 
in September  2018, which is a reflection of how poorly this has been handled.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I see no reason to 
change my provisional decision.  
I appreciate that this whole matter has been  distressing for Mr Y. Its not really  disputed 
there have  been  failings  by Advantage. The key issue for me is how to put things right.
Mr Y says the amount of compensation  isnt much for a company the size of Advantage, and 
he thinks it should have  to pay more to reflect the errors it made. Its not for me to punish  a 
business. The focus for me in deciding  on a remedy is not so much  what went  wrong,  but 
what impact it had on Mr Y. 
Ref: DRN55560185I set out in the provisional decision why I thought £600 was fair compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience caused to him. Ive considered his further  comments but in my 
judgment these dont add to the points I considered in my provision decision. Mr Y has 
referred to the impact  on premiums he will pay in future. As I explained in my provisional 
decision, he may have  higher premiums in future, but it isnt possible to say what  the 
difference might be. And I took that into account  when considering a fair payment  for 
compensation. Its still my view that £600 is a fair amount to compensate  Mr Y.
my final decision
My final decision is that I partly uphold the complaint and direct Advantage Insurance 
Company Limited  to make a further  payment to Mr Y of £250, to bring the total 
compensation for distress and inconvenience  to £600.
Advantage Insurance Company Limited must  pay the compensation within  28 days  of the 
date on which we tell it Mr Y accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also 
pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 
8% a year simple*.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 June  2019.
Peter Whiteley 
ombudsman
* If Advantage  Insurance Company Limited  considers that its required by HM Revenue  & Customs to 
deduct income  tax from that interest, it should tell Mr Y how much its taken off. It should  also give 
Mr Y a certificate showing  this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate
Ref: DRN5556018