K820x#14complaint
Mrs M says Capital  One (Europe) plc mis-sold  her a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy. 
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in 2004.  The policy was added  to 
Mrs Ms credit card account  when she applied  for the card by post. It provided  protection  in 
the event of accident, sickness and unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs M disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me. 
Mrs M mainly complains  that she wasnt made aware of the costs, benefits,  limitations  and 
conditions of the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.  
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Ms complaint.  Ill explain why.
I think Capital One made  Mrs M aware that the PPI was optional  and that she chose to take 
it. There were  Yes  and No tick boxes for PPI on the credit card application  form Mrs M 
filled in. Mrs M ticked the Yes box for PPI indicating that she wanted the insurance. 
Capital One didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs M so it didnt have to check  if it was suitable 
for her. But it still had to make sure that Mrs M had enough information to make a proper 
decision about whether PPI was right for her.
The policy wouldve covered  Mrs Ms credit card monthly repayments for up to 12 months if 
she couldnt work. This was significantly longer than she could've relied  on her employer to 
pay her sick pay. And she told us that she didn't have any other means to rely on to make  
her credit card repayments  if she couldnt work. So I think  Mrs M couldve benefitted from the 
PPI. 
Its possible some of the information  Capital One gave Mrs M about the PPI wasnt  as clear 
as it shouldve been. But Mrs M chose to take out the policy when she didnt have to and so 
it appears she wanted to have this type of cover.  
There were some things the policy didnt  cover.  But it doesnt  look as if those applied  in 
Mrs Ms case when  she applied  for the policy. So, I dont  think  having more  information 
about things the policy didnt cover  wouldve put her off taking it out. The policy appears to 
have been affordable for her when she signed up for it  she couldve  cancelled the 
insurance at any time if she didnt  want to keep paying for it.  
Ref: DRN50234242So I think it unlikely Mrs M wouldve made a different decision if better  information  had been  
provided. On balance I think she would still have taken out the policy.  
This means  I dont  find that Mrs M has lost out as a result of anything  that Capital One 
mightve done wrong. So it doesnt  need to do anything to put things right.
In coming to my decision Ive taken into account  everything Mrs M has said in response  to 
the adjudicators  assessment. But this doesnt  change my view. I can see that it looks  like 
she was unfortunately  unwell  later on. But shes told us already that she didnt have any pre-
existing medical condition when she applied for her credit card with PPI. And Ive seen 
nothing to contradict  this information. 
my decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs M to let me 
know whether she accepts or rejects my decision before  16 August 2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5023424