K820x#14complaint
Mr P says Novaloans Ltd (trading as Cash4unow) irresponsibly lent to him.
background
This complaint is about one instalment loan Cash4unow provided to Mr P in June 2018. The 
loan was to be repaid  in four monthly instalments of £145.64. A balance  remains  
outstanding. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Mr Ps complaint. Mr P disagreed.  He said hed had many 
other payday loans  and a poor credit  score at the time. And so the complaint was passed to 
me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Cash4unow needed to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt  lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr P 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Cash4unow should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet  a 
higher repayment  from a particular  level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing  may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Cash4unow was required to establish 
whether Mr P could  sustainably repay  his loans   not just whether the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Ref: DRN58754832Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to 
make repayments on time,  while meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without 
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont  be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ps complaint.
Mr P said he had loans from 14 companies.  He thought we should look at the big picture. I 
was sorry to hear about Mr Ps difficulties and the stress these debts are causing  him. But 
because these are separate businesses, I can only look here at his complaint  against 
Cash4unow and what it ought to have  reasonably  known about his circumstances. 
Mr P told Cash4unow that he earned  £2,250 a month. He said his monthly  expenditure 
totalled £1,327. This left him with a disposable income of £923.  Cash4unow carried  out a 
credit check.  I can see that this found  that Mr P had repaid £640 of short  term loans in the 
previous month.  But I cant see anything  untoward, such  as defaults, that should have 
warned Cash4unow that Mr P may be experiencing financial difficulties and so prompted  it to 
ask further questions.  
So Mr P looked  to have sufficient  disposable  income  to repay  his £145.64  instalments  
comfortably. Cash4unow  asked Mr P for information about his income and expenditure and it 
carried out credit checks. 
Given the loan amounts,  what  was apparent about Mr Ps circumstances at the time and his 
history with Cash4unow, I dont think it wouldve been proportionate to ask him for the 
amount of information  needed to show the lending was unsustainable. There wasnt  anything  
in the information Mr P provided or the information  Cash4unow shouldve  been aware of, 
which meant it wouldve  been proportionate  to start verifying what  Mr P was saying. 
So I cant say that it was wrong for Cash4unow to have lent to Mr P. I can see that, in 
response to Mr Ps complaint, Cash4unow  offered to freeze  interest on his debt and set up 
an affordable repayment  plan.  We expect a lender to take a positive and sympathetic 
approach when it learns of a consumers financial difficulties. So I think thats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 September 2019.  
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5875483