K820x#14complaint
Mr H is unhappy that Barclays  Bank  Plc has recorded a fraud  marker  against him and wont 
remove it.
background
Mr H had served in the army  for a number of years. He returned to the UK and suffered  with 
mental health problems,  including  PTSD. He found himself fall into a gambling addiction 
which grew worse over time. 
Mr H struggled  with this addiction for a number of years and his spending led him into debt 
which he couldnt repay. His illness fuelled him into transferring money  from his fathers  
Barclays account    without his knowledge or consent  into his own. The money was then 
lost through Mr Hs gambling.
Mr H told his father what hed done and in turn his father asked his bank how this could have 
occurred without him being  sent any warnings. Barclays, having been  notified of what had 
happened and the circumstances behind  it, investigated and made the decision to close 
Mr Hs account. It could  see the money  had been transferred to it without proper authority. 
And so it also reported the matter to CIFAS, a fraud prevention agency, leading  to a marker 
being placed against Mr H.
Mr H found out about  the marker and complained.  He admitted what  hed done but didnt 
think Barclays had taken  full account  of his personal  circumstances at the time.  He felt 
Barclays shouldnt just be following normal processes  and should  have regard  for what  hed 
been going through. 
He also pointed out that his father  had decided to not report  the matter  to the police or take it 
any further. He felt that meant the marker  shouldnt have  been applied. 
Barclays responded and said it had a duty to report  any instances  of fraud it became aware  
of to the relevant agencies and declined to change its position.
Im aware that Mr H has also complained to the fraud prevention agency concerned and it 
has also declined to remove  the marker.  It felt the application for it to be applied  had been  
filed correctly. Its important  I point out here that I am not considering  the actions or response 
of the agency  involved.  Ive stated the detail here for background and because  I think its 
important to the case overall.
Mr H brought his complaint to us as he was unhappy with Barclays  response. He particularly 
highlighted the impact the marker could have  on his future,  including  the possibility of losing 
his job.
One of our investigators  looked at what had happened. She acknowledged that Mr H had 
been through a very difficult time and that the continued existence of the marker  could lead 
to more problems.  But she couldnt find that Barclays had acted  incorrectly  in applying  it.
Ref: DRN57784702my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Im unable  to uphold it 
and I cant say that Barclays should  look to have the marker removed. Ill explain why.
I can see theres no dispute about the circumstances that have caused Barclays  to take the 
course of action it has. Mr H has freely  admitted that he took his fathers  money without 
permission. And so theres  no need  for me to make any findings about  what  happened there.
Ive reached my decision about  whether  Barclays should remove  the marker placed against  
Mr H with those circumstances in mind. Its clear what has happened and what the reasons 
were for applying it. Barclays was fulfilling  its obligations  when  it registered  the details with 
the fraud prevention agency.  It must report any instances of fraud it discovers.  Mr H appears 
to accept that to a degree. Its the consideration of what hed been going through  at the time 
 his mental health problems, leading to a gambling addiction  that he feels  should mean 
the standard approach  should be looked beyond here.
Barclays are entitled to make a filing of this nature when there are reasonable grounds  to 
believe a fraud or a financial  crime has been  committed or attempted.  If theres  clear  
evidence that has happened, to the extent  that Barclays  could confidently  report the matter 
to the police, then a filing is justified.  And, given  the circumstances as we know them, that 
test appears to have  been met and applied fairly.
I do sympathise with Mr H, what hed been going  through and continues to deal with. I cant 
imagine how difficult things have  been for him in trying to cope with his mental health 
problems and confronting the events at the centre  of this complaint. Ive no doubt  its put a 
huge strain  on Mr H and his family. 
I cant say though that Mr Hs personal circumstances should mean that Barclays  overlook 
its obligations in reporting and recording instances  where one of its customers  has taken 
another persons money. Mr Hs fathers  decision to not report the matter to the police 
himself doesnt change that.
Mr H is concerned about the consequences  of the marker staying in place. Hes particularly 
worried about for the possible impact  on his job, fearing hell lose it. I can see why Mr H is 
worried about this and hes said how bad an impact it might  have on him were  that to 
happen. I sincerely hope Mr H is able to get help and support with what hes going through,  
but the risk to his job isnt a reason I can fairly take up to say the marker should be removed.
Ive noted that Mr H has contacted the fraud prevention agency himself  about the marker. 
Hes explained everything to them including the circumstances behind  the marker  along  with 
his personal situation.  The response  he received was that the marker was applied correctly 
and that it wouldnt  be removed. I can only see this as persuasive  evidence that Barclays 
has acted correctly in what  its done.
Ref: DRN57784703my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 March  2019.
Ben Murray
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5778470