K820x#14complaint
Mr L and Ms H complain that a car that they acquired with the assistance of finance  from Go 
Car Credit Limited was incorrectly repossessed  after they missed only one repayment.
background
Mr L and Ms H acquired a used  car for £8,964 and signed a finance agreement in June 
2017. The repayment terms of the agreement were 44 monthly payments of £390.71  
beginning on 7 August 2017.
Go Car Credit repossessed the car on the 15 November 2018 because  the payments  were 
not maintained  in accordance with the contract and a number of payment arrangements  had 
been broken.  Mr L didnt  agree and said that it was because the arrangements  hadnt been 
set up properly and he was contacted on a Sunday in September 2018  and incorrectly told 
that the car would be repossessed even though there were no arrears at that time.
Our Investigator  considered the complaint and didnt think it should  be upheld.  He looked at 
all of the transactions on the account and listened  to all of the telephone calls.  He didnt think  
that Go Card  Credit  had done anything wrong. He thought that Mr L and Ms H hadnt  kept to 
a number of repayment arrangements and Go Car Credit had repossessed the car according 
to the terms of the agreement.
 
Mr L and Ms H didnt agree and replied to say in summary that they wanted an ombudsman 
to review the complaint because it is clear that they only missed  one repayment  and the 
company sold them  a high priced poor quality  car. Mr L said the deal was rushed  and he 
should have had a longer agreement. He said that the September call made it clear that 
there were no arrears and that Go Car Credit just took the car without giving them a chance 
to raise the money.      
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have listened  to all of the telephone calls and in particular the call of 30 September 2018.  I 
have also reviewed the account  statements and the payments made.
Mr L and Ms H were required to make monthly  contractual payments of £390.71. This is 
clear in the agreement  that they signed.  The first payment under the agreement was made  in 
full and on time in August 2017.  A payment was due on 7 September 2017  and Mr L and Ms 
H paid £200 on the 23 September. It was also agreed in September that the payment date 
under the agreement would be moved  to 23 of each month. A further payment of £390.71 
was then due on 23 October and Mr l and Ms H paid £191 on the 10 October. This meant 
that the account was in arrears as Mr L and Ms H had not paid what was due for either 
September or October.
A payment was due on 23 November which was paid in full early on 7 November. 
Decembers payment was paid in full in advance as Mr L and Ms H paid £300 on the 5 
December 2017  and a further £90 on the 15 December. As nothing had been paid towards 
the arrears a Default  Notice was issued on 1 January 2018  
Ref: DRN51915972Mr L and Ms H made the payment  for January in full. Mr L and Ms H made the payment for 
February in full and a small  amount  towards  the arrears.  No payment was made for March.  
By this point  the arrears on the account were £770  which included  the money outstanding 
from the payments  not made in September and October.  
Around 9 March a payment arrangement was set up whereby Mr L and Ms H would pay 
£516.80 for 3 months starting  on 30 March. These  payments would cover the monthly 
instalments and the arrears. On 28 March Mr L and Ms H explained that they couldnt  make 
those repayments  as agreed. On the 4 April 2018 it was agreed that Mr L and Ms H would 
pay an initial  payment  of £125  and thereafter  make  weekly repayments  of £113 until 24 
December 2018.   
4 weekly payments were  made until May 2018. Payment was not received on 7 May but a 
double payment of £226 was made the following week. Payment was missed in the week 
commencing 9 July and a double payment was made the following week.  Payment was also 
missed in the week commencing 23 July and a double  payment was made the following  
week. Payment was missed in the week commencing 6 August and only a single instalment 
was made  the following week.  A double payment was made the week  after that.
The arrangement was reviewed on 29 August and another repayment plan was agreed  to 
clear the arrears. Mr L and Ms H made  all of the repayments due under that plan and the 
arrears were  cleared  by 26 September. In fact at that point the account was in credit.  
However, the ordinary  contractual monthly  instalment of £390.71 also became due on 23 
September.
Reviewing the account history up to this point I dont agree that Mr L and Ms H have only 
missed one payment.  They have  set up a number of repayment arrangements and have only 
paid a couple of the contractual monthly instalments in full and on time. This has created 
arrears on the account that have remained almost from the oustet.
Mr L was contacted by the collections team on Sunday 30 September. I have  listened  to that 
call in full and I dont  agree with Mr L that the arrears were demanded from him. In fact, the 
advisor apologised to Mr L and said she would call him back the following day once she had 
sorted out what had happened.  Mr L made a complaint and was offered £100 for the 
inconvenience caused as the repayment plan hadnt been properly explained to him by the 
business. 
The business then set up a further  repayment plan as the account was still in arrears but no 
repayment was received  as agreed  on 30 October. Over  the course of the agreement there 
have been six repayment plans and six default  notices issued. For the majority of the time 
Mr L and Ms H were in arrears  and not making the repayments required either by the 
contract or in accordance  with the repayment arrangements.
I have looked  at the default notices and the information given to Mr L and Ms H and I cant 
say that the business did anything wrong when the car was repossessed. I cant say the 
business has acted  unfairly as I can see that Mr L and Ms H were  given  a number of 
opportunities to bring the account up to date. Like the investigator I have checked the figures 
and the amount outstanding is correct.
Mr L and Ms H say that the agreement was unaffordable. This hasnt been raised with the 
business and so I cant consider it here.  Mr L and Ms H have said that this will be a separate  
Ref: DRN51915973complaint. I can see from the account history that Mr L and Ms H struggled to repay what  
was due from the outset  and I dont doubt that they were experiencing financial difficulty.  I 
would expect the business to treat Mr L and Mr H positively and sympathetically in arranging 
any repayment plans  for the arrears.
     
I do sympathise with Mr L and Ms H and I know that my decision will be a disappointment 
but I cant ask Go Car Credit to do any more.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules  of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L and Ms H to accept or reject  my decision 
before 12 July 2020.
Emma Boothroyd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5191597