K821x#15complaint
Mr F has complained that he has lost out because of delays by Origen Financial Services 
Limited during  the transfer of his pension benefits.
background
Mr F engaged Origen to help him transfer  pension benefits he held in a number of pension 
schemes. One of the pension funds provided a transfer value of over £480,000 in September 
2016 which was valid for three months.  The deadline was not met despite a short  extension 
and when the transfer did go ahead  the value had reduced by around £50,000.
Mr F complained about the loss. He also said that he had lost out on a property purchase 
when there  was a delay  in receiving funds. This had meant that he had lost out on survey 
fees of £530 and a dream retirement home.
Origen upheld  the complaint in part. It offered to pay the difference in the tax free cash Mr F 
would have received and pay the lost fees. It also offered to pay around £2,000  for the 
distress caused. It didnt agree to pay the full difference saying that it was not wholly  
responsible for the delays and that the transfer  value did represent the true value of the 
pension and that the lower value effectively provided the same buying power due to market  
fluctuations so there was no actual loss.
The complaint was considered by an investigator  at this service.  He felt that that the 
complaint should  be upheld.  He noted that Origen  accepted that there  had been  delays  
which it could have  avoided. He said that it should  pay the full difference together  with the 
lost fees and the sum it had offered for distress and inconvenience.
Origen didnt agree.  It said that it wasnt wholly responsible for the delays, a third party 
business it had instructed  to prepare the transfer  analysis had delayed.  It also said that the 
transfer value  did, in effect, provide  the same buying  power  and so there  was no loss.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicator and uphold this complaint. Origen  has accepted  that there were 
delays by it in dealing with the transfer. Whilst there may have been delays by a third party  
business that was a business which Origen  had chosen to delegate the transfer analysis to. 
Origen can take the issue up with them if it wishes to.
Im satisfied that but for the delays of Origen the initial  transfer value could have been 
secured. For example,  there is a period  from 6 October when little if anything happens for 
one month. There doesnt seem  to be any real justification for that gap particularly when the 
deadline was clearly established  and understood. So Im satisfied  that Mr F has lost out on 
the difference between the initial transfer  value and the actual transfer value.
Origen had offered to reimburse  the lost fees of £530 and pay a sum for distress  and 
inconvenience of £2048.46. I think these  offers  are fair.
To put things right Origen  should do the following;
Ref: DRN555247321.Pay Mr F £530 for the lost fees on the property purchase.
2.Pay £2048.46  for distress  and inconvenience.
3.Pay Mr F £12,421.54 representing  the lost additional tax free cash.
4.Calculate interest on £12,421.54 assuming it had been paid into Mr Fs savings account 
(Santander 123) between  the transfer and the date of settlement and pay this to Mr F.
5.Calculate and pay the current  value of the balance of the lost transfer  value (£37,264.61) 
assuming it had been invested in line with the investments Mr F actually made and pay 
this to Mr F.
The sum calculated  in (5) above should be paid into Mr Fs pension  plan to increase its value 
by the amount of compensation. It should not be paid into the plan if it would conflict with any 
existing allowance  or protection. If it isnt paid into the pension  plan then it should be paid 
direct to Mr F but reduced to notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have 
been paid. Although Mr F may currently be subject to income  tax in another jurisdiction,  this 
calculation is notional  and the loss is from a time when he was a UK tax payer, if necessary, 
it should be assumed  that he would be a UK basic rate tax payer.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  Origen Financial Services Limited must calculate and pay redress  as 
set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Keith Taylor
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5552473