K821x#15complaint
Mr D says Santander Cards UK Ltd (Santander Cards)  mis-sold  him a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out with a credit card in 2006. 
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. Santander Cards disagreed with the adjudicators  
opinion so the complaint has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ds case.
Ive decided to uphold Mr Ds complaint  because  I dont  think that Santander Cards gave him 
clear enough  information  about  the policy.
I accept the PPI wasnt recommended. But Santander Cards  still had to provide Mr D with 
enough information for him to decide whether the policy  was right for him. The terms and 
conditions of the policy said Mr D wasnt able to claim for any condition hed already had. 
And Ive not seen  anything to suggest  Mr Ds attention was drawn to this limitation.
What I need to think about  is whether  Mr D wouldve bought the policy  if hed been  given  
proper information.  Mr D says that he two conditions  at the time he was sold the PPI. And as 
there was more than one of them, I think that Mr Ds medical conditions wouldve played an 
important role in his decision on whether to purchase a policy  including accident and 
sickness cover. I dont think that he wouldve  bought the policy if hed been told  as he 
shouldve done   he wouldnt be able to claim if he couldnt work because  of either of them. 
Ive taken into account Santander Cards  comments, including  what it has said about its 
insurance helpline and the policy document. But this is information that wouldve been 
provided after Mr D had made his decision to proceed with the policy.  And it doesnt  change 
the fact that Santander Cards shouldve provided  at the time Mr D was being sold the policy 
so that he could make an informed decision  on whether to take it out. 
I dont think Mr D wouldve bought the policy if hed been provided with clear enough 
information. So, I think that Mr D lost out because  of what Santander Cards did wrong.
fair compensation
Mr D should be put back in the position he wouldve been in now if hed taken out the credit 
card without the PPI policy. 
if Mr Ds credit card account is still open:
Ref: DRN55204632A.Santander Cards should  find out how much Mr D would owe on his card if the policy 
hadnt been added to it.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges.
Santander Cards should  then refund the difference between what Mr D owes  and what  
he would  have owed.
If Mr D made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Santander Cards can take off what 
he got for the claim from the amount it owes him.
B.If  when Santander Cards works out what Mr D would have owed each month without 
PPI     Mr D paid more than enough  to clear  his balance,  Santander Cards should also 
pay simple interest  (at 8% a year) on the extra Mr D paid. And it should carry on paying 
interest until the point  when Mr D wouldve owed Santander  Cards something  on his 
card.
C.Santander Cards should  tell Mr D what its done to work out A and B.
If Santander Cards has already repaid  any commission amount to Mr D that relates  to this 
PPI sale, that sum can be deducted  by Santander  Cards from the redress  shown above.
if Mr Ds credit card account is now closed
A.Santander Cards  should find out how much  Mr D would have owed when he closed his 
account if the policy hadnt  been  added.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges. 
Santander Cards should  then refund the difference between what Mr D owed when he 
closed his account and what he wouldve owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Mr D made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Santander Cards can take off 
what he got for the claim from the amount it owes him. 
B.Santander Cards  should add simple  interest (at 8% a year) on the difference  between 
what Mr D wouldve owed  when he closed his account from when he closed it until he 
gets the refund.
C.If  when  Santander Cards works out what Mr D would have owed each month  without 
PPI   Mr D paid more  than enough to clear his balance,  Santander Cards should also 
pay simple interest  (at 8% a year) on the extra Mr D paid. And it should carry on paying 
interest until the point when  Mr D wouldve owed Santander Cards something  on his 
store card.
D.Santander Cards  should tell Mr D what it has done to work out A, B and C.
Ref: DRN55204633If Santander Cards has already repaid  any commission amount to Mr D that relates  to this 
PPI sale, that sum can be deducted  by Santander  Cards from the redress  shown above.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Santander  Cards  to take off tax from this interest. 
Santander Cards must give Mr D a certificate  showing how much tax Santander Cards have 
taken off if he asks for one. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im upholding  Mr Ds complaint. Santander Cards  UK Ltd 
should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 March 2019.
Jeshen Narayanan 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5520463