K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs A say Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax,  (Halifax)  mis-sold them a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background and summary to complaint
Mr and Mrs A bought the policy  at a meeting in 2000  at the same time as taking a mortgage. 
It covered Mr and Mrs A for accident, sickness and unemployment  subject to its exclusions 
and limitations. The full benefit offered to pay their monthly mortgage payment plus 25% - 
initially a benefit  of £245.90.  Half would be paid for a successful  claim on Mr A and half for a 
successful claim  on Mrs A. The policy initially  cost £14.90 a month.
Mr A was employed at the time as a technician. Hed been  there  more  than five years. From 
what hes told us, he was entitled to no more than statutory pay for sickness  or redundancy. 
Mrs A was employed in administration and had been  there for more  than three years. She 
hasnt told us what sick pay or redundancy pay she was entitled  to there. She told us she 
was entitled to full sick pay but she didnt say how long this would last, and what she told us 
related to a different employer  anyway.  Her length of service  with her employer  at the time of 
sale makes me think she was at least entitled  to statutory pay for sickness  and redundancy. 
Aside from their work benefits, Mr and Mrs A have  told us neither of them had savings or any 
other means  with which to pay the mortgage if they couldnt work. Mrs A has told us she was 
in good health at the time of sale. Mr A has told us of a leg injury  he had many  years before 
the sale. He hasnt told us of any other or more recent health issues  he had before the sale.
Halifax has sent us evidence to show that the mortgage account closed in 2003. 
Mr and Mrs As representative has made  lengthy  and substantial  representations on their 
behalf. I will not restate them all here,  but I have read and considered them  all carefully. In 
summary, Mr and Mrs As representative  says:
Halifax failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on handling 
PPI complaints under DISP App 3, it should be presumed Mr and Mrs A wouldnt have 
taken the policy  and the complaint should be upheld. Mr and Mrs As representatives 
believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is generally 
someones biggest ever long-term  transaction  cover would stop at the time it would be 
most needed; 
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a successful 
claim meant  the policy was of inherently poor value  as shown by the low claims ratio. 
The common law duty of utmost  good faith means  Halifax  should have told Mr and Mrs A 
about the poor value; 
Ref: DRN59229022The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Halifax  should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mr and Mrs A and the impact 
they would  have had on their chances  of making  a claim; and
The information Mr and Mrs A received was misleading. These policies  were  promoted 
as providing peace  of mind, but the number of exclusions  and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and had a chance to 
give their responses to the adjudicators  opinion.  Mr and Mrs A disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion for several reasons. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally,  it 
has been passed to me for a decision.  
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs As. I dont intend to set that 
out in much detail  here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs As complaint.
This sale took place  in 2000, before the sale of general insurance products like this became 
regulated in January 2005.  So, the FSAs  (and FCAs) overarching  Principles for Businesses 
and insurance  conduct  rules  (ICOB and ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint, nor is the 
FCAs Perimeter Guidance (PERG).
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2003. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at the time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. 
In particular, The Association of British Insurers General  Insurance Business Code of 
Practice for all intermediaries (Including  Employees  of Insurance  Companies) other than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct Marketing/ 
Direct Mail and the Internet
Ref: DRN59229023The Resume for Intermediaries  
The General  Insurance  Standards Council (GISC)  published its General Insurance  Code for 
private customers a little over a month  after this sale. This set out minimum standards  of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling  insurance, including  PPI, and started to 
apply very shortly afterwards. With this in mind, and while not all intermediaries who sold PPI 
at the time were a member of the ABI or GISC, I consider these publications indicative of the 
standards of good practice expected of intermediaries like Halifax  at the time of this sale. So 
Im satisfied I should take these codes and other publications into account  when deciding 
what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Mr and Mrs As case.
There was also the Mortgage Code which was a voluntary code followed by subscribing 
lenders and mortgage intermediaries. While predominantly about  mortgage related matters, 
it also included some insurance related commitments. 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   the Office of the Banking Ombudsman  in this 
case  might have been expected to reach in relation to an equivalent complaint. I note that 
under the Banking Ombudsmans  terms of reference the Ombudsman was required to 
decide complaints  by reference to what was, in his opinion, fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances  and that the Ombudsman was required  to observe any applicable rule of 
law or relevant judicial  authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Halifax was required to take into account the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were  
guidance when  considering Mr and Mrs As complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If Halifax gave advice,  whether it advised  Mr and Mrs A with reasonable care and skill  
in particular, whether  the policy was appropriate or suitable for them, given their needs 
and circumstances.  
-Whether Halifax gave Mr and Mrs A sufficient, appropriate and timely information to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take the policy,  including  
drawing to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading  way  the 
main provisions  of the policy  and significant limitations and exclusions. 
Ref: DRN59229024-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in Mr and Mrs As 
favour, I must then go on to consider whether  and to what extent they suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by Mr and Mrs A and 
Halifax, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs As complaint. Ive set out my reasoning 
below. 
did Mr and Mrs A know they had a choice?
Halifax had to make it clear the PPI was optional. On Mr and Mrs As mortgage application 
form there was a separate box for them to sign if they would  like the PPI. They also signed 
a separate PPI application form to take the PPI. Ive seen nothing  to suggest Mr and Mrs A 
were told they had to take PPI - or had to sign the box for it or the separate  PPI application 
form if they didnt want  it. Taking everything into account, I think its more  likely Mr and Mrs A 
knew the policy was optional and agreed  to take it without undue pressure.
did Halifax provide advice?
Halifax says it provided advice during this sale. Mr and Mrs A cant  recall whether advice 
was given or not. With all this in mind, Im persuaded Halifax  gave advice.  This means  
Halifax had to advise  Mr and Mrs A with reasonable care and skill, in particular whether the 
policy was appropriate  or suitable given their needs  and circumstances.
the advice
While I dont know what was discussed  in the meeting, the documentary evidence suggests  
Halifax took some steps to establish whether the policy  was a suitable recommendation for 
Mr and Mrs A. The adviser had information  about some of their financial circumstances as 
part of the mortgage application   for example their salaries and lengths  of service.
Also the PPI application  form suggests  Halifax established that Mr and Mrs A were both in 
permanent employment,  working at least 16 hours a week, werent aware of any impending  
unemployment and hadnt been to a doctor in the previous 12 months for anything  that 
wasnt minor. But I dont  think Halifax did enough  to ensure the PPI was suitable and 
establish Mr and Mrs A had a need for it. Ive nothing to show  that Halifax  asked them about 
their work redundancy pay or sick pay entitlements, for example.
While Im not persuaded Halifax did all it should have done to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mr and Mrs A, I do think  its more  likely  than not that the policy was ultimately 
suitable for them. In reaching that conclusion  Ive taken into consideration:
-Mr and Mrs A met the eligibility criteria for the policy and although theyve said they were  
financially stretched  at the time Ive seen  nothing else to suggest the monthly cost of the 
policy wasnt affordable.
-Mr and Mrs A had a need for the policy.  If Mr or Mrs A were to have  become  unable to 
work for a time it seems  likely  they wouldve suffered a significant drop of income. This 
couldve put their finances  - and, bearing  in mind what  theyve  said about being 
financially stretched, their ability to meet their mortgage payments  - under strain. The 
policy benefit wouldve helped them manage the consequences of that loss of income at 
what could be a difficult time if Mr or Mrs A were disabled or unemployed.
Ref: DRN59229025-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mr and Mrs A. There  
was nothing about either  Mr or Mrs As employment  or occupation which  wouldve made 
it difficult for Mr and Mrs A to claim. As regards Mr As past health issue,  Ive nothing  to 
suggest this had caused any further or more recent problems  for him but the policy terms 
didnt exclude  disability claims arising from pre-existing health issues anyway.  
-The policy would only pay benefits  for a maximum of 24 months  for each  claim,  and for 
disability would only pay if Mr or Mrs A were unable to do his or her own or any similar 
job and also unable  to do any paid work  his or her experience, education or training 
reasonably qualified him or her to do. But the policy still provided valuable cover  in 
Mr and Mrs As circumstances given the loss of income they could suffer  if either one of 
them werent working for a time and the role the policy benefit could play as a result  in 
helping them in that situation.  Also, the policy helped  protect  the mortgage payments on 
Mr and Mrs As home and I bear in mind the potential consequences  if Mr and Mrs A 
were to have become  unable to make repayments on loans  secured  against their house.
the information
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Halifax gave Mr and Mrs A sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable them to understand what 
Halifax was recommending to them and make  an informed decision about whether to follow  
that advice and take the policy.
Im satisfied its more likely than not Mr and Mrs A were  given a broad description of what 
the PPI was intended to cover (that is, that it would help protect their mortgage payments by 
paying a share of its benefit if Mr or Mrs A were unable to work through  accident,  sickness  or 
unemployment) and of the approximate costs. I have reached this conclusion because  I think 
its unlikely Mr and Mrs A would have taken the PPI without any sense of what  it was for and 
how much  the premium might be. Also, their mortgage application said the PPI was 
Accident, Sickness and Unemployment Insurance and, above where they signed for the 
PPI, referred  to the PPI as Mortgage Repayments Insurance.
Also, the PPI application form Mr and Mrs A signed showed the monthly PPI benefit and 
monthly PPI premium. So I think its likely Mr and Mrs A were made aware of how much the 
monthly premium would be and what the full monthly benefit was. But the evidence from the 
sale doesnt tell us whether Halifax gave sufficient information about the policys exclusions 
or limitations  before Mr and Mrs A agreed  to take it.
Overall while  Im satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr and Mrs A, 
having considered the parties  representations  about what  happened, Im not persuaded 
Halifax did enough to present information  about the policy it was recommending in a way 
that was fair and reasonable to Mr and Mrs A. Im not persuaded Halifax  gave them  all the 
information they needed about the policy to make an informed  decision about  whether to 
follow the recommendation  and take it.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr and Mrs As representative  has raised a 
number of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing 
Ref: DRN59229026information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like 
Mr and Mrs As. Ive considered these  carefully and summarised  them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have explained 
the low claims  ratio  what Mr and Mrs As representative considers to be poor value  
and the fact that much of the premium went to the business rather than the insurer.  
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just told 
Mr and Mrs A about the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone  further  and 
explained the significance of them to them.  
Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs As representatives views on this. The duty of utmost good 
faith in insurance  law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose material 
facts and not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what a court  
would say  I think  its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer having to 
disclose the claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and 
exclusions in the way Mr and Mrs A have  suggested.  And taking into account the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude that Halifax ought to have done either. 
what effect did Halifaxs  shortcomings  have  on Mr and Mrs A? To what extent did 
Mr and Mrs A suffer  loss or damage as a result?
Ive found Halifax  didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy  to Mr and Mrs A. 
So I have  gone  on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude 
Mr and Mrs A suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer this, I must  decide whether 
or not Mr and Mrs A would have still taken the policy, had Halifax  done things properly. 
While Im not persuaded Halifax took the steps  it should have done to establish whether  the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Mr and Mrs A, I have found that the policy  was 
ultimately suitable for them.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr and Mrs A have suffered loss 
or damage  in this case primarily  depends  on whether, if Halifax  had explained things 
properly, Mr and Mrs A would have acted differently, or whether they would have taken the 
policy in any event. Mr and Mrs A say they wouldnt  have taken it and believe I should  
presume this to be the case  given the significant  failings identified  above. Ive considered the 
representations of both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take insurance  requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mr and Mrs A had some  interest  in taking payment 
protection insurance. By this I mean  when Halifax advised them  that there was a suitable  
product they could  buy that would help protect  their mortgage payments in the event either 
one of them were  unable to work because of accident, sickness  or unemployment, they 
concluded they wanted that product. But they made that decision based  on incomplete 
information, meaning what they thought  they were getting is not exactly what they got.
Ref: DRN59229027As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr and Mrs As circumstances at 
the time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally  wrong  or unsuitable  for them. Also, 
as Ive already  explained, the information  Mr and Mrs A were given about the cost and 
benefit was clear. But the information about other aspects of the policy, such as the 
limitations and exclusions,  wasnt as clear  as it should have been.  
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr and Mrs A thought  they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health conditions 
placing more onerous evidential requirements  to support a claim on those  grounds;
The policy limited, and in some situations  excluded, unemployment  cover  for those who 
werent permanent  employees;
The requirement that, to be eligible for a disability claim, Mr or Mrs A be unable  to do his 
or her own job, or any similar job, and also be unable to do any paid work his or her 
experience, education  or training reasonably  qualified him or her to do; and
The policy protected payments for up to 24 months, rather  than the remaining term of the 
mortgage.
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations or exclusions above might  well have caused 
Mr and Mrs A pause for thought  and may well have caused them to conclude the policy 
wasnt as good  as they thought and they might have  decided not to proceed.  The limitations 
on the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might  have dissuaded  
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs A from taking the PPI. 
But, the evidence  about Mr and Mrs As circumstances  at the time of sale shows  the policy  
wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for them. They  were  eligible for its benefits and it 
provided cover that, despite its limitations  and exclusions, couldve proved  valuable to them 
should the insured risks have become a reality. I also havent seen any evidence to suggest 
Mr or Mrs A wouldve been caught by any of the significant exclusions - Mr and Mrs A were 
in permanent employment and the policy terms didnt exclude disability claims related to 
pre-existing issues, like Mr As past issue. So, with all this in mind, I think Mr and Mrs A still 
had some good reasons to take the policy. 
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these were more onerous than Mr and Mrs A might  
reasonably have expected. But its unlikely they would have expected to be able to make a 
disability claim without  having to provide some evidence to support that claim.  And while this 
limitation might have dissuaded  some consumers in slightly different circumstances to 
Mr and Mrs A from taking  the policy, Mr and Mrs A, in their circumstances, still had some  
good reasons  to take it.
If Mr and Mrs A had known they could  only claim for disability if Mr or Mrs A were not only 
unable to do his or her own or any similar  job but also unable to do any paid work his or her 
experience, education or training reasonably  qualified him or her to do, it might  have played 
into their thinking about  what to do. And I accept it may have given them pause for thought  
although given  their circumstances I think on balance they would still have been interested in 
taking the cover.
Halifax may not have  told Mr and Mrs A any claim they made would be limited  to a 24 month 
period. This may have  differed from what they expected and might  have hoped  for. But Mr A 
was entitled to only statutory benefits  and Ive nothing persuasive  to suggest Mrs As work 
Ref: DRN59229028sick pay entitlement wouldnt also have fallen significantly short of even 12 months  full pay 
and her redundancy entitlement  was also likely significantly  less than 12 months  income. 
With all that in mind, I consider it likely  Mr and Mrs A wouldve still thought a policy whose 
benefits would be paid out for up to 24 months,  would be of benefit  and help them manage 
the consequences should Mr or Mrs A have become unable to work in the circumstances 
covered by the policy. The policy allowed for multiple claims to be made,  could reduce 
Mr and Mrs As outgoings and help ensure their home was not placed at risk at what  could 
be a difficult and uncertain time if Mr or Mrs A were  disabled or unemployed.
Having considered all the evidence and arguments in this case,  I consider  it more likely than 
not Mr and Mrs A would still have taken  the policy. It was suitable  for them,  sufficiently close 
to what its likely they thought they were getting  and provided benefits that would help them  
manage the consequences  if Mr or Mrs A were  made redundant, or unable to work through  
accident or sickness. In the circumstances I consider it more likely  than not Mr and Mrs A 
would have taken  the policy in any event  notwithstanding the limitations  on cover.
Mr and Mrs As representatives say the rules about  how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP App 
3) make it clear  that, where  a significant failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken PPI, unless there is evidence to outweigh  the presumption. 
They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr and Mrs A would not have bought  the PPI they bought  unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr and Mrs As 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  they 
found themselves  in as a result of the sale was the same position they would have been in 
had the breach or significant  failings not occurred. 
Mr and Mrs A believe the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken the policy. I am not persuaded by these  arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs A in the position they would have been in if 
they had not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept its possible they wouldnt have taken the PPI, I am satisfied 
that of the two possibilities, its more likely  than not that they would still have taken the PPI 
had they been given  clear, fair and not misleading information about  the policy they were 
buying. So Im not persuaded  it would  be fair and reasonable in those circumstances, to 
Ref: DRN59229029conclude Halifax should pay Mr and Mrs A compensation, as that would put them  in a better 
position than they would  have been in if everything  had happened  as it should have done.  
Im also aware that Mr and Mrs A think Halifax misrepresented  the terms of the policy  in how 
it described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
Halifaxs statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why Halifax  
failed to act fairly and reasonably was not because of what  it did or didnt say in the 
information it provided  but because the overall  information Halifax gave Mr and Mrs A, in 
the way it did, was insufficient  to meet the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to 
expect it to have  met in 2000 when providing information about  an insurance policy. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs As representative says a court might  take 
if it were to find Halifax negligently misrepresented the contract to Mr and Mrs A and about 
the remedy a court  might award if it were to find that Halifax  had been in breach of its duty of 
utmost good  faith. But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about  what is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out, I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mr and Mrs A in a better position than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done.
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision  before  10 March  2020.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5922902