K820x#14complaint
Mr S and Miss M complain that Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold them payment  protection  
insurance (PPI) in connection  with their loan.
background
In 2002 Mr S and Miss M took out a loan with Halifax - which later became part of Bank of 
Scotland. At the same  time Mr S and Miss M took out PPI to cover  Mr Ss income and 
protect their loan payments in the event Mr S couldnt work through accident, sickness  or if 
he lost his job.
The policy cost £15.09 a month and it provided  a benefit to approximately match  Mr S and 
Miss Ms monthly  loan payments.
Upon a successful  claim the policy would have  paid out for accident or sickness  for up to 60 
months and for unemployment for up to 12 months per claim.
Mr S and Miss Ms loan and the PPI policy ended in 2003.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Mr S and Miss Ms complaint. The adjudicator said the 
evidence showed  that Mr S and Miss M chose to take out the PPI and there was nothing  to 
indicate theyd  lost out as a result.
Mr S and Miss M disagree so the complaint comes to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our approach  to handling  
complaints about  PPI on our website, and Ive taken account of whats  relevant here in 
considering this complaint.
Bank of Scotland says this was an advised  sale. So it not only had to provide Mr S and Miss 
M with enough information about  the policy  so they could make an informed decision  about 
it. It also had to ensure  the policy was right or suitable for them based on their needs and 
circumstances at the time. Ive taken this into account in my consideration of the case.
did Bank of Scotland make it clear to Mr S and Miss M that they had a choice  about 
PPI?
The PPI policy was sold in March 2002.  I dont  know what  Bank of Scotland  said to Mr S and 
Miss M but I have the application form and agreement for the loan and both show the PPI as 
optional. And Mr S has signed  a separate box on the application form to say they want  the 
PPI.
So I think it is more likely  than not Bank  of Scotland presented the policy as optional and that 
Mr S and Miss M chose  to have it. 
Ref: DRN52044952did things  happen  as they should have done  were Mr S and Miss M properly advised 
and informed?
if not  have Mr S and Miss  M lost out?
I dont know what Bank  of Scotland said or did when it recommended  the PPI to Mr S and 
Miss M. I also dont know what information  Mr S and Miss M were given about PPI. For 
example whether they were  told about the significant exclusions and limitations of cover or if 
the policys costs  and benefits were  made  clear  to them, though I can see the costs  of the 
PPI were shown separately on the credit agreement. I find it unlikely  Mr S and Miss M 
agreed to take the cover  out without knowing anything about  it, but I dont know if they 
received everything  they needed to know to allow them to make an informed decision.
So I accept  its possible that things did not happen as they should  have done  when Bank  of 
Scotland recommended to Mr S and Miss M that they take out PPI to cover  Mr S. I accept Mr 
S and Miss M may not have been treated fairly and reasonably.
But for the reasons Ive set out below, I dont think Mr S and Miss M have  lost out as a result. 
I say this because,  given  Mr S and Miss Ms circumstances  and needs  at the time, I think  the 
policy cover  for Mr S was suitable for them. And I find it unlikely that Mr S and Miss M would 
have acted differently  and not gone  ahead with the cover  if Bank  of Scotland had given them  
more information.  My reasons are as follows:
Mr S was eligible  for his cover  and all its benefits
Mr S was employed and in good health at the time,  so it doesnt appear he would 
have been affected  by any of the key exclusions  / limitations  of his cover  such  as 
existing medical condition exclusions or unusual  employment terms.
Mr S had up to 6 months  of full time sick pay entitlement  from his employer, which  
could have helped  them make  the loan payments if Mr S was off work  ill. But the 
policy would have  paid out in addition to Mr Ss sick pay and for longer  than his 
employer if necessary  up to 60 months  for accident and sickness. Mr S and Miss M 
had limited other means to help them if Mr S lost his job and the policy provided their 
repayments for up to 12 months  for each claim if he did. So I think  Mr S and Miss M 
had a need for Mr Ss cover and that it would have been  useful to them  if Mr S found 
he was unable to work. It could  have helped them financially  at what  would  be a 
difficult time.
I find it unlikely Mr S and Miss M would have agreed to something without having 
some understanding of the cost. And I think its unlikely they would have declined it 
solely on the basis of its cost had it been made  clearer  to them.  Ive already said they 
had a need for it and at approximately £15 per month it appears to have been 
affordable.
So overall, while I accept  there may have been  failings  in the way the policy  was sold and Mr 
S and Miss M may not have been treated fairly and reasonably by Bank of Scotland  in its 
dealings with them, I find theyve not lost out. This is because,  on balance, for the reasons 
Ive detailed above, I think Mr S and Miss M would have been in the same position  if Bank  of 
Scotland had done more and properly advised and informed them  - I think  they would have 
still taken out the PPI.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above Ive decided that Mr S and Miss M have not lost out as a result  
of taking out PPI with their loan, so I make  no award.
Ref: DRN52044953Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S and Miss M 
to accept or reject my decision before 10 June 2019.
Richard Hill
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5204495