K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain  that AXA Insurance UK Plc has unfairly  declined  a claim they made 
under their home insurance  policy.
background
Mr and Mrs S have  a home  insurance  policy which is underwritten by AXA. In
September 2018, Mr and Mrs S were on a boat and lost their mobile  phones  when they went  
overboard. So they claimed for the loss under  their policy.
Mrs S initially told AXA that the phones were  purchased on a business account  and were 
sometimes used for business purposes. She said that Mr S was used more  for business 
purposes, but hers was predominantly  personal use. AXA declined  both claims  saying that 
items mainly used for business or professional purposes  other than office equipment,  
arent covered under the policy. 
Mr and Mrs S complained about this to AXA. AXA responded by saying itd made  a mistake 
by not covering Mrs Ss claim, as shed made it clear on the initial  claims call that her mobile 
phone was used  mainly for personal  purposes. And it offered £100 compensation for any 
trouble and upset  caused. But it still didnt agree to pay the claim for Mr S phone  for the 
same reasons as before.
Mr and Mrs S brought their complaint to this service.  Mr S said that his wife had made a 
mistake and that his mobile phone was also used  mainly  for personal purposes.  And he said 
that his mobile  phone provider had confirmed he had a personal account, rather  than a 
business account.
But our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said that as Mrs S was a partner in the 
business, she could  be reasonably relied  upon to know how the phones were  used. So while 
Mr S said his wife had made a mistake about  this, she didnt think it was unfair for AXA to 
rely on information given in the initial claims call. 
In addition to this, our investigator found  Mr S uses the mobile number for the phone in 
question on his business website for business customers. So she thought  it more  likely than 
not Mr S phone was mainly used for business purposes.
Mr and Mrs S disagreed with this outcome. Mr S said that he hadnt  gone through his 
itemised bills, but he suspected  that when he did, there would be more personal calls on 
there. He also argued that office equipment is covered under the policy  and a mobile phone 
could fall under this category. He was given the opportunity to provide more  evidence of his 
phone usage,  but he declined. So the case has been passed to me to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint  for broadly the same reasons as our investigator 
and Ill explain why.
Ref: DRN5063619Mr and Mrs S home insurance  policy provides them with contents cover while away  from 
their home. But like all policies,  the cover is subject  to specific exclusions. And the 
exclusions for this part of the policy  are set out on page 20 of the policy  booklet. Under the 
section titled What  is not covered?  it says: Business items  items mainly used for 
business or professional purposes, other than office equipment.
AXA says that Mr S phone is used mainly for business purposes,  so its declined  the claim  
in line with the exclusion above.  What  I need to consider  is whether I think  it acted fairly by 
doing this. 
Im aware that AXA was initially  given this information from Mrs S. And as shes  a joint 
policyholder and partner in Mr S business, wouldve likely been a reliable source.  Weve  
since found that Mr S quotes his mobile  phone number on his business website  allowing 
business customers to contact him. So its clear  its used for some business  purpose. 
Mr and Mrs S were  given the opportunity to provide  us with further information about Mr S 
phone usage,  but we havent received anything more from them.  So based on the 
information available in this case, I accept AXAs findings that Mr S phone  was used more 
for business purposes. And Im satisfied that this isnt covered under the policy.  So I wont be 
asking it to pay the claim for Mr S lost mobile  phone.
Ive taken into consideration all of Mr and Mrs S comments  including  what  theyve said 
about a mobile  phone being office equipment and so should be covered. 
Under the policy, office equipment is defined  as Items of equipment  which are used in 
relation to paperwork or computer work  carried out at your home.  AXA has said that 
generally, a mobile  phone wouldnt  be considered as office  equipment  under the policy, as 
its not mainly used for paperwork or computer work  which  is what our investigator also 
explained to Mr and Mrs S. In the circumstances, I agree Mr S phone  wouldnt meet  this 
definition, so this doesnt change my conclusion.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs S complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  21 March  2019.
Rosie Osuji
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5063619