K820x#14complaint 
Ms S says she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
Its been agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL),  as the 
insurer, should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to 
FICL as the seller  in my decision.
background
In December 1998 Ms S bought the policy when she took out a credit agreement in a store 
to pay for goods she was buying. She paid a monthly amount for the policy.  
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Ms S disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion.  
Ms S mainly says that she wasnt aware that PPI had been added  to her account.  She also 
told us she had other ways to pay her account that she couldve relied on if she wasnt  
working.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Ms Ss case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Ms Ss complaint. Ill explain why.
FICL had to make it clear to Ms S that the policy was optional and get her consent before 
PPI could be applied  to the account.  
FICL has given us a copy of Ms Ss application form. The PPI was set out under a separate  
heading and it said:  If you would like cover please ensure that your instructions are clearly 
indicated by a mark in the box.
Theres an X marked in the box on Ms Ss signed application. 
Based on information  we know about the way these policies were sold at the time, I think  its 
likely there had been a discussion about  the PPI. And it looks  as if, based  on what Ms S told 
FICL, it had marked the box and Ms S had then signed the form. 
I wouldve  expected  Ms S to look over the form before signing it and I think she wouldve 
seen the PPI details as these are reasonably clearly shown on the form. If Ms S had 
changed her mind and decided  she didnt  want to take PPI she couldve asked to have the 
form changed or crossed out the X in the PPI box.  
On balance, I think it likely that FICL  made it clear that PPI was optional and Ms S agreed to 
have it knowing she had a choice, even though she may not remember  that now.  
Based on what Ive seen,  I dont  think FICL  recommended the PPI to Ms S so it didnt have 
to check it was right for her. But it did have  to give her enough clear  information so she could 
decide if she wanted to take it. 
Ref: DRN59508972Ms S was eligible for the policy. Based on what I know about  Ms Ss circumstances it looks  
like the policy couldve been  useful to her. She had up to 6 months sick pay provided by her 
employer. But the policy couldve covered her monthly repayments in the event of accident,  
sickness and unemployment for up to 12 months  per claim. So this gave her better cover.   
than she would otherwise have been  able to depend  on if she was off work  as a result  of 
illness or disability.  
Ive taken into account that there  was a possibility of discretionary  sick pay being paid. But 
Im looking  at Ms Ss contractual  entitlement  because thats all she could safely rely on 
when she took out the policy. Relying on an employer to pay sick pay when it doesn't have 
to isnt as dependable  as taking out a policy which guarantees a monthly  benefit  in the event 
of a successful claim.
The PPI also provided more dependable  cover than relying on family to help out in the event 
of money problems. And although Ms S mentioned having some  shares,  having  PPI meant 
she wasnt at risk of being forced to sell any shares   perhaps at a time not of her choosing  
when she mightnt have been  able to achieve the price she hoped  for. 
I dont know if Ms S wouldve always had savings  to rely on if she lost her income and wasnt 
able to work. And the life assurance shes mentioned was intended to provide a different sort 
of cover to this policy. Taking  out this cover to protect the monthly repayments on her credit 
agreement meant that Ms S wouldnt have to cash in her life assurance before she wanted 
to  which Ms S told us she didnt do until some years later.
So I think Ms S couldve found  the policy useful had she found herself unexpectedly out of 
work.
Its possible some information FICL  gave  Ms S about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But Ms S doesnt appear  to have been affected by any of the main things the policy  
didnt cover. So I dont think  having  more information about  policy  limitations wouldve put 
her off taking  out the PPI. 
I dont know how FICL  explained the policy costs to Ms S. But I havent  seen anything to 
suggest that the policy was unaffordable for her. And she chose to take it out when she 
didnt have to  so she seems  to have wanted it at the time,  even if shes forgotten this now. 
Looked at overall, given the benefits  this policy  offered  Ms S, I think it unlikely she wouldve 
made a different decision if better  information had been provided.  On balance I think shed 
still have taken it out. 
So, overall, I dont  think that Ms S has lost out as a result of anything  FICL did wrong. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Ms Ss complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 September  2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5950897