K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs P complained about the way UK Insurance Limited (UKI)  handled a claim made  
on their home insurance following a lightning strike  on their property.
background
Mr and Mrs Ps property  was struck  by lightning in October 2014 and they claimed  for the 
damage from UKI. It accepted the claim and appointed a loss adjuster  and several other 
contractors to handle  it. Mr and Mrs P complained about the way the repairs were  being 
handled and about delays  in carrying out the works.  UKI acknowledged there had been  
problems with the quality of the repairs and paid Mr and Mrs P £1,200  compensation in 2015 
and a further £1,500  in 2016.  In 2016 it also agreed  to reassess the electrics  at the property 
and then complete  the repairs recommended by an independent assessor. Mr and Mrs P 
asked this service to investigate their complaints  on two occasions before March 2016  and 
on both occasions  our investigator was satisfied with the actions  UKI had said theyd take to 
get things back  on track.
Mr and Mrs P werent happy  with the way UKI continued to handle  their claim after 
March 2016 and raised a number of complaints about the quality of the repairs  and delays in 
carrying out the works. Theyre  seeking reimbursement of the costs theyve incurred and 
compensation for the distress  and inconvenience  caused by UKIs poor handling of their 
claim. And they want  their property returned  to the condition it was in before the lightning 
strike. UKI issued a final response to the complaint in February 2018 and said it felt as 
though it had already responded to the issues and concerns Mr and Mrs P had raised.
Our investigator upheld  the complaint. She thought UKI should get its loss adjusters to 
inspect the property to identify  any snagging  issues and provide  a cash settlement  to allow  
Mr and Mrs P to arrange for the works to be completed themselves. She also thought UKI 
should: reimburse Mr and Mrs P for their utility  bills upon receipt  of evidence, and pay £300  
towards the cost of the gas usage;  consider  how to record the claim in the fairest way 
possible once the claim is finalised; and pay £1,000 in compensation for the distress  and 
inconvenience caused since March 2016.  UKI accepted the investigators  view but 
Mr and Mrs P didnt.  Mr and Mrs P want an independent assessor to inspect the property, 
rather than UKIs loss adjusters. They want UKI to reimburse them for the bills theyve 
already forwarded  to UKI, and they feel £2,000 would  be a more  appropriate level of 
compensation to reflect  the distress and inconvenience UKI have caused. As Mr and Mrs P 
didnt agree with the investigators  view,  the complaint has been referred to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I should say at the outset  that my decision 
focuses on events between March 2016  and February 2018. I will not revisit issues that were 
investigated and resolved  prior to March  2016, or to any events that might have arisen after 
UKI issued  its final response in February 2018.  
 
Ive looked carefully  at UKIs handling  of Mr and Mrs Ps insurance  claim to see if theyve 
been treated fairly. They raised a number of issues in their complaint but the main  areas  of 
contention are around the reimbursement of utility costs, the outstanding issue of who 
Ref: DRN50283252should carry out the snagging inspection and how much compensation UKI should pay for 
the distress and inconvenience  its caused.
Utility costs
Mr and Mrs P complain  that UKI hasnt reimbursed them  for all of the costs of their utility bills 
and council tax payments  as had been agreed. I can see that when Mr and Mrs P moved to 
alternative accommodation in February 2017  UKI agreed to cover the cost of their council 
tax for whichever property  cost the higher amount (which was the alternative 
accommodation) and the cost of any services for the insured property. UKI has paid for most  
(but not all) of the council  tax bills but there are still a number of payments outstanding, 
including water rates and gas and electricity charges. UKI has agreed to reimburse 
Mr and Mrs P for those payments when they see evidence of them and I think thats 
reasonable. Mr and Mrs P say theyve already provided UKI with some  of the relevant bills 
but have had difficulty getting  a bill for the gas usage  because  the account was temporarily 
put into the name of one of UKIs contractors. However, I understand that Mr and Mrs P now 
have evidence of the gas usage for the relevant period and can forward  that to UKI. UKI 
should then liaise with Mr and Mrs P to see what  more information it needs  before 
reimbursing them for any outstanding  utility  payments. It should also pay interest for any 
delay between receiving  that relevant information  and reimbursing them.
Ongoing repairs
Mr and Mrs P raised a number of snagging  issues when their property was handed back  to 
them in October 2017  and UKI paid for some of the worst areas  to be repaired before they 
moved back home. However,  UKI didnt  pay for all of the issues on Mr and Mrs Ps snagging 
list and it is those ongoing problems that need  to be assessed and resolved.  UKI has offered 
to appoint their loss adjusters to do that, while Mr and Mrs P would like an independent  
surveyor to assess the issues.  Mr and Mrs P have suggested using the independent 
assessor who inspected  the property and produced  a report in late 2015. As that 
independent assessor has been to the property  before and produced a report  that was 
accepted by both parties,  I think that would  be a reasonable  way forward. I can understand 
why Mr and Mrs P have lost faith with some of the contractors appointed  by UKI and both 
parties are more likely  to accept a report if its prepared by someone  independent.  UKI 
should pay for the services of the independent assessor and hopefully  both parties  will agree 
on the results of the assessment.  UKI should then make a cash  settlement for any further 
necessary works based on the estimate  provided  by the independent assessor so 
Mr and Mrs P can appoint  their own contractors to carry  out the repairs.
Compensation
Ive already said that Im not going  to revisit what happened between 2014  when  
Mr and Mrs Ps property  was struck  by lightning and March 2016, as this service has already 
considered those issues. UKI has already  made payments totalling £2,700  to reflect  the 
distress and inconvenience caused by its poor service over that period. Unfortunately,  that 
poor service continued after March 2016 and I need to consider how that affected 
Mr and Mrs P. It would be wrong  of me to ignore the fact that its now over 4 years  since 
Mr and Mrs P claimed on their home insurance and there are still issues to be resolved.
Mr and Mrs P have  said that dealing with UKI has caused them a great deal of disruption 
and inconvenience.  Theyve said its been  heart-breaking to watch what theyve built up over 
so many years being returned to them in such poor condition, and not just once but on two 
Ref: DRN50283253occasions. Theyve also said that its had an adverse impact  on Mrs Ps health and Ive seen 
a letter  from her GP which confirmed that she was being treated for low mood, anxiety and 
stress. Her GP felt that a large  proportion of Mrs Ps mental health problems related to the 
ongoing problems  with her house.  UKI has suggested that Mr and Mrs P should pursue  a 
separate liability claim if they believe their health  or wellbeing has been  affected by the way 
its handled this claim.  That is certainly  an option  open to them. However,  Mr and Mrs P 
have said they really dont want to go through  another process  and I can understand their 
reluctance to do that. And theres no reason  why I shouldnt  take the impact on Mrs Ps 
health into account when considering what level of compensation I think  would be 
appropriate in this case.
UKI agreed  in April 2016 to reassess  the electrics and complete the repairs.  The house was 
handed back to Mr and Mrs P in October 2017  and they returned to the property in 
November 2017.  Unfortunately for policyholders  this sort of claim can take a long time to 
resolve because  of the time needed to assess and carry out repairs. When  kitchen units  
have to be removed,  walls  re-plastered and floors lifted in a large  part of the property, theres  
always likely to be a lot of disruption. Notwithstanding this, I can understand why 
Mr and Mrs P are upset that the process  of repairing their property has taken so much longer  
than it needed  to. 
UKI revisited  Mr and Mrs Ps property to discuss the outstanding works in April 2016. 
Following the visit, the electrical surveyors produced a formal specification of works in 
June 2016 and a separate  firm of electrical  engineers provided a quote in late August 2016. 
In September  2016 UKI decided that re-wiring the property might  be the most economical 
way forward. Mr and Mrs P had suggested the house needed re-wiring in 2015  and were 
frustrated it had taken  UKI until now to decide  to do that. This service  considered  that point 
in April 2016 and concluded that although the electrical report  said that a re-wire would  
normally be expected  after a lightning strike, it confirmed that the current electrics were  safe.  
Our investigator therefore concluded that a re-wire wasnt necessary at that point, even if it 
should have been in the beginning. And the later decision to re-wire the property  was not 
because the electrical  surveyors  said it was necessary  but because  UKI decided it was the 
most economical way forward.  
However, its unclear  why it took so long to decide that a re-wire was necessary. 
Mr and Mrs P said things  only started to happen after they made a complaint  in 
September 2016. UKI has suggested it was because Mr and Mrs P refused to allow  the 
investigation recommended  by the electrical surveyors  to be carried  out, insisting instead on 
a full re-wire. But Ive not seen  anything to suggest  they were in any way obstructive in trying 
to get the electrical issues resolved. And, in the event, an investigation was not carried out 
and the decision  to re-wire the property was taken for economic reasons, something that UKI 
could have decided  to do earlier.  
UKI couldnt start the works until it had found alternative accommodation for Mr and Mrs P 
and although they started  looking in July 2016, that proved difficult. There  werent many 
appropriate properties available and when Mr and Mrs P found a property they were happy 
with, it was only available on an annual let and UKI wasnt prepared  to pay for a years rental 
when it thought the works would only take 3 months.  Mr and Mrs P then asked UKI to delay 
the move  to alternative  accommodation until after Christmas. They  didnt move  into the new 
accommodation until February 2017  and the works could then start. It therefore took almost 
10 months to assess the repairs  and find alternative accommodation for Mr and Mrs P. The 
evidence suggests  that UKI was trying to move things along and that some of the delay was 
caused by factors  outside of its control,  such as the unavailability of appropriate alternative 
Ref: DRN50283254accommodation. However, UKI was responsible for repairing the property as quickly  as 
possible and for finding  alternative  accommodation  and so must take responsibility for much 
of the delay in this period.   
Once the repairs began,  UKI expected them to take 3 months. But, in the end, it took over 
eight months, from February  to November 2017. Mr and Mrs P complained in July 2017  that 
although the property had been  stripped out quickly, there were no visible signs of progress 
since then and questioned how much work had been done. UKI has pointed to the fact that 
Mr and Mrs P didnt  help matters by closely monitoring the works as they progressed  and 
making suggestions and changes that delayed progress. For example, they say 
Mr and Mrs P said there was an issue with the boiler, which  UKI then had to inspect  before  
continuing with the work,  and said it found no problem with it. There  were also issues with 
the kitchen which UKI believes  could have  been  raised earlier.  UKI has also pointed out that 
Mr and Mrs P sent a large number of emails  that took time to respond to. I can understand 
why UKI found all of this frustrating but I can equally understand why Mr and Mrs P wanted 
to be closely involved in what  was happening with their house. They had already  
experienced several years of problems trying  to get their house back in the position it was in 
originally and were rightly keen to make sure that nothing would go wrong again. I dont think  
it was unreasonable for them to want to keep  a close eye on the repairs and it seems to me 
that, as the expert, UKI should have been able to handle the communication better than it 
did. From  the evidence Ive seen,  progress on the repairs was slow and while  Mr and Mrs P 
may have  contributed to the five month  delay  in completing the works on the property,  I think 
UKI has to take responsibility for the majority of that delay.
Mr and Mrs P were  always likely  to suffer a degree of stress and inconvenience  with a claim 
of this nature.  However, bearing  in mind the extent to which UKI has made  the whole 
experience worse than it needed to be over the course of the repairs,  I think  it needs  to take 
responsibility for much of the delay in resolving their claim. The impact on Mr and Mrs P has 
been significant and while UKI has agreed to pay £1,000 in compensation, I think £1,500 
more accurately reflects the distress and inconvenience caused  by the claims handling  
issues theyve experienced since March 2016.
Other issues
Mr and Mrs P are concerned  their future  insurance  premiums will be affected by the poor 
service provided by UKI and the way the claim is recorded on their claims history.  UKI has 
said it cant say how it will be recorded  until it knows the full cost of the claim. But its said 
that once the matter  is fully finalised,  itll review  the situation and look to record the claim in 
the fairest way possible  and let Mr and Mrs P know what  its done. That review  will need to 
take full account of the poor service UKI has provided through  the whole history of this claim 
and consider very carefully how to record the claim value in light of the unnecessary  costs  it 
has incurred due to its poor claims handling. Mr and Mrs P can raise a further  complaint 
about this particular issue if theyre not happy.  
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, its my final decision that the complaint is upheld and I require 
UK Insurance Limited  to:
reimburse Mr and Mrs P for the outstanding costs of the council  tax, water rates, 
electricity and gas charges on receipt of the relevant evidence,  plus 8% simple  
Ref: DRN50283255interest* if there is any delay between receipt of the relevant evidence  and making  
payment;
pay for the independent assessor noted above  to inspect the snagging issues 
identified by Mr and Mrs P;
provide a cash settlement based  on the estimate provided by the independent  
assessor to allow Mr and Mrs P to pay for any necessary repairs; 
pay £1,500  in recognition of the distress and inconvenience caused by the poor 
service they received**; and
record the claim history in the fairest way possible and notify  Mr and Mrs P once  it 
has done that.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  5 July 2019.
Richard Walker
ombudsman
*If UK Insurance Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue and Customs to take off income tax from 
any interest due to Mr and Mrs P, it should tell them how much its taken off. It should also give Mr and Mrs P a 
certificate showing this if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue and Customs if 
appropriate.
**UK Insurance Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mr and Mrs P 
accept my final decision. If it pays  later than this it must  also pay interest on the compensation from the date of 
my final decision to the date of payment at a rate of 8% simple interest a year.
Ref: DRN5028325