K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains about an over 50s personal accident insurance  policy  sold to him by Covea 
Insurance plc (Covea). References to Covea in this decision  include its agents.
Mr M is assisted in this complaint by his nephew, Mr R.
background
Mr M took out an over 50s personal  accident insurance policy in 2006. 
In April 2018, Mr R complained to Covea about  the sale of this policy. He says Mr M did not 
understand how the policy worked.  And Mr M is a vulnerable customer,  wasnt  able to make 
financial decisions like this and was struggling financially. Mr R thinks that Mr M took out this 
policy because he trusted his bank and it was his bank thatd sent the marketing pack  to him.
Covea didnt uphold  his complaint. It said it didnt give any advice to Mr M and so it was his 
decision to take out the personal accident insurance  policy. It said Mr M was given a policy 
summary with the letter which set out how the policy  worked.
So Mr R brought  his complaint to our service.  He has questioned whether Covea acted with 
reasonable care and skill in the sale of the policy given that his details were  provided by his 
bank. He also feels the bank that sent the mailing to Mr M should have some responsibility 
here. 
Our investigator considered the complaint  and didnt think  it should be upheld. He thought  it 
was made  clear that it was optional to take out the policy. The investigator explained that as 
Mr M wasnt given  advice  to take out the policy, Covea wasnt required to assess Mr Ms 
financial situation. Instead, it needed  to give Mr M enough information  about the policy  so 
that he could decide if it was right for him. And he thought the pack  gave Mr M enough  
information about what the policy covered, what the potential benefit of the policy would be if 
he made a successful claim and gave  details of the monthly premium. 
Mr R disagreed. He feels that Mr M was already in significant financial difficulties with the 
bank at the time of the mailing for this policy. And says there must be a duty of care when 
targeting individuals and refers to the banking code which says people  with financial 
difficulties should  be dealt with fairly. He feels the bank also had a part to play in this and 
shouldnt avoid any blame as it supplied the information about  who should be targeted.
The matter  has now been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where theres a dispute about  what 
happened, Ive based my decision on what I thinks more likely to have happened  in light of 
the evidence.
Although a number  of issues  have been raised,  this decision only addresses those issues 
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. However, Ive given careful 
consideration to all of the submissions made before arriving at my decision.
Ref: DRN59669462Having done so, I have to tell Mr M and Mr R that I think  the investigator has reached the 
right outcome here.  So I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint  in this matter.  Ill explain why.
I know that Mr R believes  that Mr M was persuaded to take out this policy  because  his bank 
sent them to him. But the documentation  shows that Mr M was sent a mailing  pack  and a 
partly pre-populated  application form. It appears  that Mr M filled in the rest of the application 
form completing the bank  details  for where  he wanted the monthly direct debit to be paid 
from as well as signing and dating the form. He then returned this to Covea.
I thought about  the fact that, as well as this policy, Mr M had other  health  related insurance 
policies. But I dont  think it automatically follows that this policy  was mis-sold or Covea had 
additional responsibilities as a result of this. What I need to consider in this matter is the way 
this policy  was sold to him by Covea.
I dont think Covea gave  Mr M advice about taking  out this policy. This is important because  
it means Covea didnt have to ensure  the policy was suitable  for him. It did, however, have to 
provide information  to Mr M about  the policy that was clear, fair and not misleading. This was 
so that Mr M could decide if he wanted  it, taking into account what  he knew  about the other  
policies and benefits he already had. And I think this is what it did.
I note theres also a declaration included on the short application forms which states  I 
declare that I have  read the Guide to Insurance and Personal Data section overleaf and that 
the cover  meets  my needs . This form was signed  by Mr M. 
The sales  process  involved here  a policy information pack and application sent out by post 
- wouldnt  have given  an opportunity for a discussion to take place about  Mr Ms 
circumstances. So I dont  think Covea  had detailed knowledge of Mr Ms circumstances at 
that time.  And, even though the bank  sent it to Mr M, it was acting as an agent  for Covea at 
the time and directed the marketing of these policies  to people it knew were over 50 because  
theyd had accounts with it before. I dont think itd be reasonable to say that when sending 
out marketing  material a financial business is required to check the position of each 
individual beforehand.  And, as Ive already  mentioned, I have to take into account  that 
Covea did not recommend  this policy to Mr M  he chose to take it out.
I appreciate the point  made by Mr R about Mr M being vulnerable  and struggling  financially 
when this policy was sold to him. Clearly that must have been  a difficult  time for Mr M but 
this was a situation where  Mr M responded to marketing sent out by Covea  for an insurance 
policy. I appreciate it had a monthly cost but this isnt the same as taking out a loan or credit  
card, for example,  which increases the overall indebtedness of someone already in financial 
difficulty. And I note that it could be cancelled at any time without penalty for Mr M. Even  so, 
when someone  is in financial difficulties I dont think this should automatically  exclude them 
from being told about or given the opportunity to take out an insurance policy relating to their 
health.
I am sorry  to hear that Mr M has been struggling  financially  and with his health. And Im not 
ignoring the points  Mr R has made about Mr Ms situation and the requirements  on banks to 
treat customers in financial difficulties fairly. But my role here is to consider whether Covea 
has treated Mr M unreasonably or unfairly in this matter. And I dont think  it has for the 
reasons set out above. 
While I appreciate the concerns expressed by Mr R in this matter, I dont uphold the 
complaint. I know both Mr R and Mr M will be disappointed with this outcome. But my 
Ref: DRN59669463decision brings to an end what we  in trying to informally resolve Mr Ms dispute with Covea 
 can do in this matter.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ms complaint against  Covea  Insurance  plc 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R, acting on Mr 
Ms behalf,  to accept  or reject my decision before  30 May 2019.
Rebecca Ellis
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5966946