K820x#14 
summary of complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain  that Nationwide Building  Society (Nationwide) didnt add Mrs P to 
her husbands  current  account in 2017,  prejudicing Mrs Ps position.  
background 
Mr P has a flex current account with Nationwide. Mrs P opened an individual savings 
account (ISA) with Nationwide in 2016.
Mr P asked Nationwide to add Mrs P to his flex account in May 2017. Mr and Mrs P 
completed an application form, which included information about Mrs Ps nationality (it was 
noted on the form that this question was included for regulatory purposes).  Nationwide wrote 
to Mrs P and said that it couldnt add her to the account, as its immigration checks indicated 
that she didnt  have leave to enter or remain in the UK.  
Mr P complained to Nationwide. Nationwide said it had followed correct procedure,  including  
relying on information from a checking system  called  CIFAS, which is well used and links to 
Home Office and credit  reference agency  information. Nationwide  said it hadnt unfairly 
discriminated against Mrs P as everyone  has to go through the checks. 
Mr and Mrs P werent happy  with Nationwides response and initially  complained  to our 
service in 2017. An investigator looked into the complaint  and felt that Nationwide  acted 
fairly and had carried out the necessary checks before deciding that Mrs P couldnt be added  
to Mr Ps account. 
In 2018 Mr and Mrs P applied again  to have Mrs P added to her husbands current  account. 
Their application  was successful.
Mr and Mrs P complained again to Nationwide. They thought  that as Nationwide added 
Mrs P to Mr Ps account in 2018, it should have done that in 2017,  particularly as Mrs P had 
her own ISA with Nationwide since 2016. 
Nationwide responded to Mr and Mrs Ps complaint in April 2019. It said it was satisfied it 
had acted correctly  in not adding Mrs P to the account earlier,  based  on the information it 
had received from Home  Office checks,  which it wasnt  in a position to challenge. And it said 
it was also satisfied there had been  no prejudice  to Mrs P. Nationwide confirmed that there  
were different levels of checks for current accounts compared to savings accounts,  with 
current accounts typically needing more checks. Nationwide  told Mr and Mrs P they could 
take their complaint further if they wanted. So, they complained to our service.   
An investigator considered Mr and Mrs Ps complaint and was satisfied with Nationwides  
explanation about why it had taken the approach it did. In light of that, they couldnt say that 
Nationwide should  have done anything differently.   
Mr and Mrs P didnt  agree with the investigators  view, so the matter has been passed  to me 
to decide. 
my findings
Ref: DRN57681402The rules  that our service  follows (which  are known as the DISP  rules) say that we may 
decide to dismiss a complaint if we think its appropriate to do so. One of the factors  relevant 
to whether we dismiss a complaint  is where weve already considered  a complaint about the 
same subject matter. Thats clearly the case with Mr and Mrs Ps complaint   theyre still 
unhappy with the decision that Nationwide made  in 2017. At that time,  our investigator gave 
their view of how Nationwide had handled  things and felt that Nationwide acted reasonably  
when it decided not to add Mrs P to her husbands  account. 
Mr and Mrs P say that they have new information, which  is that Mrs P had an ISA in her own 
right since  2016. So, as far as Mr and Mrs P are concerned, that in itself should  have  meant 
that Nationwide would  add Mrs P to Mr Ps account in 2017, particularly as it did so in 2018.  
For these reasons, they think we should look into that issue again. 
Ive thought about all of this and how it affects  whether I should  consider the complaint  now. 
Having done so, Im not minded to exercise my power to dismiss the complaint. I think it 
would be helpful  for Mr and Mrs P to have a decision that addresses their key concerns  and 
the information to which  theyve referred.  
I dont consider the fact Mrs P had an ISA in her own right is new information. I say that 
because Nationwide  would  have known about the ISA from 2016 when it considered Mr Ps 
request in 2017, given that the account  was already  up and running by that point.  In any 
event, Ive seen  Nationwides  response in relation  to what  happened in 2017, which says 
that the checks it carried out for current accounts were  different from savings  accounts  
checks because savings  accounts dont include the ability to arrange a credit  facility. I dont 
think that response appears  unreasonable given that different types of accounts do have 
different features attached  to them. 
Part of the reason for Mr and Mrs Ps ongoing concern is because they say Nationwide 
relied on Home Office information that wasnt right. So, Ive thought about this. 
Im aware that banks  and building societies have  responsibilities under the Immigration  Act 
2014 (updated  in 2016) to ensure  that applicants for current  accounts have the required  
leave to enter or remain in the UK. If an applicant doesnt have the required immigration 
status, they might be considered a disqualified person. And the Immigration Act 2014  
prevents financial  businesses from opening  current accounts for disqualified persons or 
adding them to existing  accounts, so its important  that financial  businesses perform the right 
checks.
According to the Financial  Conduct  Authority (FCA) guidance, to ensure theyre complying 
with the law, financial businesses can carry out immigration status checks.  And these checks  
typically involve a search of the CIFAS  database,  which accesses information from the 
Home Offices database amongst other sources. Where the checks indicate that the 
applicant might be a disqualified person  they should let the Home  Office know. And if the 
Home Office confirms that the person is a disqualified person the financial business  should 
let the applicant know. From 2018, theres also a requirement to carry out periodic 
immigration checks on existing accounts. 
So, taking account  of the legal requirements for financial businesses  along with their 
responsibilities under the other guidance Ive mentioned, I dont think Nationwide  has done 
anything wrong  in carrying out the checks that it did and in informing  Mr and Mrs P of the 
outcome. And whilst I appreciate that Mr and Mrs P dont think  the Home Offices information  
was right,  I think Nationwide was entitled  to rely on it when  carrying out its initial  checks to 
Ref: DRN57681403decide whether  Mrs P should be added to Mr Ps account. I say that because CIFAS 
appears to be a standard tool used by financial businesses when carrying  out immigration 
checks. 
But that said, I did think about whether Nationwide could have done  anything more, such  as 
ask Mrs P for clarification  or verification of her immigration status when Mr and Mrs P 
challenged Nationwides decision.  Mr P seems to think that Nationwide was wrong not to 
have done this. But Im not persuaded that it should  have done.  I say that because I dont 
think its Nationwides role to gather and interpret evidence relating to a persons immigration 
status. Instead, Nationwide along  with other financial businesses relies  on CIFAS checks, 
which access information from the Home Offices  records. And when that information raises 
queries about  whether the applicant has the required leave to enter or remain  in the UK, it 
seems reasonable  that the financial business would refer the applicant  to the Home Office to 
address any anomalies.  Nationwide  did that - and I cant  say it was wrong to have  done  so. 
Overall, Im satisfied that Nationwides decision in 2017 appeared reasonable in light of its 
legal and regulatory responsibilities;  the checks it carried out and the results it received. 
And so, it follows that I cant say Nationwide has prejudiced Mrs P. 
Nationwide was satisfied  in 2018  that it was able to fully verify Mrs Ps identity and 
immigration status (and added her to her husbands  account as a result).  And Mr and Mrs P 
again feel that that means Nationwides decision in 2017 was wrong. I dont agree. I think it 
was simply the case that the outcome of its checks in 2018  were different to 2017.  And it 
was that that ultimately meant Nationwide felt able to add Mrs P to Mr Ps account. 
For all of the reasons  Ive outlined, I wont be upholding this complaint.  
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs P might be unhappy  with my decision,  but I hope  they 
understand the reasons  for it. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  by 6 August 2020.
Amanda Scott
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN5768140