K820x#14complaint
Miss S is unhappy with the valuation esure Insurance Limited has made  of her car in a claim 
on her motor insurance policy. 
background
Miss S car was written off. She says esure only offered her £4,760 when  the car was worth 
£7,998. Shes also unhappy that it reduced  what she was paid by 20% because the car had 
previously been  written off. 
Our investigator felt this complaint  shouldnt be upheld.  She said:
Esure revised its original valuation and agreed  to use the highest of a number of 
guide prices of £5,950. It also said it would deduct 20% as the car had previously 
been a write  off.
Having checked  the trade guides this valuation is fair and represents the cars market 
value. Its also reasonable for esure  to deduct 20% as the fact the car was previously 
written off would affect its value. 
Miss S also complains that esure  shouldnt  have disposed  of her car but as it says 
when it pays out under  a total loss the car becomes  its property. Thats  set out in the 
terms and conditions  of the policy.
Miss S says shes  finding it hard to get a suitable  replacement car. But that isnt 
esures fault. Its made the settlement offer in line with the trade guide prices.  Its 
settled the claim reasonably and she will not be asking  it to increase its offer.
Miss S remains unhappy and has asked for an ombudsman review. She says esure never 
negotiated and she wasnt told the car would be sold.  
   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the investigators conclusions for the same reasons.
Miss S policy says esure  will settle the claim by paying her the market value of her car at the 
time of loss. But that sum isnt necessarily the same  amount that she bought the car for or 
the cost to her of actually replacing  it. 
We dont provide a precise valuation of a car. We consider  if the offer being made is 
reasonable. We normally base this on the various  trade guides  and we will also look at any 
other evidence produced  including adverts. But I place most weight on the values  in the 
main trade guides as theyre based  on likely  selling  prices  rather than advertised prices,  
which allow  a margin for negotiation.
Trade guide prices  are by their very nature averages  and variations in actual figures may 
occur from place to place. Nevertheless  I think its fair and reasonable to use them to assess 
esures offer. 
Ref: DRN50783162In this case its clear esure agreed  to use the highest  trade guide valuation  it obtained of 
£5,950. Thats fair.
It was also fair for it to take into account the effect  the car having  previously been a total loss 
may have  had on the saleability of the car and its value. I think  a 20% deduction for that is 
reasonable. 
Taking everything into account,  although  Im aware of Miss S frustration, I dont think I can 
reasonably require esure to increase its valuation or pay any more  to her as shed like.
The policy terms and conditions also make  clear that esure becomes the owner of the car 
when it pays out on the total loss claim. As a result I think it was entitled  to sell the car once 
it had paid Miss S and wasnt obliged to tell her it was doing so. 
Overall I think  esures acted fairly and reasonably and in line with the policys  terms and 
conditions. And I dont see any compelling  reason  to change the proposed  outcome  in this 
case.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 November 2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN5078316