K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (MPPI) policy  taken out in 
2010. Mrs and Mr T say Vernon Building Society (VBS) mis-sold this cover  to them.
background
I issued a provisional decision (summary attached) in November 2019,  setting  out why I 
thought the complaint should  be upheld.  And  I asked both parties to provide any further  
submissions or information  to me within one month. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
I have looked  carefully  at the response sent in by VBS. However, Im afraid  much  of it is 
merely repeated information which it relied  upon  prior to me issuing my provisional decision. 
Essentially what VBS is saying is that Mrs and Mr T had the opportunity to tell the VBS 
adviser about Mr Ts self-employment  during the course of the MPPI sale.  It implies he must 
have provided  incorrect  information about his employment type.
Given that VBS already had a plethora  of documents, covering many  years,  which all point 
to Mr T being self-employed, I doubt  this. But VBSs response also misses an important and 
obvious point.  It carried out an advised sale and so the responsibility  was firmly on it to 
make sure the information it provided was clear,  fair and not misleading   and that the cover  
was suitable for Mrs and Mr Ts circumstances.  VBS failed on both fronts.
As I previously explained in my provisional  decision,  this MPPI wasnt  suitable. Mr T was 
self-employed and I can see his occupation  was recorded on the mortgage  application  forms 
he and Mrs T signed over a number  of years, all with VBS. Any reasonable and diligent 
check would  have therefore quickly exposed this and so VBSs MPPI sales practices in this 
case fell short of what was required. 
The policy rules defining  being unemployed said the following events needed to happen for 
a claim to be made: the business  or partnership in which you were self-employed  has 
stopped trading permanently and is being  or has been wound  up, or is in the hands of a 
liquidator, or has been dissolved. This means that to claim for being  unemployed Mr T 
needed to permanently end his business; a business hed been in for many  years.  
I have previously explained that this wouldnt have allowed Mr T to maintain  trading  
relationships in a downturn or to keep his business  going until in such a position to begin  
working again. In short,  it was a very high step for Mr T to reach in comparison  with other 
types of employee.  So Im upholding the complaint.
what VBS should do to put matters right 
VBS should  put Mrs and Mr T in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt taken out MPPI. 
It should:
Pay Mrs and Mr T the amount they paid each month for the MPPI.
Ref: DRN55756822Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back.  The 
rate of interest is 8% a year .
If Mrs and Mr T made  a successful claim under the MPPI policy, VBS can take off what  
they got for the claim  from the amount it owes them. 
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires  VBS to take off tax from this interest. It must  give Mrs and Mr T a certificate  
showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
my final decision
I uphold Mrs and Mr Ts complaint and require  Vernon Building  Society  to pay the 
compensation as outlined  above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service I am required to ask Mrs and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  4 January  2020.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN55756823summary  provisional  decision
complaint
This complaint is about  a mortgage payment protection insurance  (MPPI) policy taken  out in 2010. 
Mrs and Mr T say Vernon  Building Society (VBS) mis-sold this cover to them.
background
One of our adjudicators  has looked into this complaint  and said they didnt think it should be upheld. 
Mrs and Mr T have  disagreed  with this and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of 
PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Having done this, I am considering upholding the complaint.
Having looked carefully at what Mrs and Mr T say about not ever knowing they had MPPI, Im afraid  I 
disagree with this. I think the evidence  shows, quite strongly,  that they did agree.
However, the crux of this complaint relates to Mr Ts employment situation. He was the only one 
covered by the MPPI and VBS agrees  it provided an advised sale when he took the policy out.
Mr T was self-employed and I can see his occupation  is recorded  on the mortgage application forms 
he and Mrs T signed over a number of years,  when they borrowed money from VBS. But the MPPI 
had certain  rules which applied to self-employed  people and I dont think these  were pointed  out at 
the time of the sale.  Neither do I think this particular MPPI  cover to have been suitable  for Mr T.
I say this because policy rules defining  being unemployed  said the following  events  needed to 
happen: the business  or partnership in which you were self-employed has stopped trading  
permanently and is being or has been wound up, or is in the hands of a liquidator, or has been 
dissolved.
This effectively means that to claim  for being unemployed Mr T needed  to permanently end his 
business; a business hed been in for many years. It wouldnt have allowed him to maintain trading  
relationships in a downturn or to keep his business going until in such a position to begin  working 
again. In short, it was a very serious step for Mr T to reach in comparison with other types of 
employee.
VBS had a duty to point these important conditions  out and highlight in what  respects the policy might 
not be suitable for someone in his position. I think if hed realised this, Mr T wouldnt have bought the 
policy. He and Mrs T would have considered it very poor value for money.
Its for this reason that I think the complaint  should be upheld.
my provisional  decision
Im currently  intending to uphold  Mrs and Mr Ts complaint and direct Vernon Building Society to pay 
the compensation as outlined above . 
I now ask if either party wants to say anything  more  they should  send in any arguments or evidence  
before 8 December 2019. Alternatively, if Vernon Building Society wants to settle the matter, it can let 
us know.
Ref: DRN5575682