K820x#14complaint
Ms S says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold her a payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy.  
background and summary to complaint
Ms S bought the policy  in December 2001  at the same time as taking out a credit  card.  She 
applied for the credit  card and PPI policy  through  the post. 
At the time,  Ms S was employed  as a care assistant. She has told us she was entitled to no 
sick or redundancy  pay and didnt have any other means of repaying her credit  card should 
she be unable to work. Ms S has said she had an operation in 1988. We asked for more  
information about this, but Ms S did not respond.
The policy provided  cover  for accident, sickness, unemployment and life  subject to its 
exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay  5% of Ms Ss credit  card balance  in the event 
of a successful claim for up to 12 months, after which it would pay off the outstanding  
balance. At the time, it cost no more  than 79p per £100 of the monthly outstanding balance. 
The premium would  continue to have to be paid during a successful claim and it did attract  
interest. 
Lloyds has sent us screenshots to show that the credit card account closed in 2005.
Ms Ss representative has made lengthy  and substantial  representations on her behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Ms Ss representative says:
Lloyds failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time.  In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Ms S wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Ms Ss 
representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Lloyds should have 
told Ms S about the poor value;
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Lloyds should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Ms S and the impact 
they would  have had on her chances  of making  a claim; and
The information Ms S received was misleading.  These policies were promoted  as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue. 
Ref: DRN54776932Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Ms S disagreed with the adjudicators opinion for 
several reasons.  
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations 
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account: relevant 
law and regulations;  relevant  regulators  rules,  guidance and standards; relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Ms Ss. I dont intend  to set that out in 
much detail here, but Ive taken this into account in deciding Ms Ss complaint.
This sale took place  in 2001 before the sale of general insurance products like this became 
regulated by the FSA in January 2005.  So, the FSAs and the FCAs overarching principles 
for businesses and insurance  conduct rules (ICOB and ICOBS) are not applicable to this 
complaint; nor is the FCAs Perimeter Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2005. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgement in Plevin about 
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgement, arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance 
Code for private  customers   the GISC Code. 
This sale was made during a period  of industry  self-regulation by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC).  It published the GISC Code, which  set out minimum standards  of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling  insurance, including  PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
Lloyds, selling insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
Ref: DRN54776933The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
While not all intermediaries  who sold PPI at the time were a member of the ABI or GISC, I 
consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Lloyds  at the time. So, Im satisfied I should take these codes into 
account when  deciding, what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable in the circumstances of 
Ms Ss case.
I have also taken account of relevant law in reaching  my decision, including: the law relating 
to negligence, misrepresentation and contract (including the express and implied  duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
I am also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first 
issued by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating to the 
sale of PPI. This sale took place before insurance mediation became a regulated  activity,  so 
Lloyds was required to take into account the provisions in DISP  App 3 as if they were 
guidance when  considering Ms Ss complaint. 
key questions  
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all circumstances of this 
complaint, are:
-If Lloyds gave advice,  whether  it advised Ms S with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for her, given her needs 
and circumstances.  
-Whether Lloyds gave Ms S sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable 
her to make an informed choice about  whether to take out the policy,  including  
drawing to her attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading  way  
the main provisions of the policy and significant  limitations and exclusions.  
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Ms S, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Ms S suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Ms S and 
Lloyds, Ive decided  not to uphold  Ms Ss complaint.  Ive set out my reasoning  below. 
Ref: DRN54776934did Ms S know she had a choice?
Lloyds had to make it clear that the PPI policy was optional. 
Ms S ticked a box on her credit card application  form to specifically indicate that she wanted  
the PPI. There was another box she couldve ticked to decline PPI, and it was clear that it 
was up to her to decide.
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Ms S knew  the policy  was optional 
and she agreed  to take it out without undue pressure.  
did Lloyds provide  advice?
Both Lloyds  and Ms S agree that advice  wasnt provided during this sale. 
This means  Lloyds didnt  have to check if the PPI was suitable for Ms S. Instead,  it had to 
give her sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable  Ms S to make an informed 
choice about whether  to take out the policy, including drawing to her attention and 
highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading  way  the main provisions of the policy and 
significant limitations and exclusions. 
the information
Lloyds has provided  us with Ms Ss application form  showing that PPI had been selected. 
It has also referred us to a copy of the paperwork it says she wouldve received, including  
the policy terms and conditions  which I accept on a balance  of probabilities  applied to 
policies like Ms Ss. 
Looking at the documentation provided to Ms S at the time, I dont think Lloyds gave Ms S 
the information she fairly and reasonably needed to make an informed decision about 
whether or not to take out the policy. 
This sale took place  by post. I can see the application form described the PPI policy as 
providing cover against accident, sickness and unemployment. 
The information provided would have given Ms S a broad sense of what  the policy  covered. 
But it was Lloydss responsibility to draw to Ms Ss attention the important information   i.e. 
the key information about the nature of the cover and any significant  exclusions and 
limitations which might be relevant to her decision. 
Im not persuaded Lloyds did enough  to do this. For example, I dont think the true cost of 
the policy was made  clear  to Ms S, including the need to maintain premiums during a claim 
or that the payments would attract interest. In addition,  I cant  see that Lloyds adequately 
drew to her attention  the main  provisions of the policy and significant limitations and 
exclusions. 
So, I dont think Lloyds  gave Ms S sufficient, appropriate and timely information  to enable 
her to make an informed choice about  whether to take out the policy,  including  drawing her 
attention to and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main provisions of 
the policy and significant limitations and exclusions.  
Ref: DRN54776935I have considered how my findings interact with the FCAs list of significant  failings  in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded that there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Ms Ss representative has raised  a number 
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Ms Ss. Ive considered 
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Ms Ss representative considers to be poor  
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
-the common law duty of utmost good  faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Ms S about the limitations and exclusions,  it should have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to her. 
Im not persuaded by Ms Ss representatives  views  on this. The duty of utmost  good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Ms S has suggested.  And taking  into account the law, industry codes and standards  of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that Lloyds ought  to have done either.
what effect did Lloydss shortcomings have on Ms S? To what extent did Ms S suffer 
loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that Lloyds  didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy to Ms S. So, 
Ive gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude  Ms S suffered 
loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide whether  or not Ms S would have 
still taken out the policy,  had Lloyds  done things properly. 
Ms S says she wouldnt  have taken  it out and believes that I should presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. 
As this was a non-advised sale, Ms S had to weigh up in her own mind the cost of the policy 
against the benefits offered and the potential consequences if she didnt insure against the 
risk of being  unable  to work. 
As Ive found above, Ms S chose to take this policy out. So, I consider that its reasonable to 
conclude she had some  interest in the benefits offered by this type of insurance. But she 
made this decision  based  on incomplete information. So, what  Ms S thought she was getting 
is not exactly what she got. The extent to which this differed is a relevant consideration when 
determining if Ms S has suffered any loss or detriment. 
In relation to the costs, Im satisfied Ms S ought reasonably  to have known she would have 
to pay something for the PPI and that it would cover  a portion of her outstanding balance   
this was set out on the application form. But, I accept that Lloyds didnt make clear the on-
going cost information. So, while Ms S didnt know some things, the ultimate position in the 
Ref: DRN54776936event of a successful claim was not dissimilar  to what she would reasonably have thought  
from the information she based her decision to take out the policy  on and found acceptable. 
Possibly the most significant differences between what Ms S thought she had bought and 
what she actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded for the first 12 months  any claims relating to medical conditions 
or symptoms that Ms S knew  about or ought  to have  known about before the start 
date of the policy; 
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Ms S 
wasnt a permanent employee.
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Ms S be unable to 
do her own job or any paid work which her experience, education or training 
reasonably qualified her to do. 
I do accept that there is a possibility the limitations  and exclusions above  might well have 
caused Ms S pause for thought  and may well have caused her to conclude that the policy  
was not as good as she thought, and she might have decided not to proceed. The limitations 
on the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might  have dissuaded  
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Ms S from taking out the policy.  
But the evidence  about Ms Ss circumstances at the time of sale shows  that the policy wasnt  
fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. She was eligible for its benefits and it provided 
cover that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable  to her should  the 
insured risks have  become a reality. Although Ms S says she had an operation sometime 
before the policy was taken out and the policy wouldnt have  provided  cover had she needed 
time off work because  of any underlying condition that led to the operation within the first 12 
months of the policy, I dont think better  information  about this exclusion would have put her 
off agreeing to it. I say this because Ms S told Lloyds that she was in good health at the time 
she took out the PPI. And theres nothing to suggest  any underlying condition was ongoing. 
And I havent seen  any evidence  to suggest  she wouldve been caught by any of the other 
significant exclusions. So, I still think she had some good reasons to take the policy out.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Ms S would have 
expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some  evidence to 
support that claim.
If Ms S had known she could only claim for disability  if she was unable to do both her job 
and or any paid work which  her experience, education or training reasonably qualified her to 
do, it might  have played into her thinking  about  what she would have  done.  And I accept it 
may have  given her pause for thought   although  its possible she may not have been overly 
concerned given that if Ms S was unable (through  disability) to carry on her own occupation  
the chances that she would be able to take up a similar occupation would also,  in all 
probability, be limited.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not that Ms S would still have taken out the PPI. The policy was sufficiently close to 
what she thought  she was getting, and I think the policy  could provide a useful benefit in a 
Ref: DRN54776937difficult time, notwithstanding her employment  benefits. And in those circumstances I 
consider it more likely  than not that she would have taken out the policy  in any event.  
Ms Ss representatives say the rules about how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration, so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
I have thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, I have found  it would be reasonable to conclude  there  
were substantial flaws  in the sales  process.  In those  circumstances, DISP App 3 says it 
should be presumed Ms S would not have bought the PPI she bought  unless, in the 
particular circumstances  of the complaint, there is evidence to rebut the presumption. 
I am satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude  the presumption  is rebutted 
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Ms Ss 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Ms S 
found herself in as a result of the sale was the same position  she would have been in had 
the breach or significant  failings not occurred. 
Ms S believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws  in the sales  process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including her own comments  that she would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I dont  consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Ms S in the position she would have been in if she had 
not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that she would not have taken out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that she would still have 
taken out the PPI had she been  given clear,  fair and not misleading  information about the 
policy she was buying. So, Im not persuaded it would  be fair and reasonable in those  
circumstances, to conclude Lloyds should pay Ms S compensation, as that would put her in 
a better  position than she would have been in if everything had happened  as it should have 
done. 
Im also aware that Ms S thinks  Lloyds  misrepresented the terms of the policy  in how it 
described the PPI. While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
Lloydss statements misrepresented the contract,  in my opinion  the reason why Lloyds failed 
to act fairly  and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  Lloyds gave Ms S, in the way it did, was 
insufficient to meet  the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to have met in 
2001when providing information  about an insurance  policy. 
Ref: DRN54776938Ive also thought about the approach Ms Ss representative says a court  might  take if it were  
to find Lloyds negligently misrepresented the contract to Ms S and about the remedy a court  
might award if it were  to find that Lloyds had been in breach of its duty of utmost good  faith.  
But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what  is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Ms S in a better  position  than if everything had happened as it should  
have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 April 2021.
Phillip Lai-Fang
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5477693