K820x#14complaint
Miss P says Santander  UK Plc mis-sold her a payment  protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Miss P bought  the policy  in 2004  sometime after taking out a mortgage. She applied for the 
mortgage and PPI policy in branch. 
The policy provided  cover  for Miss P for unemployment  subject to its exclusions and 
limitations. It offered  to repay  £335 a month towards Miss Ps mortgage balance  in the event 
of a successful claim. At the time,  it cost £14.41  a month. 
At the time,  Miss P was employed  as a receptionist. She has told us she was entitled to at 
least six months full sick pay, redundancy pay and death in service  benefit from her 
employer. Miss P also says she had life and critical illness cover. Miss P has said she was in 
good health at the time of the sale. 
Santander has sent us screenshots to show that the mortgage account  closed in 2005.
Miss Ps representative has made lengthy  and substantial  representations on her behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Miss Ps representative says:
Santander failed  to meet the sales standards which applied at the time.  In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Miss P wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Miss Ps 
representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Santander should 
have told Miss P about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Santander should have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Miss P and the 
impact they would have had on her chances of making a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
The information Miss P received was misleading. These  policies were promoted  as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Ref: DRN56304212Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  Miss P disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
for several  reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Miss Ps. I dont  intend  to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss Ps complaint.
This sale took place  in 2004 before the sale of general insurance products like this became 
regulated by the FSA in January 2005.  So the FSAs and the FCAs overarching principles 
for businesses and insurance  conduct rules (ICOB and ICOBS) are not applicable to this 
complaint; nor is the FCAs Perimeter Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2005. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance 
Code for private  customers   the GISC Code. 
This sale was made during a period  of industry  self-regulation by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC).  It published the GISC Code, which  set out minimum standards  of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling  insurance, including  PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
Santander, selling insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
Ref: DRN56304213The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
While not all intermediaries  who sold PPI at the time were a member of the ABI or GISC, I 
consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Santander at the time. So Im satisfied I should take these codes  into 
account when  deciding, what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable in the circumstances of 
Miss Ps case.
There was also the Mortgage Code which was a voluntary code followed by subscribing 
lenders and mortgage intermediaries. While predominantly about  mortgage related matters, 
it also included some insurance related commitments. 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Santander was required to take into account the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were 
guidance when  considering Miss Ps complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If Santander gave  advice, whether it advised Miss P with reasonable care and skill  
in particular, whether  the policy was appropriate or suitable for her, given her needs 
and circumstances.  
-Whether Santander gave Miss P sufficient,  appropriate and timely information to 
enable her to make  an informed choice  about whether to take out the policy,  
including drawing  to her attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading 
way  the main  provisions  of the policy and significant limitations and exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Miss P, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Miss P suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Miss P and 
Santander, Ive decided not to uphold Miss Ps complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below. 
Ref: DRN56304214did Miss P know she had a choice?
Santander had to make it clear that the PPI policy was optional.  
The sale took place  a long time ago, so neither party has been able to provide the point of 
sale documentation. Because  of this, I need  to think about what was more  likely to have 
happened when  the PPI was sold. 
Ive seen a copy  of a PPI application form Santander says was used  around  the time 
Miss Ps policy was sold. There are boxes  to select a type and amount of cover  and the 
customer would have  needed to sign the application  form for the selections  to be applied to 
their account. Weve seen  a number of similar sales from around the same period and this is 
consistent with our knowledge of how Santander  sold PPI. 
Ive also considered that Miss P already  held her mortgage for around three years before the 
PPI was added.  Because of this, I think Miss P would have known she didnt have to have 
PPI and I would have expected her to query the additional cost if she wasnt expecting any 
additional charges. 
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Miss P knew the policy  was 
optional and she agreed to take it out without undue  pressure. 
did Santander provide advice?
Santander says advice was provided  during this sale.  Miss P says it wasnt,  but as giving  
advice puts more responsibility  on Santander,  Ive considered the case  on the basis that 
advice was given.
This means  Santander  had to advise Miss P with reasonable care and skill, in particular 
whether the policy  was appropriate or suitable  given her needs and circumstances.
the advice
I dont know what steps Santander took to establish whether the policy  was a suitable 
recommendation for Miss P. It seems Miss P cant remember  clearly  what  happened  and 
there is no record of what the adviser discussed  in relation to the policy.  This is unsurprising  
in respect of a sale during a meeting. The adviser had some limited  information about 
Miss Ps financial circumstances, but there  is no specific  evidence  to show  the adviser took 
steps to establish whether Miss P would have  been  caught by the significant exclusions and 
limitations which might have meant the policy did not fully meet her needs.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded Santander did all it should have 
done to determine whether the policy was suitable for Miss P given her circumstances. So 
Im not persuaded Santander  advised  with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded Santander did all it should  have done  to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Miss P, I do think its more likely than not that the policy was ultimately suitable 
for her. In reaching  that conclusion Ive taken  into consideration:
-Miss P met the eligibility  criteria  for the policy.
Ref: DRN56304215-Miss P had a need for the policy  it seems  likely  that Miss Ps ability  to continue  to 
meet her mortgage repayments would have  been  put under strain  if Miss P was not 
working for an extended period  of time  even allowing for the employee benefits  she 
says she would  have  been entitled to.
-The monthly cost of the policy appears  to have  been affordable for Miss P.
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Miss P. There  
was nothing about Miss Ps employment  or occupation which would have made  it 
difficult for her to claim.
-While  the policy would  only pay benefits  for a maximum of 12 months for each claim 
for unemployment, it still provided useful cover given  Miss Ps circumstances.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Santander  gave Miss P sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable her to understand what  
Santander was recommending to her and make  an informed decision about whether to 
follow that advice  and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Miss P was given a broad description  of what the 
policy was intended  to cover (that is that the policy would protect her payments if Miss P was 
unable to work through unemployment and of the approximate  costs. I have reached this 
conclusion because I think  its unlikely  Miss P would have taken out the policy without any 
sense of what the policy was for and of how much  the premium  might be.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Santander  gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost or about  the exclusions or 
limitations before Miss P agreed to take out the policy. 
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Miss P Im not persuaded Santander 
did enough to present  information about  the policy it was recommending in a way that was 
fair and reasonable to her. Im not persuaded Santander gave Miss P all of the information  
she needed about the policy to make an informed decision about whether to follow  the 
recommendation and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Miss Ps representative has raised  a number 
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Miss Ps. Ive considered 
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Miss Ps representative considers to be poor  
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
Ref: DRN56304216-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Miss P about the limitations and exclusions,  it should  have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to her. 
Im not persuaded by Miss Ps representatives  views on this. The duty of utmost good faith 
in insurance law imposed  a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose material facts and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Miss P has suggested.  And taking  into account the law, industry codes and standards of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that Santander ought to have done  either.  
what effect did Santanders shortcomings  have on Miss  P? To what extent did Miss P 
suffer loss or damage  as a result?
Ive found that Santander  didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy  to Miss P. 
So I have  gone  on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Miss P 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not Miss P 
would have still taken  out the policy, had Santander  done things  properly. 
While Im not persuaded Santander took the steps  it should have done to establish  whether 
the policy it recommended was suitable  for Miss P, I have found that the policy was 
ultimately suitable for her.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Miss P has suffered loss or 
damage in this case primarily depends  on whether, if Santander had explained things 
properly, Miss P would  have acted differently, or whether she would have taken out the 
policy in any event.
Miss P says she wouldnt  have taken  it out and believes  I should  presume this to be the case 
given the significant failings identified  above.  Ive considered  the representations of both 
sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Miss P had some interest in taking out payment 
protection insurance. By this I mean  when Santander advised her that there was a suitable  
product she could buy that would protect  her mortgage payments in the event she was 
unable to work because of unemployment,  she concluded she wanted  that product. But she 
made that decision based on incomplete  information, meaning what she thought she was 
getting is not exactly what she got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Miss Ps circumstances  at the 
time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her.
Ref: DRN56304217Although I consider it more likely than not that Miss P knew  she would  have to pay 
something for the policy, it doesnt appear Santander told her the exact premium  at the point 
Miss P applied for the policy. Having said that, it seems likely Miss P would have been  told 
the cost before the policy started and she paid for the policy for several months,  so if the 
costs were significantly at odds with their expectations at the point  of sale, its possible she 
might have raised that with Santander at the time, or reconsidered her decision.
Overall, Im not persuaded Miss P would have found the cost unacceptable if she had been 
given the exact figure during the meeting in which she agreed  to the policy.
In addition, Im not persuaded  Santander made  clear exactly  what  Miss P would get back  in 
return in the event she made a successful claim. But I think  its unlikely Miss Ps 
expectations about what the policy would  pay in the event of a claim (an amount sufficient to 
meet her mortgage  payment) was significantly different to what the policy actually did.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Miss P thought she had bought and 
what she actually bought were the following:
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Miss P 
wasnt a permanent employee;
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Miss P pause for thought  and may well have caused her to conclude  the policy  wasnt  as 
good as she thought and she might have decided not to proceed. The limitations on the 
cover, when  coupled  with the other shortcomings in this sale, might  have  dissuaded some  
consumers in slightly different circumstances from Miss P from taking out the policy.  
But, the evidence  about Miss Ps circumstances at the time of sale shows  that the policy 
wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. Miss P was eligible for its benefits and it 
provided cover that, despite its limitations  and exclusions, couldve proved  valuable to her 
should the insured risks have become a reality. I also havent seen any evidence to suggest 
Miss P wouldve been caught by any of the significant exclusions  Miss P was in permanent 
employment. So, I still think  she had some good  reasons  to take the policy out.
Santander may not have told Miss P that any claim she made would  be limited to a 12-
month period.  This may have differed from what she expected and might have hoped for  
but 12 months was likely a longer period than Miss P would have received redundancy pay 
after just two years service with her employer.
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Miss P would still have thought a policy that paid 
up to 12 monthly mortgage  payments would have  been of benefit to her and would help her 
manage the consequences  should  Miss P be unable to work in the circumstances covered 
by the policy.  The policy allowed for multiple  claims to be made, it could help reduce her 
outgoings at a difficult and uncertain time,  ensure her home  was not placed at risk and might 
potentially help preserve  Miss Ps redundancy money for other use.
Ref: DRN56304218Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Miss P would still have taken out the policy. The policy  was suitable for her, was 
sufficiently close to what its likely she thought she was getting  and provided benefits that 
would help her manage  the consequences  if Miss P was made  redundant. In the 
circumstances I consider it more likely than not Miss P would have taken out the policy in 
any event notwithstanding  the limitations on cover.
Miss Ps representatives say the rules about  how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Miss P would not have bought the PPI she bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Miss Ps 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Miss P 
found herself in as a result of the sale was the same position  she would have been in had 
the breach or significant  failings not occurred. 
Miss P believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws  in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including her own comments  that she would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Miss P in the position she would have been in if she had 
not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that she would not have taken out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that she would still have 
taken out the PPI had she been  given clear,  fair and not misleading  information about the 
policy she was buying. So Im not persuaded it would  be fair and reasonable in those  
circumstances, to conclude Santander  should  pay Miss P compensation, as that would put 
her in a better position than she would have  been  in if everything had happened as it should 
have done. 
Ref: DRN56304219Im also aware that Miss P thinks Santander misrepresented the terms of the policy in how it 
described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
Santanders statements  misrepresented  the contract, in my opinion  the reason  why 
Santander failed  to act fairly and reasonably was not because  of what it did or didnt say in 
the information it provided  but because the overall information Santander gave Miss P, in 
the way it did, was insufficient  to meet the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to 
expect it to have  met in 2004 when providing information about  an insurance policy. 
Ive also thought about the approach Miss Ps representative says a court  might  take if it 
were to find Santander negligently misrepresented the contract to Miss P and about the 
remedy a court might award if it were to find that Santander had been in breach of its duty of 
utmost good  faith. But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about  what is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Miss P in a better position  than if everything had 
happened as it should have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 August 2021.
Hanna Johnson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5630421