K821x#15complaint
Mrs M has complained about how Royal & Sun Alliance  Insurance  Plc (RSA) have dealt 
with her home insurance claim  following flood damage at her property. She doesnt feel the 
cash settlement offer is fair, and shes unhappy  with the length of time its taken to settle  her 
claim. 
background
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in May 2020 explaining that I was intending 
to uphold Mrs Ms complaint. 
Heres what I said in my provisional decision:
background
In June 2016 Mrs M made a claim for flood damage  under  her buildings  insurance 
policy. RSA accepted the claim and Mrs Ms furniture was put in storage. The 
property flooded again in September 2016  and the new damage from that flood was 
also considered  under the June 2016 claim.  During this time Mrs M hasnt had use of 
her living room or her furniture, which remains in storage
In early 2017, while carrying out insurance related repairs,  RSAs contractors 
identified a number  of issues with the property which they believed pre-dated  the 
flood. These  included wall plaster which had started to bubble  and blow at the ceiling 
level, which they said was caused by faulty workmanship of the building  of the 
extension. They also identified rotting  joists  under  the kitchen floorboards, and issues  
with the guttering. 
Mrs M had the joists and the guttering repaired by August 2017. RSA then arranged  
another site visit in September  2017 and said that Mrs M had other uninsured work 
that needed to be sorted  out before the insured works could be completed.  Mrs M 
was offered a cash settlement which she declined on the basis  that she wanted the 
works to be completed  by RSAs contractor. 
In September  2017, Mrs M brought her first complaint to our service about how RSA 
was handling  her claim. While our investigator  looked into her complaint, RSA 
continued to move matters forward. 
In January 2018 RSAs contractor reported high moisture readings at the property 
and RSA arranged  for a drainage expert,  who Ill call A, to investigate the moisture  
and damp  issues further. Prior to As inspection of the property in February 2018, Mrs 
M had aco-drainage installed  at the property.  
A inspected  the property  and reported  to RSA that although aco-drainage had been  
installed, the entire rear elevation of the extension had severe damp  within the 
plaster from floor to ceiling and they had concerns with the roof. They  highlighted that 
the entire rear patio  was at least 300mm above  the original rear elevation of the 
property which breached the damp proof course. And they concluded that building 
issues, arising from poor installation of the building works, were more  likely to be the 
cause of damage than any drainage issues.
Ref: DRN53699962In March 2018 Mrs M had new doors, windows and roof installed in the conservatory 
(described in the reports as the rear extension) to address the pre-existing issues. 
However, RSA still declined to complete the outstanding insured repairs at the 
property as they couldnt guarantee the works.
In March 2018, our investigator, who was considering the first complaint that was 
brought to us, awarded £1,000 compensation for the delays, distress and 
inconvenience Mrs M had suffered up to that point  in time. This was accepted by 
both parties. He also asked RSA to raise a new complaint  for the outstanding 
concerns Mrs M had about  the repair of the insured damage.  In March 2018,  RSA 
issued a new final response letter to Mrs M  and thats the complaint Im considering 
here
Ive set out the timeline of events above,  to provide context for the conclusions Im 
intending to reach in this provisional decision. However, I wont  be awarding Mrs M 
compensation for any delays, distress or inconvenience she suffered prior to March  
2018, because  thats already been dealt  with by our service under the case first 
brought to us.
In July 2018 RSA offered Mrs M a cash  settlement  of £809 to cover the cost of 
underlay and the cost to fit the flooring (that had already been supplied). RSA 
believed the other issues  had been  resolved. Mrs M disagreed and obtained  two 
quotations in August  2018 for approximately £2,700 and £3,900.  RSA didnt  accept 
these quotations  as they felt works  had been  included which  had already been  
carried out. So, Mrs M then referred her complaint to our service in August 2018.
Mrs M told our investigator shed installed the aco-drainage around the property and 
had replaced the roof, door and windows in the conservatory, so RSA could complete 
the insured works. But RSA declined to do so as their contractors said, due to the 
remaining damp issues, they couldnt  guarantee the repairs.
While investigating Mrs Ms complaint, our investigator realised that Mrs Ms and 
RSAs accounts  of the state of the property were different. So, after some further 
discussions, in June 2019, RSA agreed  to arrange for an independent  inspection  of 
the property to be completed, to itemise  the outstanding insurance-related works. 
The resulting  report gave a cost of £3,382  for RSA to complete the works.  And based  
on the recommendations in the report, RSA offered Mrs M a cash  settlement of 
£3,382 for the insurance-related  work.  
Mrs M didnt  accept that offer. She said the money wasnt  enough  to put her back  in 
the position she was in before the flood. She provided RSA a quotation  from a local 
builder for £5,400  to complete the work. 
Our investigator attempted to negotiate a resolution  between the parties,  and RSA 
agreed to offer £1,000  compensation  for the delays, (if that would resolve the 
complaint), £3,382 for the outstanding work  and an additional four to six weeks  of 
storage costs while the works were  being  completed. At that point in time, RSA said 
theyd incurred significant costs for storing  Mrs Ms furniture.  However,  Mrs M didnt 
agree to RSAs  offer. Our investigator then issued her view upholding the complaint 
in October 2019.  RSA didnt accept the view, so the matter has been passed to me 
for a decision. 
Ref: DRN53699963my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to provisionally decide  
whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not in dispute  that damage  was caused to Mrs Ms property by two floods which 
occurred in June  and September 2016. Its also not in dispute  that Mrs Ms policy  
provides cover for this under certain circumstances. So, there are three issues  which 
remain for me to decide:
Is RSAs decision to decline to cover some  of the damage at Mrs Ms property 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances? 
Is RSAs cash settlement offer enough  to settle the claim?
Has RSA caused Mrs M additional  distress and inconvenience in the way its 
handled her claim? 
Damage excluded from Mrs Ms claim
Mrs Ms insurance policy only covers damage  caused by specific events listed  in the 
policy terms and conditions. One of those events  is flood.  So, RSA has agreed to 
cover the damage  caused to Mrs Ms property  by the floods which occurred in June 
and September  2016. However,  while carrying out repairs  to the property, RSAs 
contractors uncovered issues which they believed  werent caused  by the floods. 
RSAs loss adjuster  attended the property  on several occasions  to verify which parts  
of the damage  related to the insured works  and which parts of the property had been 
damaged as a result  of pre-existing issues with the property.  In response to 
information provided to her by RSA, Mrs M replaced  rotted  floor joists, had guttering  
repaired and installed aco-drainage around the rear of the property. In February  
2018, RSA sent a drainage expert to the property to clarify the nature of the 
outstanding issues.  They said that despite  the works Mrs M had carried  out, there 
were still issues  affecting the property  that needed  to be resolved before the insured 
works were completed. RSAs contractors  said that if those works  werent  done,  they 
couldnt guarantee the insured works  they completed at the property. They believed 
the existing issues  would  impact on any insured works completed. In March  2018, 
Mrs M replaced  the roof, doors and windows of her conservatory
RSAs drainage consultants have said theres  damp  throughout the entire rear 
elevation, which they consider is due to poor installation of the building  works. 
Theyve also noted that the rear extension  and rear patio were built well above the 
damp proof course which  breached  all the damp  proofing of that part of the property. 
And theyve  provided  a report  setting out their conclusions which are, in my view,  
supported by the findings and evidence included  in the report. 
Ref: DRN53699964But Mrs M, remains of the view that all the damage  to the property should be 
repaired to settle  her insurance  claim.  However,  while shes  provided photographs, 
shes provided no other evidence to support  her position, such as a technical report. I 
acknowledge that Mrs M has carried out a number of repairs  to the property, but the 
inspection completed  by the drainage  consultants, was done  after the majority of 
those repairs were  completed, and their report highlighted additional works that 
needed to be done. As the insured party under the insurance policy,  the onus here is 
on Mrs M to show, its more likely  than not, that all the issues  that need addressing 
are due to the flood.  And having carefully considered  all the available evidence, Im 
not persuaded shes done so. 
However, if RSA were to repair the insured damage, theyd  need  to provide a repair  
that would  last for an appropriate amount of time. This is the key issue in dispute  
here. It seems that if the additional  non-insured works arent carried  out a lasting  and 
effective repair wont be achieved by RSAs contractors. 
So, what  I need to consider is whether its fair and reasonable for RSA to carry out 
the additional works needed to address the defects in the property that would prevent 
its contractors from achieving  a lasting and effective repair. It seems to me that the 
potential costs involved in addressing  the existing issues, (including lowering the 
patio and rear extension so they sit below the damp proof course),  are likely to 
significantly exceed the cost of carrying out the remainder of the insured works. 
Having carefully considered this issue, Im not currently persuaded that it would be 
fair to require RSA to incur the substantial additional  costs  to rectify the existing 
defects in the property.  So, Im currently of the view that RSAs decision to make  Mrs 
M a cash settlement  offer, rather than complete  the insured works, is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
settlement offer
RSA has made Mrs M an offer of £3,382 to settle her claim.  However,  Mrs M says 
that this sum isnt enough to enable  her to have the works completed.  
Our investigator asked  RSA to explain the difference in the quotation provided by Mrs 
M (£5,400.00) and the amount theyd  offered to cover the outstanding works 
(£3,382.00). They clarified that the works were substantially the same; the difference  
in cost was due to RSAs  contractor rates. 
The policy terms and conditions say that RSA can choose to make a cash settlement 
instead of offering to repair the damage, through  a preferred supplier. They  also say 
that if RSA offer a cash settlement, that payment would usually be for the amount 
theyd have paid their preferred supplier. So, under  the policy  terms, RSA isnt 
required to pay Mrs M more than it would have paid its own contractors. 
However, given RSA isnt offering its contractor to complete the repairs, it follows that 
its not fair or reasonable to limit the settlement to what its liability amount  would  be if 
it was offering this settlement route.
I appreciate there are wider circumstances here that explain why RSA isnt prepared  
to do the works, and these circumstances arent of RSAs making. But nonetheless, 
RSA needs make a settlement offer that gives Mrs M the opportunity to return her 
Ref: DRN53699965property to the condition it was in prior to the flooding  and its current  offer does not 
do that.
Therefore, Im currently  of the view that RSA should pay Mrs M the £5,400  shes  
been quoted by a local contractor to settle her claim.
Im also aware that there are storage costs  being  incurred by RSA, while the repairs 
remain incomplete. So, this does need to be resolved within  a reasonable time. 
There are also complicating factors arising from the restrictions currently  in place due 
to the Covid-19 pandemic. Im currently minded to require RSA to continue to meet 
the costs for storing Mrs Ms furniture for a reasonable further period of time, while 
the works  are completed. I understand that the works will take approximately four 
weeks to complete, and I also understand that Mrs M has spoken to the local 
contractor about  when he would be available to do the works. She was told that hell 
contact her when the lockdown is lifted to arrange a date to come and complete the 
works, and his quotation will remain the same  until September 2020. 
So, Im currently minded to require  RSA to continue paying the furniture storage 
costs, for a further  four weeks  from the date that the local contractor starts the works 
to repair  the remaining insurance-related damage at the property.
The handling  of Mrs Ms claim by RSA
Mrs M has also complained about  the time it has taken RSA to settle her claim.  Shes  
explained that she cares  for a daughter who has a disability, and theyve had the 
discomfit of living with bare floors, and without much of their furniture, for a number of 
years. 
In considering whether compensation should  be paid to Mrs M for the distress  and 
inconvenience shes suffered, Ive considered the events from March  2018. 
RSA initially offered a £809 cash settlement in July 2018, and following a complaint 
to our service, this offer was significantly increased  in July 2019  to £3,382. It follows 
that the initial offer wasnt fair and led to about  a years delay. I also intend  to decide 
its revised offer wasnt fair, and still didnt  take account of the cost to Mrs M of having  
the outstanding works  completed. This has led to a further ten-month delay.
Having said that, there  are issues at Mrs Ms home that should be addressed  by her 
before the insured works  are completed  and these issues havent yet been 
addressed. So, Im not persuaded  that I can fairly decide RSA is responsible  for all 
the distress and inconvenience  Mrs M suffered  during this period. But I am satisfied 
that a further period of time has passed when the delays in settling Mrs Ms claim 
have continued  to cause her upset due to not having  the use of her living room 
because of the bare floors, and not having  the use of her furniture  which is in 
storage. Mrs M also tells us that shes suffered from increasing stress the longer the 
matter has remained unresolved. Taking everything  into account, including Mrs Ms 
personal circumstances, Im currently of the view that RSA should pay Mrs M a 
further £1,500 for the distress and inconvenience shes  suffered as a result of the 
further delays  in settling her claim.  
Finally, I need to make Mrs M aware  that if she decides not to address the other issues  
at her property which have been  highlighted  to her by RSA,  she may not be covered by 
Ref: DRN53699966her insurance policy in the future, should  she have a reason to make a claim for damage  
to her property.
I said I was intending  to uphold the complaint  and direct RSA to pay Mrs M £5,400 to settle 
her claim together with £1,500  compensation for the distress and inconvenience shed 
suffered as a result  of the way theyd handled  the claim, and pay the continuing cost of 
storing her furniture, up to four weeks from when her local contractor  starts  the works  to 
repair the insured  damage at her property.
I asked both parties to send me any further comments  and information they wanted me to 
consider before I reached a final decision.
RSA accepted my provisional decision.  They also asked that the works be completed  within  
a reasonable timescale, to ensure that RSA doesnt have an ongoing liability to pay the 
furniture storage costs.  
Mrs M provided  a detailed response, accepting some of my findings, but commenting that 
she didnt feel compensation of £1,500 was enough to make  up for the stress shed suffered 
during RSAs handling of her claim. To summarise,  she said:
Shes happy with the suggestion to award her chosen builder  the full estimated price 
amounting to £5,400;
She doesnt recall  a second flood occurring  in September  2016, and if there  was a 
second flood,  it should have been  covered by a second claim;
Shes concerned  that the contents may not be returned in a satisfactory condition  or 
be re-assembled on return;
Four weeks may not be sufficient  time,  once the builder has his full team available, 
due to shortage of supply in materials from builders merchants;  and
She feels that the compensation  amount of £1,500 should be increased  to take 
account of a number of matters including that:
oshe felt discriminated against on the basis of her age; 
oshe believes RSA and Cunningham Lindsey arranged  visits  and compiled 
reports on the property  without  her consent; 
oshe says RSA didnt  compensate  her for having  to change her locks; and 
oshe added that RSA failed to notify her of the risk of not being  covered by her 
policy if she didnt fix the existing  issues at the property.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
In my provisional decision I said that it was accepted that two floods had occurred.  However, 
Mrs M says she wasnt aware of a second  flood, and if one had occurred, a second  claim 
ought to have been raised.
As the flood took place four years ago, its understandable that Mrs M doesnt recall  the 
exact details surrounding the event. In cases like this, where events took place several  years  
ago, I base my findings on what I think most likely happened. On the one hand, Mrs M 
doesnt recall a second flood taking place, however, the contemporaneous  evidence  of 
RSAs contact log records that Mrs M phoned on 16 September 2016 to inform  them  of a 
flood that had happened the previous night. The contact log also records that as no further 
Ref: DRN53699967damaged had appeared to be caused,  a new claim wasnt required, and Mrs M also didnt 
need to pay a second excess. So, taking everything into account, I remain  of the view that a 
second flood did take place in September 2016.
Mrs M has expressed concern that her furniture  may not be returned from storage in its 
original condition and might not be reassembled  by RSAs contractors. However, it is 
standard practice in the industry, that where  furniture had to be taken apart, for transfer to 
storage, it will be reassembled  on its return. If Mrs M has any concerns  about the condition 
of her furniture once its been  returned, then she can make a new complaint to RSA about 
that.
Mrs M has also expressed  concern  that four weeks may not be long enough for the builder  
to carry out the works at the property as there may be shortages of materials and other 
delays caused  by the covid19 quarantine circumstances.  However, I note that two months 
have passed since my provisional  decision  was issued and the lockdown restrictions  have 
significantly eased during that time.  I also have  to bear in mind that it wouldnt be reasonable 
to require RSA to cover the costs of storing  the furniture indefinitely.  Mrs M has advised  that 
her builder is available to start work  on August 17, 2020, subject to a deposit being paid. So, 
on reflection, Ive decided that RSA should  cover furniture storage costs for a further four 
weeks from when they receive notice from Mrs M that the contractor has started work at the 
property. I would expect  works to start within two months of Mrs M confirming her 
acceptance of this final decision,  so that RSA would  be required to cover the costs of 
storage for a maximum of three months  from that date. 
Mrs M has also submitted a number of reasons as to why she believes the compensation of 
£1,500 should be increased,  for the way she and her daughter  have suffered as a result of 
the way RSA have handled her claim. Ive carefully considered  Mrs Ms reasons; however, 
Ive already taken  account of many of the issues that shes  highlighted, including  the 
inconvenience to herself and her daughter, of living in an unfinished house, and the 
inconvenience and cost of having to replace her locks. Some  of the other points Mrs M has 
made, for example, her view that RSA and Cunningham Lindsey  sent contractors to the 
property to carry out inspections without her consent, and her feeling that theyve acted in a 
discriminatory way towards her, arent supported by the available  evidence  on the case  file. I 
also have to bear in mind  that Mrs Ms delays in attending to some of the damage at the 
property which wasnt covered by the insurance  policy, have also contributed to the overall 
delay in settling  the claim.  So, taking everything into account I remain of the view that RSA 
should pay Mrs M £1,500  for the distress  and inconvenience shes suffered as a result of the 
way theyve dealt  with her claim.
Finally, Ive thought  about Mrs Ms concern that RSA havent notified  her that she might  not 
be covered for similar events if she doesnt address  the existing ongoing issues with her 
property. However, I would like to explain that its the responsibility of a policyholder to 
maintain their property  and deal with any known issues.  If the property owner doesnt resolve 
known issues with their property, an insurer may be able to validly decline a related claim 
under the terms  of the policy. This isnt something I would expect RSA to specifically 
highlight to Mrs M, because it is a common expectation across  the insurance  industry.  And 
its also clearly  set out in the conditions and exclusions section of the policy document  
which says:
Your duty to prevent loss or damage
Ref: DRN53699968The insured  must take all reasonable  steps  to prevent loss of or damage to property 
which is insured under  this contract and to maintain such  property  in a sound  
condition. 
So, I dont think RSA have done  anything wrong  by not specifically notifying Mrs M of this, 
aside from providing  her with a copy of the policy terms and conditions.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I require Royal  and Sun Alliance 
Insurance Plc to pay Mrs M:
£5,400 to settle  her claim;
£1500 to compensate Mrs M for the distress and inconvenience shes  suffered as a 
result of the way it has dealt with her claim; and
the continuing cost of storing her furniture, up to four weeks  from when they receive 
notification from Mrs M that the local contractor  has started the works to repair the 
insured damage at her property, and up to a maximum of three months from when Mrs 
M confirms  that she has accepted this final decision. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 September 2020.
Carolyn Harwood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5369996