K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M complained that they were mis-sold two mortgage payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policies  by Bank of Scotland plc, trading  as Halifax (BoS).
background
Ive attached my provisional decision from February 2019, which forms part of this final 
decision. In my provisional  decision I explained  why I didnt propose to uphold  Mr and Mrs 
Ms complaint. I invited  BoS and Mr and Mrs M to send  in any further comments  or evidence 
they wanted me to consider by 19 March 2019, before I reached a final decision.  BoS didnt 
send in a response, but Mr and Mrs M did, and I have considered this below. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Mr and Mrs M said that they were not informed in 1996 that the policy was optional, and said 
that to their knowledge  BoS had not provided any evidence that they were  given  a choice. 
They further said they were told that the policy was needed for the mortgage,  so that they 
could secure the purchase of their new property,  and that BoS was aware that Mr and Mrs M 
were under pressure from the builder to secure the mortgage quickly.
With regard to the sale of the second policy in 2002, Mr and Mrs M said that the benefits of 
the policy were not discussed or explained  to them, and if they had been it would have been 
obvious that there was no need for this insurance  as it duplicated cover Mr M had in place 
from his employer. Again, they said, they had not been made aware of any evidence  from 
BoS that this was not the case. 
Ive considered these  points  very carefully.  But having looked  at all of the evidence  again, I 
can see that Mr and Mrs M have largely  reiterated  what they said when they first submitted 
the complaint  to us. 
With regard to the first sale,  in 1996, I said in my provisional decision that I accept I cant  
know how the PPI was presented by the adviser, as the sale took place in a meeting. 
However, I also said that Mr M (the insured) signed  a section of the mortgage application to 
say he wanted  PPI, and also signed a separate application form for the policy.  Theres  
nothing on the documentation to suggest  that the policy was compulsory, and I think Mr M 
could most  likely have  chosen  not to sign the paperwork if he didnt want  it. I also took into 
account that Mr and Mrs M were advised  to take out the PPI, so its possible that they have 
misremembered this recommendation as a requirement to have  the PPI  and Im conscious 
that the sale took place over 22 years ago, and memories fade with time. 
Overall, I dont  think I can fairly say that it is most likely that Mr and Mrs M were  told they had 
to take out the policy, which is what I must  be able to do before I can uphold  their complaint 
on this point. I simply do not have enough  evidence that this is what happened.
Turning to the sale in 2002, I explained in my provisional decision that the circumstances 
were less clear, and therefore I had taken into account what we knew  about similar sales  at 
around the same time as well as the limited evidence I did have. Mr and Mrs Ms main  point  
in relation to this policy was that it duplicated  cover Mr M had from his employer. I appreciate  
Ref: DRN58760942that Mr M said he had good  employee  benefits  but this policy couldve paid out for up to 24 
months, so for longer  that Mr M said he wouldve been entitled to sick pay. And had Mr M 
lost his job, the evidence suggests  that Mr and Mrs Ms savings were  relatively  limited,  so 
overall  as I explained - I thought it was reasonable for BoS to have recommended  the 
second policy. 
Overall, having considered Mr and Mrs Ms representations very carefully,  Im not satisfied 
that they are sufficient  to change my earlier  conclusions. So although I understand  that this 
will come as a disappointment to Mr and Mrs M, I dont uphold  their complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  14 July 2019.
Jan Ferrari
ombudsman
Ref: DRN58760943COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr and Mrs M complained that they were  mis-sold two mortgage  payment protection insurance  (PPI) 
policies by Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax  (BoS).
background
Mr and Mrs M bought the first PPI policy when they applied for a mortgage in October  1996. BoS said 
that the PPI sale took place in a meeting and that it advised Mr and Mrs M to take out the policy.  Mr 
and Mrs M agreed, but said they werent  given a choice about taking the policy  and didnt  need it as 
Mr M had good sick pay at the time of the sale. 
This PPI policy provided  disability and unemployment cover for Mr M at a monthly  cost of £29.88 (it 
appears that Mrs M wasnt eligible for the cover in 1996). The monthly benefit was £600. If Mr M had 
made a successful claim, the policy wouldve  paid out for up to 12 months per claim.
In January 2002 Mr and Mrs M made a change to their mortgage in terms of transferring to a 
discounted interest rate, and at the same  time the mortgage  conditions were updated. At this point the 
PPI product also changed   BoS said the initial policy  was cancelled, and a new one taken  out. Mr 
and Mrs Ms recollection is that it was simply  a change to the product provider,  and that they were 
again not given a choice  about continuing the cover. 
The second  policy was part of a package of cover called  Total Mortgage  Protection Plan (TMPP).  
Each element of the plan had a separate cost, and different combinations of cover were available 
(including life and critical illness cover, although BoS said Mr and Mrs M did not take out those types 
of cover). Mr and Mrs M had, and have  complained  about, the PPI elements  of the cover (disability 
and unemployment)  so this decision only refers to those. 
This second PPI policy provided disability  and unemployment cover  again  for Mr M - at a monthly  
cost of £25.16. The monthly benefit was £415.46. If Mr M had made  a successful claim,  the policy 
wouldve paid out for up to 24 months per claim.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs M disagreed,  and asked that it be referred  to 
an ombudsman for review.  
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of 
PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ms case.
Im not proposing to uphold  Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. Ill explain why.
BoS sent in copies of its computer records of Mr and Mrs Ms mortgage account, and the two PPI 
polices. For the 1996 sale, it also provided  copies  of the mortgage and PPI application forms and the 
customer factfind.  For the 2002 sale, it sent in copies of letters about the change  of mortgage product,  
and the signed agreement to the change of mortgage  conditions. BoS could not provide  a copy of an 
application for the second policy. So for this sale I have also taken into account  what  we know about  
other BoS sales of this type at around the same  time. 
Looking at the 1996 sale first, I accept that as the PPI was sold during a meeting, I cant  know how 
the adviser might  have explained the PPI. But I can see that Mr M (as the insured) signed  a section of 
the mortgage application to say he wanted PPI, and also signed a separate application form for the 
PPI (which included the monthly cost and benefit amounts). 
Ref: DRN58760944Ive considered what Mr and Mrs M said about being led to believe that they had to take out the policy 
to be able to borrow the amount that they were  applying  for. However, the mortgage application 
shows that they were planning to borrow less than 60% of the purchase price of their new house,  and 
the amount involved was not excessively high relative to their incomes.  Im satisfied that BoS advised  
Mr and Mrs M to take out the policy. So its possible  that what  they remember  as a requirement to 
take the policy  was, instead,  a recommendation  that they should  take it. Having reviewed  all of the 
evidence, I dont  consider that theres enough  for me to say its more likely than not that they werent 
given a choice about taking the PPI. 
As BoS advised Mr and Mrs M to take out the policy, it shouldve made  sure it was suitable for Mr M 
(as the insured). On balance, I think it was.
As Ive said,  I cant know  how the adviser explained the PPI - especially the things not covered.  But I 
cant see that Mr M wouldve  been affected by any of these. 
Mr M said he wouldve been  entitled  to 12 months full sick pay from his employer,  and that he and 
Mrs M had savings  they couldve relied on (the factfind from the point of sale shows the amount  it 
was equivalent to between  three and four months salary).
I accept that Mr M said he had good employee  benefits.  But I think  Mr and Mrs M could reasonably 
have wanted to protect an important  commitment that was secured  on their home. So I think they 
wouldve considered it important to make sure they could meet the repayments. And Ive kept in mind 
that the policy  couldve paid out for up to 12 months (in addition to Mr Ms sick pay) in the event of a 
successful claim   and for redundancy  as well as accident or sickness.  So overall I dont think BoS 
did anything wrong in recommending the PPI. 
Ive thought about the information Mr and Mrs M were  given. As Ive said the application form showed 
the cost and benefit, and Ive no evidence to suggest that cost was an issue.  
On balance, although I cant say for certain that BoS clearly explained  all of the policy details, I think 
Mr and Mrs M would still have bought the policy. For the reasons Ive set out, I think  it couldve 
provided useful protection if Mr M had been unable to work. This means I dont think the PPI was mis-
sold.
Turning to the second  policy sold in 2002, the circumstances of the sale are not entirely clear   BoS 
and Mr and Mrs M disagree  about what happened. However, the computer records that BoS sent in 
show that the first policy  was cancelled and a new one set up. 
BoS could not provide a copy of an application form for this second policy, so I have considered the 
evidence we do have,  along  with what we know  about similar BoS sales from around the same time. 
Again, Mr and Mrs M said that they werent  given a choice about taking the PPI, and believed it to be 
part of the mortgage conditions. As it seems to have been sold during  a meeting, I cant  know how the 
adviser might have explained it. But I think that the PPI is likely to have been discussed with Mr and 
Mrs M to some  degree to determine that cover was only required for Mr M rather than both of them.  
And Ive kept in mind  that BoS said Mr and Mrs M were  advised to take the cover.
I have no evidence from the point of sale to say that the PPI was compulsory, and taking account  of 
the information provided  here, and what we know about similar sales, I have no reason  to think that 
the PPI was presented as being so. So on balance, I think its most  likely that Mr and Mrs M were 
given a choice about the second policy  and decided  to take it.
Mr M said his sick pay, and his and Mrs Ms level of savings, were  broadly similar to what they were  in 
1996. My view that Mr and Mrs M could  reasonably have wanted to protect  an important commitment 
stands for this second  sale. And this policy couldve paid out for up to 24 months (again in addition  to 
Ref: DRN58760945Mr Ms sick pay) in the event  of a successful claim. So again  I dont think BoS did anything  wrong in 
recommending the PPI. 
Ive also thought  about  the information Mr and Mrs M might have been given in 2002. I have a quote 
for the new mortgage product, showing a PPI premium. But this was higher than the actual premium 
Mr and Mrs M paid.  So its not clear  how and when the cost of the PPI was disclosed, but again  Ive 
no evidence to suggest  that cost was an issue. So, as with the first policy,  although I cant say for 
certain that BoS clearly  explained all of the policy details, I think  Mr and Mrs M would  still have bought 
it given that it provided  protection if Mr M couldnt work. So I dont think  the second  policy was mis-
sold.
Because I dont think either policy  was mis-sold, BoS doesnt need to refund everything Mr and Mrs M 
paid for them. But BoS has already offered to give Mr and Mrs M back some  of the cost of the PPI. I 
dont think it needs to do anything more. 
I understand BoS has already paid this to Mr and Mrs M.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im not proposing  to uphold  Mr and Mrs Ms complain
Jan Ferrari
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5876094