K820x#14complaint
Miss D complains that Volkswagen Financial Services  (UK) Limited (VWFS), trading as 
Audi Finance, made a mistake when processing  a lump sum payment to her finance 
agreement.
background
Miss D took receipt of a new car in February 2016. She financed the deal through  a hire 
purchase agreement  with VWFS. In July 2018 she contacted VWFS and told them she 
wanted to make a lump  sum payment of £10,000 with the aim of reducing her monthly 
instalments.
VWFS made a mistake  when processing  this payment and £10,000  was added to her 
balance. They said that in order to rectify the problem they would need to reload the 
agreement but that theyd  therefore need  to do a further credit  check  at that point. 
Miss D was disappointed that this would be necessary. She thought  the credit check  would 
show on her credit file and was concerned it may be damaging.  VWFS offered her £150  to 
compensate her for the mistake theyd made  but they explained they could not rectify  the 
error without  reloading  the agreement and that they were  therefore obligated to carry out a 
check at that point.
So Miss D referred her complaint to this service and our adjudicator  provided  his opinion. He 
spoke with VWFS and they confirmed that although a credit  check would be necessary it 
would have a very minimal effect on Miss Ds credit file. They said it would be removed once 
the search had been made  and approved  and this could be as quickly as the next day. So 
the adjudicator  thought that although  VWFSs  error had been  distressing to Miss D the 
impact would be limited. He therefore  thought  VWFSs offer of £150 compensation was 
reasonable in the circumstances.
Miss D didnt think VWFS had gone far enough. She said that as the file hadnt been 
corrected she was still receiving requests for payment and she said the experience  had been 
very distressing. She thought £150 compensation was an insult and she therefore asked for 
a final decision by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicators view.  I know that will disappoint Miss D so please let me 
explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Ref: DRN55821352Miss D acquired her car under a hire purchase  agreement. The hire purchase agreement  is 
a regulated consumer  credit agreement and as a result  our service is able to look into 
complaints about  it.
I can understand Miss Ds frustration  about  VWFSs mistake.  Shes  explained that she was 
trying to reduce  her debt ahead of a mortgage  application and I can understand that the 
need for a further credit  check  to be reported  on her file would have been distressing.
But VWFS have explained that the only way they have to rectify  the mistake  is to reload the 
agreement. In those circumstances I can understand that they will be obligated to perform a 
further credit  check. They also explained  that the check  would be removed as soon as the 
search was complete and that would  be in a very short time frame. 
I understand that Miss D is now in the process of handing the car back  and the agreement 
was never  reloaded and the credit  check didnt happen. So I dont need  to consider what 
would happen  if the credit check  failed  as that will no longer be necessary.
I do need to consider what  compensation VWFS should pay Miss D because  its clear  their 
mistake has caused some  distress and inconvenience. But I think  £150 is a reasonable level 
of compensation  in all the circumstances, whilst Miss D has had to deal with letters asking 
for payment, I think its clear she hasnt been  financially disadvantaged  and Im persuaded 
that if a credit check was required  it would have cleared quickly.
I understand that whilst  this complaint  has been on going there have  been  additional 
problems with a balloon payment being  taken without apparent authority. I believe that 
complaint is being  considered by VWFS  so its not something Ive commented on in this 
decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint in part and tell Volkswagen 
Financial Services (UK) Limited to pay Miss D £150 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience their actions have caused;  unless theyve already  done so. They should also 
ensure that they havent made any adverse reports to Miss Ds credit file in relation to the 
mistake they made. If they have they should  remove them.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 June 2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5582135