K820x#14complaint
Mr E is represented. His representative  says his complaint is about unsuitable investment 
advice from Santander  UK Plc in 2007  and 2008. Santander asserted that the complaint 
about the advice in 2007 is out of time.  This service issued a jurisdiction  decision  which  
concluded that the complaint is in time.
background
In 2007:
Mr E was 71 years old and retired.
Santander recommended  his investment of £30,000 in a Multi Manager Balanced 
Fund (MMBF)  £23,000 in a Direct Share Investment Account (DSIA) and £7,000 in 
a Stocks and Shares  Individual Savings Account  (ISA). Evidence suggests  this fund 
was tailored to a medium risk profile.
In 2008: 
Mr E closed  the MMBF around  January  he surrendered the DSIA and transferred 
the ISA to another provider.
Around June,  Mr E returned to Santander  to invest £17,000 in a 3.5 years  fixed term 
Guaranteed Growth Plan (GGP).
Santander says it cannot provide point of advice documentation for the MMBF investment,  
but it has provided fact find, recommendation and product related documentation for the 
GGP investment. The 2008 fact find and recommendation documentation, which appears to 
have been signed by Mr E at the time,  includes the following information:
Mr E was 72 and had around  four years experience in equity  based  investments; he 
was retired and owned his home outright; and he had surplus/disposable  monthly 
income (featuring his pension).
He had ISAs, purchased annuities and other investment(s).
The other investment(s) was for the objective  of capital growth  and it had a total 
value (at the time) of £150,000. 
His total savings  and investments were valued at around £230,000 and he sought  to 
invest £17,000 for capital  growth, for less than five years and on a risk-averse basis.
He had a cash reserve  of around  £50,000 after the GGP investment.  
Mr Es representative says the investments  were  unsuitable mainly because  the MMBF was 
too risky for his inexperienced investor profile  in 2007 (especially given his age and retired 
status) and that he was wrongly advised to invest too much in it; with regards to the GGP it 
mainly says that the investment wrongly extended his overexposure to investments at the 
time and that a more suitable alternative (perhaps  based on a deposit  arrangement) should 
have been recommended  to him.
Santanders position is that both the MMBF and the GGP were suitable for Mr E and that 
documentary evidence  for the GGP  shows that its capital guaranteed and minimum (and 
prospective) growth features matched his profile and objective in 2008.
One of our investigators  looked into the complaint  and concluded that it should not be 
upheld. Mr Es representative disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
Ref: DRN55076442my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The MMBF  investment
Mr Es representative objected to the investigators  view that, in the absence  of advice 
related evidence from 2007, he could  not safely conclude that this investment was 
unsuitable for Mr E. The representative said the investigator should not confine himself to 
whether (or not) the alleged  unsuitability  was certain  and that this service  can determine the 
matter on the balance of probabilities. I agree, it is indeed our approach  to determine 
disputed matters on the balance of probabilities, however there remains a need for sufficient  
evidence in order to do so  which, it appears, is the point the investigator sought  to make.
The representatives initial  argument about  the MMBF consuming the majority of Mr Es 
assets in 2007 was revised to assert that it over exposed him (or extended his over 
exposure) to risk based investments. There is no evidence about what  was discussed  in 
2007 about his investment exposure, objective  or risk profile.  However, evidence  from 2008 
suggests that he already had a significant amount of his assets  most or all of the £150,000 
in other investment  exposed to investments and that he already had four years worth of 
experience (that is, three  years worth in 2007) in equity based investments.  
Evidence from the 2008 fact find shows Mr E had over £50,000  cash  in current  and instant 
access bank accounts. He realised around £21,000 from surrendering the DSIA  in January 
that year, so even if this formed a part of the £50,000 the remainder of almost £30,000 would 
appear to have been pre-existing  and could arguably have been his cash  reserve  in 2007.
Despite what we do not know about the details of the recommendation in 2007, there 
appears to be enough  wider  evidence to show that Mr E was already  engaged in relatively 
significant investments  at the time and that he probably retained a cash reserve of around 
£30,000 after the DSIA investment  or around  £23,000 after the ISA investment. His cash  
reserve might even  have  been more.
I do not suggest that these points mean the 2007  advice  was suitable for him, but I also 
consider that they do not indicate that the advice was unsuitable. In the absence of any other 
relevant information  from or about the events in 2007; and with Mr Es previous equity based 
investment experience; and with his existing  (and relatively significant) exposure to risk 
based investments  at the time; and with his likely  cash reserve of around or between  
£23,000 to £30,000 at the time; the assertion that the MMBF was suitable  for him could be a 
better argument than the assertion that it was not. In other words and on the balance of 
probabilities, I consider  that insufficient  evidence has been presented  to conclude that the 
MMBF was unsuitable for Mr E.
The GGP investment
I agree  with Santanders assertion that a comparison  between  Mr Es profile  (including  his 
growth objective and risk-averse attitude)  in 2008 and the features of the GGP creates a 
basis to conclude that it was not unsuitable for him. His capital was safe,  so that feature 
matched his risk-averse  profile. In terms of exposure  to investments and having a cash  
reserve (or usage of Mr Es capital)  I consider that the points I made above also apply  to this 
Ref: DRN55076443issue. It does not appear to be disputed that Mr E had a cash reserve  of around £50,000 
after the GGP investment  which I consider to be reasonable. 
In terms of the growth objective, I understand his representatives  detailed argument that the 
prospect of growth  which would surpass  a deposit based alternative was hopeful at best,  
and that it ought  not to have been preferred to better alternatives that could have been 
recommended at the time. However,  Santanders  duty was to provide suitable advice to Mr E 
and an argument  that says better or more suitable  advice could have been (or ought to have 
been) given to him does not automatically  establish  that the advice he received was 
unsuitable. On balance and based  on evidence from 2008  which essentially shows that he 
had a reasonable cash reserve,  that the GGP  matched his risk profile and that it sought  to 
match his objective  by giving him a minimum return (if invested  for the full term) and offering 
him the prospect of greater  returns  (depending on investment  risks)  I do not consider that 
the recommendation of the GGP was unsuitable.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I do not uphold Mr Es complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 December  2019.
Roy Kuku
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5507644