K821x#15complaint
Mr E says Harvey & Thompson Limited  (H&T) irresponsibly lent to him.
background
This complaint is about one instalment loan H&T provided to Mr E in December 2018.  The 
loan was for £1,000 and repayable over 18 months. The monthly  repayments  were for 
£165.28. 
Our adjudicator upheld  Mr Es complaint and thought the loan shouldnt  have been given 
because the information H&T had gathered about Mr E showed he was having problems 
managing his money as he had other outstanding  short-term loans when  he was given the 
loan. 
H&T disagreed and said it had reviewed Mr Es credit file and that hadnt raised any 
concerns. As the complaint couldnt  be resolved informally, it has been passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
H&T needed to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Mr E could 
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could consider several different 
things, such as how much was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers 
income and expenditure. In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough  
checks might be reasonable  and proportionate.   
But certain factors might  point to the fact that H&T should fairly  and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that H&T was required to establish 
whether Mr E could  sustainably repay  his loans   not just whether the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Ref: DRN57478052Of course,  the loan payments being  affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and the customer should  be able to make repayments  on time, while meeting 
other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow  to meet  the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.  
Ive carefully considered  all the arguments, evidence and information provided  in this context 
and what this all means for Mr Es complaint. Having done this, Im upholding Mr Es 
complaint. Ill explain  why.
I think H&T ought to have realised that Mr E wouldnt  have been  able to make his 
repayments for his loan sustainably without taking out more lending. I can see H&T did 
income/expenditure and credit checks on Mr E before it lent to him. And I can see that H&T 
has provided its findings from those checks,  including the reports from the credit reference  
checks, to us. 
Having reviewed all of this, I dont think Mr E was able to repay the loan in a sustainable  
manner.  The credit check reports show Mr E already had a large number of active accounts 
at the time. Whilst I note H&Ts comments that Mr E wasnt  in arrears on any of these 
accounts, I think this ought  to have prompted H&T to have some concerns  about Mr Es 
ability to make his repayments sustainably. And it should have verified the details  Mr E had 
given it  such as asking for copies of his bank  statements or asking to see his payslips 
and/or bills. 
I have looked  at Mr Es bank statements  and I can see he was borrowing from a number of 
other short-term lenders  at the same time.  These were increasing his outgoings significantly. 
I think this was a clear indication that Mr E was in a debt cycle and relying upon further 
borrowing to repay  current borrowing. 
putting things right  what H&T needs  to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr E paid on his loan;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information  about the loan from Mr Es credit  file.
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires H&T to take off tax from this interest.  H&T must give Mr E a 
certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im upholding  Mr Es complaint. Harvey & Thompson Limited 
should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 April 2020.
Ref: DRN57478053Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5747805