K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B have  complained that Bradford & Bingley Plc mis-sold them a mortgage 
payment protection insurance (MPPI)  policy.
background
Mr and Mrs B took out the policy at the same time as arranging their mortgage in 1995.  
Although it was a joint mortgage the PPI was set up just to cover  Mr B.
Our adjudicator didnt  think that Bradford & Bingley  had mis-sold the MPPI. Mr and Mrs B 
disagree with the adjudicators opinion and so the complaint  has been passed  to me for a 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding
this case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Bs complaint and Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs B say they were told they had to take out the PPI and that it would help with the 
agreement process  for getting the mortgage  approved.
The sale happened during a meeting in a branch of Bradford & Bingley in 1995, so its not 
possible for me to know what was said or how the PPI was presented.  So I have to make  my 
decision on the evidence  that is available  which  includes what Mr and Mrs B have told us 
about the policy not being optional.
Looking at the paperwork, on the mortgage  application form there is a separate  section  for 
PPI. Next to a question  asking  if Mr and Mrs B want to have PPI, YES has been written.  
There was then the option to choose  different levels of cover  and accident, sickness  and 
unemployment has been chosen (as opposed to just accident and sickness). The policy  was 
set up just to cover  Mr B. This seems  appropriate as Mrs B was a housewife at the time and 
therefore would not have  been eligible for cover.
From what  we know of Bradford & Bingleys  sales processes at the time,  the policy would 
have been presented as optional. I havent seen  anything to persuade me that something 
different happened in this case.
I have no doubt  that Mr and Mrs B have provided their genuine recollection of events.  But 
the sale happened a long time ago and so it wouldnt be surprising if their memory has faded 
somewhat. Ive thought very carefully about what Mr and Mrs B have said, but on balance 
Im not persuaded that they werent  given a choice about having the PPI. It seems  to me that 
they probably decided to buy it, knowing  that they didnt have to, even if they no longer 
remember doing so.
This doesnt appear to have been an advised sale, meaning that Bradford  & Bingley didnt 
have to ensure  that the policy met Mr and Mrs Bs needs. But it still needed  to provide 
Ref: DRN59894562enough information for the couple to make an informed choice about whether  or not it was 
right for them.
I can see that the mortgage  offer detailed  the monthly cost of the policy.  It also referred  to 
some of the benefits  and terms of the policy, such as the benefit amount and the deferment 
period. So I consider that Mr and Mrs B would have known what theyd be paying  for the 
policy. I also consider that they would have understood  the basics of what  the policy was for 
 that it would pay an amount of £330  per month if Mr B was unable to work due to accident, 
sickness or unemployment.
Mr B has highlighted his reasonably  generous  sick pay. But the policy  would have paid out in 
addition to this and potentially for longer than Mr B would have received full pay for. The 
couple say that they had some savings.  But having the policy  would have meant that they 
could have retained these or used them to cover  other outgoings at what  would  have been  a 
difficult time. So I consider that the policy could  have provided them with a useful benefit. A 
mortgage is a significant financial commitment and so it wouldnt be surprising if Mr and Mrs 
B had an interest  in protecting their repayments.
Its possible that Bradford  & Bingley could have provided fuller information  about the policy, 
particularly about  the things that it didnt cover. But Mr B wasnt  affected by any of those 
things. And as I think they had an interest  in the policy and decided to buy it, I dont think that 
further information would have caused Mr and Mrs B to change their minds.  It follows  that I 
dont uphold the complaint.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  Mr and Mrs Bs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  31 January 2020.
Carole Clark
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5989456