K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain that Lloyds Bank  Plc (Lloyds) mis-sold them a payment protection  
insurance (PPI)  policy  in connection  with a mortgage in 2004 and later the same year when 
they took out a further advance. The borrowing was taken out jointly  but the PPI covered 
Mr G alone.   
background
The complaint was looked at by an adjudicator who didnt  think  that the complaint should be 
upheld. Mr and Mrs G didnt agree with the adjudicators findings.  So the complaint has been  
passed to me to consider.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained our approach to 
complaints about  PPI on our website, and Ive used this approach in this case.
Ive decided not to uphold  these  complaints.  I explain why below.
Both Lloyds  and Mr and Mrs G agree that the sales took place during a meeting. Ive closely  
looked at the paperwork  from both sales. To get both PPI policies Mr and Mrs G had to 
complete an application form that was separate to the application for the mortgage and the 
further advance. And Mr and Mrs G had to sign for the PPI separately to signing for the 
borrowing on each occasion.  So, overall I think that Mr and Mrs G knew they were taking out 
PPI on each occasion and knew they had a choice about doing so.
Mr and Mrs Gs circumstances appear  to have been similar on the occasions of the two 
sales. Lloyds recommended the PPI on each occasion, so it had to check  that the PPI was 
right for Mr and Mrs G  and based on what Ive seen of their circumstances on both 
occasions, I think that it was. 
 
I say this because  Mr G was eligible for the policy and wasnt affected by any of the 
exclusions from or limitations to the PPI cover. And he seems to have had a need for the 
cover. Mr and Mrs G told us that whilst Mr Gs initial sick pay was good,  it dropped  
significantly after six months.  Mr and Mrs G told us they had some savings they could have 
relied on before asking  their family for help. But I noted that Mr and Mrs G chose not to use 
those savings to have lower borrowings at the time of the sales. And the PPI policies 
wouldve paid out for up to 12 months and in addition  to any sick pay Mr G wouldve received 
and would have  paid out longer than his employer would have paid him at his full rate of pay. 
And the benefit  of the policies would have further protected  Mr and Mrs Gs existing savings 
and reduced their reliance  on any help their families may have been able to provide.  And the 
policies also provided  a benefit  in the circumstance that Mr G lost his job, in which event his 
employers sick pay arrangements would not have been available to him. So, considering all 
of these things  and the potentially serious consequences of defaulting  on a loan secured on 
your home, I think Mr and Mrs G wouldve found the PPI policies useful.
As well as making sure the policies were  suitable for Mr and Mrs G, Lloyds also had to make 
sure that it provided information sufficient for Mr and Mrs G to be sure the policies were right 
for them. Its possible the information Lloyds  gave Mr and Mrs G about the PPI wasnt as 
clear as it shouldve  been.  But for the same  reasons that I think  the policies were suitable,  I 
Ref: DRN55628822dont think better information  about  the PPI would have  put Mr and Mrs G off taking out the 
cover.
Ive carefully reviewed all of the information  provided  to me. As a result Im not persuaded, 
for the reasons given above, that the policies were mis-sold.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint against Lloyds Bank Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  18 October  2019.
Douglas Sayers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5562882