K821x#15complaint
Mr M complained that Bastion Insurance Co. Ltd refused  his claim under his motor   
breakdown cover policy.
background
Mr M was unhappy that Bastion wouldnt attend  to help him when his car developed
a problem while he was driving it. Bastion said that his policy didnt cover the
situation.
He was unhappy with them declining his claim  and with how they or their agents  dealt  with
his complaint. He wanted them to cancel the policy without charge and compensate him
for his distress. However, the investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should  be
upheld. He thought that although Bastion acted unfairly in declining his claim, their actions
hadnt caused Mr M any detriment. As Mr M didnt agree, the case  was passed to me to
decide.
On 18 December 2019 I issued a provisional  decision  and Mr M and Bastion both
commented. I issued  a further provisional  decision on 3 September 2020. Mr M replied  to 
that and Bastion have now done  so too. 
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments again to decide  whats
fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As the investigator  explained, we look at the policy terms and whether Bastion have
applied them fairly in the claim.
Mr M said that he was driving  on the motorway on a long trip when his car suddenly
lost power, its warning alarm sounded, a red light on its dashboard went on and the
dashboard also showed a message indicating an engine  system error. He phoned Bastion 
for roadside  assistance,  but they wouldnt come out to help him with the problem. They  said 
as follows. His situation wasnt  covered  by his policy because his car hadnt had a 
breakdown as defined by the policy. This was because his car wasnt immobilised but was 
still driveable despite the problem. They told him that they didnt respond to warning lights  
and that he should be able to continue his journey. They did however offer to tow him at his 
own expense to a garage.  
Mr M declined this offer because he was worried that he might not be able to pay for the
recovery tow charge or potential repair cost at a garage he didnt know.  He suffered from
anxiety and the situation made him more anxious.  
So, despite  his anxiety about  driving the car, he decided that he had no option but to try to 
keep driving to his destination, where he knew a garage.  But he hadnt wanted to do that 
because the weather conditions were poor. He said that he found the journey extremely 
stressful.
I looked at Mr Ms policy and it says that if his car had a breakdown Bastion would send
roadside assistance to attempt  to repair the car, and if it couldnt  be repaired at the
roadside, theyd arrange  recovery to a local garage. If it couldnt be repaired that day, under
Ref: DRN52736312the silver level of cover  that Mr M had, other alternative options came into play. These
included arranging onward travel, overnight  accommodation,  and replacement  car hire.
According to the policy,  breakdown is an electrical  or mechanical failure which  immediately
renders the Vehicle immobile ." Bastion  said that his car clearly wasnt immobile, as hed
carried on driving it for hours, so the policy  didnt  cover it. Although I accepted that was clear 
in the policy, I also had to consider if Bastion had applied the policy  in a fair and reasonable
way.
I didnt think that they had. I accepted  that Mr M managed to drive  his car for several  hours, 
but its clear that his car wasnt driving  normally during that time. He said that it was so slow,  
laboured and lacking in power that its speed  range was only to 20-35mph. He drove  the 
whole way avoiding  motorways but even so, his car could not do a safe and appropriate road 
speed and he kept having to stop to let frustrated drivers pass.  He was also worried  that his 
car would give up. The remainder of his journey took about  three  times as long as it would 
have otherwise. He said he found  this very stressful, and he felt that it put at risk his own 
safety and that of other road users. 
He felt that a red light was more than just a warning light as it showed that his car needed 
immediate attention. According to the garage where he got it repaired, he had been very 
lucky as continuing to drive  it could have caused  damage to the engine.
Taking all of that into account,  I didnt think that it was fair for Bastion to say that Mr Ms car 
was mobile, just because  it was capable of being  driven in an abnormal way. Mr M
was surprised that the policy didnt  cover him, as that was exactly  the sort of situation hed 
expected breakdown cover policy to cover. And I thought that a reasonable person would 
expect that of such a policy too. 
When Mr M had his car repaired by a garage  at his destination, it needed an injector part 
and the repairer  took hours  to strip down  the engine. This suggests a mechanical failure. His 
car needed a major repair before it would drive normally again. And so, I thought that, under 
a fair and reasonable interpretation of the policy, his car was immobile, and that it was unfair 
of Bastion to refuse him roadside assistance under  it.
The investigator thought that Bastion should  have helped Mr M under the policy, but also
that Bastion  didnt  need to do anything  more. He thought that, even if they had attended
his car, Mr M would not have wanted to be towed to the nearest garage but would have
continued with his journey  anyway, because he wouldnt  have been  able to pay for the
repair. And so he wasnt adversely affected by Bastions  actions.
Mr M disagreed. He said that he in fact he would have been able to pay for the repair,  but
the situation had made  him anxious. Influenced by the uncertainty of the situation  and the
fear of being  stranded between home  and his destination, somewhere he didnt know, he
only carried on driving because he felt he had no other option. 
But, if Bastion had given him assistance, under the policy he would have  had other options. 
He had silver level cover under his policy and that potentially entitled him to onward travel 
help, overnight accommodation or a hire car. If Bastion had attended at his car, and it were  
not repairable at the roadside, Bastion would have taken it to a garage.  It turned out that his 
car needed a new part. So, given that it was late afternoon when Mr M reported  the problem 
to Bastion,  its unlikely  that Bastion could have tried to repair  it, got it to a garage and that 
garage could have repaired it all on that day. If so, I agreed that Bastion  would  have been  
obliged to offer him the above alternatives under  his policy and he would have been spared 
Ref: DRN52736313the anxious journey to his destination. Instead he would have had more time to consider his 
options for paying for the recovery and repair of his car.
Its clear that Mr M was very distressed by Bastions failure to assist him under the
policy and I thought that because they caused him distress and inconvenience, Bastion 
should pay him compensation of £300.
Mr M said that he didnt have a comment to make on my provisional decision. Bastion have 
recently indicated  that they will accept it. And so I see no reason to change my decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  and in my latest provisional decision,  its my final decision 
to uphold this complaint.  I require Bastion Insurance Co. Ltd to pay Mr M £300 in 
compensation* for his distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 February  2021.
Rosslyn Scott
ombudsman
* Bastion must pay the compensation  within 28 days of the date on which  we tell them Mr M 
accepts my final decision. If they pay later than this, they must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
If Bastion  consider  that they are required by HM Revenue  & Customs to withhold income tax 
from that interest, they should tell Mr M how much they have taken off, and give Mr M a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN5273631