K820x#14complaint
Mr W is unhappy because he says that Hoyl Independent Advisers Ltd mis-sold him an 
income protection policy. 
background
In 2016 Mr W took out an income protection policy. He received advice from an appointed  
representative of Hoyl. They sold him a My Earnings Insurance (MEI) policy which  was 
designed to protect  part of Mr Ws earnings if he couldnt work because  of illness or injury. 
Mr W had an accident in 2017 and tried to claim on the policy.  However, he says his claim 
was declined because  his employer paid 70% of his salary. But the policy wouldnt cover him 
for his shift premium. Mr W says he made it clear to the advisor  how his salary was 
structured and this was one of the reasons hed sought extra  protection, particularly because 
hed previously had an accident and ended  up losing his shift premium when he was on sick 
leave. So, in summary, he says Hoyl sold him a policy which  wasnt  suitable for his needs. 
Hoyl doesnt have a copy of the call recording because the appointed representative Mr W 
used didnt record calls.  However, it says that on the application form Mr W didnt declare he 
got sick pay and, if he had, they wouldnt  have  recommended  this policy.  So they didnt think 
the policy was mis-sold.  
Our investigator looked into what had happened. In summary, she didnt uphold the 
complaint because she didnt think that Hoyl had acted unreasonably as theyd  acted on the 
basis of the information Mr W had provided  during  the application process. 
Mr W didnt agree  he explained that he thought  the lack of a call recording showed Hoyl 
were guilty.  He asked an ombudsman to review the complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  to hear that Mr W had an accident  and that the drop in his income has caused him 
financial problems. I can appreciate that this must  have been a frustrating and stressful time, 
particularly when he thought hed got the right level of protection in place to cover his salary.  
As the advisor  was giving Mr W advice he had a responsibility to make  sure the policy  was 
right for him. However, the advisor was entitled  to rely on the information  Mr W provided 
when making his recommendation. Im not upholding  this complaint because: 
Theres no copy of the call recording and therefore I dont know exactly  what  was 
said between the advisor and Mr W about how his salary  was structured. Mr W says 
that he explained in some detail how it was broken down  and that he previously lost 
out when hed had a motorcycle  accident.  However,  thats not reflected in how the 
information was recorded in the fact find or on the application  form for the reasons Ill 
go on to explain 
Ref: DRN52323382The fact find document recorded that Mr W earned £40, 000 (of which £2000 was 
overtime). However,  he didnt want to cover  his full monthly income, only a proportion 
of it. So whilst his income was around  £3333 per month,  the fact find said he only 
want to receive a benefit of around £2166. Thats consistent with what Mr W said his 
monthly expenditure was; which he estimated to be £2100. Mr W was also asked 
whether he had sick pay at work or savings that could cover  him whilst he was off 
work. It was recorded that he didnt. In fact Mr W was entitled  to some sick pay so 
this information  wasnt right
The fact find document was signed  by Mr W, directly under  a statement confirming 
that he had read the document carefully  and confirmed  that the information was true 
and accurate. So if Mr W wasnt happy  with how his income was represented there  
was an opportunity to  query this, or amend information about  his employee benefits,  
before he signed the document
Mr W also signed an application  form which set out the details of his income and the 
level of protection  he wanted. He also recorded  on this form that he wouldnt receive 
any pay if he was off work due to illness or injury despite there being an opportunity  
to explain how much hed receive, how often and over what period. And there  was a 
further opportunity  to break down his income  in more detail including bonuses, 
commission and incentives.  However,  the income was recorded  in the same way as 
it was on the fact find as Mr W said he wouldnt receive any sick pay. Again, Mr W 
signed the application form to confirm that the information was right
Ive also looked  at the underwriting  notes which show  that the advisor obtained 
quotes from a number of different businesses and there are responses recorded.  I 
can see that most of the providers excluded or required more information about 
Mr Ws motorcycling  hobby and didnt  offer immediate  cover.  So Im satisfied  that 
Hoyl did complete a detailed review of the policies available  to Mr W which  met his 
demands and needs,  based on the information he provided
The Key Facts Document for the policy stated  that if the policyholder continued to 
receive an income during the period of time they were unwell or injured  then the 
policy benefit may be reduced. It explained  it was important not to overlook this when  
deciding on whether the policy met Mr Ws needs
Taking all of the above into account I dont think that Hoyl mis-sold this policy  to 
Mr W. They relied on the information that he provided and he had the opportunities to 
correct any information he didnt think was accurate  both before, and after, the sale. 
And, on the basis of the information recorded, I dont think Hoyls  recommendation of 
this policy was unsuitable. 
my final decision
Im not upholding this complaint. Under  the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mr W to accept or reject my decision before 20 September 2019.
Anna Wilshaw
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5232338