K822xcomplaint
Mr D is unhappy with CIS General Insurance Limiteds (CIS) decision not to renew his 
household and contents policy and all risk insurance. 
background 
In 2012 Mr D made a claim  to CIS about subsidence he says was affecting his property. 
The subsidence claim isnt part of this complaint. But Mr D says a result of it remaining 
unresolved, hes been  unable to find alternative cover for the two other  policies (one for 
contents and one for personal possessions)  he held, so they had to remain with CIS.  
In mid-2017, CIS told Mr D it wasnt intending  to renew his personal possessions policy. 
CIS confirmed the contents policy was unaffected, and would be renewed in June 2018.
Mr D was concerned about this and contacted CIS about its decision not to renew his 
personal possessions  policy. He says after some discussion the policy  was renewed  for 
another year. In May 2018, CIS sent Mr D an email  confirming both policies would be 
renewed while the subsidence  claim was ongoing.  Mr D asked CIS to make  some changes  
to his personal possessions policy. He says it took a long time for him to receive  
confirmation these  changes had been  made.   
In July 2018, CIS sent another letter to Mr D, stating his personal possessions  policy  
wouldnt be renewed in August.  Mr D sent an email to complain about this and expressed 
concern he was potentially put in a position where he had two weeks to find a replacement  
policy. Mr D said he was particularly unhappy  with the conflicting  messages hed received 
from CIS.
In order to put things  right, Mr D said he wanted  written assurances from a senior director, 
confirming he will be invited to continue to renew  this policy. He also wanted  confirmation he 
would be able to make what he considered necessary changes to the cover, until the 
subsidence claim was settled. 
In its final response from August 2018,  CIS agreed it made an error when writing to Mr D 
saying the policy wouldnt be renewed. It said there had been systems issues  with renewing  
the policy, so it had been rewritten  under a different  policy  number, and this caused  the 
cancellation letter. CIS said they wouldnt agree to a letter  from a senior  director  as Mr D had 
asked for. Instead they offered for a manager from the relevant department  would send a 
letter to confirm the cover in place. CIS made a payment of £30 in recognition  of 
inconvenience and to cover cost of telephone  calls.  Mr D didnt think this was an adequate  
resolution to his complaint. 
One of our investigators  looked into Mr Ds complaint. She said she understood 
Mr Ds frustration at having been  sent conflicting  information about whether the policy  would 
be renewed. She recommended CIS send Mr D a copy of the updated  policy schedule 
showing the changes  that had been made.  However,  she was satisfied CIS had made it 
clear the policy  had been renewed without a break  in cover. She also explained she would 
expect this to be reviewed annually, in line with the contract. Overall,  she thought the 
compensation offered to Mr D was fair and reasonable in the circumstances.  
Ref: DRN57315112Mr D didnt agree. He said, given the ongoing situation with his subsidence claim and the 
difficulties it would present in him obtaining cover elsewhere, he thought it was only right CIS 
offer a guarantee it will continue to offer cover. He was keen to try and avoid the situation he 
says he experienced  in 2017 and 2018,  whereby he was wrongly  told the policy  wouldnt be 
renewed. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
I can understand Mr Ds frustration when he says he experienced problems with two 
renewals in a row. However, as the 2017 renewal  didnt  form part of Mr Ds complaint to CIS, 
I cant consider this when  deciding  what I think is a fair and reasonable outcome. 
CIS accepts  it made an error when it wrote  to Mr D in July 2018,  telling him it wouldnt 
continue to offer cover  for the personal possessions  policy. Its explained the steps it took to 
try and avoid this happening again.  I accept Mr D experienced some worry and confusion  by 
the conflicting messages he received. CIS says the letter sent to Mr D telling him the 
personal possessions  policy  wouldnt be renewed was an error. There  hasnt  been  a break in 
cover, so Mr D hasnt been  disadvantaged.  
Mr D wants a written  guarantee that CIS will continue to offer cover for the personal 
possessions policy, and that hell be able to make  any changes he deems  necessary. Mr D 
thinks this letter should be written by a senior director.  CIS offered to provide Mr D with a 
letter from the relevant  manager confirming the cover was in place. However, Mr D hasnt  
accepted this offer.
Ive seen an email from May 2018.  It states  while  Mr D has an open  subsidence  claim,  CIS 
will continue to cover  his contents and personal  possessions. Although this isnt a letter  from 
a senior director, it is from the team manager of the home underwriting  department. I think 
this email should go some way to setting Mr Ds mind at rest CIS would continue to offer him 
cover. 
I recognise the email  from May 2018  doesnt go as far as Mr D thinks it should in allowing 
him to make  any changes  to the policy. However, I dont think its fair to direct CIS to agree 
in advance to offer cover including any changes Mr D might want to make, until the 
subsidence claim is resolved. I say this as the policy renews each year and would still need 
to meet  CIS underwriting criteria. I wouldnt expect it to make  a blanket agreement  to offer 
cover for changes to a policy  that might  be made  in the future.  
I turn now to the payment  for the trouble and upset Mr D experienced. I can see this would 
have been a worrying time for him in the face of the conflicting messages. In May 2018  he 
was told that cover  would  be offered, but two months later he received a letter  from CIS 
telling him this wouldnt happen.  As Ive said, Im conscious there was no break in cover and 
I can see that CIS took steps to quickly  reassure  Mr D that his cover was in place, and he 
already had the email from May 2018,  confirming cover would remain in place  for the 
duration of the subsidence claim.
Ref: DRN57315113While I can understand how frustrating this matter was for Mr D, I think the £30 offered for 
the inconvenience is fair in the circumstances.  If hes not already  done so, he can still ask 
CIS to send him the letter  confirming formally that cover will remain  in place while  the 
subsidence claim is ongoing if he requires additional reassurance.  
I understand Mr D has ongoing concerns about what might happen to any renewals in the 
future. However,  I cant  make and award or recommendation for something  that might  not 
happen or hasnt  happened yet. If Mr D continues to experience  problems with renewing his 
policy, he can make  a complaint to CIS and refer any outstanding concerns to this service if 
he remains unhappy.  
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 April 2020.
Emma Hawkins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5731511