K821x#15complaint
Mrs D is complaining that a car she acquired  on a hire purchase  finance agreement through 
Black Horse  Limited wasnt fit for purpose.
Mrs D is represented by her husband in this complaint. However  for the purposes  of this 
decision Ive said that any comments made  by her husband were made by Mrs D.
background
In August  2016  Mrs D entered into a hire purchase agreement  through Black Horse  to 
acquire a car. She started to have issues with the car a few months later,  in particular with 
the following:
1.The start/stop function on the car stopped  working;
2.There was an engine  noise coming  through the central air vent in the car;
3.The mud flaps were  detaching.
The car went to the dealership in January 2017  and it said it fixed  the faults under the cars 
warranty. However, Mrs D says that the fault with the start/stop  and mud flaps  returned 
again and the car went back to the garage  again  in September  2017 for further repairs. 
Mrs D also said that an intermittent fault had arisen with reversing camera. And the 
dealership carried  out further  repairs under the cars warranty which  it says fixed the faults.
In February 2018,  Mrs D took the car back to the dealership again because  there  was a fault 
with the fuel gauge, the radio  wasnt holding its pre-set radio stations and the dashboard was 
flickering. Mrs D says that the car intermittently  wouldnt turn on. The dealership has also 
recorded that the stop/start wasnt working again. 
The dealership recharged the battery which it said resolved the start/stop function. It did a 
number of repairs and software updates that resolved the other  faults.
In April 2018 Mrs D contacted Black Horse  and said that she wanted  to reject the car. Black  
Horse acknowledged  the issues Mrs D had had with the car. But it said it could only be held 
responsible for faults that were present at the point  of sale.  It accepted that the issue  with 
the start/stop facility, mud flaps and excessive engine noise were existing at the point of 
sale. But it said that these  issues had already been fixed.
But Black Horse said that it didnt think the other  faults were present at the point  of sale due 
to the length of time that had passed. So it didnt  think  it could be held responsible for them.
Mrs D referred  the complaint to this service.  Since  then Mrs D says further faults  have arisen 
on the car. In May 2018 the start stop function stopped working  again.  The dealership said 
the voltage was too low on the battery and it found  a fault with the battery.  So it replaced the 
battery. 
Mrs D also reported that there were  still issues with the fuel gauge. So the dealership did a 
software update  on the fuel gauge and it also replaced the fuel tank. Mrs D says that in 
June 2018 the car ran out of fuel because of the fuel gauge issue. And she says it had to be 
recovered to the garage. The garage  thought there  was a fault with a sensor so it replaced 
that.
Ref: DRN52799852Mrs D says that further faults have since arisen  with the car. She says that the mud flaps  
have become detached again. She says that the car has recently been putting itself into park 
at traffic lights and they have to turn the engine back on to start it up again. She also said 
that further issues have arisen with the reversing camera. 
I issued a provisional decision upholding this complaint. I said the following:
Mrs D acquired the car under a hire purchase  agreement. Legislation  in this case the 
Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA)  implies  a term into the hire purchase agreement  that 
the car must  be of satisfactory  quality. As the supplier and finance provider, Black  Horse is 
responsible for the quality of the car its provided under the agreement.  Theres  no dispute  
that there  have been a number of faults with the car. But Black Horse says that the 
dealerships fixed  the faults that were  present  at the time of sale. So it says that its fulfilled  
its responsibilities under  the CRA.
In deciding whether  this car was of satisfactory quality, I take into account the relevant 
circumstances, such as the cash price, its mileage  and age. In this case,  Mrs D paid around 
£32,000 for the car. The car was less than one year old and had travelled around 11,000 
miles at the point of sale.  
Given the price Mrs D paid for the car and its age I thought its fair to say that a reasonable 
person would expect  the level of quality to be higher than a cheaper more road worn vehicle. 
And that it could be used,  free from defects, for a considerable  period of time.
Ive looked carefully  at the timeline of what happened.  It appears that a number of things 
have gone wrong  with the car over around  an 18 month period.  And it seems  to me that 
some of the same faults kept materialising.  It appears  that Mrs Ds car had been into the 
garage six times and repairs carried out before she asked  to reject it in April 2018. I didnt 
think it was unfair that Black Horse had said that she couldnt reject the car at that point 
because shed exercised her right under the CRA to have it repaired.  And I havent  seen  
anything to show there were any active faults on the car at that time.
But Mrs D has shown that these  faults have arisen  again in the car. And she still wants  to be 
allowed to reject the car. I note Black Horse  believes this is a new complaint  and wants to 
have the opportunity to put things  right.  But I dont  agree. Mrs Ds complaint is that the car 
she acquired under a hire purchase agreement  through Black Horse wasnt  fit for purpose  
i.e. not of satisfactory quality. And I thought  the recent issues  that Mrs D has had with the 
car are further evidence  in respect  of whether the car was fit for purpose rather  than a new 
complaint that Black  Horse should have  the right to resolve first. 
Ive also looked  at the number of miles that Mrs D has travelled in the car since she got it 
and shed travelled a further 23,000 miles in the two years that shes  had it at the last time 
the car went  to the garage for repair works. So I didnt think  shes travelled more  miles than I 
would ordinarily expect. The CRA says that durability is an aspect of the quality of the 
goods. Ultimately, given the age, mileage and price  of the car, I didnt think  there should 
have been as many recurring faults  with the car. So I dont the car was reasonably durable, 
which means that I didnt  think  it was of satisfactory quality at the point of sale.
Under the CRA the consumer has the right to ask the finance  provider  to repair  the car. Its 
important to note that it doesnt give the finance  provider  one chance  to repair each  separate 
fault which may occur. Whether  a car is of satisfactory quality when supplied  refers to the car 
Ref: DRN52799853as a whole  not each  separate  component.  Indeed the more separate faults that a car has the 
more likely it is, in my view, that the car isnt of satisfactory quality.
Mrs D has had multiple repeated issues with the car throughout the time shes  had the car 
and it seems that some problems cannot  be resolved fully. I thought Mrs D should now be 
entitled to reject the car as not being  of satisfactory  quality. I also think shes suffered some 
distress and inconvenience by having to continually return the car back  to the garage to 
have repairs carried out. So I thought  Black  Horse needs to compensate her for this.
So I thought  Black Horse  needed to do the following  to put things right:
1.Allow Mrs D to reject  the car and arrange  to collect  it at no cost to Mrs D;
2.End the agreement with nothing further  to pay - and if any adverse  information has been  
recorded, arrange for it to be removed from Mrs Ds credit file;
3.Refund the deposit of £7,425.  It should  add 8% simple interest per year on this from 
6 August 2016 (when she entered into the finance agreement) until she gets it back; and
4.Pay £350 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience this matter has caused 
Mrs D.
Both parties  responded to accept my provisional  decision. Mrs D did, however, say that she 
was concerned they could be "blacklisted" from taking out any further finance with Black 
Horse in the future?
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has given  me anything else to think about, I see no reason  to reach a 
different conclusion to the one I reached  in my provisional decision. So I uphold this 
complaint for the reasons Ive set out in my provisional decision. 
I note Mrs Ds concerns that Black  Horse may not want  to provide her with finance in the 
future, but I cant  comment  on whether  Black Horse may or may not want  to provide her with 
finance in the future.  Black Horse needs to remove any adverse entries  from her credit file if 
applicable.
Ref: DRN52799854my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  its my final decision that I uphold this complaint. And I 
require Black Horse Limited  to 
1.Allow Mrs D to reject  the car and arrange  to collect  it at no cost to Mrs D;
2.End the agreement with nothing further  to pay - and if any adverse  information has been  
recorded, arrange for it to be removed from Mrs Ds credit file;
3.Refund the deposit of £7,425.  It should  add 8% simple interest per year on this from 
6 August 2016 (when she entered into the finance agreement) until she gets it back; and
4.Pay £350 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience this matter has caused 
Mrs D.
*If Black Horse  Limited thinks that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct  income  
tax from this interest, it should  tell Mrs D how much its taken  off. It should also give Mrs D a 
tax deduction  certificate  if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 February  2019.
Guy Mitchell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5279985