K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2000. Mr M says Tesco Personal Finance PLC (Tesco)  mis-sold  him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Ms case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. I will explain why.
Mr M says that Tesco applied the PPI without his knowledge or consent. So Ive 
thought about whether Tesco gave him a fair choice. Tesco has provided a copy  of 
the application form Mr M completed to apply for his credit card and the PPI. I can 
see Mr M ticked to say he wanted the cover and he has signed the paperwork. I also 
think the PPI would have appeared on his credit  card statements. So if he didnt want 
the policy or wasnt sure what  it was he could have questioned it with Tesco at any 
time. I havent seen  that he did so. Overall, I think  Tesco made it clear that Mr M 
didnt have to take out the PPI and that he chose  to take it out  although I can 
understand why he cant  remember  this as it was so long ago.
As Mr M took out his credit card and the PPI through  the post, I dont think  he spoke 
to anyone. So as Tesco didnt recommend the PPI to Mr M, it didnt have to check  if it 
was right for him. But it did have to make  sure Mr M got the information he needed to 
decide if it was right for him.
Its possible the information Tesco gave Mr M about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been. But he chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like he wanted this type 
of cover.  Based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it doesnt look like 
he was affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover - so it would 
have been useful for him if something  went wrong. It also looks  like the PPI was 
affordable. So I dont think better information  about the PPI would have put him off 
taking out the cover.
Which means Tesco  doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr M.
But Tesco will pay back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr M because: 
Tesco got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr M about  that. Because  Tesco  didnt tell Mr M, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Tesco has basically  offered to pay back  the amount of commission  and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this 
case.
Ive thought about everything Mr M has said - including what hes said about not being given 
all the information  he needed to make  an informed decision  and about  the restrictions  not 
being explained. But as Ive explained I still think he would have taken out the PPI even with 
Ref: DRN55957102clearer or better information.  As he was in employment and he didnt have a medical 
condition which he already knew about  at the time he applied  for the PPI I dont think he 
would have been affected by the terms of the policy which might have made  it more  difficult 
to make a claim. So these  points dont change my decision.
what the business needs  to do
Tesco has to pay back to Mr M any commission and profit share  it got that was more  than 
50% of the PPI premium. Tesco should  also pay back to Mr M any extra interest  he paid 
because of that.
Tesco should re-work the credit card account  and pay back  to Mr M the difference between  
what Mr M owes and what he wouldve owed if the commission and profit share it got hadnt  
been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. Tesco  should also pay Mr M 8%* simple interest if he 
paid off their credit card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr M can claim back  the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Tesco Personal  Finance PLC does not have to pay back 
all of the cost of the PPI to Mr M.
But Tesco Personal Finance PLC does  have to pay back to Mr M any commission  and profit  
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium if it hasnt done so already.
I understand Mr Ms subject to an Individual Voluntary Arrangement (IVA). His Insolvency  
Practitioner (IP) says they have an interest in any refund Mr M might  receive. Mr M and 
Tesco Personal Finance PLC should  bear in mind Mr Ms obligations to his IP in respect of 
any redress he receives.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 April 2019.
Nicola Woolf
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5595710