K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains Nationwide Building  Society wont refund him the cost of a holiday that was 
cut short.  Hed like it to give him a full refund under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974. 
He also complains about some issues with the service hes received.
background
Mr B booked a bespoke nature trip in November 2015 with a travel agent who Ill call T. The 
trip was paid for in part with his Nationwide credit card and the rest using a debit card. Mr B 
travelled with Mrs B, so Ive referred  to them both; however this is Mr Bs complaint. The cost 
of the entire trip was around £13,130.  This included business class  flights,  accommodation, 
transfers and guided tours. 
In September  2016 T got in touch with Mr and Mrs B to explain there had been some civil 
unrest in their destination country. Because of this their itinerary  was changed to exclude  
certain areas  of the country. And Mr and Mrs B accepted this.
Mr and Mrs B flew out of the UK on 4 October  2016  on their new itinerary.  They began their 
trip as planned, however there was some civil unrest in another part of the country and so T 
recommended they return home. On 8 October 2016 the Foreign and Commonwealth office 
(FCO) issued guidance  that warned against travel to their destination. Mr and Mrs B arrived 
home safely some days after this.
Mr B has a current  account and a credit card with Nationwide. The current  account includes  
travel insurance provided by and underwritten by an insurer.
Mr Bs main complaints to Nationwide are:
it should give him a full refund  under section 75 
it should be dealing  with or assisting  in the travel  insurance claim
it shouldnt share  information  with the other two parties involved
Mr B wants  Nationwide,  T, the insurer or all three  together to cover the entire  cost of the trip. 
Nationwide reviewed the section 75 claim twice and doesnt agree it should give                     
Mr B a refund because  it said there  was no breach  of contract. T offered them £4,818  which 
it says represents  the unused  portion of the holiday. Mr B didnt accept it within  the time 
given and the offer has now been  withdrawn.  
An investigator at our service looked at Mr Bs complaint. He thought  Nationwide had 
assessed the claim for a refund fairly.  He also thought Nationwide wasnt  responsible for 
dealing with the insurance claim  and it was right to direct queries to the insurer.  Mr B didnt  
agree so asked  for an ombudsmans decision.
I issued my provisional decision in which I didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint. In it I said:
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And its likely  I wont  be upholding it.
claim for a refund
Ref: DRN51875922Mr B is relying on rights he believes he has under section 75 of the Consumer  Credit  Act 
1974. My role isnt to decide whether or not section 75 applies here. Im required to decide 
what, if anything,  Nationwide should do to resolve  this complaint. In doing  that, I must  decide 
what I think is fair and reasonable, having  regard  to (amongst other things) any relevant law. 
Here the relevant law includes  Section 75.
Section 75 says that, in certain circumstances,  a debtor is entitled to make a claim against  
a creditor for breach  of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier of the goods  or 
services it financed.
In this case Mr B is the debtor, Nationwide is the creditor and T is the supplier of a holiday 
package. So if Ts actions amount to a breach  of contract or a misrepresentation; Mr B can 
pursue that claim against Nationwide.
When Mr B purchased the holiday, there were a set of corresponding booking conditions.  
These outlined the responsibility of both parties. Ive considered these and the 
correspondence between  T and Mr B before  he travelled.  
 
The booking conditions include a force majeure clause. This says:   
we cannot accept  liability or pay any compensation where the performance  or prompt  
performance of our obligations  under  our contract with you is prevented  or affected  by  
force majeure. 
In these Booking Conditions, force  majeure means any event which we or the supplier of 
the service(s) in question could not, even with all due care foresee or avoid. Such events  
may include war or threat of war, riot, civil strife, actual or threatened terrorist activity  
Mr and Mrs B flew out to their destination on 4 October, and landed on 5 October. For force  
majeure to apply,  the event would  need to be unforeseen. On 2 October 2016 there was a 
protest as a part of a regular festival which led to some local people  dying in a stampede. T 
said the FCO issued an update on the isolated  incident but didnt change its advice 
regarding travelling to the country. On 4 October  there was another incident in the capital; 
however T says it didnt  appear in the news until 5 October, and it didnt see it until                 
6 October. Mr B also didnt see this news until after he flew. Considering  all of the evidence I 
dont think T could have foreseen civil unrest would occur in another part of the country 
some days  later. 
Force Majeure applies when an event, as listed above, occurs. Considering the events that 
have been reported I think its reasonable to conclude civil strife occurred. The timeline of 
events and the reason for cutting the holiday short, mean the force majeure clause does 
apply. And so I dont  think T have breached the explicit contract.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015  (CRA 2015) is another part of relevant law that I need to 
consider here. It says a service needs to be carried out with reasonable skill and care. This 
means T must work to the same standard as any reasonable competent  person in the trade 
or profession. 
The contract also says:  We promise to make sure that the holiday arrangements  we have 
agreed to make perform  or provide as applicable,  as part of our contract with you are made 
performed or provided with reasonable skills and care.  This means subject to these booking  
conditions we will accept responsibility.your  contracted holiday arrangements are not 
Ref: DRN51875923provided as promised or prove deficient  as a result  of the failure of ourselves our employees,  
agents or suppliers.  And so, both the contract  and CRA 2015 require T to act with 
reasonable skill and care.
At the time Mr and Mrs B travelled and while they were in their destination  there was no FCO 
guidance against travelling. However I dont  think  it would be reasonable for T to rely solely 
on news from the FCO. As a specialist travel package provider I think its reasonable to 
expect T to do more than wait for information  from the FCO. I can see correspondence 
between T and its on location guides. Another  couple had already started  a similar trip; the 
guides were able to report  back that the trip was going well. The guides also recognised  the 
protests had taken place  on 2 October and agreed to keep T updated if anything further 
happened.  
Considering the circumstances  and Ts line of work I think its also reasonable that they kept 
up to date with the news.  As well as their on the ground guides I think  global news would be 
another source. Ive looked into to the news that was published and available on 4 and 5 
October. From what I can see the news of the 2 Octobers incident wasnt  widely published 
until 5 October. So regardless  of when  T saw it, it couldnt have stopped Mr and Mrs B from 
flying. 
So considering the information T had at the time I think it was reasonable that it let Mr and 
Mrs B start their holiday as planned.  I can also see as soon as it realised the trip was no 
longer viable it made arrangements  for news to reach them. And so, I think  it acted with     
Mr and Mrs Bs safety in mind.
Mr B says T should have  used its live and on the ground knowledge  of their destination to 
have cancelled the trip before he flew out. He says if T had done  this he could have 
recouped all of the money via their travel  insurance. Ive also considered  the terms of their 
insurance policy. These would have  paid a claim when a FCO notice  was published. And 
since this didnt happen until after Mr and Mrs B were due to fly to their destination I dont 
think Ts actions have had a detrimental  impact.
Mr B says T shouldnt have flown them back business class,  but instead  downgraded  their 
tickets to economy  class.  He says he wouldnt have chosen expensive flights  for a short trip, 
like this one turned out to be. And had T flown them  back economy class,  hed receive  a 
bigger refund for unused  services. I can understand why Mr B has said this. However Mr B 
knew T was making arrangements to fly them home, and if he had wanted an alternative 
arrangement, he ought to have made  that clear to T. I also think it was right for T to fulfil as 
much of the contract as possible. And since the flights werent affected by the unrest I think  it 
was reasonable  to fly Mr and Mrs B in the class he had requested and paid for. 
I understand and empathise with the unfortunate situation Mr and Mrs B found themselves 
in. However having  considered all of the events, news and testimony I think T acted within its 
contract and with reasonable skill and care. So I think Nationwides decision not to refund 
the cost of Mr Bs holiday is fair and reasonable. 
Mr B says T should have  used its live and on the ground knowledge  of their destination to 
have cancelled the trip before he flew out. He says if T had done  this he could have 
recouped all of the money via their travel  insurance. Considering  the relevant law I dont 
think T was in breach  of contract. And so I dont think its fair or reasonable to tell Nationwide  
to pay compensation  or hold it responsible for the impact on the travel claim.
service provided by Nationwide in making  a travel  insurance claim
Ref: DRN51875924Mr B has said his travel insurance is titled Nationwide FlexAccount Travel cover.  And while 
he understands its underwritten by another  party,  he feels Nationwide  have a responsibility 
in relation to the insurance claim. Because of this hes been writing to senior  individuals at 
Nationwide about  his complaint and claim.
Nationwide didnt think it was best placed to look into this and I agree. Having reviewed the 
correspondence I can see the questions were specifically about why the claim wasnt  being 
met. And as this is a decision for the insurer to make,  its appropriate for them to handle  any 
queries relating to it. 
sharing information  with other parties
I can see Nationwide asked T for information  about Mr and Mrs Bs holiday to allow  it to 
make an informed decision about the Section 75 claim. And I think  this was reasonable. 
In addition, I can see Nationwide passed  on Mr Bs complaints and queries to U when it was 
about his travel claim. I havent seen any evidence  to suggest this negatively  impacted Mr B 
but in any event I think it was a reasonable action for Nationwide to take.
Considering this I dont  think  Nationwides actions  have  impacted Mr B in an unfair way. If  
Mr B has any further concerns that hed like investigated, then these maybe better  placed  
with the Information commissioners office (ICO).
responses to my provisional  decision
Nationwide didnt respond to the decision with any further comments. However, Mr B did, he 
explained he didnt  accept my decision. He raised  a number  of points including:
him and his wife booked this trip together  and make this complaint together.
the travel  agent knew about the violence before they flew out on 4 October  and ought  
to have told them. And so he felt it didnt act with reasonable care and skill.
news articles  from around the time that reported the protests. 
Nationwide should have paid the travel claim even if the underwriter hadnt because  
its a Nationwide  insurance policy.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments again to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I wont be upholding it.
Mr B has said this holiday was booked jointly with his wife. I understand they travelled 
together and paid for this together. However since the credit  card is in Mr Bs name, Ive 
considered this case in Mr Bs name.  
Having considered everything  again and read Mr Bs most  recent  correspondence,  I can see 
that this experience has been distressing for them.  And I can understand why. 
Mr B has made a number  of points, while Ive considered all of them,  Ive responded to what  
I consider to be the key issues here.
claim for a refund
Ref: DRN51875925Ive considered the news articles Mr B has sent me. These  appear  to be from after the 
departure flight.  And I dont dispute there was civil unrest in their destination and this was 
reported by the press.  The question Im considering  is whether T acted with reasonable skill 
and care or breached its contract  in some other way. 
Mr B said T knew  there  had been  unrest before  he flew- he has said it started in July 2016. 
Having considered the timeline and correspondence, I agree T did know  this. It changed    
Mr Bs itinerary in September 2016  because of the unrest and was clear with Mr B about  the 
reasons for the change.  And again  two days before the flight  it got in touch to let Mr B know  
there had been  disturbances in some  parts and explained what  this meant for Mr B. It 
continued to speak to its on the ground staff,  and had other travellers in the same  location, 
so kept in touch.  Ive explained my thoughts on this in my provisional decision,  and see no 
new evidence or reasons  to depart from this.
Im required  to decide what, if anything,  Nationwide should do to resolve this complaint. In 
doing that, I must decide what I think is fair and reasonable,  having  regard to (amongst other 
things) any relevant  law. Based on all the information that I can see that was available 
publically (in the news)  and privately (between T and its on the ground staff), I dont think 
Nationwide need  to do anything further  to resolve this complaint. 
service provided by Nationwide in making  a travel  insurance claim
Mr B still believes Nationwide  should  consider his travel insurance  claim. He says it can 
decide to pay a claim even if an underwriter  advises it not to.  
Nationwide has only arranged the travel insurance policy,  it does not provide it. So decisions 
about accepting  or declining  claims are for the underwriter and not Nationwide. 
sharing information  with other parties
Ive not seen anything further that makes  me think Mr B has been negatively  impacted by the 
information shared  by Nationwide. And as I said in my provisional decision if Mr B has more  
general data protection concerns he would like investigated these maybe better  placed  with 
the Information Commissioners Office (ICO).
my decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 April 2019.
Kinjal Vadgama
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5187592