K820x#14complaint
Mrs F says HSBC  UK Bank Plc mis-sold  her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background
Mrs F bought the policy in 1996 at the same time as taking out a credit card.
Due to the time thats passed since the sale took place, HSBC  cant confirm how this 
particular policy was sold as their records arent  complete. This isnt unusual given the time 
thats passed. In situations like this Ive to decide what  I think  is more  likely than not to have 
happened based on the available  evidence.
Ive considered that this policy was sold in a meeting. Ive also considered that HSBC made 
a recommendation  to take PPI as this places more responsibility on them.  I say this because 
it means that not only did they have to give Mrs F good enough information about  the PPI 
policy, but they also had to take reasonable steps to check that the PPI was right for Mrs F.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs F disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Fs case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Fs complaint  because:
 Unfortunately there arent any notes available of the meeting, and understandably    
Mrs F possibly  may not recall it clearly after so long.  There  are also no documents  
available to me from the time of the sale, which is not at all surprising considering the 
sale took place  over 20 years ago. 
So its difficult to know how the policy was positioned with Mrs F. In order  for me to 
uphold this Id have to think that Mrs Fs account  was more likely than that of HSBC.  
But as these events  happened so long ago and as theres no documentary evidence to 
support either partys position,  I have  to conclude that Mrs Fs account is only as likely 
not more likely. So on balance  I cannot safely conclude that the policy wasnt 
presented as optional or that Mrs F wasnt given a choice about  PPI. 
 I think HSBC recommended  the PPI to Mrs F, and it seems  to have been right for her 
based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time and based  on the nearest 
relevant policy document. I say this because  it seems  that Mrs F was eligible for the 
PPI cover and the policy could  have paid out for longer than Mrs Fs existing means  if 
she was unwell  and unable to work or if she was made unemployed.
 Its possible the information HSBC gave Mrs F about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Mrs F doesnt appear to have  been  affected by any of the main 
Ref: DRN51940642things the policy didnt cover  and based on what Ive been  told about her 
circumstances it looks like the policy couldve been useful to her. So I dont think  better 
information wouldve  stopped her buying  it. 
Ive taken into account Mrs Fs comments, including what shes  said about not needing PPI 
as she was in secure  employment. But nobody can accurately predict what the future will 
bring and having this policy would  help protect  Mrs Fs financial position if she was to 
experience an unexpected  change  in her circumstances such  as being made unemployed.
So these points dont  change my conclusion.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Fs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 February  2019.
Daniel OShea
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5194064