K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2002. Mr D says Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) mis-sold him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ds case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
I think BoS made it clear  that Mr D didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose to take it 
out. Mr D has told us he thinks he took the policy out by post. BoS no longer has a record of 
how this policy was sold, which is understandable  considering how long ago this was, but 
thinks this may have been a telephone  sale.  It has provided a sample of the credit card 
agreement which would  have been sent to Mr D after the call. As Mr D would have received 
this in the post to sign, I can understand why Mr D thinks this was a postal sale. But I think  it 
seems likely from looking at the document that this was a telephone sale.  I can see on the 
agreement that there  is a box to complete if PPI is wanted and a signature is required to 
confirm this selection. I have no reason to doubt that this wasnt the same  or similar form 
which Mr D would have seen. If Mr D decided he didnt want  to take out the PPI when he 
received the form he didnt need  to sign in the relevant box on the form.
So based  on what Ive seen and been  told, I think its more  likely that BoS made Mr D aware 
that the policy was optional  and I think he agreed to take it out knowing he could refuse it if 
he didnt want it.
Mr D said he didnt know if he received advice about the policy. BoS no longer has any 
information but has assessed the complaint on the basis it did provide advice. As this puts 
greater responsibility  on BoS rather than Mr D, I will also consider the complaint as though 
BoS recommended the PPI to him. This means it had to check  that the PPI was right for 
Mr D  and based  on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think  that it was. For 
example he appears  to have been  eligible for the cover and wasnt  affected by any of the 
exclusions to or limits  on the policy, such as having  unusual working  arrangements or 
suffering from a medical condition of which he was already  aware. 
Ive noted that Mr D has told us he was entitled  to six months full pay, followed by six 
months half pay from his employer if he was too ill to work. But this policy would have  paid 
out in addition to his sick pay, and potentially for longer than his full pay. And it would have  
paid out for the same  length of time if he was to lose his job. Ive noted that Mr D has told us 
he was in a secure  job and was unlikely to have been made  redundant  but this isnt the 
same as having a guaranteed protection from redundancy. And by having this policy  it would 
have enabled  him to use his redundancy pay elsewhere  such  as covering other essential 
living expenses. So I think this policy could still have provided him with a useful benefit.
Its possible the information BoS gave  Mr D about  the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve  
been. But he chose  to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover. And it seems  
like it would have been useful for him if something  went wrong. It also looks  like it was 
Ref: DRN56411512affordable. So I dont think better information  about  the PPI would have put him off taking out 
the cover. 
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So BoS doesnt need  to refund everything 
Mr D paid for it. But BoS has already offered to give Mr D back some of the cost of the PPI. I 
dont think it needs  to do anything more. I understand  BoS has already paid this to Mr D.
my final decision
For the reasons  stated  above, I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 February  2019.
Jenny Giles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5641151