K821x#15complaint
Its been  agreed in this case  that Financial  Insurance Company Limited (FICL), as the 
insurer, should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to FICL 
as the seller in my decision.
Mrs O says Financial Insurance Company Limited  (FICL) mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out on a store account in 1996.
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint.  FICL didnt agree so the complaint has been passed to 
me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Os case.
Ive decided to uphold Mrs Os complaint. Ill explain why.
Both Mrs O and FICL have told us that advice wasnt given at the time of the sale. So this 
means that FICL didnt  have to check that the policy  was right for her. But it did have to 
ensure it gave Mrs O clear enough information  to decide for herself if she wanted to take out 
the policy.
Mrs O has told us she had suffered from a medical  condition prior to taking out this policy.  
From what  we know about FICLs policies at the time I dont think Mrs O would have been 
able to claim for something  relating to this medical condition   as its likely it would have 
been excluded.  I think this would have mattered  to Mrs O, especially when taking into 
consideration the nature of the condition. Its likely she would have considered  this condition 
as one of the most likely causes of her needing to make a claim in the future. 
I dont think Mrs O would have bought the policy if FICL has made this particular exclusion 
clear to her and given  her enough information about  it. I dont think Mrs O would have 
thought the policy gave  her value for money. So I think she had lost out because  of what 
FICL did wrong.
putting things right
FICL should put Mrs O in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI.
A.FICL should find out how much  Mrs O would  have  owed  when she closed her store card 
account if the policy hadnt  been  added.
Ref: DRN58435662So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges. 
FICL should then refund  the difference between what  Mrs O owed when she closed her 
account and what  she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Mrs O made a successful claim under the PPI policy, FICL can take off what she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her.  
B.FICL should add simple interest on the difference between what Mrs O would have 
owed when she closed her account  from when  she closed it until she gets the refund. 
The interest rate should  be 8% a year. 
C.If  when  FICL works out what Mrs O would have owed each month  without PPI  
Mrs O paid more than enough to clear  her balance,  FICL should also pay simple  interest 
on the extra Mrs O paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point when Mrs 
O wouldve  owed FICL something on her store card. The interest rate should be 8% a 
year. 
D.FICL should tell Mrs O what its done to work  out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires FICL to take off tax from this interest. FICL must give 
Mrs O a certificate showing  how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  stated  above, I uphold Mrs Os complaint against Financial Insurance  
Company Limited.  I require it to pay Mrs O compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 September  2019.
Jenny Giles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5843566