K822xcomplaint
Mr and Ms M are unhappy that Union Reiseversicherung AG (URV) hasnt fully settled a 
claim they made on their travel insurance policy. 
background 
Mr and Ms M bought  a travel insurance  policy underwritten  by URV to cover a trip to the 
United States America  (USA). 
In 2017 Mr and Ms M were on holiday with their son who was aged 19. He had to have 
emergency treatment  on arrival in the USA after he was very unwell during the flight.  He was 
taken to the hospital when  they landed with suspected pancreatitis.  
Mr and Ms M contacted  URV and it accepted the claim. URV  has made part payment 
towards the following invoices:
Invoice from Community Ambulance for $1,139.94 - URV has paid $708.04
Invoice from Physicians for $1, 384  URV  has paid $191.32
Invoice from Hospital  for $6,124  URV has paid $1,031.25
Mr and Ms M initially received correspondence from the hospital asking for payment. They 
have now received demands  for payment from a Swiss debt collector.
URV says, in summary,  the hospital costs are unreasonable and inflated. It has said the 
hospital has been overcharging and its paid a reasonable settlement for the bill. 
Mr and Ms M continue to receive  correspondence from the debt collectors  and complained 
to URV. Unhappy with URVs  response, Mr and Ms M referred their complaint to our service. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and said URV hadnt provided clear evidence  to 
show that the costs  claimed were unreasonable or excessive and there was no evidence  of 
any meaningful  negotiation  between  URV  and the hospital. He recommended that URV  
should pay the outstanding amount  in full (or reach an immediate agreed settlement) and 
also pay £100 compensation  for the stress  and upset caused as a result of the repeat 
demands for payment. 
In response to our investigators opinion URV said it would  increase the compensation to 
£300. But URV didnt accept the investigators  findings saying: 
Medical providers  can charge more than they should once treatment has been 
provided - this is standard practice  in the USA 
It always carries  out an audit review  to determine what is a reasonable charge for the 
provider to make 
This safeguards the insurer and the insured  from paying excessive rates  and 
prevents premiums increasing  for consumers  
No private clinic has ever come up with a reason  as to why URV should pay for 
treatment that would be free of charge a few minutes away, at a far better equipped 
Ref: DRN57659252and manned state facility  
 
The appointment of debt collectors  in Switzerland is to avoid regulation and control  in 
the USA and the UK 
In the unlikely event the medical  providers or the debt collectors pursue the matter far 
enough to make  a payment become necessary they would pay in full 
Mr and Ms M have no financial liability for the outstanding costs
The outstanding  amount is for the hospitals financial gain and doesnt reflect  genuine 
costs incurred. 
Our investigator put URVs increased  offer to Mr and Ms M but they didnt accept it. They  
told us that, for them, its not about  compensation. They want their insurer to pay the bills. 
In September  2020 I issued my provisional decision which said:  
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
As a matter  of general legal principle, URV is bound to indemnify Mr and Ms M 
against losses covered  by the policy as and when  the amount of their loss (here the 
amount of Mr and Ms Ms liability to the healthcare  provider) has been ascertained. 
That may be by agreement, by court judgment  or by arbitration. So URV has a 
commercial interest in being  able to take over the defence  and settlement of such  
claims in Mr and Ms Ms name. 
URVs policy terms say it can:
take over and deal with in your name  the defence/settlement of any claim made  
under the policy.
In effect, this means URV  has the right to take over the conduct of a claim  
defending or settling  it  in the name  of Mr and Ms M. But that isnt an unqualified 
right. 
Legally, in situations where  URVs interests  conflict with Mr and Ms M, URV has a 
responsibility to act in good faith when  it takes over the defence/settlement of a claim 
 having regard to their interests as well as its own commercial interests.  URV  isnt 
entitled to act arbitrarily  in the way it goes  about declining to pay the full amount of 
the invoice and contesting  the outstanding amount. In deciding  whether  and how  
to settle or defend  claims against Mr and Ms M, URV  is required  to base its decision 
on the circumstances of their individual case. 
The applicable  regulations lead to a similar conclusion.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) Handbook sets out a number of Principles for 
Businesses, which URV must follow, including:
Principle 6  A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat 
them fairly.
Ref: DRN57659253Principle 8  A firm must manage conflicts of interest fairly,  both between  itself and 
its customers and between a customer and another client. 
The relevant  regulations  also include ICOBS  8.1.1R which says an insurer must:
(1)handle claims promptly and fairly; 
(2)provide reasonable guidance to help a policyholder make a claim and appropriate  
information on its progress;
(3)not unreasonably  reject a claim (including by terminating or avoiding a policy);  
and 
(4)settle claims promptly once settlement terms are agreed.
The Regulatory Guide,  published by the FCA, entitled: The Responsibilities  of 
Providers and Distributors  for the Fair Treatment  of Customers (RPPD) includes the 
Regulators guidance on what the combination of Principles for Businesses (the 
Principles) and the detailed rules require providers  and distributors of financial 
services in certain circumstances to treat customers fairly. The RPPD  explains that 
firms should consider the impact of their actions, or inactions, on their customers  
throughout the life-cycle of the service being provided.
I also think it is appropriate to take into account  what I consider to have been  good 
industry practice at the time of the claim. This was for underwriters of travel 
insurance  and their agents  to engage  diligently with healthcare providers to try to 
resolve disputes over medical bills by actively seeking a compromise  or adjudication 
of their bills. That includes actively engaging in appropriate negotiation. 
Ill now explain what this means for Mr and Ms Ms complaint. 
URV says the USA the cost of every type of medical  treatment performed in the USA 
is reviewed at a federal  level annually. URV  says it uses  the guidelines as a 
benchmark when  deciding whether the amounts charged are reasonable. It says it 
then pays a certain percentage above  this, which its disclosed to our Service.
URV has accepted  responsibility for the sums due under the invoices and hasnt 
suggested that any of the procedures which are itemised, shouldnt  have  been  
charged for  or shouldnt be paid at all. It has simply said the amounts charged  are 
unreasonably excessive. Its sought  to rely on the guidelines to support the amounts 
it has paid to the healthcare provider for the medical  care Mr and Ms Ms son 
received in 2017. 
Our investigator asked  URV for evidence of the guidelines it had relied on. URV  has 
provided the codes  theyve  used to assess the claim and a description  of each 
treatment or service its paid for. But URV hasnt provided any more detail about the 
guidelines theyve  relied on in this case.  
This means  I havent  been provided  with a clear  explanation of how URV has used 
the information in the guidelines it has referred to in order to reach  a conclusion on 
what a reasonable  payment would be. Theyve  simply said theyve added a 
percentage figure to the amounts set out in the guidelines. 
Ref: DRN57659254Without any clear information and data showing which figures URV has used for 
each code on the invoices, Im not satisfied that the items charged for on the invoices 
are equivalent  to those  drawn by URV from the guidelines or correspond  to figures 
for the hospital  where Mr and Ms son received  emergency treatment. Nor, have I 
been shown anything to convince me that the guidelines establish a valid benchmark 
for the fair market value  of services provided  outside  the US Medicare/Medicaid 
systems to which they relate. So, Im not persuaded the invoices are excessive  or out 
of line with what might be charged. 
But in any case,  even if the guidelines  do support URVs decision to not pay the 
outstanding amount, Im not satisfied  it has acted fairly and reasonably in the way it 
has handled Mr and Ms Ms claim. 
Mr and Ms M are concerned about  returning  to the USA and whether they will be 
allowed in given the status of the payments to the hospital. They told us that theyve 
paid the travel insurance on the understanding the policy would cover them for up to 
$10 million. They say they feel unable to go on further holidays to the USA and dont 
know if it will be flagged  when they enter the country. Although URV has given them 
some reassurances, they are still worried and concerned by the outstanding bills. 
The policy allows  URV to take over, and deal with the defence/settlement of any 
claim made under the policy in Mr and Ms Ms name. But I do expect it to do so in a 
fair and reasonable way  and I must  have  regard to the law, the relevant industry 
rules and regulations,  and good practice.  URV  has a duty to deal with claims 
promptly and fairly  and to act with due skill, care and diligence, paying due regard to 
Mr and Ms Ms interests  and treating  them fairly. I dont think its done that in this 
case.
URV took a unilateral decision to only pay part of the invoices. I havent seen any 
evidence that it discussed its approach with Mr and Ms M before doing so. In its final 
response to Mr and Ms Ms complaint,  URV said: 
when dealing  with hospitals in the United States,  negotiation of bills is essential  as is 
receiving the correct account and invoice for services  and treatment administered. 
This is to ensure  that the insurer or the customers are no paying unrelated charges 
falsely applied by the hospital  for the purpose  of financial gain, as opposed to the 
reimbursement of genuine costs
The insurer  does have  evidence  that US insurers would  not be charged at anywhere  
near the same levels. I hope you understand why it is important that travel insurance  
providers take a stand against abusive  charges. 
But, despite its acknowledgement  that it was essential that it negotiated  such  bills, 
there is no evidence  that URV has attempted to negotiate with the healthcare  
provider or the debt collector in this case. Instead, theyve told the provider what they 
are prepared to pay and asked the other  parties  not to contact Mr and Ms M directly 
in relation to the outstanding amount.  
Whilst nobody could  suggest that negotiation will lead to a reasonable settlement 
being achieved  in every  case, in many cases it may do so; and Ive seen nothing to 
suggest that it couldnt have been  productive  in this case. Before negotiation is 
abandoned in a case like this, I would normally expect to see an insurer  explain and 
Ref: DRN57659255justify its position  by reference  to the particular items in dispute, take on board any 
response it receives and advance arguments  addressed to the particular issues in 
dispute to try to persuade the healthcare provider to accept the sum being offered, or 
reach a mutually  acceptable compromise.  
Bearing in mind the rules and regulations set out above, I havent seen any evidence 
that URV  has sufficiently  engaged with the hospital or the debt collector.  And it didnt 
actively seek a compromise or actively engage  in negotiation even though it said it 
would in its final response to the complaint. So, I consider this to be unreasonable  
and unfair  to Mr and Ms M.
URV needs to act fairly in each individual case. It also has a duty to fairly manage  
any conflicts between its own interests  and those of Mr and Ms M. I dont think  it has 
had due regard  to their interests here.  And I think it has unreasonably  put its own 
commercial interests above  Mr and Ms Ms without considering their specific 
circumstances. 
I dont think its fair to continue to subject Mr and Ms M to a protracted  dispute 
considering that Mr and Ms Ms son was admitted to hospital more than three years 
ago and the continuing trouble and worry this is causing to them. I dont think  URV 
has considered  the impact of its actions as it is required to do. 
Ive considered everything URV  has said as outlined  above. But URV doesnt have 
the absolute right to partially settle  or defend a case in accordance with its own 
practices or interests  it still must act fairly and reasonably when doing so  and 
must have  regard to the interests of the policyholder.  I dont think its done that here.
I dont think its fair and reasonable that Mr and Ms M have been put in this position. 
They purchased travel insurance  which covers medical attention and they dont  
expect to be exposed, without a very good reason, to continuing  action from debt 
collectors years after visiting an overseas hospital and meeting the excess  under the 
policy  and looking at the circumstances of this case, URV doesnt  seem to have 
considered the impact  of this on Mr and Ms M. 
putting things right 
DISP 3.7.1R says that where a complaint is determined in favour of a complainant  
the ombudsmans determination may include a direction to the respondent, which  in 
this case is URV.
DISP 3.7.11R also provides  that a direction may require  the respondent, here URV to 
take such steps in relation to the complaint as the ombudsman considers just and 
appropriate whether or not a court could order those steps to be taken.  
I accept that, because the healthcare  providers  bill hasnt been  agreed or 
adjudicated, there isnt an ascertained  legal liability  on Mr and Ms M to pay the 
balance of the bill to the healthcare provider, so URVs  duty to indemnify them  by 
paying that balance hasnt  been  triggered. But in this particular case, Im persuaded 
its fair and reasonable for URV  to do so.
Thats because,  for the reasons Ive set out above, I dont think there is sufficient 
evidence that the invoices  were  excessive, and, I dont think  URV has acted fairly 
Ref: DRN57659256and reasonably in the way in which it has taken over the handling of the defence or 
settlement of the healthcare providers  claim against Mr and Ms M.  
When making this finding, Ive taken into account that it may be possible for URV to 
negotiate a reduction in the amounts charged by the healthcare  provider and agree a 
figure less than the outstanding amount. However,  its had since  2017 to do so, and 
hasnt. And so, in the circumstances of this particular  case,  Im satisfied it would be 
fair and reasonable for URV to be required to settle  the outstanding amount without 
further delay.
URV had made an offer of compensation of £300, which  is in excess  of the award 
our investigator made. Bearing in mind  the distress and inconvenience  caused by the 
unnecessary worry of being chased  by debt collectors  for a substantial bill, Im 
satisfied this is a fair and reasonable  amount  for URV to pay to Mr and Ms M for the 
trouble and upset  caused by failing to treat them fairly. 
Within 28 days from the date on which we tell it that Mr and Ms M accept our final 
decision I direct URV to:
pay the outstanding amount to the healthcare provider  together with any 
interest due on the outstanding amount and any collection  fees Mr and Ms M are 
liable for, and
pay Mr and Ms M £300 compensation for the trouble and upset, if this hasnt 
already been paid.
Mr and Ms M accepted  my provisional findings and provided a copy of a recent letter  from 
URV confirming that URV had instructed lawyers and reassuring them they werent  
responsible for the outstanding amount.  
URV responded to my provisional decision with two offers which  they say will protect Mr and 
Ms M but also give the chance for present overcharging to be reined in. The two offers  were:  
It is understood and appreciated that receiving debt collector letters can be worrying 
and moreover, stressful. In order to provider Ms and Mr M with further reassurance, 
the insurer is willing to appoint and pay for a UK solicitor to represent  them,  with the 
aim of stopping further correspondence, however long that may take. At the same 
time we would be willing to increase the distress and inconvenience award to £600  to 
reflect any future inconvenience; or 
Should Ms and Mr M be concerned as to the open ended  negotiation as stated 
above, the insurer would like a three month  negotiation period  where  they can liaise  
with the medical  facility in order to come to a final financial settlement. At the same 
time we would be willing to increase the distress and inconvenience award to £400  to 
reflect the additional period of waiting. 
The above  offers  were  put to Mr and Ms M but they declined them  and asked me to make a 
final decision  in relation to their complaint.  Our investigator contacted URV to confirm  that 
the offers had been rejected and that I would now make a final decision. 
Ref: DRN57659257my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im intending to uphold Mr and Ms Ms complaint and direct URV  to put 
things right in the way I outlined in my provisional  decision. 
URV didnt  make any further  representations in relation to my findings  about their handling of 
the claim and the approach theyd taken  to settling the bills  they suggested two 
alternatives outcomes,  both of which Mr and Ms M rejected. 
No further arguments or evidence in relation to URVs conduct in the handling of the claim, 
including their decisions to settle the claim in part and not to enter  into meaningful  
negotiations with the healthcare providers, have  been presented. So, theres no reason for 
me to reach different  conclusions in relation to these points. URV  asked  me to consider two 
alternative outcomes.  Im not persuaded that either amount to a fair or reasonable outcome 
for Mr and Ms M in the circumstances of this case. 
The first option URV put forward was that it would appoint a UK solicitor to act for Mr and Ms 
M and would  increase  the compensation to £600. The second option URV put forward was 
to allow  for a three-month negotiation period and to increase  the compensation to £400. 
Im going  to direct URV to pay the bills as I outlined in my provisional decision. URV have 
had ample time to take the above actions as this claim was first made  in 2017. Over three 
years later the matter  remains  unsettled and I think its fair and reasonable that the matter is 
resolved once and for all by the settlement of the outstanding bills.
When making this finding, Ive taken into account that it may be possible for URV to
negotiate a reduction in the amounts charged by the healthcare  provider and agree a figure  
less than the outstanding  amount.  However, its had since 2017  to do so, and hasnt. And so, 
in the circumstances of this particular case,  Im satisfied it would be fair and reasonable for 
URV to settle the outstanding amount  without further delay.
Putting things  right
For the reasons  Ive outlined above, and in my provisional decision, Im upholding this 
complaint. Within 28 days from the date on which we tell it that Mr and Ms M accept our final 
decision I direct URV to: 
pay the outstanding amount to the healthcare provider  together with any 
interest due on the outstanding amount and any collection  fees Mr and Ms M are 
liable for, and
pay Mr and Ms M £300 compensation for the trouble and upset, if this hasnt 
already been paid.
Ref: DRN57659258my final decision
Im upholding Mr and Ms Ms complaint and direct  Union Reiseversicherung AG to put things 
right in the way Ive outlined above. Under  the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service, 
Im required  to ask Mr and Ms M to accept or reject my decision before 1 March 2021.
Anna Wilshaw 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5765925