K820x#14complaint
Mr T has complained that CIS General Insurance Limited unfairly  increased  his motor 
insurance premium.
Reference to CIS includes its agents.
background
Mr T had a policy with CIS with a premium of roughly £228.  After Mr T changed address CIS 
sent him some confusing  information about his premium for the rest of the policy year.  But it 
eventually agreed  to only charge him roughly £20 more to cover the change of risk for his 
new address.
When his policy was due for renewal  the premium increased to around  £590. Mr T didn't 
renew his policy  with CIS. He brought his complaint about the increased  premium to us. Our 
adjudicator didn't think that CIS had dealt with Mr T unfairly. Mr T didn't agree so his 
complaint's been passed to me to consider.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not going to uphold 
it. 
In bringing this complaint Mr T has made a number of detailed  points and I've considered 
everything hes said carefully. But in this decision I will focus on what  I see as being the key 
outstanding issues.
I have some sympathy with the position  Mr T finds himself  in as CIS explanations  for its 
calculations havent  been easy to follow. But I've had the benefit of seeing some screen 
shots from its system. And its apparent that, after he changed address it initially  twice  
incorrectly calculated the amended premium.  And after it correctly recalculated the premium 
 when it went up to around £500 a year - it didnt explain  that to Mr T at the time. And the 
information its given  him about that since then has lacked clarity.
That said it appears that Mr T benefited from CIS mistakes as it didn't charge him the full 
amount of the premium that should  have been  due. Rather than charging Mr T around £152 
to reflect  the increased premium  following  the change of address, it only charged  him about 
£20. So while CIS explanations certainly could have been clearer I dont  think the premium 
its charged him is necessarily unfair.
Mr T has complained that the increase in his premium was far higher than his wife's policy,  
which is also underwritten by CIS. So I asked CIS for its comments on that. Its explained 
that Mr T and Mrs T have  entirely different policies. So the two different products don't mirror 
each other  and the premium calculations won't  be the same either. That means  its not fair to 
make a like-for-like comparison between the two increases in premium.
It might help if I explain that its not unusual for underwriters to produce numerous different 
policies, with different  levels of cover,  depending  on the risk its prepared  to cover and the 
customer base it wishes to attract. And they will calculate the risk and therefore the premium 
differently for each  product.  So I don't  find the fact that Mr Ts premium increased more  than 
Ref: DRN59533282his wifes means that CIS has singled him out. And having looked at the information its 
shown us Im satisfied its treated Mr T the same as it would for other consumers with the 
same policy and similar circumstances.  It follows that I don't think  its calculated  his 
premium unfairly.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 July 2019.
Joe Scott
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN5953328