K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs E are unhappy with the way that their claim to National House-Building Council 
(NHBC) under their building  warranty continued to be progressed.
background
Mr and Mrs E contacted NHBC to make  a claim in January  2018.  This was after their 
noticing water damage to their home. NHBC accepted the claim and appointed  builders  to 
carry out repairs to the waterproofing. The assessment work to the render commenced in 
July 2018, and further work to the basement and lounge continued.
Mr and Mrs E made a complaint about  the delays in carrying out the investigation and 
preliminary works. In a final response  letter of 25 July 2018 NHBC accepted that there  had 
been delays and offered compensation of £250.  They referred their complaints to this 
service and after review our investigator  said that he thought NHBC had acted fairly and 
offered reasonable compensation up until the date of the final response  letter.  
Mr and Mrs E accepted that but then informed  us that they had further issues  to raise which  
hadnt been dealt with by NHBC and after the date of the final response letter up until the 
completion of the works on 23 October 2018.  In particular they told us theyd had to cancel  a 
holiday and pay a cancellation fee because they felt they had to be present to ensure that 
the works  were carried out properly. And they didnt want to delay further  progress of the 
repairs.
NHBC said it had acted  reasonably after the initial delays  and offer of compensation. It 
pointed out that the works were  completed  on time after they had started. It said it wasnt  
liable for Mr and Mrs Es holiday cancellation  costs.
On referral to this service  our investigator  thought that NHBC had acted  reasonably and 
didnt recommend any further compensation. He didnt think  that NHBC should pay their 
holiday cancellation costs.
Mr and Mrs E disagreed and the matter has been  passed to me for further  consideration
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
delays 
An assessment of required render work to the home  was carried  out in July 2018,  finalised 
on 1 August and passed to NHBC and the builders on 7 August to review  and approve  the 
work. Approval was given  on 30 August. Whilst I appreciate  that Mr and Mrs E were  
concerned because of previous delays I think this was a reasonable length of time to 
approve a work schedule  and costs. Following that Mr and Mrs E advised  that they would be 
on holiday  for three weeks in September. So it was agreed that the work  would  begin  from 
1 October. Mr and Mrs E, and their neighbour had to agree colour choices for the render. 
The builders  also had to wait for the renderers availability.  It was then confirmed that the 
work would be completed on 23 October. I understand that completion  took place on that 
day to all parties satisfaction.
Ref: DRN53569192Mr and Mrs E also complained of delays  to work  in other areas of the home, the basement 
and lounge. I bear in mind  that any previous delays were dealt with in the previous 
complaint. I see that the lounge was completed on 8 October. And having reviewed the 
documents I cant see that there  were  any further  delays in completing the basement.
I understand that Mr and Mrs E undertook some minor tasks themselves,  like painting. That 
was their decision and I can understand that they were anxious for the repairs  to be 
completed. Mrs E also says she had to do project/on-site management herself.  Again whilst  I 
understand she felt she had to do it, this sort of work wouldnt usually be overseen on a day 
to day basis.
Mrs E also says she was told the repairs would be completed in two weeks  but in fact took 
seven weeks. The job summary  dated 19 June 2018  anticipated  at least  five weeks  so I 
dont think the actual time taken to complete the repair was unreasonable.
I think NHBC and its contractors acted reasonably after 24 July in completing the repairs. 
holiday cancellation
Mr and Mrs E had booked a short break of four days between 19 and 21 July. They booked 
it on 18 June and could  have cancelled up until 11 July without charge. They  chose to cancel 
after that date so incurred the cancellation cost. 
Mr and Mrs E have  sought the repayment  of that cost from NHBC. It pointed out to them  that 
the warranty doesnt allow for that sort of cost. But I can consider whether NHBCs conduct 
of the claim effectively forced Mr and Mrs E to incur  that cost.  I believe they decided  not to 
travel because they didnt want to delay the completion of the work. I think that was their 
decision  I dont think from the evidence Ive seen  that it was forced on them.  As the break 
included a weekend  a maximum of two working days  would  have been  lost. I note that 
Mr  and Mrs Es complaint about  the initial delays was made in May 2018.  And later NHBC 
was willing  to work around  their planned holiday in September.
I dont think that NHBC is liable for Mr and Mrs Es holiday  cancellation  costs.
overall 
I can understand that Mr and Mrs E felt that the matter dragged  on after they had 
complained and that their previous experience  would have made them  more  anxious that the 
repairs be completed as soon as possible. But Im satisfied overall that following NHBCs 
offer of compensation for delays in July 2018, It completed the necessary repairs  adequately 
and within  a reasonable time.
my final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs E to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 March 2020.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5356919