K820x#14complaint
Mr B has complained that he was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy 
when he took out a loan with HSBC UK Bank  Plc (HSBC) in 2001.
background
Mr B took out a PPI policy when he borrowed £5,000 over four years. At the same time he 
took out a PPI policy which was paid for by borrowing more   the PPI cost an extra  £891.87. 
The policy covered Mr Bs loan payments if he was unable to work due to accident or 
sickness for the term of the loan or for twelve months if he was made unemployed. It also 
had life cover attached,  so the loan would have been paid off if Mr B died. Mr Bs loan was 
paid off in 2002.
Mr B has said he wasnt aware PPI had been added to his loan and didnt need PPI due to 
the cost and his other means.
Our adjudicator thought this complaint should be upheld, but HSBC disagreed so the 
complaint was passed to me for a decision. Having looked at all of the evidence and 
arguments, I came to a different conclusion to the adjudicator,  so I issued a provisional 
decision. The following is an extract of that provisional decision:
did Mr B have a fair choice to take out PPI?
Mr B has said the PPI was added  to the loan without his agreement following a 
phone call to take out the loan. HSBC has said that after any phone  call, Mr B would 
have filled in an application form at home and returned it or filled in a form in branch. 
Either way I dont have  a call recording of the call due to the passage  of time. And I 
cant be sure what was said if Mr B filled in a form in branch, so Ive looked at all of 
the paperwork and thought about  what both Mr B and HSBC have said happened.
I dont have a copy of the actual loan agreement Mr B signed. Im not surprised  by 
that as the loan closed  seventeen  years  ago and theres no requirement for HSBC  to 
keep this information forever.  But I have  seen a copy  of the loan agreements  that 
were used at the time and Ive got no reason to doubt Mr Bs loan agreement  looked 
the same. On it the cost of PPI is set out separately to the cost of the loan and I can 
see a customer would  have had to sign separately to take out PPI. So I think  PPI was 
presented as a separate and optional product. Based on this I think Mr B chose to 
take it out. This doesnt fit with what he has said but Im not surprised if his 
recollections arent clear  as the sale took place many years ago and most peoples  
memories naturally fade with time.
was Mr B given information  that was clear, fair and not misleading?
Mr B has said he wasnt given  any advice.  So HSBC had to give Mr B enough  
information so that he could decide whether to take out the PPI. Ive looked  at the 
documentation thats been  provided  and I cant be certain he was given all the 
information about the policy that he needed, for example Im not sure all of the 
exclusions in the policy were set out separately. But I think that Mr B would have 
bought the policy even  if he had all of the information when he signed up for it.
Ref: DRN59648482I say that because of the following reasons:
Mr B was eligible  for the PPI and doesnt  seem to be affected by any of the 
exclusions in the policy. 
Mr B had sick pay of between three and six months. But the policy  would 
have paid out on top of any sick pay he did have and potentially for longer. I 
think this could  have  been a benefit  to him.
Mr B hasnt  said he had any other  way to make his repayments  if he was out 
of work, so I think PPI gave him valuable protection.
The policy covered  Mr B for the whole of the loan term. Although  he wouldnt 
have got a pro rata refund if he cancelled it, I havent seen any evidence that 
he told HSBC he was likely to pay off or refinance the loan early. So I dont  
think that made the policy  unsuitable for him.
Mr B could  have claimed  for accident and sickness for up to forty eight 
months and for unemployment for up to twelve months. But he only needed to 
claim for eight months to get back the cost of PPI, so I think  it offered value 
for money.
It appears that Mr B could afford  the policy at the time and I havent seen 
anything showing that he had a need to keep his costs down.
So I dont  think that knowing  more about  the cost and benefit  would  have put Mr B off 
taking it out.
HSBC responded  to my provisional decision to say it had nothing  further to add.
Mr B didnt respond.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Bs complaint. 
As neither party responded with anything further  for me to think  about, I see no reason to 
change my provisional conclusions.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint  against  HSBC UK Bank Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 May 2019.
Mark Hutchings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5964848