K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that Tesco Personal Finance  PLC mis-sold him a payment protection 
insurance (PPI)  policy.   
background
Mr B took out a credit card in 2009. At the same  time he was sold a PPI policy to protect his 
credit card monthly  repayments. 
Our adjudicator didnt  feel we should uphold Mr Bs complaint. Mr B disagrees with our 
adjudicators view. Mr B is mainly  concerned that the policy terms and conditions werent 
very clear and he feels that Tesco shouldve followed up his application to confirm  if he 
required the policy. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Bs complaint.
Mr B took out his credit card with PPI by filling in a postal  application.  Theres a section on 
the form where it says in bold type Optional Insurance  You will not be covered  unless  
you tick and sign above. PPI is mentioned as one of the features available  with the card 
and Mr B has ticked the PPI option and signed here.  He hasnt taken out any of the other 
insurance that was offered. So I think the way the application form is set out makes  it clear  
that it was up to Mr B to say if he wanted  to take out PPI with his credit  card.  
On balance, I find that Tesco made  Mr B aware that PPI was optional  and it was added to 
his account when he chose to have  it. 
Tesco didnt  recommend the PPI to Mr B, so it didnt have to check  the policy  was suitable  
for him. But it still shouldve given  Mr B enough information to make  a proper decision about 
whether PPI was right for him. And if it didnt do this, I have to decide if I think  this makes  
any overall difference to Mr B. 
Mr B was eligible for the policy  when he took it out. 
Looking at the other means Mr B couldve  relied  on to make  his credit card repayments if he 
couldnt work I think he couldve benefitted  from having the PPI. 
Ive taken into account that Mr B told us his employer wouldve paid him some sick pay. But 
the policy couldve paid out for up to 12 months per accident and sickness claim. So the PPI 
provided better protection than he couldve relied  on getting through  his employer. And it 
wouldve paid out on top of sick pay providing Mr B with a useful  benefit  at a difficult time  
especially bearing in mind that he mightve had some extra costs as a result of being sick or 
disabled. 
Ref: DRN59543742PPI wouldve  also paid out for up to 12 months for any one claim if Mr B lost his job and 
became unexpectedly  unemployed.
Relying on someone  else to help out in the event  of money problems isnt as dependable as 
taking out PPI as everyones circumstances can change unexpectedly.  
Its possible some information Tesco gave Mr B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. There were some  things the policy didnt cover. But it doesnt look as if those applied 
in Mr Bs case. So, I dont  think having more information about things the policy  didnt cover 
wouldve affected his decision  to have PPI.
I dont think its likely  that the PPI cost was made  clear to Mr B at the time he bought the 
policy. But from what Ive seen, Mr B hasnt suggested that he couldnt afford  the monthly 
premiums. And he chose to take out the policy when he didnt have to - so it seems  Mr B 
wanted this type of cover at the time.  Looked  at overall, I think  Mr B still wouldve decided  to 
buy the policy if hed been better informed as it provided him with worthwhile protection.  
I dont think its likely  that better information wouldve put him off buying it.
But Tesco Personal Finance PLC will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr B because: 
Tesco Personal Finance PLC got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 
50% of the PPI premium)  - so it should have  told Mr B about that. Because Tesco 
Personal Finance  PLC didnt  tell Mr B, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Tesco Personal Finance PLC has basically offered to pay back the 
amount of commission and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and 
I think that offer is fair in this case.
what Tesco Personal Finance PLC needs to do
Tesco Personal Finance PLC has to pay back to Mr B any commission  and profit share  it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. Tesco Personal Finance PLC should also pay 
back to Mr B any extra interest he paid because of that.
Tesco Personal Finance PLC should  re-work the credit  card account and pay back  to Mr B 
the difference between what Mr B owed and what he wouldve owed if the commission and 
profit share it got hadnt been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. Tesco Personal Finance PLC 
should also pay Mr B 8%* simple interest  if he paid off the credit card at some  point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr B can claim back  the tax if he 
doesnt pay tax.
Ref: DRN59543743my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Tesco Personal  Finance PLC does not have to pay back 
all of the cost of the PPI to Mr B.
But (if it hasnt already)  Tesco  Personal Finance PLC does have to pay back to Mr B any 
commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 May 2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN5954374