K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain  that Bank of Scotland Plc (BoS) mis-sold them three  payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policies.
All references in this decision  to BoS include any predecessor businesses  which  sold PPI to 
Mr and Mrs P. 
background
In 1984 Mr and Mrs P took out a joint mortgage  account number ended (45335). In 1991 
they took out a PPI policy which covered them for up to 12 months if they were off work 
because of an accident, sickness or if they lost their jobs.
 
In 2006 Mr and Mrs P took out a mortgage (account ended  75579) and a PPI policy.  This 
policy covered both Mr and Mrs P for accident, sickness and unemployment  for up to 
12 months per claim. 
In 2007 Mr and Mrs P took out another mortgage (account ended  69330).  At the same time 
they took out a PPI policy. This policy also covered  them  for up to 12 months if either  lost 
their job or couldnt work through an accident  or if they were ill.
Both the 2006  and 2007 policies  were  part of a packaged protection  called Total  Mortgage 
Protection Plan (TMPP).
BoS also told Mr and Mrs P that no PPI was taken out on a mortgage account ended 
20824-9 in 2008.
Mr and Mrs P say that they were unaware  that they had the PPI. They were told by their 
mortgage adviser that they had endowment cover and they didnt need it as they already had 
adequate cover in place  for their mortgage.
Our adjudicator didnt  think this complaint should be upheld. Mr and Mrs P disagreed with 
this view and asked  if their matter could be referred to an ombudsman for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Ps complaint. Ill explain why.
BoS has confirmed  it will treat all these sales as if they were recommended  to Mr and Mrs P. 
That placed  more responsibility on BoS for how it sold the policies and meant it had to take 
reasonable steps to make  sure the policies were  suitable for Mr and Mrs P. It also had to 
give them  enough  clear  information so that Mr and Mrs P could decide for themselves 
whether or not they wanted the PPI.
were Mr and Mrs P given a choice and did they consent to all the PPI?
Ref: DRN52991972sale of policy  in 1991
As the PPI was sold so long ago now not all the information is available  from the time. This 
is neither surprising nor unusual as businesses arent required to keep records indefinitely. 
Mr and Mrs P also understandably  dont  have all the records from the time. Where  the 
information is incomplete, I will make  my decision on the balance of probabilities - that is 
whats more likely to have  happened.
I can see in this case that Mr and Mrs Ps mortgage  began in 1984  and this policy  was taken 
out later in 1991. So I dont think its likely  that they would have thought they had to have the 
PPI in order to secure their mortgage and taking  into account what we know  about how this 
business sold policies  at the time, I think Mr and Mrs P more likely knew  they had a choice 
about buying it.
sale of policy  in 2006
This was the sale of a TMPP policy and BoS has sent a screen shot of the banks internal 
system which shows that PPI was taken out in December  2006.There  are a number of 
questions which have  been raised and the answers to the questions  both set out on the 
screenshots. I think this note reflected  a conversation with the representative at the time. 
And I can see they called  BoS to cancel the policy as they had another cover in place. So I 
think this shows they knew  about choosing the PPI and taking all this into account I think 
they more likely chose  the cover  knowing  they could decline it if they didnt want  it.
sale of PPI in 2007.
The first thing Ive considered in relation to this policy is whether Mr and Mrs P had a choice  
about taking out the PPI and whether they likely  would have known they had it. They say 
they did not request PPI as they were in employment  which  paid them  if they were  ill. And 
they were sold something that they didnt  know they had been  sold.  
BoS has provided a copy of a letter dated 19 March 2007. This letter confirms that 
Mr and Mrs P took out the PPI. Part of the TMPP package also sold critical illness  and life 
cover but neither Mr P nor Mrs P opted  for these types of cover. The letter  set out the 
monthly cost of the policy and indicates a direct debit instruction  was provided to BoS. It 
asked Mr and Mrs P to check that the details of the instruction were correct. A separate 
confirmation of information letter was provided. This set out all the details Mr and Mrs P 
provided at the time of their application and the plan schedule attached set out how much  
they could receive  from the TMPP. And BoSs  screenshots shows  that there was a 
conversation requesting  information from Mr and Mrs P and another  conversation where  
Mr and Mrs P wanted to cancel the policy for the reason of being  semi-retired  and confirmed 
they didnt require the cover as it was no longer suitable for them. 
Looking at all three sales  of the PPI I think Mr and Mrs P knew  they had the PPI. I have no 
doubt that Mr and Mrs P have given me their honest and best recollection  of events from the 
time but overall  I think  Mr and Mrs P chose the policies in 1991,  2006 and 2007 knowing 
they could refuse the cover if they didnt want it; even if its understandable if they cant  
remember doing this now so many years  later.  So I dont uphold this aspect of their 
complaint about  the mis-sale of the 1991,  2006 or 2007 policies.
Ive next looked to see if there are any other reasons to uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN52991973Mr and Mrs P were  both eligible for the cover in 1991, 2006  and 2007. They  didnt have any 
unusual employment  circumstances.  Ive taken into account that Mr P has told us he took 
early retirement from the job he was in in 1991 to go to another  job. But I think from what 
hes told us he was working in 2006  and 2007. And Mr and Mrs P have told me about  some 
health conditions  they had but they have  confirmed these were  managed  conditions  which  
never at any time affected their employment  - so although the policies might  not have 
covered them for these  conditions, I dont think theyd have thought these particular 
conditions would be something they might  have need to take time off work for and have to 
make a claim.
Mr and Mrs P told me they were in good  jobs which  paid them  six months full sick pay 
followed by six months  half sick pay and they had an endowment policy  which would have 
covered them and around £1000 worth of savings.  But an endowment  policy is not the same  
thing as the PPI. And all these policies would have covered them  for potentially longer than 
their full sick pay lasted and in addition to any sick pay they received and meant they could 
have used their sick pay or savings  they had for any other important living  expenses. As the 
policies covered a mortgage, the consequences  of not being to repay it were serious so if 
either couldnt work, I think  they could still have  found them useful if theyd needed to make 
a claim.
Theres nothing to make me think the policies were unaffordable.
BoS also had to give Mr and Mrs P enough clear information so that they could  make  their 
own decision  about whether or not to take out the PPI.
Its possible not all the information was as clear as it could have been. But for the reasons 
Ive set out above I still think Mr and Mrs P would have taken out the PPI - I dont think theyd 
have changed  their mind  about buying the cover in 1991,2006 or 2007, even if theyd had 
better or clearer information  about the policy. I think they chose the PPI and it could still have 
been useful if things went wrong.
Ive also thought about what  Mr and Mrs P have told us about  annual statements received 
where there  was no mention of the policies  they say payments were hidden  in the 
mortgage figure. But I think from what the business  told us each of the policies were  sold as 
regular premium policies.  As such I think its more  likely that Mr and Mrs P would have had 
to complete a separate direct debit instruction which would have had to be completed for the 
PPI. As regular premium  policies they could have  cancelled  the policies at any time if they 
no longer wanted  them  and based  on what we know about  the way regular premium policies 
were sold,  I dont think its likely  interest would have been charged. 
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  4 October  2019.
Nicola Woolf
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5299197