K821x#15complaint
Mr M complains that Lloyds Bank PLC wont refund cash withdrawals he says he didnt 
make from his account.
background
Mr M opened an account online with Lloyds on 18 June 2018. He made several  faster 
payment credits into the account starting  from 24 June 2018 with a total amount of £2,400. 
These came from his account  with another financial business. On 11 July 2018 he received 
a text from Lloyds saying that there  was only £5 in the account.  He contacted it and says he 
found that all the money had been  withdrawn using a debit card and PIN. Mr M says he 
never received either of these.
Lloyds said it wouldnt be refunding these payments. It had sent the card and PIN under 
separate cover. Mr M would have  been  expecting these and hadnt reported not receiving 
these in the expected  timescales.  The withdrawals had been made daily from 1 July 2018 
but for £250 each time when the maximum amount available  per day was £500. This wasnt 
typical behaviour  of a fraudster and no other  types  of payments had been attempted.  Lloyds  
said it thought  Mr M might  have given  someone else access  to his card and PIN which was a 
breach of the terms and conditions. Lloyds told him that it had closed his account.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint be upheld and the money refunded  with 
eight per cent simple  interest to the date of settlement.  And that Lloyds should consider again 
whether it was prepared  to operate an account  for Mr M. She noted that under it could deduct 
£35 from the refund  provided that was set out in its terms  and conditions.  She said that:
-Mr M told her that he lived with family and had a secure letter  box and that no one else 
opened his post  or knew that he had applied for the account.
-He opened the account to put money  aside for his holiday separate from his main bank 
account and hadnt  been interested in receiving interest.  She didnt think hed been 
waiting for a card as a result.
-Mr M had reported what happened as soon as he received the text from Lloyds and sounded 
genuinely concerned in a phone call about  this and had given a consistent  account.
-His main current account seemed to be operated normally and hed not used the one 
cash point where all the disputed withdrawals were made  with that account.
-She thought it most likely that the withdrawals had been  made  by a third party known to 
him who had access to his post. And she didnt  think  hed ever received  the card and PIN.
Mr M said he would accept  the resolution. Lloyds didnt reply and in my view has had a fair 
opportunity to do so. As a result the complaint has been passed  to me for a decision. 
Ref: DRN59622262my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to take into account the Payment  Services  Regulations 2017 in considering  this 
complaint. These state that a payment can only be authorised if it was consented to. So its 
not enough for it to be authenticated, say with a card and PIN. And if payments werent 
authorised Mr M wouldnt generally  be responsible for them.
So I will be thinking about  the following areas  in looking at this complaint:
-What  is the most  likely explanation of what happened to the card and PIN used for these 
payments?
-Did Mr M either authorise  the payments on the account, or allow  someone  else to use 
his card as Lloyds  says?
Im satisfied based on the available  evidence that the payments were authenticated  when 
the chip on the genuine card was read and the correct PIN entered.
I need to consider whether Mr M consented to these  payments. And although I dont have 
any further comments from Lloyds  I understand its position on this complaint.
Lloyds has shown that it sent the card and PIN under separate  cover  in disguised  post.  That 
means its unlikely the items arrived together and both would need to have been intercepted 
for the fraud  to be carried out. That makes  it less likely but not impossible.  And it also seems 
that both would have been  available a few days before  the first disputed transaction.
This was a new account that was quickly funded with money and a fraud claim made when 
almost all the money had been taken out. I can understand why this raised suspicions at 
Lloyds especially when  considering the pattern  of payments. 
I dont have reason  though to doubt that the source  of the money from an account at another 
financial business was legitimate. Ive seen evidence that Mr M operated  accounts there in a 
normal way. And the credits only represented a proportion of his available balances. To find 
the payments  were  authorised Id need  to think  that he opened the account at Lloyds with 
the intention of making this claim.  And that he always intended to say he hadnt  made  the 
withdrawals. Hes accepted that he did know that the daily withdrawal limit on the account 
was £500 and so he personally  could have taken the money out more  quickly.  And, tellingly 
in my view,  as these  payments were  being  taken out he also added  money  to the new 
account on 3 and 8 July 2018. Those werent  large credits of £75 and £80 respectively  but 
indicate to me that he was likely not aware of what was happening.  He doesnt strike me as 
someone who would have come up with such an involved plan and as I say he had access  
to a much  higher  balance to continue to transfer  across if that really  was his aim.
Ref: DRN59622263I cant resolve exactly what happened  here but I need to think  about what is most likely. There 
are two plausible explanations here  that Mr M authorised these withdrawals for his own 
benefit  or that someone else was able to make  them without him knowing. The evidence 
about this is finely  balanced. On one hand  Mr M had a legitimate source of funds for the 
account, an existing  running account, appears  credible especially during a long phone call with 
Lloyds Ive listened to, kept paying money  into the account and responded immediately to a 
text from Lloyds which he could never  have anticipated getting. On the other hand he has 
been a bit vague about the reasons for this account and relaxed about making sizeable 
payments to an account when he couldnt see the balance  and had no way of accessing it. 
And also as Ive said someone  would have needed  to get the card and PIN and Mr M says he 
trusts the other people who could have had access to his post in his property.
Having balanced  all these  factors  carefully Im not persuaded  that Mr M authorised  these 
payments. And as I dont think he received the card and PIN he cant be responsible  for 
unauthorised payments  on his account.  I agree with the financial aspect  of the investigators 
recommended settlement.  But its a matter for Lloyds to decide  whether it wants  to continue 
to operate an account for Mr M so I wont be asking it to reconsider that decision. I have 
noted that Lloyds told our investigator that it hadnt made any report to CIFAS the national 
fraud database about this account  so there  is no adverse information held there for me to 
ask it to remove.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint and require Lloyds Bank PLC to:
1)Refund the disputed  payments to Mr M subject to it being able to retain the first £35 
under the PSR if it choses to and in line with the terms  and conditions  of the account.
2)Pay Mr M simple  interest at eight  per cent per annum on the refund from the date it was 
debited to his account to the date of settlement.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 June 2020.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5962226