K820x#14complaint
Mr M says Tesco Personal Finance PLC (Tesco) mis-sold him a regular premium payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy to cover his credit  card repayments.
background
Mr M applied  for a credit card account  over the internet  in 2010. At the same time he took 
out a PPI policy to cover  his credit card repayments. The policy  cost £0.79p per £100  of the 
balance on Mr Ms credit  card. A successful claim on the policy  would cover 10% of the 
outstanding monthly  balance  on Mr Ms credit card. This would have been paid for up to 12 
months per claim if he was unable to work  due to accident or sickness or lost his job.
Our adjudicator didnt  think Mr Ms complaint should be upheld because he thought  Mr M 
wouldve understood he had a choice  in taking the policy and thought it wouldve provided a 
useful benefit.
Mr M disagrees he says he was told to tick the box for PPI and didnt need the policy. 
So the complaint has come  to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Ms complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ms complaint.
The PPI was applied  for online when Mr M applied  for a credit  card account. Tesco have 
given us a copy  of the screen shots  of the application form Mr M wouldve seen and 
completed when  he applied for his credit card account. 
I can see that theres a separate  section  on the application form that deals with PPI. Within 
this section it briefly explains what the cost of PPI is along with what  it protects against and 
advises that it is your responsibility to make sure the policy  meets your needs  as well as 
providing links to click on to view further  information about PPI.
It then gives two options:
Yes, I want to protect my payments;  or
No thanks,  I understand it is my responsibility to keep up repayments.
Ive also seen a copy of Mr Ms credit agreement  which required Mr M to input  his signature 
digitally and separately from the credit  in order to take PPI. I can see that Mr M signed to 
take PPI under the words  I wish to purchase Tesco Payment Protection Insurance.
So I think because Mr M had PPI its likely  he selected to take PPI on the application form. If 
Mr M didnt  want  to take out PPI he couldve selected not to take the cover. And even though  
Mr M has told us that he was told to tick the box, I think  its likely Mr M understood he had a 
Ref: DRN57198672choice in taking  out the PPI and confirmed his choice to take it by signing  for it separately on 
the credit  agreement because he wanted  the cover.
Because the PPI was taken out over the internet I dont  think  Tesco advised Mr M to take 
PPI. What this means is that Tesco didnt recommend PPI to Mr M, they just gave him 
information about PPI. This information  needed to be given in a way that was clear, fair and 
not misleading so he could  make  an informed choice about  buying PPI.
Tesco say that enough information  wouldve  been given to allow Mr M to make an informed 
choice on whether to add PPI to his account. I can see the cost of the policy is shown on the 
application form. But I cant say whether  all the proper information needed was given. That 
being said even  if Tesco did give all the information  Mr M needed to make an informed 
choice on taking out the policy,  I think he wouldve still taken the policy because at the time 
of sale:
He was eligible for the PPI.
It doesnt look like he wouldve been caught  by any of the main  exclusions in the terms 
and conditions  of the policy which couldve made it difficult  to make a successful claim.
At the time of the sale Mr M says he was entitled to good  work benefits and had savings 
he could use to make his repayments if he couldnt  work or lost his job. But a successful  
claim on the policy wouldve paid out on top of this and for potentially  longer for up to 12 
months per claim. So I cant see how knowing this information wouldve put him off 
buying it.
Theres nothing to suggest the policy wasnt affordable to Mr M and he could  cancel the 
policy if he no longer  wanted it.
So I dont  think it wouldve made a difference in how the information was given to Mr M on 
the PPI. I think he wouldve still taken out the PPI policy  as it was of value to him.
Which means Tesco  doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr M or refund
any interest and charges  applied to his credit  card that may have been incurred because of
those premiums.
Ref: DRN57198673But Tesco will pay back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr M because:
When the policy was sold,  Tesco expected  to get a high level of commission  and 
profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr M about 
that. Because Tesco didnt tell Mr M, that was unfair.
To put that right, Tesco has basically  offered to pay back  the amount of commission  
and profit share that was above  50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair 
in this case.
what Tesco needs to do
Tesco has to pay back to Mr M any commission and profit share  it got that was more
than 50% of the PPI premium. Tesco should also pay back to Mr M any extra interest
he paid because of that.
Tesco should re-work the credit card account  and pay back  to Mr M the difference between  
what he owes and what he wouldve owed if the commission and profit  share it got hadnt 
been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. Tesco  should also pay Mr M 8%* simple
interest if Mr M paid off his credit card at some  point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr M can claim back  the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI wasnt mis-sold  so Tesco Personal Finance PLC does  not have to pay back  all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr M.
But Tesco Personal Finance PLC does  have to pay back to Mr M any commission  and profit  
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr M to accept
or reject my decision before 15 August 2019.
Caroline Davies
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5719867