K821x#15complaint
Mr S complains about an additional premium that Rock Insurance  Services  Limited  charged  
for an existing travel  insurance policy him when he called it about a change in health. 
background
In December 2017 Mr S took out an annual  multi-trip policy  travel  insurance through Rock,  
which is an insurance intermediary. The policy covered Mr S and his wife Mrs S and it 
started in early February  2018.  In April 2018 Mr S booked flights  for a trip the following year, 
and he paid a deposit for a villa in September 2018.
Mrs S was unfortunately  diagnosed with cancer  in autumn of 2018. She needed surgery, and 
other related procedures.  In late December 2018 Mr S called Rock to tell it about Mrs Ss 
health as it looked as though they would need to cancel the holiday. 
Rock said, in summary, that Mr S would need to go through  a new medical declaration for 
Mrs S to be covered in the event they cancelled the holiday. He paid an additional premium  
of £61.09 (pro-rata)  for the remaining  policy year. A week later Mrs Ss doctor recommended 
that she did cancel  the holiday.
Shortly afterwards Mr S contacted Rock  as he felt it was unfair to pay an additional premium 
where, at the time they took out the policy and booked the holiday,  Mrs S didnt  have any 
medical conditions.  Rock didnt think it had done anything wrong, so the complaint came  to 
us.
Our adjudicator thought Rock should have explained clearly that if Mr S cancelled the 
holiday he wouldnt need  to pay any additional premium. This is because Mrs Ss condition 
wasnt pre-existing at the time they took out the policy  or booked the holiday. If it had 
explained that Mr S wouldnt  have paid the additional premium, because they werent able to 
go on any other holidays that year. So he said Rock should refund the additional  premium  
and pay Mr S £50 compensation for distress and inconvenience. Rock didnt think  this was 
fair, so the complaints  come to me for review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think our adjudicator has recommended a fair outcome to this complaint.
Having listened  to the call recording I can see that Rocks call handler tried to assist  Mr S 
when he phoned  it about his wifes medical  conditions. But it seems to me that Mr S just 
wanted to know  how to make a cancellation  claim. It wasnt  likely they were going  to go on 
holiday because he explained that Mrs Ss health  was such that she wasnt able to leave the 
house, following  major surgeries.
Mr S wanted  information and guidance from Rock, and I dont think  it was fair that he ended  
up paying an additional premium to cover  her medical conditions  for the remaining policy  
year. What  he was really  asking for was the information that hed need to make a claim 
under the policy.  
Ref: DRN53475812Rock isnt the insurer. But the point  our adjudicator was making was that we wouldnt 
consider it fair for an insurer to charge an additional premium  in these circumstances. Mr S 
needed to make a cancellation claim for a new and unexpected medical  condition  that he 
and Mrs S didnt know about  either before he bought  the annual travel  insurance policy or 
before he booked the holiday. 
In this case, the information Rock gave  Mr S led him to believe that hed need  to pay an 
additional insurance premium in order to make a cancellation claim under the policy  hed 
taken out for just this eventuality. That wasnt fair, and meant he then had to raise a 
complaint (and chase  for a response)  at an already difficult time for him. So I think the fair 
and reasonable outcome in this case is for Rock to refund to Mr S the additional premium 
that he paid of £61.09,  with interest, and £50 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained I uphold this complaint. Within 28 days  of the date we send  it 
Mr Ss acceptance of my final decision I require  Rock  Insurance  Services  Limited  to refund 
to Mr S the additional  premium of £61.09, plus interest* at the simple rate of 8% per year 
from the date he paid the additional premium to the date it makes the refund. I also require 
Rock to pay Mr S £50 compensation for distress and inconvenience.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 July 2019.
Amanda Maycock
ombudsman
*If Rock considers  that its required by HM Revenue & Customs  to take off income tax from 
that interest,  it should tell Mr S how much  its taken off. It should also give Mr S a certificate 
showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim  the tax from HM Revenue & Customs  if 
appropriate.
Ref: DRN5347581