K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain that HSBC Bank  Plc mis-sold them payment protection insurance 
(PPI) alongside a loan.
background
In 2000 Mr and Mrs G took out a personal loan.  At the same time they also took out PPI  a 
single premium policy  designed to protect their loan repayments in the event  Mr G (the 
policy was in his sole name)  couldnt work through accident, sickness  or unemployment.
Mr and Mrs G say they were given a leaflet  to fill in, but have also said they were given 
advice by HSBC.  HSBC says it doesnt  know how the sale came about  and therefore  
whether the sale was advised or non-advised. 
The loan was for around £12,000 over a four year term. The PPI cost around £1800 before  
the addition of interest. And this added  around £46 a month to Mr and Mrs Gs monthly loan 
repayment.
The loan account closed in 2003 after Mr and Mrs G repaid it early.
The adjudicator didnt uphold Mr and Mrs Gs complaint. He said he thought Mr and Mrs G 
likely chose to take out the cover and there was nothing to suggest theyd lost out as a result 
of the things HSBC  might  have done wrong  when it sold the policy  to them.
Mr and Mrs G - through their representative  - disagree, so the complaint comes to me to 
decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our approach  to handling  
PPI complaints on our website and Ive taken account of whats  relevant  here in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Gs complaint.
Firstly  HSBC cannot  determine whether it advised Mr and Mrs G to take out PPI or how 
the sale came about. Mr and Mrs G have said HSBC did advise them, so to put them in the 
most favourable position I have assumed for the purposes of this complaint that HSBC did 
recommend PPI to Mr and Mrs G and this was a paper-based sale.  This means  HSBC  not 
only had to give them enough information about PPI so they could make an informed 
decision about it. HSBC  also had to make sure it was right or suitable for Mr G as the policy 
holder based on his needs and circumstances at the time.  Ive kept this in mind  in my 
consideration of the complaint.
did HSBC make it clear Mr and Mrs G had a choice about PPI?
Mr and Mrs G say it was recommended  they take out PPI but they werent aware it had been 
added. Theyve  also said they didnt realise  it was optional.  HSBC says Mr and Mrs G were  
given a choice.
Ref: DRN50732382Because Mr and Mrs Gs loan was taken  out and closed quite some time ago, HSBC no 
longer has the paperwork  from the time.  And this isnt surprising or unusual. But HSBC has 
provided us with samples of the type of paperwork it says, and which I accept on balance, 
Mr and Mrs G would most likely  have seen at the time  Ive not seen enough evidence in 
this case to persuade  me that something different happened.
While I accept I dont know how the adviser  presented PPI to Mr and Mrs G, the example 
paperwork shows Mr G would have had to sign separately for the PPI  a separate 
document from the one both Mr and Mrs G signed  to accept the terms of the loan. Im also 
mindful that the cost of the PPI would have been set out separately from the main loan 
amount indicating, in my view, that it wasnt an integral part or condition of the loan.
Because of this I think its likely HSBC  presented  PPI as an optional and separate product  
albeit it insurance  it was recommending as being suitable for Mr G  and that Mr G agreed  to 
it on that basis by signing  the relevant paperwork.
did HSBC properly advise  and inform Mr and Mrs G?
if it didnt  to what  extent have Mr and Mrs G lost out?
Because HSBC  hasnt  provided actual copies  of the paperwork used in Mr and Mrs Gs 
case, I dont know  whether  HSBC did all the things it should have done when it sold them  
PPI. While I think its likely the cost of the policy was made clear to Mr and Mrs G as I 
indicated above,  theres not enough evidence to show that HSBC properly considered 
Mr and Mrs Gs circumstances including sick pay entitlement  and health  status  in 
recommending the policy  as being  suitable for Mr G. I also dont know  whether  HSBC clearly 
told them  about  the significant  exclusions and limitations of cover  such as those  for existing 
medical conditions.
I accept therefore  its possible HSBC didnt do everything it should have.
But this doesnt  mean Mr and Mrs G should  automatically get back what they paid for the 
policy. I need to go on to consider if, and to what extent theyve lost out as a result of any 
failings. And having  done  so, for the reasons Ill set out below,  I dont think Mr and Mrs G 
have suffered loss  I think the policy was ultimately  suitable for Mr G and I dont think  they 
would have been put off taking out PPI if HSBC had done more:
Mr G was eligible for the cover and all of its benefits.
Mr and Mrs G chose PPI  albeit cover recommended to them   so they must have 
been interested in this type of cover.
Mr G was employed and in good health, so he wouldnt have been affected by any of 
the significant exclusions of cover, which might have  made  it unsuitable or put him off 
taking it out  for example  existing medical conditions or unusual  employment 
circumstances.
Mr G had some sick pay, but the policy would have paid out in addition  to this and for 
longer if necessary. Mr and Mrs G also didnt  have  any other means   for example 
readily available savings - to fall back on to make  their repayments. I can see 
Mr and Mrs G said they could get help from parents if things went wrong. But I doubt 
Mr and Mrs G would have wanted to rely on this help in their circumstances  I also 
dont think this can reasonably be considered a guaranteed means  of payment. 
Ref: DRN50732383So I think the policy was suitable for Mr G and it would  have  helped  Mr and Mrs G 
financially if things went wrong and Mr G found himself unable  to work through  
accident, sickness or unemployment - they were  after all taking on a not-insignificant 
monthly financial commitment.
The policy didnt offer a proportionate refund if it was cancelled  early  typically 
through early  repayment of the loan. And I cant be sure whether HSBC  considered  
this when it recommended the cover to Mr and Mrs G or if it told them about it. But 
given the purpose of the loan, its term and Mr and Mrs Gs circumstances at the time, 
I dont think it was their intention at the start to repay the loan early  - or it was 
reasonable to assume that theyd  want or need  to. So I dont  think this feature of the 
policy made it unsuitable for them  and I dont think theyd have been put off if HSBC  
had made this limitation clear.
The cost of the PPI was clearly set out and it appears to have been affordable.  So I 
think from a cost perspective it was suitable.
So overall, while I accept  that things might  not have  happened  as they should have, for the 
reasons Ive set out above, I dont  think Mr and Mrs G have lost out as a result of taking out 
PPI with their HSBC loan.  It follows that I dont uphold their complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  Ive decided that Mr and Mrs G have not lost out as a 
result of taking out PPI with their loan, so I make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  10 February  2019.
Paul Featherstone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5073238