K820x#14complaint
Mr R is unhappy with the away that his home  insurance claim for storm damage was dealt 
with by Admiral Insurance Company Limited  and with the settlement paid to him.
background
In March 2019 Mr R made a claim to Admiral when, following  high winds,  the flat roof of his 
dormer was lifted off which led to internal weather damage.  Admiral sent out a surveyor  who 
reported that the roof was showing extensive signs of wear and tear. He also commented 
that the plywood base of the roof was in his view too thin, being around 9mm when it 
shouldve been  at least 18mm. The claim for the external  damage  was declined. The cost of 
repairs in respect of the internal damage was accepted under the accidental damage cover.
Mr R objected to this as the roof had been  approved under building  regulations.  He also 
provided evidence  that the plywood was in fact 22mm. Admiral reviewed his complaint and 
advised that the repudiation  of the claim would  be overturned. Whilst observing that there  
were wear  and tear issues, it noted that the windspeed recorded was 56mph. As it felt the 
windspeed was a contributing factor it advised Mr R that his claim would be paid. It agreed to 
pay the cost of repairs and to pay 8% per year interest on the cash  settlement for the 
external damage  for the period from the date of the claim until the agreed settlement  date of 
19 April. It also paid £150 compensation.
Mr R wasn't happy with this  he felt that not enough interest was paid as it took a couple  of 
weeks to pay the settlement.  He further  thought that the compensation offered wasnt 
enough to reflect the amount of stress and inconvenience particularly the chasing up by 
phone and the cost of that. He also strongly objected to the way the inspection was carried 
out by the surveyor.  
On referral to this service  our investigator  thought that Admiral had acted reasonably.
Mr R objected, saying  that he hadnt  been paid for the electricity used in drying out and 
repeating the fact that the surveyor  hadnt carried out a proper  inspection.  He pointed  out 
that he had had a huge phone bill as Admirals helpline  was a premium rate number.
Our investigator established with Admiral that it would  consider any electricity costs;  
however this hadnt previously been put to it.
The matter  has been passed to me for further  consideration.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr R believes  that the surveyor  carried out an inadequate inspection, lied about all his 
findings and falsified evidence that the ply that had been used on the dormer  was not fit for 
purpose. Our investigator said that we cant look at the service provided by the surveyor. I 
should clarify that as the surveyor was appointed  through Admiral we can look at the way the 
inspection was carried out. But allegations  that a surveyor deliberately lied or falsified 
evidence, , in essence acted fraudulently, arent something we can consider. 
Ref: DRN52489272The surveyor was sent out to carry out a visual inspection. These sort of surveys arent 
intended to be a full survey. As far as I can see the point that the surveyor  got wrong was the 
thickness of the plywood. And Mr R was able to show  that the surveyor  was wrong in that 
respect. The surveyor also mistakenly referred  to the thickness as being 9ml rather than 
9mm. I agree that this was a minor error and had no bearing on the decision.
Ultimately the claims decision lies with the insurer and the policyholder  can always  put 
forward their own evidence  to counter any expert  evidence provided by the insurer which  is 
what Mr R did in this case. Admiral accepted, having  reviewed the weather records,  that the 
claim shouldnt  have  been declined. For this it agreed to pay £150  compensation. From  the 
date of the surveyors report until its letter overturning  this was 24 days.  Mr R received three 
payments for the claim, on 8 April, 26 April and 4 May 2019. I think  that bearing in mind 
awards we have made in similar cases,  the payment of £150 was reasonable.
So far as interest  is concerned I should  clarify  that the 8% figure  is a yearly rate. Admiral 
agreed to pay this for a 30 day period, so the yearly amount has to be divided to get a daily 
rate. In this case that would be about £1.06  per day. There  was always  going to be a delay 
in getting the cheque  payments out, but I dont  think there was an unreasonable delay in 
making payment.
For the telephone calls I understand that those calls were in respect of the home emergency 
claim Mr R was making. Those calls would have had to be made anyway, but Mr R was 
advised that if he had a complaint about his home emergency claim it had to be directed to 
the home emergency team as it was separate to the home  cover  under the policy. 
As regards  electricity use, he should provide evidence of that to Admiral who has confirmed 
that it will consider it. He should provide  electricity  bills for the period of drying and for earlier  
periods so a comparison can be made.
my final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 July 2020.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5248927