K820x#14complaint
Mr T complains that he wasnt approved for a loan because  of mistakes made by 
TSB Bank plc. 
background
Mr T wanted a loan so he could restore a classic  car. In February 2018 he went  onto TSBs 
website and was provided with pre-contractual information. This was for a loan for £7,600,  
repayable over 24 monthly payments of £355.41,  at a fixed annual interest rate of 11.33%  a 
year (11.9% APR). The total amount  repayable was £8,529.84. To finalise the loan 
application Mr T needed to attend  a branch with ID, proof of address  and proof of income.  
Mr T visited a branch a few times  but a loan wasnt approved.  He complained  to TSB. TSB 
accepted it had input some  applications  incorrectly and undertook more credit searches than 
it should have,  and that these could be the reason an application wasnt  approved.  It agreed 
to remove the searches  and offered Mr T £100  compensation in recognition  of the 
inconvenience he was caused. Mr T didnt think this was fair so he complained to our 
service. 
I issued a provisional decision setting out why I didnt think this complaint should  be upheld.  I 
said:
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As TSB accepts that Mr T would likely have been  approved for a loan if not for its 
mistakes I dont  think I need address this in detail.  But for completeness,  having 
considered the application  data provided  by TSB and Mr Ts testimony, I think its 
most likely he would have  been approved for a loan if not for TSBs mistakes. And I 
think its likely the loan would have been  on terms similar to, if not the same  as, those 
set out in the pre-contractual information Mr T received. 
I think Mr T has been caused some inconvenience  here. He tried several times to get 
a loan approved.  And it seems the number of credit  searches undertaken by TSB 
meant he couldnt get a loan from another bank. This meant he had to fund the 
restoration of the car by other means,  such as the use of credit cards. I think this 
would have been frustrating. TSB has offered Mr T £100 compensation. I consider 
this a fair amount in the circumstances. 
Mr T says because  he needed to fund the restoration of the car by other means hes 
been caused a financial loss. He says if hed received the loan for £7,600  he wouldnt 
have had to rely on credit  cards.  A change in circumstances meant  he was able to 
repay his debt in full in November 2018.  Ive looked at the difference  not having a 
loan has had on Mr T. Having done  so I dont think Mr T is worse off financially. Ill 
explain why. 
If Mr T had received the loan it would likely have been paid to him in late 
February/early March  2018. He would  then have paid interest on the loan until it was 
repaid. I think its likely Mr T would have repaid it early given his change in 
circumstances meant  he had the ability  to do so. So I think  in late November 2018  he 
would have asked  for an early settlement  figure, meaning he would have paid 
Ref: DRN55908552interest on the loan from late February/early  March 2018 to about the end of 
December 2018.  Ive done a rough calculation and I think over this period Mr T would 
have paid about £595 in interest.
Ive seen Mr Ts credit card statements. My rough  calculations show  the total amount 
of interest paid across  them both over the period in question  is about £440. And this 
is with Mr T owing more on his credit cards  than the amount of credit provided by the 
loan, by a significant amount, in several months.  So even taking into account for a 
margin for error in my calculations Im satisfied  Mr T has paid less interest than he 
would have if hed received the loan. So I dont think Mr T has lost out financially.
TSB responded to say it had nothing  further to add. Mr T responded to say he accepted  he 
hadnt lost out financially,  but felt he should  receive more compensation for the impact  this 
matter had had on him. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint,  including Mr Ts response to my 
provisional decision.
I accept that TSBs actions  caused Mr T some  distress and inconvenience. But overall,  and 
bearing in mind whats happened has meant Mr T is better off financially, I still think £100 is 
a fair amount of compensation. 
If Mr T hasnt received the £100  compensation TSB offered him he may want  to consider 
contacting TSB to ask for it. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 June  2019. 
James Langford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5590855