K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains that Santander UK Plc will not refund money he accidentally  transferred to 
his sons Junior ISA and he also complains about the functionality of the banks mobile 
banking app.
background
Mr P accidentally transferred £4,000 from his Santander current  account to his sons  Junior 
ISA (JISA) using the banks mobile  banking app. He said the money  had been intended to 
reduce some  of the familys borrowings and to take a family member suffering from a 
terminal illness on a special holiday.
Mr P asked the bank  to refund the money to his current  account,  which  Santander said it 
wasnt able to do as it was bound by HMRC  rules on JISAs.  Having looked at HMRCs 
website Mr P complained  to Santander.  He said he believed the rules allowed for such a 
refund when the transfer had been  made  in error,  as here. And he also complained  about  
the functionality  of the banks mobile banking app. In particular  he said he hadnt asked 
Santander to include the JISA in the list of accounts available  on the app, and if it hadnt  
been included  he wouldnt have been  able to make the erroneous transfer.
Santander replied  saying that it had escalated Mr Ps complaint internally as far as it could, 
but the bank was still bound by HMRCs rules. And although it understood the distress the 
error had caused  Mr P and his family, regrettably it was unable  to help.
Mr P was unhappy with this response and referred  his complaint to us.
In summary,  our adjudicator confirmed that HMRCs rules didnt allow  for a parental 
contribution to a JISA  to be reversed whether it had been made  in error or not. He therefore 
couldnt find that Santander  had done  anything wrong in saying that it wasnt able to return  
the money from the JISA to Mr Ps current account.  
With respect to the functionality of the banks  mobile app, he said that that was entirely  a 
matter for Santander and wasnt  something with which this service  would  seek  to interfere. 
Mr P asked for an ombudsmans decision repeating his concern about the very significant 
distress and hardship the error had caused  his family.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The rules  under which financial organisations offer and operate JISAs  are determined  by 
HMRC, and these cannot be gainsaid. And the rules are very clear that parental 
contributions to a JISA  cannot be refunded unless the child is terminally ill. The money is a 
gift from parents to their child and is available to the child on reaching the age of 18.
Mr P refers  to a HMRC  provision allowing for a payment reversal where that payment has 
been made in error. But the circumstances  to which this applies are that the payment has to 
have been made to an unrelated child, which may for example happen if an account number 
is miskeyed. But those  are not the circumstances here  Mr P has made the payment to his 
own childs  JISA.
Ref: DRN54156632And so Im afraid that neither I nor Santander  can do anything  to help Mr P as HMRCs rules 
do not permit  a reversal of his erroneous  payment.
Mr P has said that he wouldnt have made the error if the JISA  hadnt been included  in the 
list of accounts on his mobile app. But the functionality of the app is a business decision 
legitimately made by Santander,  and it is not one that we would overrule or amend by 
suggesting our own version of how it should  operate.
I have however looked at screenshots of the information displayed  by the app when 
customers set up a transfer of money  from one account to another and in my judgement  the 
details of the two accounts involved are clearly displayed prior to customers agreeing  to the 
transfer. 
And so although  I know that my decision will come as a real disappointment to Mr P, and I 
understand the distress his erroneous transfer  has caused him and his family, Im afraid  that 
I cannot reasonably  conclude  that Santander has done anything wrong. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 June  2019.
June Brown
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5415663