K820x#14complaint
Mr F complains that The Royal Bank  of Scotland Plc (RBS) returned a cheque  he wrote  from 
his current account  unpaid. 
background
In December 2018, Mr F received a call from someone hed paid using  a cheque for £20 to 
say that the cheque had been returned  unpaid. Mr F was concerned  to hear this because he 
knew his account  had money available and hed never had a cheque returned  unpaid 
before. Mr F said by cancelling the cheque RBS had damaged his reputation and caused 
him embarrassment and inconvenience.
The cheque had been written to pay for a service  Mrs F had received. So Mr F says Mrs F 
was also embarrassed  because of the cheque not being paid. Mr F was also worried  about 
cheques he sent to other people as Christmas gifts, he thought  the same thing might happen 
to those. One of the cheques was later returned  unpaid. 
RBS initially couldnt  explain why the cheque had been returned unpaid.  But later it said this 
was because there was an arrangement in place  that allowed cheques written  from a 
chequebook Mr F had been issued on his old account, which had closed in 2011, to be 
debited from his new account. RBS couldnt say why that arrangement  hadnt  allowed the 
cheque to be paid this time. RBS had sent Mr F a new cheque book in October  2018  but 
hadnt sent a cover  letting explaining that Mr F would now need to use this cheque  book 
only. 
RBS initially offered £25 for the inconvenience caused and invited Mr F to get in touch to 
discuss sending gifts to anyone affected  by the unpaid cheques.  RBS then made  a further 
offer:
To reimburse an hour of Mr Fs call costs.
Send flowers  to Mrs F and the person  affected  by the cancellation  of the initial  
cheque. 
And to send  gifts to the people  due to receive cheques  from Mr F as Christmas  
presents. 
Mr F said he wasnt happy with this  he asked for £500. RBS said it didnt think that level of 
compensation was appropriate and offered him £250, in addition to the £25 it had already 
offered. 
Our adjudicator thought the £275  RBS had offered was enough to resolve this complaint. 
She said, in summary,  RBS agreed  it had made  a mistake because it hadnt told Mr F when 
it issued his new cheque  book that hed need to use only that cheque  book from now on. 
And she felt that £275 was fair in recognition of the worry and embarrassment this had 
caused Mr F, when the cheque he wrote was returned unpaid.  
Mr F didnt  agree with the adjudicators view. He said the offer wasnt enough to compensate 
him for damage to his financial  reputation. As Mr F didnt agree,  the complaints been 
passed to me. 
Ref: DRN50954962my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont agree that any 
further compensation is warranted. I realise  Mr F will be disappointed  by this so Ill explain 
why. 
Mr F says the amount of compensation is insufficient because  hes suffered damage to his 
financial reputation.  I accept that it wouldve  been  embarrassing for Mr F to find a cheque 
hed given someone, who has a long-standing relationship  with his wife, had been  returned 
unpaid. And I also accept that it wouldve  been  inconvenient and worrying for him to have 
had to contact  the bank  to sort this out  knowing that it could  potentially  affect other  
cheques hed written. And I understand that hed be especially worried since he sent those 
other cheques as gifts.  
Ive considered what Mr F had to do to sort things out  I can see that hes spent some  time 
on the phone to RBS and didnt really get a clear explanation about what  had gone wrong. 
So I can understand his frustration. And also he had to contact the recipients of the further 
cheques that hed written, and one of the cheques was returned  unpaid. That being  said,  Im 
satisfied what RBS has done to resolve  the complaint  is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances. I think  £275  fairly  recognises the worry, embarrassment and inconvenience 
Mr F was caused by RBS  mistake. So Im not going  to ask it to do anymore.  
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 May 2019.
Eleanor Rippengale
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5095496