K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that Inter Partner  Assistance SA (IPA)  turned down his cancellation claim 
under his travel insurance policy.
My references to IPA include its agent.
background
Mr Ms annual  multi-trip travel insurance  with IPA started on 7 September  2018. There 
wasnt any cancellation cover until 7 September 2018. 
Mr M became ill and couldnt  travel on his overseas holiday, which started  on 7 September 
2018. He cancelled the holiday and made  a claim to IPA.
IPA turned  down his claim. It said hed known  that hed need to cancel his holiday on 
5 September 2018 and there wasnt any cover on that date. So it said the claim wasnt 
covered. Mr M didnt agree and said that hed called IPA and was told hed be covered. IPA 
said Mr M hadnt called it before his holiday. It only had a record of a call after hed cancelled  
his holiday when hed registered his claim. Mr M came to us. 
Our investigator thought IPA had fairly turned down the claim. The information Mr M had 
provided indicated  hed known hed need  to cancel the trip on 5 September 2018 (the date 
on his claim form). She said shed consider evidence of any earlier call. Mr M said that hed 
been working before the date hed been due to go on holiday and it was only on the date of 
travel that he cancelled. Mr M wasnt able to provide  any additional evidence of another,  
earlier call to IPA. The complaints come  to me for review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think IPA made a fair decision not to pay the claim. Ill explain why.
Mr Ms policy didnt  cover  him for cancellation  before 7 September 2018,  which  was the date 
he was due to travel. 
Ive noted Mr Ms comments about when  he made  the decision not to travel,  which he says 
was on the morning he was due to fly out on his holiday.
But the other evidence suggests  that Mr M wasnt fit to travel on 5 September 2018,  which  
was before the policy started. This evidence  is his claim  form and the doctors medical 
certificate. Both say that he wasnt fit to travel  on 5 September  2018. So I think  IPA fairly 
turned down the claim.
Mr M says IPA told him in an earlier  call that hed be reimbursed  for his trip. The only call 
IPA has traced was one Mr M made to it after hed cancelled the holiday. Ive listened to the 
call and Mr M was registering his claim  after he should have  travelled.  He wasnt  given any 
assurance that hed be reimbursed. IPA told him the information  it would  need.  Ive not seen 
any persuasive evidence  that Mr M was misled. So I dont  uphold  this complaint.
Ref: DRN59717312my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 February  2020.
Amanda Maycock
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5971731