K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that he cannot transfer  his Aegon section 32 pension to a drawdown 
pension and take tax free cash.  He also says Aegon (formerly Scottish Equitable)  should 
have informed him sooner that the pension was underfunded and that if this was the case  
then the options to transfer to an alternative provider or take tax free cash  at retirement,  
would not be available  to him. 
background
In 1999 Mr H was advised  by a financial adviser  to transfer  out of his occupational pension  
scheme to an Aegon Section 32 buy out pension. 
Shortly before Mr H reached the pension designated  retirement  age he received 
correspondence from Aegon  detailing  the options available to him for how he could 
withdrawal the savings from his pension. He also met with a financial adviser and after some  
thought decided that he wished to transfer  his pension to a drawdown pension and then 
withdraw a tax free cash lump sum. 
Mr Hs Financial Adviser contacted Aegon who confirmed  that the pension included  
Guaranteed Minimum Pension (GMP)  but was underfunded and therefore  he was unable  to 
transfer his pension to an alternative  provider or take a tax free lump sum. His only option 
was to take the pension  income  from Aegon.  
Mr H complains because he feels that he wasnt made aware by Aegon  that the pension  was 
underfunded sooner, the implications of the pension  being underfunded and that Aegons 
correspondence issued  in the months just prior to retirement age made him believe he had 
all the legislative options available  to him how he could use his section 32 pension  to provide 
an income in retirement. 
The adjudicator investigated this complaint but did not uphold  it for the following reasons: 
The communication Mr H received from Aegon in the lead up to Mr Hs retirement  
date did flag that withdrawing a tax free lump sum from his pension wasnt an option 
and under the option to transfer to an alternative pension  it stated  that Aegon  should 
be contacted
The option of taking tax free cash or other  additional benefits had always  been 
dependent upon the GMP being funded via the Reserved Units  within  the pension. 
The information and valuation statements from Aegon  since  the inception of the 
pension have highlighted the need  for the GMP to be sufficiently funded to meet  the 
pension income  from retirement age. 
The 2006 Aegon valuation highlighted that that the Reserved Units were insufficient 
to meet  the projected  guaranteed GMP income and therefore this would have meant 
that none of the additional benefits, such as tax free cash lump  sum, could be 
provided at the retirement date
Mr H responded to the adjudicator with some additional points: 
Ref: DRN51950032Had he been aware that there  was short fall in the funding of the pension  then he 
would have attempted to rectify  this with a redundancy payment or another  pension 
transfer which had been enchased a couple of years  earlier
That Aegon didnt inform him that the pension could not be transferred  to another 
provider unless the GMP was fully funded
The adjudicator addressed these  points but was not persuaded  to change his view that the 
complaint should  not be upheld. 
Mr H did not agree with the adjudicator. 
As agreement was not reached the matter has been referred to me.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am sorry  to disappoint Mr H. But I agree with our adjudicator that Aegon should not be held 
to account for his complaint and for the same reasons  as set out by our adjudicator  in his 
assessment of 4 October 2018. I hope that Mr H will understand why my decision here is 
commensurately similar in its reasoning and evidence to that set out by our adjudicator.
Section 32 pension  plans can hold preserved GMP entitlements  for policyholders.  
Essentially, the requirement to pay the GMP in retirement passes from the trustees  of the 
final salary  pension scheme to a pension provider. The provider is then contractually  
obliged  to provide the GMP income to policyholders at their state  pension  age, even  if the 
pension is underfunded. In Mr Hs case,  Aegon are obliged to pay the GMP as a 
minimum from the plan whether or not the pension fund is sufficient to fund the income. 
Mr H proactively contacted Aegon in 2003, 2006  and 2013 to obtain valuations and 
projections of his pension  income.  The responses from Aegon  included an update  on 
what the annual GMP income would be in retirement  and an updated valuation.
Each of Aegon's  responses  flagged that the GMP  income would be funded  from the 
pensions 'reserved'  units and if there was a shortfall in the funding  of GMP at retirement  
then they would draw  upon the 'non-reserved'   units to fund the GMP income.  
Only when  the GMP income had been  funded could the 'non-reserved'  units be used to 
purchase  'additional benefits' such as tax free cash, the purchase of an annuity to 
provide further  income or provide a surplus which could potentially  be transferred to 
another pension  drawdown provider.
The 2006 reply from Aegon  highlighted that 'based  on the current  method of calculation.  
there are currently insufficient funds  in the fund to provide the GMP requirements at age
60' and therefore the funding shortfall  would have  been taken from the 'non-reserved'  
units  which  would have  had the impact of reducing what  'additional benefits' could be 
taken from the pension.  Accordingly,  I am persuaded that Aegon did confirm to Mr H what  
the impact  would be if the cost of meeting the GMP obligation was underfunded.
Ref: DRN51950033I agree  with the adjudicator that if Mr H was unsure of the meaning of this wording, it would 
have been reasonable  for him to speak  with the provider or an adviser in order to clarify 
the meaning and implications of the wording.
Aegon's formal reply  to Mr Hs complaint in February 2018 made reference to the GMP 
and certain sections of the policy booklet.  
The policy booklet  was provided to Mr H when the pension was set up and outlined how 
the pension would operate.  This document would  have also been made available again  
at any point by Aegon upon request. The summary policy  schedule also refers to this 
policy booklet  and its identity code.
One of the sections referred to by Aegon  is (48) Reserved  Units which says that:
'Where the value  of the GMP  Contracted-out Benefits is greater than value of the 
reserved  units less any deductions to be made as set out in the Policy, then the excess 
shall be raised  as follows. Scottish  Equitable shall cancel non-reserved  units to realise 
the value to secure the GMP  contracted-out  benefit'
Then later in the same section:
'The non-reserved units will be reduced  accordingly, or entirely if there  are not enough to 
provide the excess. 
During his discussions  with our adjudicator,  Mr H referred to correspondence  he received  
from Aegon in the months preceding his retirement  age. He said this correspondence  
gave the expectation  that he would be able to take tax free cash or transfer his pension 
to an alternative pension drawdown  provider  irrespective  of the fund performance  in 
respect  of the GMP.
This correspondence  is Aegon's 'Turning your pension savings into a retirement income' 
information sheet  which was sent to Mr H in October 2017. It gave him details  of:
1.  the current value  of his pension
2.   referral information for both Pension Wise and Unbiased in order to find a financial 
adviser
3.   details of the safeguarded GMP benefits
4.   an explanation of the GMP including  the:
a.   the value of the 'reserved' and 'un-reserved'  units
b.   details of the year secured GMP annual pension  income  and confirmation that no tax 
free cash is available
d.   that if there is any shortfall in providing  the GMP income from the 'reserved'
units then it must be provided from the 'non reserved' units   with only an excess  to be 
used to purchase 'additional  benefits'
5.   a summary of the different legislative ways that consumers can draw  an income from 
their pensions.
I note that under the option  'Action - I want to take some of my pension  pot as a lump 
sum' it specifically states that this is not an available option under this pension.
For the option 'Action -I want to transfer  my pension fund to another provider'  Mr H (or 
his financial adviser)  was asked to contact  Aegon using  the phone  number provided to 
Ref: DRN51950034obtain a transfer quotation.  In my view, this is a not unreasonable  process for Aegon  to 
inform policyholders  that there is a shortfall  in providing the GMP and therefore  it cannot  
be transferred to another provider.
I do not agree  that this correspondence  unreasonably  raised  Mr Hs expectations.  
I have  noted  that in responding  to Mr Hs complaint  Aegon  said:
This plan  contains  a guarantee  that  the guaranteed  minimum  pension  (GMP )
benefits  that  can be purchased  at retirement  age (60 for women  and 65  for men)  
from  the  fund value.  We've considered  your request to transfer  the GMP benefits in 
accordance with regulations made   under  section  97  of the Pension Schemes  Act 1993. 
The GMP  must  meet  a statutory  requirement  set by the Government,  that  the  
transfer  value  must  be at least  the cash equivalent  value  of the GMP.
Unfortunately  the transfer can't proceed , because  we've calculated  that the transfer value 
doesn't meet the  cash equivalent value  of the GMP.
In other  words, Aegon  does not have discretion, even if it wanted  to, to transfer Mr Hs plan 
or to pay a tax free lump  sum in circumstances where the GMP is underfunded.
Aegon has confirmed  that no further contributions could have been made to it including  any 
benefits from a previous  pension plan that Mr H says could have been  used  to fund the 
shortfall  in the Section  32 plan.   Even  if Mr H had realised sooner that he was unable to 
take tax free cash  or transfer to an alternative pension  provider he would not have been able 
to take any action within this pension to rectify  this. 
In summary,  I am persuaded  Aegon has administered Mr Hs section 32 pension  plan 
appropriately and in accordance with its regulatory  obligations. 
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 February  2020.                               .
Terry Connor
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5195003