K820x#14complaint
Mr N complains about how American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) dealt with 
his entitlement  to a companion voucher and how it then dealt  with his complaint.
background
Mr N says as part of his AESEL credit card account  he was entitled  to a companion airline 
voucher which  could be used with an airline  I will call B. He says he wished  to use the voucher 
for flights to Australia to celebrate his wedding anniversary but the companion  voucher  did not 
appear in his account with B. Mr N says he was told by AESEL  that he qualified for the voucher 
and says he had a similar problem previously in which  AESEL and B blamed  each  other.
Mr N wrote to and spoke to AESEL about  his complaint but is unhappy that it didnt respond 
to its letters  and sent him a meaningless letter  telling  him his complaint was closed without 
any explanation.
AESEL says the companion vouchers are managed by B and its role is to tell B that a customer  is 
entitled to a voucher. It says it provided  B with that information in this case and that its systems 
confirm that was the case. AESEL says its not made a mistake and that the link between it and B 
was working. It also says it sent a final response letter  (frl) to Mr N to his second address.
Mr N had brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt  uphold  it. The investigator  thought  
it likely  AESEL had sent the voucher entitlement information to B and so couldnt comment  on what 
B may have done. The investigator  thought Mr N had registered  both his addresses with AESEL  
and that he must have  had access to his mail at both addresses as he had provided us with a letter  
sent on the same day as the frl. The investigator  didnt think AESEL was responsible for the safe 
delivery of mail and so could not hold it responsible for Mr N not receiving that frl. And thought it 
had acted fairly by extending the time period for the use of the voucher.
Mr N says he didnt receive the frl and doesnt believe it was sent. He says despite that, he 
wrote to AESEL and it didnt respond  to his letters and it would have been obvious that he 
hadnt received  the frl. Mr N makes a number of further points and in summary  says the 
previous incident  was not resolved as both sides blamed  each other. He disputes  that the 
voucher went into his account  and says that B has given him contrary information. Mr N says 
AESEL made no attempt to contact  him by telephone or respond to his letters. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to a similar 
overall view as the investigator but for slightly different reasons. I realise  that Mr N will be 
disappointed by my decision and I appreciate how strongly he feels  about  whats  happened. 
I also confirm that I have read all of his letters to us and have attempted to summarise his 
main points but have  taken them  all into consideration.
The main  part of Mr Ns complaint is his inability to use the companion voucher which I 
appreciate he wished to use to celebrate  his wedding anniversary.  There is no issue that 
Mr N was entitled to the voucher as he had complied with the offer terms and conditions. 
But Im satisfied that AESELs role here was simply  to inform B of the entitlement to such a 
voucher. I can see that companion vouchers are not part of Mr Ns AESEL account terms 
and conditions. And are issued and managed by B. Im satisfied that having looked at 
AESELs records that it correctly passed on the entitlement information  to B.
Ref: DRN58177802In those circumstances I cant fairly  hold AESEL responsible for the voucher not appearing in 
his account with B. I have not seen  any evidence AESEL made a mistake or acted unfairly 
and from the evidence its provided  I think  it did provide  B with the necessary information. 
I cant comment on what B may have done  or if it made a mistake and I have no doubt  Mr N 
has asked B to look into what has happened. 
I appreciate Mr Ns frustration in these circumstances and that he would like answers about 
what happened. I also appreciate that this isnt the first time this problem has occurred and 
that again both sides appear  to be blaming each other. But I dont think its possible to say 
what has happened and for the reasons Ive explained I have not seen any evidence  that 
AESEL made a mistake  or it was responsible for what happened. I accept that Mr N will 
have unanswered questions  and I appreciate  what he says about his trust in AESEL.
The second  part of Mr Ns complaint is about  how AESEL then dealt with his complaint. I can 
see that AESEL did write  to Mr N in September 2018 with its final response and also sent 
him a letter the same  day which  told him it had dealt  with his complaint.  I think  it clear that 
Mr N didnt receive the main letter as I can see he then wrote to AESEL asking  it to explain 
what the letter he did receive meant. But Im satisfied that AESEL wrote to Mr N and that its 
not responsible  for the safe delivery  of mail.  I have  no reason to dispute what  AESEL says 
that the letters were  separate and not in the same envelope. So I cant  fairly hold AESEL 
responsible for Mr N not receiving that letter.
I accept that AESEL didnt  respond  to Mr Ns letters and I appreciate his frustration in those 
circumstances. I think  it likely AESEL took the view that it had dealt with Mr Ns complaint 
but I accept that by reading the letters it ought  to have been apparent that Mr N hadnt 
received AESELS response.  I dont think that justifies any compensation as I think that even 
if AESEL had provided a further copy of its frl then the outcome would have been  the same-  
that Mr N would have  brought  his complaint to us.
Overall I dont think AESEL has made  a mistake or acted  unfairly  in respect  of Mr Ns main  
complaint. I realise  Mr N is unlikely to accept my decision  so I think that brings an end to 
what we in trying to sort out this dispute  informally can do.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 December 2019.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5817780