K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 2005. Ms M 
says Bank  of Scotland plc (BoS)  mis-sold  her the PPI. 
background
Ms M took out a credit card with BoS in 2005. At the same time  she  was sold a PPI policy 
which wouldve helped cover the repayments  on her card if she couldnt work. It also offered 
some life and critical illness cover. 
Ms M says she didnt know she had the PPI and it was added without her consent.  She says 
she didnt need  it.
The adjudicator thought  that Ms Ms complaint shouldnt  be upheld.  Ms M disagrees, so her 
case has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms Ms case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think BoS made it clear that Ms M didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose to 
take it out  although  I can understand why she cant  remember this. The application 
form Ms M signed  showed she had a choice. And Ms M ticked  and signed separately 
to show she wanted it.
BoS recommended the PPI to Ms M so it had to check that the PPI was right for her 
and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For 
example she wasnt  affected  by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover  
and she seems to have had a need  for the cover   Ms M was entitled to some sick 
pay and possibly some  contractual  redundancy pay, but the policy wouldve paid out  
in addition to this and for longer than her full sick pay wouldve lasted.
Ms M says that she had assets in her property worth about a years  salary. She 
hasnt explained  what these assets were  and I havent seen any evidence of them, 
so I dont know how liquid they were or whether it would  have been  reasonable for 
Ms M to sell them  to meet her credit card repayments.
Ms M has also said she owned her property  outright. Ive thought  about this carefully 
because it may have meant she had far lower financial obligations than most people. 
But her application  for the credit card shows  that Ms M still had a significant  
mortgage on the property. Ms M also later told us she had a separate  PPI policy to 
cover her mortgage.  So I dont think she did own her property outright, and in any 
case I dont think Ms M wouldve wanted to sell her house  to meet her credit  card 
repayments. Similarly, I dont think Ms M wouldve  wanted  to sell her car which  she 
Ref: DRN53812452has also suggested she couldve  done  to meet her credit card repayments if she 
wasnt working. The PPI policy  wouldve meant  she didnt have to do this.
Its possible the information BoS gave  Ms M about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been. But she chose  to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would  have been useful for her if something went  wrong. I 
also havent seen  anything to suggest  it was unaffordable for Ms M. So I dont think  
better information about the PPI would  have put her off taking  out the cover.  
Ive thought about everything Ms M has said - including what  she has said about  not needing 
the policy, but these points  dont  change my decision. 
This means  I dont  think Ms M lost out because of anything BoS mightve done wrong. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint so it follows that Bank of Scotland Plc doesnt have to do 
anything further.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Ms M to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 May 2019.
Sally Allbeury
ombudsman
 
Ref: DRN5381245