K820x#14complaint
Mr V says Barclays  Bank UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard) mis-sold him payment protection  
insurance (PPI). 
background
Mr V bought two PPI policies with two credit  cards in 1995. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr V disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Vs case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Vs complaint because:
I think Barclays made Mr V aware that he had a choice  about buying the PPI policies, 
and that he chose to take it. I say this because  Ive seen a copy of Mr Vs credit card 
application form. 
On this form, section 9 is titled Payment Protection  Plan. In this section there are      
2 options  yes or no for PPI. A tick has been  placed next to the yes option and      
Mr V has signed the form. So I think this indicates what  he wanted. 
Barclays recommended the PPI to Mr V, and it seems  to have been right for him 
based on what Ive seen of his circumstances  at the time. 
Mr V has said that he didnt need PPI because of his existing means  for making  his 
repayments. But I dont  think that means  this policy was unsuitable for Mr V. I say 
this because:
oalthough Mr V had a full sick pay entitlement for a number of months, followed 
by discretionary pay after this, the PPI policy could have  paid out for twice as 
long and the discretionary pay wasnt guaranteed, so I cant fairly say that it 
was a suitable existing means.
oThe existing life cover  and death  in service cover that Mr V had isnt directly 
comparable to the PPI policy. I say this because the life cover would pay out in 
the unfortunate event of Mr V passing away. Whereas the PPI would cover        
Mr Vs account repayments  if he was unable to work or was made  unemployed. 
oThe PPI would have  paid out in addition to and for longer than Mr Vs savings 
likely would  have lasted. Having  the PPI would  also mean that Mr V would have 
the option of not needing to use his savings to make his repayments and instead  
hed have the option of keeping them intact for future use. 
Ref: DRN55303132Barclays also had to give Mr V good enough  information so that he could  decide  if he 
wanted to take PPI. Its possible  the information Barclays gave Mr V about the PPI 
wasnt as clear  as it shouldve been.  In particular about  the cost of the policy and its 
main exclusions  or limitations
But Mr V doesnt appear to have been  affected  by any of the main things the policy  
didnt cover  and based on what I know about  his circumstances, it looks  like the 
policy couldve been useful to him. So I dont  think better information about the PPI 
policies wouldve stopped him buying it. 
Ive taken into account Mr Vs comments,  including what  hes said about having other 
complaints about  other businesses upheld. Our Service considers each compliant on its own 
merits and Ive not seen anything to persuade  me that these particular PPI policies were  
mis-sold. These points  dont change my decision.
During their investigation into Mr Vs complaint, Barclays  made  an offer to Mr V because of 
how they felt theyd handled  his complaint.  My decision doesnt consider the offer that was 
made, but Mr V should speak to Barclays if he hasnt already been paid the offer.  
 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Vs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 July 2019.  
Daniel OShea
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5530313