K820x#14complaint
Mr B says Barclays  Bank UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard) mis-sold him a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in 1999  in one of the banks 
branches at the same  time as Mr B applied for his credit card. It gave him accident, sickness 
and unemployment  cover. And it included some  life cover.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr B disagreed so the complaint  was passed to 
me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to complaints  about  the sale of PPI is on our website. Ive followed it here.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Bs complaint, Ill explain why.
When Mr B applied  for his credit  card he ticked a box on the form indicating  that he 
wanted to take out PPI. The option  to decline it was set out with equal prominence. So, 
Im satisfied  Barclays made it clear the PPI was optional and Mr B agreed to take it out. 
Barclays recommended the PPI to Mr B so it had to check if it was suitable for him. I 
think it was based on what Ive seen about  his circumstances at the time. Mr B was 
entitled to six months full pay if he was sick but the PPI would have paid out in addition 
to this for each  successful  accident and sickness claim for up to 12 months. It also gave 
him up to 12 months redundancy  cover. Overall  I think the PPI would have been useful 
for Mr B if he was sick, had an accident  or lost his job.
Its possible the information Barclays gave Mr B about  the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
should have been.  But Mr B chose  to take out the policy and so appears to have  wanted  
this type of cover. He wasnt affected by any of the exclusions or limitations and the 
policy was competitively priced  and apparently affordable. So I think  it unlikely Mr B 
wouldve made a different  decision if better  information had been provided.  On balance 
I think he would still have taken  out the policy.
But Barclays  has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr B because: 
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr B about that. Because  Barclays  didnt tell Mr B, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays  has paid back the amount  of commission  and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
Ref: DRN52515042The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does  not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr B.
But Barclays  Bank UK PLC does  have to pay back to Mr B any commission and profit  share 
it got that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 October  2019.
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5251504