K822xcomplaint
Mr D and Mrs E are unhappy with the increases in premiums on their home insurance with 
St Andrews  Insurance Plc. 
background 
Mr D and Mrs Es insurance policy was transferred to St Andrews in 2001  and cost £381.48 
for the year. For 2017 the renewal quote  was £843.38. Mr D and Mrs E contacted 
St Andrews  in 2017 to discuss their premium. They cancelled their policy  shortly after this. 
Mr D and Mrs E think St Andrews has taken advantage  of them  by unfairly  increasing  the 
cost of the policy every year. They say they were charged too much and should be 
reimbursed for the extra they paid over the years. 
St Andrews  offered to refund some of the cost of the insurance  for the 2006 premium 
onward. It offered  £1,071.28  as a refund of some of the premiums and 8% additional 
compensation for Mr D and Mrs E being  out of pocket of that money. St Andrews has also 
offered £200 as compensation  for the trouble and upset Mr D and Mrs E have been caused. 
Our adjudicator thought the offer was a fair way to resolve things.
Mr D and Mrs E disagreed and didnt  think the offer was fair. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont have the power to tell a business  what its insurance should  have  cost.  I would be, in 
effect determining  or telling a business how it should  operate  and thats not my role. But I 
can look at whether St Andrews has treated Mr D and Mrs E fairly  throughout the period 
they held their insurance policy.  
If I find that St Andrews  hasnt treated Mr D and Mrs E fairly, I will look to see what  
compensation would be fair and in this case whether  I think what  St Andrews has offered is 
fair.
When Mr D and Mrs Es policy was transferred  to St Andrews in 2001, it cost £381.48 for 
the year. Often new policies will have introductory  discounts. This isnt uncommon and 
policies may well initially be priced lower to attract  new customers. I dont  think  its unfair for 
an insurer to seek to recoup that cost over the first few years.  
I can see that Mr D and Mrs Es premium increased  over the years,  and while St Andrews 
say they engaged with them  about  the price of the premium in 2006  causing a drop in the 
premium, it appears they didnt engage with St Andrews again  about the premium until 
2017.  St  Andrews have  treated this complaint as if there was no evidence of engagement  
by Mr D and Mrs E from 2001 until 2017.  
Mr D and Mrs E say they assumed they were paying competitively priced premiums for their 
home insurance. They say they only realised in 2017 that they were paying  more than they 
could get alternative  policies  for and so the cost was challenged. The policy was cancelled  
shortly after this. 
Ref: DRN58112102If St Andrews increased the price just because Mr D and Mrs E didnt engage at each 
renewal, that wouldnt be fair. St Andrews has offered to refund some of the costs of the 
insurance premiums from 2006 onwards.  
St Andrews  has offered  to keep Mr D and Mrs Es premiums  from 2006 at the same amount 
they were charged  in 2005 £612.78. So it will refund  the difference on the payments they 
made on their premiums from 2006 until 2017 when the policy  was cancelled.  For example, 
Mr D and Mrs Es premium in 2006  was £643.87.  St Andrews  has offered to refund  the 
difference between  the 2005 and 2006 premiums (£31.09), plus interest. And its done this 
for every yearly  premium  after 2006. St Andrews total offer is £1,071.28 plus interest of 8% 
per year simple for the time they were  out of pocket.  
Mr D and Mrs E say they think over the years they've  paid excess  in premiums  compared to 
the market and feel the offer is unfair. Ive thought about this. But policies on the market 
today would not have been  identical and so cant be compared like for like. Along with a 
difference in premium, there also wouldve been  differences in cover and difference 
excesses. I must also take into account that any new policy  being  quoted  possibly included  a 
discount on the premium  cost as well. So it wouldnt be fair for St Andrews to use this 
different policy  cost when  working out its offer. 
Having considered St Andrews offer, I think its fair. It makes sure Mr D and Mrs E havent   
lost out if St Andrews  did increase the price just because  they didnt engage at each 
renewal.
I also think St Andrews additional compensation offer of £200 that it made  for the trouble 
caused to Mr D and Mrs E, is fair.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, St Andrew's Insurance plcs offer to refund some of the costs  
of Mr D and Mrs Es policy  from 2006  is fair.
St Andrews  Insurance plcs additional  compensation  offer of £200  for the trouble caused to 
Mr D and Mrs E is also fair. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D and Mrs E to 
accept or reject my decision  before  4 December 2019. 
Gemma Farrell
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN5811210