K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that Santander UK Plc treated him badly in his local branch and then on the 
telephone.
background
Mr B paid a cheque into his local branch but says the cashier was rude and abrupt.  When  he 
phone Santander  to complain it wouldnt put him through to the complaints department. 
When he called back the member of staff said she would call him the next day but didnt do 
so. He said he has a disability which means he struggles  with phone calls.  He becomes 
frustrated and this can lead to verbal  outbursts.
Santander reviewed  the CCTV footage but says this didnt show  any action that stood out. 
And its advisor recalled  the transaction but did not remember anything out of the ordinary. 
When Mr B phoned the complaints team it said he wouldnt explain what the complaint was 
about and so Santander couldnt get his complaint  to the correct department. It said he 
terminated the conversation and he then called back. He asked for his complaint to be 
escalated and a manager spoke to him. It said she tried to call him back  the next day and left 
a note on his complaint  file to that effect.  So it didnt think  itd done anything wrong.
Our investigator said she thought Santander had dealt  with his complaint fairly.  She didnt 
have enough evidence to say the cashier  in Mr Bs local branch had been unreasonable. 
And having listened to the phone calls she didnt think the advisors  were  being obstructive. 
She could  see that Santander had a note to say the manager had tried to call him back the 
following day.
Mr B didnt accept our investigators findings  and said she hadnt  mentioned  Santanders 
lack of dealing  with the cashier in the branch. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Once weve had a complaint we need  to try and work  out what happened. Sometimes that 
can be difficult if the two parties (in this case Mr B and Santander) dont agree about the 
facts. So I have to make a decision based on what I think is most likely to have happened. 
Mr B tells us the cashier in his branch  was rude and abrupt. Santander spoke to the cashier  
who didnt remember anything unusual about Mr Bs visit. It also said its records  show  that 
the transaction only took a few minutes. It looked at the CCTV evidence  but said this also 
didnt show anything unusual. In those circumstances  I think its more likely the cashier didnt 
behave in an unreasonable way towards Mr B but I can appreciate that he might have 
interpreted a businesslike manner as abruptness. But I dont  have sufficient evidence  to 
conclude she was rude to Mr B.
Mr B was concerned that our investigator hadnt  looked at Santanders dealings with the 
cashier. But it talked  to the branch  soon  after Mr B made his complaint. It concluded  she 
hadnt done anything wrong.  I dont think it needed to have any further  dealings  with her over 
his complaint.
Ref: DRN58234392Ive listened to the phone calls Mr B made  to Santander on 25 February 2019. And I can 
hear how frustrated Mr B became but I think Santander tried to help him make his complaint.  
Mr B thinks  that Santander was being  difficult because it wouldnt put him through to the 
complaints department immediately. But it has a security process it has to go through.  And it 
has to take some details  of the complaint before it can send  it to the correct department. So I 
cant fairly find Santander was at fault in the way it treated Mr B on the telephone.
The manager promised  Mr B she would phone him back. There  is a note in Santanders 
records to say she tried to do that. Mr B says he doesnt have any record of a missed  call 
from her. Again  I have to make a decision on what I think is most likely to have happened. I 
cant explain  why Mr Bs phone didnt show the missed call. But Santanders  records shows  
the manager tried to make call and so I think its more than likely she made the attempt.
I know Mr B will be very disappointed with my decision  but for the reasons Ive given I dont 
think Santander has done anything wrong.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 April 2020.
Linda Freestone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5823439