K821x#15complaint
Mr H complains that Assurant General Insurance Limited wouldnt register  his claim on his 
mobile phone insurance.  My references  to Assurant  include  its agents.
background
Mr H has mobile  phone insurance through his bank  account, Assurant is the insurer. In 
October 2018 he called Assurant  to make a claim for his damaged  phone. As the phone 
wasnt already registered  Assurant asked  for the phones details including  the international 
mobile equipment  identity  (IMEI) number.  
Mr H couldnt provide the IMEI number as his phone wouldnt turn on, he had no paperwork 
with the number and the phone was bought as a SIM free phone, so he said the phone  
network provider didnt have any information about  the IMEI number. Assurant wouldnt 
register Mr Hs claim without the IMEI number.
Mr H complained to us. He said he had the receipt  for the phone and the phone which he 
would send to Assurant. So Assurant shouldnt need the IMEI to prove he owned  the phone. 
Hed bought a new phone and wanted  Assurant to pay him the cash equivalent of buying a 
used phone of the same make and model  as his damaged phone. He also wanted 
compensation for the delay in accepting his claim and delay in responding to his complaint.
During our investigation someone suggested another  way for Mr H to try to find the IMEI 
number  on the bottom of the SIM tray of his mobile phone. The IMEI number was there 
and we gave it to Assurant.
Ultimately our investigator thought Assurant had acted unfairly in not registering the claim 
just because it had no IMEI number. Also Assurant  should  have  suggested Mr H look on the 
SIM tray. She recommended  Assurant pay £75 compensation  for Mr Hs distress and 
inconvenience and register  the claim as soon  as possible.
Assurant said it had registered the phone  on Mr Hs policy  but he would need to contact it 
with details of the claim. Assurant disagreed with the compensation. It said the policy was 
clear the phones IMEI number was needed  to register  the phone  and proceed  with a claim 
and it was Mr Hs responsibility to provide the details.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I uphold the complaint. Assurant must  pay £75 for Mr Hs distress  and inconvenience and 
assess the claim once it receives the claim details from Mr H.
The policy says that Mr H has to register his phone before or at the time a claim is made and 
the information required includes the IMEI number.  The policy is clear that Mr H has to 
provide proof of ownership which must show the IMEI to make a claim.  Mr H didnt have the 
IMEI number.
But I have to decide whether Assurant fairly declined  to register  the claim in Mr Hs particular 
circumstances, and I dont  think it did. Mr H demonstrated that he didnt have the IMEI 
Ref: DRN57917092number on the purchase documents and gave evidence from his phone  network  provider 
that it couldn't tell him the number. Mr H offered to send the phone to Assurant so it could 
take apart the phone  to see if there was an IMEI number within  the phone. Importantly Mr H 
still had the phone, it wasnt lost or stolen.  And theres no evidence  that hed made multiple 
claims on the policy. So Assurant had no cause to be concerned that he was trying to insure 
more than one handset  if the policy didnt allow that.
I understand Assurant  would have difficulty with its system accepting the phone before it was 
registered. But I dont  think that in these  particular circumstances it was fair or reasonable 
not to register the claim.
Even if I did think Assurant not registering the claim was fair, Assurant is the expert and it 
would have been reasonable for it to have told Mr H to look at the SIM tray for the number. 
Its said not all phones  have the IMEI number there and it didnt know  the phone's make and 
model. But it could  have asked for the make  and model or suggested the possible  location  
anyway. If Assurant had done so Mr H could have  given  the IMEI number and had his claim 
registered straightaway. He wouldn't have had the inconvenience of making  a complaint to 
us or had his claim delayed.
I think £75 is a reasonable  amount  of compensation for Mr Hs distress and inconvenience 
caused by Assurant.
Assurant has said it will assess the claim when it receives the claim details from Mr H. Our 
investigator correctly told Mr H that if he disagrees with the outcome of the claim once 
assessed he can make a separate complaint to us.
I note Mr Hs comments about  how his complaint  was dealt with. Assurant should have taken 
responsibility for the complaint,  which  it ultimately  did. Under the Financial Conduct  Authority  
rules a business has eight weeks to respond  to a complaint and Assurant provided its final 
response in that timescale.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I require Assurant General Insurance Limited to:
pay Mr H £75 compensation for the distress  and inconvenience its caused  within  
28 days of us telling it Mr H accepts  my final decision, and 
assess Mr Hs claim  once it receives  details of the claim.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 September 2019.
Nicola Sisk
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5791709