K820x#14complaint
Miss B complains  that Bank  of Scotland Plc (BoS)  irresponsibly agreed to add an overdraft 
facility to her account and then increased  the amount without appropriate checks.
background
Miss B says she asked  BoS for an overdraft in 2017  which was agreed at £200. She says 
she then made a number  of online  requests to increase the amount which BoS agreed  to, so 
that in February  2018 the overdraft facility was for £2,750. Miss B says shes paid thousands 
of pounds in interest  and charges and that the lending  was irresponsible  and unaffordable.  
She says checks would have shown she was in financial difficulty and had a huge  number of 
payday loans  and defaults.  Miss B says BoS didnt offer her any help and would like the 
charges and interest refunded.
BoS says Miss B applied for the overdraft increases online  and that it carried  out appropriate 
checks internally and externally. It says Miss B had a regular income and she passed her 
credit assessments.  BoS doesnt accept making a mistake and says all fees and interest  
have been frozen and it offered Miss B help when it became aware  of her position.
Miss B brought her complaint to us but our adjudicator didnt uphold  it. The adjudicator 
thought any interest  or charges were correctly applied in line with the account  terms and 
conditions. And that Miss B had applied for the overdraft increases which had been  
appropriately checked and scored  by BoS. The adjudicator thought BoS had offered Miss B 
help and support  when  it became aware  of the problem.
Miss B doesnt accept  that view.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to a similar 
overall view as the adjudicator. I realise  Miss B will be disappointed by my decision.
I have looked  at BoSs records and Im satisfied that Miss Bs overdraft applications were 
proportionately and reasonably assessed and credit  scored. Im also satisfied that Miss B 
had a regular  income and based on her declared outgoings had what I think  is a fairly 
reasonable level of disposable income.  I appreciate that Miss B says she actually  earned  
less than she declared but I cant fairly  hold BoS responsible for that and would have 
expected Miss B to have provided accurate information.
I have also looked  at Miss Bs credit file and having done so I dont  think  BoS acted 
irresponsibly by allowing Miss B credit and by increasing that amount. I appreciate that 
Miss B did have two defaults registered  on her file but I can also see they were registered in 
2013 and 2015 and I think some  time before this lending in 2017. I also appreciate Miss B 
says she had numerous payday  loans.  But I can see that that lending  took place mainly  in 
2013 and some four years before the overdraft applications. And that Miss B financial 
position appears to have  got worse in 2018  which I think  was after the period of the overdraft 
applications.
Banks and building societies should treat customers positively and sympathetically when in 
financial difficulties. Im satisfied BoS has acted in such  a way here. I can see it refunded 
fees and interest  as a gesture of goodwill but more  importantly  provided details of its 
Ref: DRN50219982specialist department that could  have helped Miss B. I can see that at present no further 
interest or charges is being made  and I hope Miss B will speak to BoS about the debt.
I appreciate Miss B says that the number of applications she made should have triggered 
further checks. But I think on balance that BoS systems had pre-approved Miss Bs lending 
up to a certain amount. And for the reasons Ive explained I find that checks  were carried  out 
appropriately.
Overall Im satisfied that BoS did carry out reasonable and appropriate  checks on Miss Bs 
applications both internally and externally. In those circumstances Im  satisfied the lending  
wasnt irresponsible and so I cant fairly  order BoS to refund any charges or interest that I 
think would  have been made  in line with the account  terms and conditions.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 April 2020.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5021998