K821x#15complaint
Mr B complains about three short term loans that he took out with Curo Transatlantic
Limited, trading  as WageDay Advance, (WDA). He said that WDA shouldnt  have given  him
the loans as they were unaffordable.
background
Mr B took out three instalment loans with WDA  as follows:
Loan number  and 
date of loanLoan amount
Amount to be 
repaid including 
interest (if paid by 
due date)Date repaid and 
other comments
1.7/4/2017 £400 4 instalments of 
around £141 Repaid early on 
19/5/17
2.28/11/2017 £400 3 instalments of 
£153.60, £99.20, 
and £489.60Repaid on 16/3/18.
3.21/3/2018 £350 6 instalments of 
around £111Unpaid
Mr B said that WDA hadnt carried out adequate affordability checks. The loan repayments
took so much of his wages that he had to borrow again. He said that his credit  file would
have shown other debt repayments and problems with late payments and defaults.
WDA said that it had carried out credit checks and asked Mr B for his income and regular
expenditure. It said that the income  and expenditure information which  Mr B had provided to
it demonstrated that the loans were affordable. It had relied on Mr B disclosing accurate
information to it. WDA  said that Mr Bs pattern of lending didnt indicate  that Mr B was
dependent on the loans.  WDA didnt believe that it was unreasonable  for it to have  been
unaware of additional credit  commitments without Mr B providing that information to it.
our adjudicators view
The adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld.  He said that WDAs
checks went far enough and that it was reasonable for WDA to consider that Mr Bs
disposable income was sufficient to meet his loan repayments.
Mr B disagreed. He said that he was reliant  on short term lending due to being  in a debt
spiral with lenders  charging so much  interest.  A credit check would have shown WDA that he
couldnt afford these  loans. In some months he had up to ten different payday loans.
The adjudicator reviewed WDAs credit  report and said that he hadnt  seen  anything  on it
which would have given  him reason to consider that WDA was wrong to lend.
Mr B disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr B 
and to WDA  on 21 December 2018. I summarise my findings:
Ref: DRN51052142I explained that WDA was required  to lend responsibly. It should have made checks  to make 
sure Mr B could afford to repay  each  of the loans  before it lent to him. Those  checks  needed 
to be proportionate to things such as the amount Mr B was borrowing, and his lending  
history. But there was no set list of checks WDA  had to do.
I noted that the Financial Conduct Authority  was the regulator at the time Mr B borrowed 
from WDA. Its regulations require lenders to take reasonable steps to assess  the 
customers ability to meet repayments under  a regulated credit  agreement in a sustainable 
manner without the customer incurring financial difficulties or experiencing significant 
adverse consequences. The regulations define sustainable as being able to make 
repayments without  undue difficulty,  and that this means borrowers should be able to make 
their repayments on time and out of their income  and savings without having to borrow  to 
meet these repayments.
WDA had shown us the checks it did before  lending  to Mr B. It had asked him each time 
about his normal  income and his monthly expenditure. Mr B had declared  his income as 
£2,500 for all three loans. And his declared regular expenditure for Loan 1 was £1,418. This 
had reduced to £1,050 for Loans  2 and 3. The application  forms WDA  had provided to us 
had broken the expenditure  down into rent, monthly  other credit and monthly living  costs.
WDA had also provided us with a summary of its credit checks for the loans.
With regard to Loan 1, I noted that the four monthly repayment amounts of around £141 that
Mr B needed  to repay on his first loan were relatively modest compared to his declared
monthly income of £2,500 and his declared disposable income  of £1,082,  which included
credit commitments  of £400  and living costs of £109. 
WDAs credit  check showed that Mr B had no defaults or county court judgements  and that 
he wasnt insolvent. It also showed that Mr B had one active short  term loan account  and 
that hed had three short term loans  in the previous six months. I didnt  think that the results  
of the credit  check should have caused  WDA  additional concerns about Mr Bs financial 
situation. I also didnt  think at that stage  of its relationship with Mr B that WDA had any 
reason to doubt the information  hed provided. And there was little to suggest  to WDA at this 
stage that Mr B wasnt using the loan in the way it was intended  as a short term solution to 
a temporary cash flow problem. As the loan repayments were a relatively  small proportion  of 
Mr Bs income, I thought  WDAs checks were proportionate for this loan and I didnt think  
WDA was wrong to agree to this loan.
Mr B repaid  Loan  1 early  and he took out Loan 2 just over six months later.  But I noted that
Mr B had tried to borrow twice from WDA  in that period in July and September 2017,  but his
applications were  rejected.  I also noted that whilst  Mr B had said that he had no dependents
before Loan 1, his application form for Loan  2 showed that he had two dependents. Despite
this, his living costs  had decreased. And his other  declared credit commitments  had
decreased to £350. But WDAs credit check summary said that Mr B now had three active
short term loans and that the last short term loan was taken within  a month  of his application
for Loan 2. Its summary said that this indicated that Mr B wasnt  dependent on short term
lending. I disagreed.
I thought the change  in Mr Bs family circumstances since Loan 1, the fact that he had tried 
to borrow from WDA twice in the previous  four months but had been rejected, and the
decrease in his living costs despite having  two dependents  might  have concerned  WDA.
Ref: DRN51052143Moreover Mr Bs three other short term loans might  all have suggested to WDA that it was
unlikely that Mr Bs financial position was as good as he was declaring. I thought the other  
short term loans might have suggested  to WDA  that Mr B was using  short term loans as a
supplement to his normal income, rather than using them  to meet  a temporary  one-off
problem.
I noted that WDA thought that it should  be able to rely on the income  and expenditure figures
it had received from Mr B. But whilst these showed  a significant amount of disposable
income each month, I thought WDA  should have been concerned that Mr B had three other
short term loans and had tried to borrow from it twice in recent months. I thought  it should 
have also been  concerned whether the loan would be sustainable in view of the large last
repayment amount  of around £490. So for all these reasons, I didnt think  that reliance by
WDA here on Mr Bs declared income and regular outgoings was a sufficient check. I 
thought WDA should have supplemented  the disposable income information it obtained from 
Mr B before Loan  2 by gathering information before  Loan 2 about  his then current short term
lending. I couldnt  see that it did this.
Mr B took out Loan 3 five days after repaying  Loan 2. The loan of £350 was repayable  by six
monthly loan repayments of around  £111.  Mr Bs declared disposable income  remained at
£1,450. But WDAs credit check showed that Mr Bs debts  had increased  from £11,277  to
£17,363, and he still had two active short term loans. In view of the increase in Mr Bs debts
and other  short term loans shown in his credit check, and taking into account that his
application for Loan 3 was made so soon after repaying Loan 2, I thought WDA should have
been on notice  that it was unlikely Mr Bs financial position was as good as he was declaring.
So by the time of Loan 3, I didnt  think that reliance by WDA on Mr Bs declared  income  and
regular outgoings  was a sufficient check. I thought again that it would have  been  
proportionate for WDA  to have gathered information  about Mr Bs then current  short  term 
lending. I was aware that not all payday  and short term lenders reported to the same  credit 
reference agencies  and credit files might  not be up to date. So it was possible that Mr B 
might have taken other payday or short  term loans  prior to Loan 3 which  might  not have 
been identified  by WDAs  credit check.
Although I didnt think the checks WDA did on Loans  2 and 3 were sufficient, that in itself
didnt mean  that Mr Bs complaint  should  succeed. I also needed to see whether what  I
considered to be proportionate  checks would have shown WDA that Mr B couldnt 
sustainably afford the loans.
For Loan 2, as I said above, I thought  WDA  needed to supplement the financial information
declared by Mr B by asking him if he had other  short term loans.
To find out what,  if any, outstanding short term commitments Mr B had, Id reviewed his
bank statements for the month before Mr B took Loan 2. I thought  the statements were  the 
best indication  of his short term borrowing at the time. And I could see that Mr B had taken 
six other short term loans  in the month  before he had taken out Loan 2. These  loans totalled  
£2,185 and were  likely to have been  repayable around the same time as Loan 2. So, if WDA 
had done what  I considered to be proportionate  checks, I thought it was likely that it would 
have concluded  that the repayments for Loan 2 werent sustainable.
With regard to Loan 3, Id reviewed Mr Bs bank statements for the month  before
he took Loan 3. And I could see that Mr B had taken out two short term loans in that period 
totalling £1,150, although I noted from Mr Bs credit report that these were  due to be repaid 
Ref: DRN51052144in instalments totalling around £390. But taking  into account what  Mr B had told WDA about 
his disposable  income before Loan 3, I didnt think WDA was wrong to lend Loan 3 to Mr B 
as it would have  seemed  affordable if WDA  had made what  I considered  to be proportionate
checks.
In summary  I thought  the checks WDA  did for Loan 1 were proportionate. But I didnt  think  
WDA had done enough checks  for any of the remaining loans. I thought proportionate 
checks would have  shown  WDA the state  of Mr Bs finances and that he couldnt afford to 
sustainably repay  Loan  2. So, I thought that WDA needed to pay Mr B some compensation 
relating to Loan 2.
To settle  the complaint I thought WDA  should:-
1. Refund all interest and charges that Mr B paid on Loan 2;
2. Pay interest of 8% simple* a year on all refunds  from the date of payment to the date
    of settlement;
3. Apply  the refunds referred to above to reduce any capital outstanding on Loan 3 and
    pay  any balance  to Mr B;
4.Remove any adverse  information about Loan  2 from Mr Bs credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires WDA  to take off tax from this interest. WDA must give
Mr B a certificate  showing  how much tax it has taken  off if he asks for one. If WDA intends to
apply the refunds to reduce any outstanding  capital  balance, it must do so after deducting
the tax.
Subject to any further representations by Mr B or WDA my provisional decision was that 
I intended to uphold this complaint in part. I intended  to order  Curo Transatlantic Limited, 
trading as WageDay  Advance, to:
1. Refund all interest and charges that Mr B paid on Loan 2;
2. Pay interest of 8% simple* a year on all refunds  from the date of payment to the
    date  of settlement;
3. Apply  the refunds referred to above to reduce any capital outstanding on Loan 3
    and  pay any balance to Mr B;
4. Remove any adverse  information about Loan  2 from Mr Bs credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires WDA  to take off tax from this interest. WDA
must give Mr B a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for
one. If WDA  intends to apply the refunds to reduce any outstanding capital
balance, it must do so after deducting the tax.
WDA hasnt provided any further information  in response to my provisional decision.  
Mr B responded to say that he agreed with my provisional decision.  He also said that he had 
paid £111.25 towards the Loan  3 balance in April 2018 and he wished this to be taken into 
account in any calculations for final settlement.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN51052145Given that WDA has given me nothing further to consider and Mr B accepts my provisional 
decision, I see no reason  to depart  from the conclusions I reached in my provisional  
decision. It follows that I uphold part of the complaint and require  WDA to pay Mr B some 
compensation as set out below. In calculating the compensation, WDA should also take into 
account the payment made  by Mr B on Loan  3 in April 2018.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part. In full and final settlement of this 
complaint, I order Curo  Transatlantic Limited, trading as WageDay Advance, to:
1. Refund all interest and charges that Mr B paid on Loan 2;
2. Pay interest of 8% simple* a year on all refunds  from the date of payment to the
    date  of settlement;
3. Apply  the refunds referred to above to reduce any capital outstanding on Loan 3
    and  pay any balance to Mr B;
4. Remove any adverse  information about Loan  2 from Mr Bs credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires WDA  to take off tax from this interest. WDA
must give Mr B a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for
one. If WDA  intends to apply the refunds to reduce any outstanding capital
balance, it must do so after deducting the tax.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 February  2019.
Roslyn Rawson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5105214