K820x#14Complaint
Mr and Mrs K complain  they were mis-sold  a critical illness policy by HSBC  UK Bank  PLC in 
2001. 
Background
In March 2001 Mr and Mrs K took out an equity  release loan for £45,000 for 18 years in a 
HSBC branch. Mr and Mrs K also had a mortgage with HSBC  with an outstanding  balance of 
£152,500 which,  at the time, had a remaining  term of 17 years. This mortgage was interest-
only and was supported by endowments  which provided life cover.
HSBC recommended Mr K take out a critical illness policy to provide cover for the existing 
mortgage; the Survival Plan, and also a Level Term  Assurance with Critical Illness cover for 
the equity release loan. Sadly  Mr K was diagnosed with cancer in July 2018.  A claim was 
accepted under the Level  Term Assurance  with Critical Illness  cover, but the Survival  Plan 
had expired on 18 April 2018 so no cover  was in place when the diagnosis was made.
Mr K complained about the term of the Survival Plan  he thought  it shouldve  been for 
18 years   like the other policy he was recommended to take out. This is because he 
thought the two policies  were one policy set up to cover the full amount outstanding debt at 
the time.  
HSBC didnt agree the policy had been mis-sold so Mr K referred his concerns to our 
service. He added  that he and Mrs K had paid off both HSBC mortgages  in 2004 and had 
taken a new mortgage  he was relying on the Survival Plan to also cover  this.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She didnt think  it was unreasonable  for HSBC 
to recommend that Mr K take out two policies,  as the two debts were separate  and had 
different end dates.  The existing mortgage  had 17 years left to run, so she thought it was 
reasonable for the Survival Plan to have a term of 17 years to protect this debt.
Mr K didnt accept this and asked  for a final decision. He said he thought hed been 
recommended full critical illness cover to the date he intended to retire,  which  was in 18 
years time. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding it.
Having looked  at fact find completed  by the adviser  in March 2001, I can see Mr K already 
had sufficient life cover to cover his existing mortgage. So, HSBC  advised him to take out a 
critical illness policy to cover  the outstanding amount for the remaining term of the mortgage, 
which was 17 years. If Mr and Mrs K had 18 years left on their existing mortgage, I wouldve 
expected HSBC to advise  them to take out a policy with an 18 year term. 
At the time HSBC also advised  Mr K to take out a life assurance and critical illness  cover  
policy to cover the equity  release loan being applied for. This cover was set up to run for 
18 years  as this was the term set out for the additional borrowing   so I dont think  it was 
wrong of HSBC to arrange the cover  for two different terms.
Ref: DRN58599482Mr K received two illustrations that clearly  identified two separate policies. One was a 
Survival Plan with a term of 17 years, the other  was a Level  Term Assurance  with Critical 
Illness Cover policy  with a term of 18 years. The two policies were  also set out separately  in 
the recommendation letter sent to him. So, I think Mr K wouldve known the adviser had 
recommended two policies on two different terms.
I wouldnt have expected the adviser to recommend one policy to cover  the total borrowing 
over 18 years because Mr M wouldve been  over-insured in the final year. So, he would have 
been paying for extra cover unnecessarily. Having two policies also gave him flexibility  if he 
paid off one of the loans  early, as the cover under the other  policy would remain in place. But 
if on reflection Mr K wanted  one policy for a term of 18 years, I think  it was for Mr K to say 
so. As he didnt raise  this as an issue, I can only assume he was happy with the 
arrangement at the time, though I understand why he feels  differently now.
Mr K has said he was relying on the Survival Plan to cover  new borrowing after he repaid the 
mortgages with HSBC in 2004.  But the policies were  recommended in 2001 based  on Mr Ks 
circumstances at the time. As these  changed, he wouldve needed  to seek  further advice 
about his new insurance needs  rather than relying on existing provisions.
Mr and Mrs K have  also said that the cover was compulsory for their additional borrowing. 
Ive thought about this, and while I believe this is Mr Ks honest  recollection  of the sale Ive 
not seen any evidence to support this. I wasnt present at the meeting so cant comment on 
what exactly was discussed,  but I can see that Mr K signed a separate application form for 
the two policies and two direct debit mandates. Ive also carefully considered  the notes from 
the meeting and the equity loan agreement form and Ive not seen any evidence that the 
policy was compulsory or that Mr K didnt have the choice to decline it. As this was an 
advised sale, I think its likely HSBC told Mr K he should take out the cover, but thats 
different to saying he had to take out the cover. So, I dont think HSBC led Mr K to believe he 
didnt have a choice about taking  out the cover.
My final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision  before  10 January 2020. 
Hannah Wise
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5859948