K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs Ws representative, a claims management company (CMC), complains on their 
behalf that they were given unsuitable investment advice by a tied adviser working  for 
Legal & General (Unit Trust  Managers)  Limited  (the business).  
In summary  the CMC says:
Mr and Mrs W invested at the wrong time as Mr W had only recently received 
compensation from a work accident but had to repay the income benefit and was on 
a phased return to work.
They were advised to take too much risk. 
They invested too much and were  left with an insufficient cash  reserve.
They would struggle to replace any losses from investing in this way. 
They werent advised to pay off their mortgage.
background
In May 2000, Mr and Mrs W met with an adviser  about investing £56,000. 
They were  advised  to invest £7,000 each into ISAs  in the Worldwide Trust fund  and 
£26,000 into a joint bond. 
Mr and Mrs W decided  not to invest in the bond but went  ahead  with the ISAs. 
In September  2002, they surrendered the ISAs and received  £4,233.58  each, after 
deduction of a 3% exit fee as they surrendered early.  
It was recorded  in the fact find: 
They were in their 40s and working  and had a monthly disposable  income of £384.
They owned their own home  with a £40,500 mortgage to repay.  
They could invest for five years. 
They didnt want to repay their mortgage  because they wanted access  to their capital 
at the end of the investment term.
They were prepared  to invest £40,000 and retain £16,000  in the bank.  
They wanted to invest for capital growth  and achieve an income if they retired  in the 
next few years. 
They discounted Cash ISAs  and National Savings as they werent happy with the 
rates available.
One of our investigators  considered the complaint and thought it should be upheld.  In 
summary, he said:
As they decided not to invest in the bond,  he can only investigate the suitability of the 
advice to invest in the ISAs,  and whether the risk was suitable.  
There doesnt appear to have been  a risk assessment undertaken. But it was 
recorded that Mr and Mrs W had chosen to invest in a low risk for the bond  and were 
prepared to accept  a medium risk for their ISAs.
Ref: DRN54015562Theres no evidence they had any investment experience before they received this 
advice, which wouldve had a bearing on the risk they were willing to take along with 
their capacity  to replace  loss.
They had £42,000 available  in cash, £384 monthly disposable income,  and no 
evidence of any planned expenditure. So, its reasonable they couldve invested  and 
taken a small risk with their money.  However, the Worldwide Trust Fund  was 
exposed to the risk of the performance  of the stock market as well as currency 
fluctuations. 
On balance, the advice was unsuitable.
The business didnt  agree with the investigators view and asked why when Mr and Mrs W 
had enough cash  reserves,  diversifying the portfolio with medium risk investment wouldnt be 
a suitable?
The investigator having considered the additional points wasnt  persuaded to change his 
mind. He said:
Mr and Mrs W were prepared to take a small risk with their money, but not the level 
of risk they were  advised to take,  which was too much  risk.  
Their attitude  to risk under section 16 recorded  low risk for bonds and medium risk 
for ISAs.  
Section 23 says that they chose to invest in a low risk area, but that was only for 
bonds. There was no note of the medium risk area for the ISAs which  couldve  led 
Mr and Mrs W to think  the ISAs  were low risk investments. 
Mr and Mrs W couldve taken  a small risk or a low risk. So his redress  calculation  
using the 50/50  benchmark  to calculate redress based on this was correct.   
The business asked  for an ombudsmans decision. It made the following key points:
There was a substantial amount of money held in cash  therefore diversification was 
the right thing to do. 
The investigator says the medium risk was too much for Mr and Mrs W, but his 
redress calculation is also medium risk. 
The Worldwide Trust Fund gave Mr and Mrs W global risk exposure  rather than focus 
on one market like the FTSE  UK. This wouldve exposed them to more  than a single 
market. 
The advice was provided by a tied adviser so the options wouldve been  limited and 
its unlikely the type of investment the investigator is suggesting wouldve been 
available at the time. 
They only had the stocks and shares  investments on offer. The options  available  
outside  such  as Cash ISA and National Savings  were discounted by 
Mr and Mrs W.
Just because Mr and Mrs W chose to withdraw  early  bearing in mind theyd 
invested for the medium to long run  doesnt now mean  that they should be 
compensated for any losses suffered. 
As no agreement has been reached the matter  has been passed to me for review. 
my findings
Ref: DRN54015563Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusions for much the same reasons. Im 
going to uphold this complaint. On the face of the evidence, and on balance,  Im not 
persuaded that the recommendation was suitable. 
The CMC has provided detailed submissions to support the complaint, which  Ive read and 
considered carefully.  However, I hope  Mr and Mrs W wont take the fact my findings focus on 
what I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail, as a discourtesy.
The purpose of my decision isnt to address  every  single point raised. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented  by the CMC  and the business, and reach what  I think  is an 
independent, fair and reasonable  decision  based on the facts  of the case.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation  and best 
industry practice, but Im not bound by this. Its for me to decide, based on the information  
Ive been given, whats more likely than not to have happened.
At the time it was recorded  Mr and Mrs W were in their 40s and employed. They had a net 
monthly disposable income of £384, with £42,000 held in cash deposit account. Im satisfied 
they were in a reasonable position to invest and take some risk with their money. 
Their objective  was capital growth  over the medium to long term. I note their attitude to risk 
in respect of the ISAs was regarded as medium, and in respect of the bond  was low.
Its fair to say that certain questions were asked of Mr and Mrs W to arrive  at the conclusion 
that they were  medium risk investors, out of three options of low, medium  and high risk. 
I note Medium risk was described as you are prepared to accept some risk in the hope of a 
better return on our investment in the future. And low risk as you are not prepared to take 
risks with your investment.  
Despite the business  definitions, I note the medium risk is more like a low risk investment 
and the low risk is more like no risk investment. Its possible that this resulted in some 
disconnect in the sorts of investments they were  suggested. 
I think its unlikely Mr and Mrs W werent willing to take some risk with their investment. 
Despite the points made by the business  in relation to the redress   which I will come  back  
to in due course   I dont think they were  risk averse. 
And although its likely that Mr and Mrs W were aware that there were no guarantees and 
that they could  get back less than they would put in, I dont  think the advice to invest in the 
stocks and shares ISA was suitable. In other words, Im not persuaded that theyd  be willing 
to risk their money with the FTSE 100 Index and overseas stock market,  if they knew  the 
risks involved. 
Whilst its not necessarily for me to risk rate Mr and Mrs W or the investment, Im considering 
whether the recommendation was suitable  in the circumstances.  And in this instance, I think 
the recommendation was more risk than they were  able to take, even for this portion of their 
capital. So, taking all the above points into account, Im of the opinion that the 
recommendation was unsuitable for Mr and Mrs W. 
Ref: DRN54015564I should make clear that Mr and Mrs W arent being  compensated for losses because they 
surrendered early. Theyre being  compensated because the advice to invest £7,000  each 
into a medium risk stocks and shares ISA wasnt suitable. Given  my opinion they wouldve 
been entitled to that even if they received  a positive return. 
Im mindful of the points the business  makes about the investigators recommendation to use 
the 50/50 benchmark, but I dont agree with the business. In my opinion  the benchmark is 
suitable for someone willing  to take some  risk with their money, in other words take a low 
risk. If Mr and Mrs W werent  willing  to take any risk at all  in other words  they were  risk 
averse (or what the business definition describes as low risk)  then the fixed rate bond 
would be a suitable benchmark.
I note the point the business makes about not offering any products not linked to the stock  
market. But just because  it didnt sell a particular product doesnt justify  it making  an 
unsuitable recommendation. 
Especially after Mr and Mrs W refused to invest in the bond, which might possibly have gone 
some way to offset the risk taken  with the stocks  and shares  ISA. 
And even  if Mr and Mrs W were  in position  to be able to replace  their losses  which  on 
balance I dont think they were given that this money  was from an inheritance earmarked for 
their retirement  it still wouldnt make an unsuitable recommendation suitable. 
So, in terms  of redress I think  the business  should  do the following: 
Redress for Mr W
fair compensation
In assessing what would  be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put Mr W 
as close to the position he would  probably now be in if he had not been  given unsuitable  
advice. 
I take the view that Mr W would have invested  differently. It is not possible to say precisely 
what he would have  done differently. But I am satisfied that what  I have set out below is fair 
and reasonable given  Mr W's circumstances and objectives when he invested. 
what should  Legal  & General (Unit Trust Managers) Limited do?
To compensate Mr W fairly, Legal  & General (Unit  Trust Managers) Limited must:
Compare the performance of Mr W's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below and pay the difference between the fair value  and the actual value of the 
investment. If the actual  value  is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.
Legal & General (Unit Trust Managers) Limited should also pay interest as set out 
below.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
Ref: DRN54015565investment  
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end  
date)additional 
interest
Stocks and 
Shares ISA 
surrenderedfor half the 
investment:  
FTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return  Index;  
for the other 
half: average  
rate from 
fixed rate 
bondsdate of 
investmentdate 
surrendered8% simple per 
year on any loss 
from the end 
date to the date 
of settlement
actual value
This means  the actual amount paid from the investment at the end date. 
fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a return  
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark,  
Legal & General (Unit Trust  Managers)  Limited  should use the monthly average rate for the 
fixed rate bonds  with 12 to 17 months maturity  as published by the Bank of England. The 
rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous month. Those rates  should  
be applied  to the investment on an annually compounded basis. 
why is this remedy suitable?
I have decided on this method  of compensation because:
Mr W wanted capital growth with a small risk to his capital.
The average rate for the fixed  rate bonds  would be a fair measure  for someone who 
wanted to achieve  a reasonable  return  without  risk to his capital. 
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income  total return index (prior to 1 March  2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock  Market Income total return index) is a mix of diversified indices  
representing different  asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. It 
would be a fair measure for someone  who was prepared  to take some risk to get a 
higher return.  
I consider that Mr W's risk profile was in between, in the sense that he was prepared 
to take a small level of risk to attain his investment objectives. So, the 50/50  
combination would reasonably put Mr W into that position.  It does  not mean that 
Mr W would  have invested  50% of his money  in a fixed  rate bond  and 50% in some  
kind of index tracker  fund. Rather,  I consider  this a reasonable compromise  that 
broadly reflects  the sort of return Mr W could have  obtained from investments suited 
to his objective and risk attitude.
Ref: DRN54015566The additional interest is for being  deprived  of the use of any compensation money 
since the end date.
Redress for Mrs W
fair compensation
In assessing what would  be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put 
Mrs W as close  to the position she would probably now be in if she had not been given 
unsuitable advice.  
I take the view that Mrs W would have invested  differently. It is not possible to say precisely 
what she would have  done differently. But I am satisfied that what  I have set out below is fair 
and reasonable given  Mrs W's circumstances and objectives when she invested. 
what should  Legal  & General (Unit Trust Managers) Limited do?
To compensate Mrs W fairly, Legal  & General (Unit  Trust Managers) Limited must:
Compare the performance of Mrs W's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below and pay the difference between the fair value  and the actual value of the 
investment. If the actual  value  is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.
Legal & General (Unit Trust Managers) Limited should also pay interest as set out 
below.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
investment  
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end  
date)additional 
interest
Stocks and 
Shares ISA 
surrenderedfor half the 
investment:  
FTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return  Index;  
for the other 
half: average  
rate from 
fixed rate 
bondsdate of 
investmentdate 
surrendered8% simple per 
year on any loss 
from the end 
date to the date 
of settlement
actual value
This means  the actual amount paid from the investment at the end date. 
fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a return  
Ref: DRN54015567using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark,  Legal & 
General (Unit Trust Managers) Limited should  use the monthly  average  rate for the fixed  
rate bonds  with 12 to 17 months  maturity  as published by the Bank of England. The rate for 
each month  is that shown  as at the end of the previous month.  Those rates should be 
applied to the investment on an annually compounded basis. 
why is this remedy suitable?
I have decided on this method  of compensation because:
Mrs W wanted capital growth with a small risk to her capital.
The average rate for the fixed  rate bonds  would be a fair measure  for someone who 
wanted to achieve  a reasonable  return  without  risk to her capital. 
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income  total return index (prior to 1 March  2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock  Market Income total return index) is a mix of diversified indices  
representing different  asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. It 
would be a fair measure for someone  who was prepared  to take some risk to get a 
higher return.  
I consider that Mrs W's risk profile was in between, in the sense that she was 
prepared to take a small level of risk to attain her investment objectives. So, the 50/50 
combination would reasonably put Mrs W into that position.  It does  not mean that 
Mrs W would  have invested  50% of her money  in a fixed  rate bond and 50% in some  
kind of index tracker  fund. Rather,  I consider  this a reasonable compromise  that 
broadly reflects  the sort of return Mrs W could have  obtained from investments suited 
to her objective and risk attitude.
The additional interest is for being  deprived  of the use of any compensation money 
since the end date.
my final decision 
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Legal & General (Unit  Trust Managers) Limited
should pay Mr and Mrs W the amount calculated as set out above.
Legal & General (Unit Trust  Managers)  Limited  should provide details of its calculation  to 
Mr and Mrs W in a clear, simple format.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs W 
either to accept or reject my decision before 27 December 2019.
..
Ref: DRN54015568Dara Islam 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5401556