K822xcomplaint
Mr Ts unhappy  about the way Virgin Money Plc dealt with the interest on his matured  cash  
ISA.
background 
Mr T had a two year fixed rate cash ISA with Virgin Money which  matured at the end of 
March 2019. He says at the end of the first year the accrued  interest was paid into a bank 
account hed nominated.  But at the end of the second year on maturity  when he arranged  to 
transfer the money to another provider, Virgin Money added  the accrued interest to the ISA 
account and transferred everything in it to the other provider.  Mr T is unhappy about this and 
that the accrued interest wasnt paid on maturity into his nominated bank account in 
accordance with his instructions. He says he has lost the opportunity to invest  the interest 
elsewhere.
Virgin Money said in its final response that interest  on the ISA was paid annually  on 
5 August.  As Mr Ts ISA matured earlier than this it paid the interest  into his ISA account. 
Virgin Money accepted  it couldve made this clearer to Mr T. It wouldve expected to receive 
a partial transfer  request from the new provider. But as the new provider requested the full 
balance both the closing interest  and remaining funds were  all transferred over to the new 
provider. It isnt able to now reverse the release of the £793.25 closing interest.
Our investigator felt this complaint  should  be upheld. She said Virgin  Money said that Mr Ts 
instructions about  where to pay his interest were made when he opened the ISA. They 
werent carried out because they were no longer valid as the account had matured early. 
This isnt Mr Ts fault as he wasnt to know that hed have  to submit his instructions again if 
the account matured early.  Hed already  given  clear instructions which Virgin  Money didnt 
follow. She noted Mr T hadnt lost any money and thought Virguin Money should pay him 
£100 for the inconvenience caused.
Mr T said the instruction  from his new provider was to transfer the ISA on maturity and its 
incorrect for Virgin Money to suggest  it was an early closure.  Whilst the money is now with 
another provider  and hasnt been  lost he feels £100 compensation isnt enough. Virgin 
Money hasnt carried  out the correct accounting function or communicated  effectively  
throughout.
Virgin Money doesnt agree and has asked for an ombudsman review. It says Mr T gave 
instructions at the outset to pay interest  into another nominated account which it did in 
August 2018.  When his ISA product matured all accumulated interest was automatically  
added to the ISA account. Unlike annual interest it wouldnt  be paid into the nominated 
external bank account. Its website clearly sets that out. There  was a link to this on the 
maturity mailing it sent him. Mr T had all the necessary information  available to him and any 
online operation  to change the bank account  into which  interest is applied only relates to 
annual interest. He also logged onto his account a day after the interest was added  to the 
ISA account and wouldve been aware  it was part of the overall  balance  going to the new 
provider.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN58278522Virgin Money says when Mr Ts ISA product matured all accumulated interest was 
automatically added to his ISA account. And unlike annual interest it wouldnt be paid into 
the nominated  external bank account.  It says its website clearly sets that out and there was 
a link to this on the maturity mailing  it sent him. When explaining things Virgin  Money has 
also referred to the difference in the way it treats  annual and maturity interest.  
But taking everything  into account Im not persuaded it made this sufficiently clear to Mr T 
from the outset.
When Mr T took out the Virgin  Money  ISA product  he was sent some  Key Facts information.  
That said,  amongst  other  things, that if he wanted to transfer  money hed subscribed to the 
ISA in the current tax year he would have to transfer all of it. But it didnt explain what  would  
happen when  the ISA product matured  or highlight the different way it treated annual and 
maturity interest. When he opened the account Mr T gave instructions for interest to be paid 
into a nominated account with another bank. Virgin Money did this in August 2018. So, I can 
understand why Mr T wouldve reasonably thought this would also happen when the account  
matured in 2019.
I accept Virgin Money  sent a maturity mailing  to Mr T which had a link to its website which 
contained instructions  about how to withdraw  the interest on maturity. But even  here the 
difference in how the maturity interest would be treated and recognition  that any previous 
instruction for the paying of annual interest  into an external bank account wouldnt be applied 
to the maturity interest wasnt  prominently brought to Mr Ts attention.
Even so the fact remains that Mr T didnt  lose any money  as the entire  balance  in his ISA, 
including the interest,  was transferred  to his new provider. In addition although I understand 
Mr T was deprived of the use of the interest  to finance a family  holiday and had to find the 
money elsewhere, Ive seen nothing to suggest he incurred  any extra expense in doing  so.
As Virgin Money has said, Mr T accessed his account the day after the interest was paid into 
the ISA account  and wouldve been  aware  the whole balance was being transferred to his 
new provider. But by then it was likely too late for this to be changed.
Overall I think  Virgin Money couldve explained things better  both at the outset and 
subsequently when the ISA matured. In addition its explanations for what  happened have 
also been confused and unclear at times. For example, it incorrectly  said in its final response 
that the ISA matured early. And it also sought  to blame Mr Ts new provider  for what  
happened.
I think on balance that Virgin  couldve dealt with Mr T better and this has understandably  
caused him some distress and inconvenience  which warrants  a payment of some  
compensation. Taking everything into account,  including the level of awards  we make,  I 
agree with the investigator that a payment of £100 is fair and reasonable for this. And I dont 
see any compelling reason to increase  this amount as Mr T would like.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  To put things  right Virgin Money Plc should  pay Mr T £100 
compensation.
Ref: DRN58278523Virgin Money must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which  we tell it Mr T 
accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest* on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
* HM Revenue & Customs requires Virgin Money to take off tax from this interest. It must 
give Mr T a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 January 2020.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5827852