K820x#14complaint
Mr B and Miss M say Santander UK Plc (then trading as Abbey National but Ill just refer to 
Santander from now on) mis-sold  them a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
The complaint Im looking at is about the sale of a PPI policy taken out in 2002 to protect  
Mr B and Miss Ms mortgage monthly  repayments.  The policy covered Mr B for accident and 
sickness.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr B and Miss M disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion. Mr B and Miss M mainly  said that during this application nothing  was 
highlighted or mentioned  about PPI and they had no idea theyd taken this out. Mr B told us 
that he wasnt given  the policy details and he would not have requested  PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr B and Miss Ms case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr B and Miss Ms complaint. Ill explain why.
Theres no paperwork available now to show how PPI was sold to Mr B and Miss M. But as 
this happened  a long time ago, I wouldnt expect Mr B and Miss M or Santander to have  kept 
this. A financial business isnt required  to keep paperwork indefinitely. When  personal private  
information is no longer likely to be needed,  it can be destroyed. Data  protection  laws set out 
rules about  this. Destroying old paperwork helps to keep customers  private details secure. 
I can appreciate that Mr B and Miss M feel frustrated by the lack of paperwork.  But the fact 
that Santander cant now produce the sale documents  isnt a reason for me to uphold this 
complaint. 
Its also completely understandable that Mr B and Miss M mightve  forgotten  some of the 
details of this sale as it was so long ago. This means that what Mr B and Miss M say isnt 
enough on its own for me to be able to uphold  their complaint.
Where theres only limited information and its unclear what happened I have to look at 
everything Ive been told and sent and decide what I think  is most likely.
Looking at what this service knows about the way Santander sold PPI around this time, and 
what Santander has told us, I think its likely  that Mr B and Miss M wouldve had to apply 
separately for the cover if they wanted  to have  it. Theres nothing  mentioned  in the mortgage  
application they completed thats  likely to have made them  think they had to have PPI. 
I havent seen  how Mr B and Miss M applied for PPI. But it looks  like Mr B must have filled in 
a separate application form in order to have it added on to the mortgage. I say this because 
Santander sent a letter to Mr B in November 2002, shortly after the mortgage and the PPI 
were set up, which said Welcome to Paymentcare (this is what  Santander called its PPI).
Ref: DRN55967192And I think there mustve  been some discussion about the cover first because in my view the 
schedule enclosed with the letter shows theyd selected the level of cover they wanted when 
they opted for accident and sickness cover  only, just for Mr B. 
So, on balance, I think it wouldve been clear to Mr B and Miss M that it was up to them to 
say if they wanted  to take out PPI. And I find that it was added to the account  when  they 
chose the cover they wanted to have.  
Santander says it recommended the PPI and it looks like it was suitable based on what Ive 
seen of Mr B and Miss Ms circumstances at the time. Ill explain why.
Mr B was eligible for the policy  given his circumstances and the PPI terms and conditions 
that applied. 
The PPI couldve  paid out for up to 12 months  per claim if Mr B was unable to work as a 
result of accident or sickness.  And he couldve made repeated  claims. So the policy  
wouldve given Mr B and Miss M long term cover. Their mortgage was a major financial 
commitment and Mr B and Miss Ms home wouldve  been at risk if the mortgage  payments 
werent kept up to date.  I think  its likely  that losing Mr Bs income wouldve had a significant  
impact on their joint finances  even  if Miss M was still earning. So, I can see why they 
mightve felt it was useful  having PPI to protect his income. 
Mr B told us that he wouldnt have got any sick pay from his employer. And looking at what 
theyve told me about their circumstances, I think having accident and sickness cover  
couldve been helpful for Mr B and Miss M at the time, even if theyve forgotten now why 
they decided to have it. 
Its possible some of the information  Mr B and Miss M were given about  the PPI wasnt as 
clear as it shouldve  been.  There were  some things the policy didnt cover.  But it doesnt look 
as if those applied  in Mr Bs case.  So, I dont think having more information about  things the 
policy didnt cover wouldve affected their decision to take it out.
I dont know if the PPI cost was made  clear to Mr B and Miss M at the time they bought the 
policy. But looking at the welcome letter it appears  Mr B had signed  an instruction form to 
his bank to cover the monthly cost. So it seems  Mr B and Miss M were happy  at the time to 
pay for it and the policy appears to have been  affordable for them. And as they were  paying 
for the PPI monthly, they could cancel it without further cost if their situation changed or they 
no longer wanted  it.
Overall its possible there  may have  been  some failings  in the way this policy  was sold.  But 
I think Mr B and Miss M still wouldve decided to buy the policy  even if theyd been given 
clearer information as it gave useful protection in Mr B and Miss Ms particular situation. 
This means  I dont  find that Mr B and Miss M have  lost out as a result of anything that 
Santander mightve done wrong when it sold them the PPI. So it doesnt need  to do anything  
to put things right.
Ref: DRN55967193my final decision
For these reasons, I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B and Miss M 
to accept or reject my decision before 4 July 2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN5596719