K820x#14complaint
Mr H says that Glasgow Credit Union Ltd mis-sold  him a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy.
background
I issued my provisional decision in January 2019,  a copy of which  is attached and forms
part of this final decision. 
In my provisional decision I explained  why I wasnt intending to uphold  Mr Hs complaint. 
I asked everyone to send  me any further comments and information before  I reached a final 
decision. Neither Mr H or Glasgow Credit Union Ltd sent me anything further to consider.        
my findings
Ive re-considered all the evidence  and arguments  already sent to us to decide  whats  fair
and reasonable.  As Ive not received any new evidence, Ive reached the same conclusions             
I reached in my provisional  decision, for the same  reasons.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained in my provisional  decision, I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or reject 
my decision  before 7 April  2019 .
Daniel OShea
ombudsman 
copy  of provisional decision
complaint
This complaint is about a loan payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 2005. 
Mr H says Glasgow Credit  Union Ltd mis-sold him the PPI. 
my provisional findings
Ref: DRN50939582Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Hs case.
Ive currently decided  the policy wasnt mis-sold  because:
Ive seen a copy  of some of the paperwork that Mr H signed.  In particular, the 
demand sand needs  statement. On this document it stated During our discussion 
you indicated  that you did not wish to accept our recommendation of Accident,  
Sickness and Unemployment Insurance but that you wish to go ahead  with Accident 
and Sickness Insurance cover instead.
In my opinion, I think that this demonstrates that Mr H would have reasonably been 
aware that PPI was optional as hes declined the recommendation  made  by Glasgow 
Credit Union Ltd and chosen to take out a different level of cover.
Ive also seen that Mr H has signed this form as well as his loan agreement  to agree 
to what hes taking out. 
On balance, I think that its more likely than not that Glasgow Credit Union Ltd made  
Mr H aware that PPI was optional before  he chose  to take it out.
Glasgow  Credit Union  Ltd recommended the PPI to Mr H so it had to check  that the 
PPI was right for him  and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time,      
I think that it was. For example,  I havent seen supporting  evidence  that he was 
affected by any of the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover  and he seems to have 
had a need for the cover.   
Its possible the information Glasgow Credit Union Ltd gave Mr H about  the PPI 
wasnt as clear  as it shouldve been.  But he chose to take it out - so it looks like he 
wanted this type of cover.  And it seems like it would have  been  useful for him if 
something went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better 
information about the PPI would have put him off taking  out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mr H has said - including  what hes said about:
Thinking the PPI would cover redundancy. But as Ive already said,  it seems  that 
Glasgow Credit Union Ltd did recommend unemployment as well as accident and 
sickness insurance but Mr H chose not to take it out. So I cant  fairly uphold this 
complaint for this reason.
Ive also noted  that Mr H has made reference to trying to make a claim on the policy  
in his PPI questionnaire and the reason why it was declined. My decision doesnt 
deal with any attempted claim,  just the sale of the policy.  But Mr H has the option of 
speaking to Glasgow  Credit Union Ltd about it if the declined  claim is something that 
hes unhappy about. 
So these points dont  change my decision.
Ref: DRN50939583I asked Mr Hs representative  for some more  information about  Mr Hs circumstances around 
the time of the sale, but havent yet received it back.  Mr Hs representative now have another 
opportunity to provide the information I requested.
Ive also thought about the commission Mr H paid on his policy  and whether              
Glasgow Credit Union Ltd treated him unfairly. 
Glasgow Credit Union Ltd has told us that the commission for Mr Hs policy was less than 
half of what he paid for each premium.  Weve looked at how Glasgow Credit Union Ltd has 
been working this out and based on what weve seen it looks  like its right  Mr Hs 
commission was less than half the cost of the policy. 
As thats  the case, I dont  think it needed  to tell him about the commission   so I dont think 
Glasgow Credit Union Ltd treated him unfairly. This means it doesnt need to pay Mr H back 
any of the commission  he paid for the PPI. 
my provisional decision
I currently dont intend to uphold this complaint.
If Mr H or Glasgow  Credit Union Ltd have anything further to add, they can do so by 
16 February 2019 and Ill then reconsider the complaint. 
Daniel OShea
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5093958