K820x#14complaint
Ms S complains  that during the transfer of some personal pension plans to her existing plan 
with Scottish Equitable  Plc T/A Aegon, it gave  incorrect  information. She says that the 
subsequent delays to the transfer, caused by Aegons poor level of service,  meant  she 
suffered a financial loss and also caused  her considerable distress and inconvenience.
background
Ms S held pension plans  with a number of providers which she wanted to consolidate into 
her existing Aegon plan. She then wanted  to draw  the tax free cash  and transfer the 
remaining fund into a flexi access drawdown plan.
The request  to transfer three plans was first made in September  2017. Aegon  used an on-
line transfer proposition  as did two of the other  providers, but the third used a paper 
process. Two of the transfers  completed on 25 and 26 September  but the other one 
continued to progress until late October 2017, when Ms S contacted Aegon and suggested 
that plan might be transferred to another company. It was agreed that Ms S would restart the 
transfer process when  she was aware of the new provider. But no further  information  was 
provided to Aegon and on 6 December  2017 Ms S contacted it to chase up the transfer as 
shed completed  the forms required by the ceding  firm. 
Initially Aegon confirmed it had received those  forms and asked  Ms S to rekey her details to 
continue with the transfer. But two days later Aegon said it hadnt received the forms and 
would require the ceding provider to resend them. So Ms S complained about the poor 
service she said shed  experienced  from Aegon. She said she thought shed done all that 
was required from her and was unsure why the transfer wasnt progressing.  She thought  the 
delay in the transfer meant the pension fund value had fallen and caused her to suffer a 
financial loss. 
Aegon then completed the relevant forms and sent them to the provider. It eventually 
received the funds on 29 December 2017. Payment was made into Ms Ss Aegon  plan by 
16 January 2018  and the tax free cash payment was made the following day.
Aegon also responded to Ms Ss complaint. It said it hadnt caused any delay to the transfer 
 or sent the tax free cash to the wrong  account   as had been suggested. But it did accept 
its level of service wasnt up to the required standard and that it had provided  conflicting 
information. It paid Ms S£200 as compensation.
But Ms S remained unhappy  with Aegons resolution and brought her complaint to us, where  
one of our investigators  looked into the matter.  She recommended the complaint wasnt  
upheld. She said that she didnt  think Aegons  actions caused  a delay in the transfer or that it 
had caused Ms S a financial loss. 
But she did think that Aegon  provided  Ms S with some inaccurate information  which  may 
have raised her expectations  of when then transfer  would complete  and at what  stage it had 
reached. She thought  the offer of £200  compensation  for any impact  caused by the mis-
information was a fair and reasonable offer in the circumstances.
Ms S didnt agree. She said Aegons  service  hadnt been transparent and shed been  given  
conflicting information  often during the same phone calls,  and shed been ask to speak to a 
number of different  people. She said she didnt understand  what was happening  with the 
Ref: DRN54901342transfer and felt this mis-information  contributed to the overall delay  and had caused her 
considerable distress  and inconvenience. 
She wanted her complaint to be referred to an ombudsman so its been passed to me for a 
review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And having  done so I find I agree with the 
investigators assessment  and for largely the same  reasons. I know  this isnt the outcome 
that Ms S would  have wanted, and I have some sympathy for the position  she found  herself 
in trying to confirm the position  on a number of occasions, of her pension transfer. But I 
think Aegon has done enough here with its payment of compensation  so Ill explain my 
reasoning.
Ms S has made us aware about a further  issue with Aegon regarding payments from her 
plan in September 2019. I can see that another complaint has been raised about this matter  
which will now be investigated separately. And Ms S has been advised to contact the other 
business involved directly  if she wishes to raise a complaint against it. If Ms S remains 
unhappy with its response she can bring that complaint to us at that point.
So to be clear here, what Im considering are the problems that Ms S said occurred  during  
the transfer of her pension plans  to an Aegon plan  in late 2017.
Overall delays to the transfer
Following Ms Ss transfer request, Aegon received funds from two of the providers  involved 
within two weeks. But because the third provider operated a paper based  application  its 
process took longer and still hadnt  been completed by mid-October  2017.  On 
24 October 2017 Ms S confirmed that plan might be transferred to a different provider and so 
the transfer was cancelled.  Ms S was asked to inform Aegon  when she became aware of the 
new provider.  
Ms S contacted Aegon on 6 December 2017, so I dont think Aegon was on notice to 
progress the final (much larger) part of the transfer  until that point.  As Ms S had suggested 
her plan might be taken over by a new provider Aegon wouldnt have known who to 
approach regarding the transfer during that time. So I dont think it would be fair to apportion 
any blame regarding  delays to Aegon before 6 December 2017. It wouldnt be fair to say that 
Aegon had done anything wrong  if it was unaware  that the transfer was still progressing up 
to that point as it had clearly told Ms S that it was awaiting her further  instruction. 
Ive seen a copy  of the quotation that Aegon received from the ceding pension  provider on 
6 December  this was a duplicate request as that provider said it sent the details in a letter  
on 22 November 2017, but Aegon says it has no record  of receiving the letter. 
I havent seen  any evidence to confirm that Aegon added the details of the letter to its 
records of this transfer, so I cant safely conclude that it had previously received it.
Aegon requested payment of the funds on 11 December which it then received  on 
Ref: DRN5490134329 December 2017. The funds were paid into Ms Ss Aegon plan on 16 January 2018   with 
tax free cash paid the next day. The plan was then transferred to a flexi access  drawdown 
plan. So, looking at the time taken  to transfer  the funds to Ms Ss plan  and then into a 
drawdown plan  I dont believe it was unreasonable and I dont think  Aegon caused any 
delay there.  
Aegon has said it expects  to such transfers, including  the payment of tax free cash and 
transferring to a drawdown plan in around  four to six weeks.  And I note the transfer 
completed within that timescale. So I think Aegon completed the process,  from when it 
received the funds from the ceding  business, in a timely manner. I dont think  it caused a 
delay and I think it acted  within  the timescales it said it would. 
Information provided by Aegon  in September and December 2017
Shortly after Ms S submitted a transfer request  Aegon confirmed that one of the ceding  
providers didnt use an on-line process  and would  require a paper  application  to be made. 
Aegon provided a link for one of the forms and directed Ms S to the other business for a 
discharge form. So it was clear that part of the transfer would  take longer than the on-line 
process used by the other two firms  which completed by 25 and 26 September 2017.
So, in the first instance, I think Aegon raised  Ms Ss expectations somewhat when it 
confirmed, during a phone conversation on 20 September 2017, that the transfer  would take 
about two or three weeks depending on the ceding companies. I accept that it did explain 
that the timespan wasnt guaranteed but I think  knowing a paper  application  was involved, 
that it might have led Ms S to believe the transfer  could proceed quicker than was most  
likely.
Looking at the calls in December 2017 I think Aegon made a number of errors.  On 
6 December 2017 it confirmed it had the paperwork from the ceding provider, although this 
wasnt the case and that information  had to be corrected later on. Ms S had to make a 
number of additional calls to Aegon to establish  this position. Its clear  she was made to feel 
confused and wasnt sure what was happening.  This wasnt helped  when Aegon asked Ms S 
to approach the other business  for some  information  which Aegon had already been  
provided with. In addition, Ive seen how Aegon didnt call Ms S back on a number of 
occasions when  it said it would, or was late in doing  so. 
So I think there were a number of times  when Aegon didnt provide the level of service Ms S 
was entitled to expect and she was given conflicting information. And I can see why Ms S 
would have been confused at that point  when she was told Aegon had the necessary 
paperwork to complete the transfer. Although that position was clarified within  a couple of 
days I still think Ms S would have been concerned about what she was told and would have 
been expecting  the transfer to complete quicker.  So I think  events throughout 
December 2017  would  have raised  Ms Ss expectations regarding  the transfer  and caused 
her some degree of distress and inconvenience.
Ms S contacted Aegon in December 2017  asking it to fully investigate  the transfer process. 
She says Aegon only answered  half of her query about the tax free cash. And Aegon has 
also accepted  that it didnt  deal with Ms Ss query as a complaint  and didnt investigate  it 
fully. I think this would have caused  further inconvenience and would have had an impact  on 
Ms S as she was still waiting for the transfer to complete. I consider this would have  added  
to her frustration.
Ref: DRN54901344However, Aegon has acknowledged all of these errors and apologised to Ms S about the 
service it provided overall. Its paid her £200 for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Ive carefully considered  the errors Aegon made   and the impact they would have had on 
Ms S. And overall I think the sum offered (and paid to Ms S) is within  the range of what Id 
expect to see for errors such as this. So Im not going to ask Aegon  to do any more.
my final decision
For the reasons  that Ive given I dont  uphold Ms Ss complaint, in so much as I think  the 
payment Scottish  Equitable Plc T/A Aegon has made is fair and reasonable in the overall 
circumstances. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 May 2020.
Keith Lawrence
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5490134