K822xcomplaint
Ms H complains that Fairmead Insurance Limited  (Fairmead) hasnt dealt  with a number of 
items on her contents insurance claim.
background 
I issued my provisional findings on this complaint in early April. In summary I said:
Ms H suffered an escape  of water at her property in 2017.  She made a claim for 
damaged contents to Fairmead.
Ms H wasnt happy with the way Fairmead handled the claim,  and brought a 
complaint to us in 2018. We issued a final decision  on those points.
There are several new points that Ms H has also complained about, and these are 
considered here. The points  are: 
oBottles of wine and champagne  these  developed mould on the outside. 
Fairmead agreed to replace the bottles after Ms H complained.
oAntique globe, made into a drinks  cabinet  Ms H and Fairmead cant agree 
on the replacement  value for this. Ms H provided a valuation in March  2020 
at our request,  but Fairmead doesnt  accept it, so wont increase its offer  
although it will send an expert valuer  to look at the cabinet  if Ms H allows 
that. Ms H was unwilling to do this, so I suggested  Fairmead provide a list of 
acceptable valuers and for Ms H to choose which  one does a new valuation.  
Both parties would  need to agree to accept  this valuation, and payment could 
then be made.
oSofa  this was covered in plastic and has developed stains. Fairmead had 
reluctantly said it would clean the sofa, although  it didnt think it was 
responsible for the damage. I said it was difficult to know  whether Fairmead 
or the insurer dealing with the buildings part of Ms Hs claim had caused the 
damage. I thought Fairmead should deal with the sofa as an insurer  normally  
would  it could  first attempt to clean it, but if this was unsuccessful then it 
should replace  it. It would be for Fairmead  to contact the other  insurer if it 
thought costs should be shared.
oCarpets and orchids  Ms H moved her plants into another room  and placed 
them on the carpet. The plants died some  time later and Ms H says the 
carpet was stained by sap. Ms H thinks  Fairmead  should treat this as part of 
her original  claim. Fairmead says it was Ms Hs decision to leave the plants 
where she did, so although it will consider  a claim for the damage to the 
carpet, it will only do that as a new claim. I thought  that was reasonable.
oCompensation  Fairmead thought it should only pay £100 additional 
compensation for the way it had handled the claim, not the £250  
recommended by our investigator. I thought  the additional delays merited 
£250.
Ref: DRN54371992my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Fairmead says it will abide by my provisional  decision. Ms H has made several points.  
Antique globe cabinet
Ms H says its not true that no-one  from Fairmead has seen the cabinet.  She says she was 
told by one contractor  that it was too specialist for them to value. I dont doubt that. But I said 
it hadnt been seen by an expert in this type of object  not that it hadnt been inspected at 
all. Im sorry  if I didnt make that clear. Ms H also said Fairmead could have sent an expert 
valuer out a long time ago, if it had wanted to. I agree that it could have done this, but Ive 
seen in our files correspondence  that says Ms H was going to provide a valuation in May 
2019. I asked  for Ms H to send us a valuation  the one she was to send some months 
earlier  in an effort to conclude this part of the claim. We received it in early 2020  so I 
cant say the delay was all down to Fairmead.
Fairmead wouldnt accept  the valuation Ms H provided in 2020, largely because  the valuer 
didnt actually inspect  the cabinet  and it couldnt find out much about  his level of expertise. 
Ms H says the valuer she used did visit and examine the cabinet.  Unfortunately the valuer 
says he didnt, he only saw photos.  Im afraid  I cant resolve that issue for Ms H by insisting 
Fairmead accept the valuation: it wouldnt  be fair for me to do that with two such opposing  
statements. 
I suggested, as a way forwards,  that Fairmead identify some valuers that are specialists in 
this type of object,  and Ms H choose  which one should look at the cabinet. I thought  both 
parties should agree to accept the valuation so this part of the claim could be settled. Ms H 
says she wont accept  a valuation provided  by someone nominated  by Fairmead. Thats  Ms 
Hs choice, of course, and I do understand the strength of her feelings on this. But if Ms H 
doesnt want to do this, then the only other  option is for her to provide a valuation  that 
Fairmead can accept. 
I can only now suggest Fairmead tells Ms H (in writing) what  it will need  to see in an 
acceptable valuation  before she instructs anyone, so she can find a valuer herself. Id expect 
Fairmead to pay the reasonable  cost of any valuation it accepts (as it would have done if it 
was nominating the valuer). Of course Ms H can still pick a valuer nominated  by Fairmead  if 
she wants.
Orchids and carpet
Fairmead says there was no mention  of the orchids  in Ms Hs original claim. It says if theyd 
been damaged  by the escape of water theyd have  been disposed of immediately  not 
moved to another room. It says it wont consider  these now. I dont think  thats  an 
unreasonable response, given Ms H told us they died some  time after the initial water  leak.  
Ms H has again said she doesnt want Fairmead to treat the damaged  carpet as a separate 
claim. I understand  why she says that, but I havent seen any new evidence that makes  it fair 
for me to ask Fairmead to include it in the original  claim. 
Ref: DRN54371993Compensation
Ms H has told me some more about how upsetting shes  found the whole claim experience  
with Fairmead, and that she thinks the problems will continue. Im very sorry about this. 
However I cant instruct Fairmead to do more  than treat her fairly  with regards to the rest of 
her claim  in other words I cant assume  there will be more  problems going forwards.  Im 
satisfied the additional compensation (£250) remains fair.  
Ms H says Fairmead will have to wait until it suits her to have her sofa cleaned. Im sure 
Fairmead will do that, so long as its within a reasonable time  say three months from this 
decision. Otherwise Ms Hs claim will remain outstanding, and that will inconvenience both 
parties. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint, and I order Fairmead Insurance  Limited to do the 
things its already offered to do  which includes helping Ms H reach a resolution with 
regards to the drinks  cabinet. It should also:
Meet Ms Hs claim for the damaged  sofa.  
Pay Ms H £250  for the trouble and upset caused  by its delays in dealing  with her 
claim.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 June 2020.
Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5437199