K820x#14complaint
Miss E says Bank of Scotland Plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold her a payment protection  
insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
Miss E took out a PPI policy  with a mortgage  in 1996. She paid a monthly amount for the 
policy. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Miss E disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion,  
so the complaint has been passed to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Es case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Miss Es complaint, and Ill explain why.
After such a long time,  I dont have much information about how Miss E came  to buy the 
PPI. Ive not been given any notes of the meeting in which the PPI was sold. So I dont  know  
what was said. And Halifax hasnt been able to provide copies of the actual paperwork that it 
thinks Miss E wouldve seen or signed at the time of sale. But thats  not surprising as the 
sale took place  over 22 years ago. So Ive had to decide what I thinks most likely to have 
happened.
Ive thought carefully about what Miss E has said including that she felt the Halifax  
representative strongly advised her to take the policy. Halifax  has said the optional nature of 
the policy wouldve  been explained.  Ive not seen anything that clearly shows  Halifax didnt 
make Miss E aware the PPI was optional and the representative may have  said Miss E 
should take the PPI but thats different to saying she must  take it. So I cant fairly  uphold the 
complaint on this point.
Halifax recommended  the policy to Miss E and from what I have read and been told thats 
probably right. This meant Halifax had to take reasonable steps to make  sure the policy  was 
suitable for her. And it seems to have been  right for her, based on what  Ive seen of her 
circumstances at the time. I say this because:
Miss E was eligible for the cover. And I dont think she wouldve  been affected by any 
of the main things  the policy didnt cover, for example any unusual employment  terms 
or pre-existing medical conditions. 
Miss E has said she wouldve got three to six months sick pay from her employer if 
she was off work unwell  and she said she some  saving she could  have relied on. Ive 
thought carefully  about that and the policy wouldve covered  Miss E for up to 12 
months if she was unable to work through accident  or sickness or if she lost her job. 
This wouldve  been in addition to any sick pay she mightve got. It would also have 
Ref: DRN53737412meant she could have kept her savings for other  important living  expenses. So she 
couldve found the policy useful.
I havent seen  anything to make  me think the cover was unaffordable  for Miss E  or 
that she had a particular need  to keep the costs down. And as she was paying for the 
PPI monthly, she could cancel it without  further cost if her situation changed or she 
no longer wanted it. 
So having  thought about everything carefully,  I think that the policy  was suitable  for Miss E.
As well as checking the policy  was right for Miss E, Halifax  also had to give her clear  enough  
information about the policy so she could decide if she wanted  to buy it. Its possible  the 
information Halifax gave  Miss E about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve been. But as 
Ive explained  I think Miss E chose the cover  and for the reasons I mentioned above about  
why I think the policy  is suitable, I dont think better information wouldve stopped  her from 
buying it.
I know Miss E feels strongly,  and has put time and effort  into her complaint. I realise shell be 
disappointed by the outcome. And its difficult to decide a complaint when I know  so little 
about the sale. But on balance, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont think  shes lost out 
because of anything  Halifax  mayve done  wrong. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Miss Es complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 March 2019.
Jag Dhuphar
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5373741