K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a regular premium  payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken 
out in 1988. Mr and Mrs E say Bank  of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax mis-sold them the 
PPI. 
background
Mr and Mrs E say this PPI was mis-sold to them when they took out a loan for £15,000 in a 
branch of Halifax. They paid a monthly  about  for the PPI.
The PPI was designed to cover Mr E for up to 24 months per claim if he had to stop work 
unexpectedly due to accident,  sickness or if he lost his job.
Our adjudicator didnt  think we should uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs E disagreed with 
the adjudicators  opinion,  so the complaint has been  passed to me to make a final decision 
on the matter.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Es case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why below.
Mr and Mrs E say PPI wasnt discussed with them  at all and the cover was added without 
their knowledge  or consent. Halifax say it would have made it clear to Mr and Mrs E that 
there was a choice  in buying PPI  and it would have got their consent  before adding the 
policy. Where  theres a dispute about  what happened,  I have to base my decision on what  I 
think is most likely  to have happened   taking  into account all the evidence  thats  available.
Ive seen a copy  of the agreement for the loan. On it says Payment Protection Insurance  
with two boxes  next to the statement  one for Yes and one for No. I can see a cross  has 
been printed in the Yes box. I think the No box was equally noticeable.  And so I think 
there was a choice  in buying PPI.
Ive thought about Mr and Mrs Es comments in that the cross in the Yes box was pre-
printed. But I dont necessarily think this means that the cover  was added  without  them 
knowing about it. All other information  was printed on the loan agreement  for example, Mr 
and Mrs Es personal information and details of the loan. So I think  it more likely  that the PPI 
was added after a conversation was had about the cover in which Mr and Mrs E were 
offered a choice  and which they subsequently chose to take.
Halifax says it would  have  recommended  the PPI to Mr and Mrs E. So it had to check it was 
suitable for their needs  and especially Mr E as he was the person covered by the policy. 
Based on what Mr and Mrs E have told us about  their circumstances, I think  the cover was 
suitable for them.
Ref: DRN58474272Mr E was eligible for the PPI  and I dont think hed have been affected by any of the main  
things that might have  made it difficult for him to make a successful claim  for example, pre-
existing medical conditions. 
Mr E says he didnt need the cover because he would have got sick pay from his employer if 
he was unwell. But this PPI policy would have paid out for up to 24 months  if Mr E was too ill 
to work. It would have  paid out in addition  to any sick pay he might have got, and I think it 
would have lasted  for longer than his sick pay would have. So I still think  he could have 
found the policy potentially useful.
Mr and Mrs E say that Mr Es father  could have  helped with repayments  to the loan if Mr E 
had to stop work unexpectedly. But the help of others cant be guaranteed, and Mr Es father  
may not have been in a position to help them when needed. And this PPI policy would  have 
them reduce  their reliance  on such help.
The cost of the PPI was on the loan agreement, so I think Mr and Mrs E would have  known 
how much  theyd need to pay for the cover. I havent  seen  anything  to make  me think the 
cover was unaffordable to them  or they had a particular need  to keep costs down.
As well as making sure the policy was suitable  for them,  Halifax  also had to give 
Mr and Mrs E enough information  about  the PPI so they could decide for themselves if they 
wanted to buy it. Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr and Mrs E wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But given what Ive said about  the policy being suitable for them  I dont 
think better information would have put them off buying the cover.
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs E have  said - including  what theyve said about  the 
PPI could only be cancelled by loan redemption. But these points dont change my decision. 
The PPI was a monthly  payment and could  have been cancelled  at any time should 
Mr and Mrs E no longer want the cover  or their circumstances changed.
Mr and Mrs E have  said the PPI insurance was of no effect for the first 6 months of sickness  
or unemployment. Looking at the policy documents, Mr E would need to wait around 90 days  
before he could claim on this policy. But Mr and Mrs E have also said that Mr E would have 
got sick pay that would have covered him for this period of time. So I still think this policy  
could have been useful.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Es complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs E to 
accept or reject my decision  before  2 May 2019.
Sophie Wilkinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5847427