K821x#15complaint
Mr B has complained that Admiral Insurance Company Limited  unreasonably increased  his 
premium on his motor insurance following an incident.
Mr B is represented by his mother Mrs B, who is also a named driver on his policy.
background
Mr B insured  two cars on his policy with Admiral, one with a telematics box. His policy  was 
renewed on 13 April 2018.  On 5 May 2018, Mr B was driving when a deer jumped out in 
front of causing  him to break heavily. This came up on his telematics box and he reported 
the incident to Admiral.  There was some minor damage to the front of his car given he 
clipped the deer and he had no intention  of making any claim for it.
During the call to Admiral,  the adviser asked  Mr B whether there  was any other pre-existing 
damage, he confirmed  there was due some  incident  in a car park the previous  year. It was 
minor damage and so he never made a claim for it. He also said he had undertaken a driving 
awareness course due to speeding and that he was now employed instead  of being a 
student.
Admiral was of the view that Mr B should have  reported the incident in the car park within  48 
hours of it occurring. Consequently since Admiral views such  incidences as increasing  the 
risk, it re-rated the risk and asked Mr B to pay a further premium on this car of £782.97 and a 
further premium of £525.76 on his other  car making  a total of £1,308.73.
Mr B complained to Admiral through his mother Mrs B about  this increase in premium  but 
Admiral wouldnt change  its stance.  So he brought his complaint to us. 
The adjudicator upheld it. She thought the car parking incident shouldnt  be recorded as an 
incident and that in any event, Admiral hadnt  followed  the provisions of the Consumer 
Insurance (Disclosure and Representations Act 2012 (CIDRA). 
She also thought  Admiral  should pay Mr B £100 compensation. Admiral didnt agree so 
Mr Bs complaint was passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision on 6 December 2019.  I said the following:
The law expects  policyholders and those applying  for, or renewing their insurance 
policies to answer all questions honestly and carefully and to ensure policy  conditions  
as to disclosure about incidences  are followed and that all the facts  relating to the 
policy are true. Admirals  policy does  require disclosure of any incidence as soon  as 
possible after it occurs.  
Its also its standard practice  to ask questions about previous damage when reporting  
any incident. I dont  think theres anything wrong with this or that its very unusual. 
Therefore, I think, unlike the adjudicator, that the damage to Mr Bs car in the carpark  
in June 2017 should have  been reported to Admiral by Mr B at the time and in line 
with the policy conditions, regardless of whether he wanted to make a claim or not.
Admiral has shown us that its underwriting guide  demands that all instances, which  
could possibly give rise to a claim,  increases the risk. This means in practical terms 
that it invariably increases  the premium amount it would charge on renewal. 
Ref: DRN57646932Therefore had Mr B disclosed the damage caused to his car in June 2017 in a car 
park, it would have  changed his risk profile for Admiral  and it would have charged 
him a higher  premium when he renewed  his policy in April 2018. Its underwriting  
guide also shows the premium it would have  charged increases, the longer the delay 
in Mr B reporting any such instance.
However, when a policyholder like Mr B here,  hasnt adhered to all the policy 
conditions, the remedies available to Admiral  are provided by CIDRA. The 
adjudicator laid out the provisions of CIDRA in her view so I wont repeat it all here. 
But effectively when  the premium offered by Admiral  on the renewal of Mr Bs policy 
in April 2018 was actually too low, as is the case, Admiral is limited  to the remedies 
provided by CIDRA.  These are as follows:
If its the case it wouldnt  have  offered any cover,  it can cancel the policy as if 
never existed and return all the premium  paid;
If its the case it would have provided cover on different terms (excluding any 
increase in premium)  it can apply those terms;
If the policyholder  had made  a claim and the insurer  can show  it would have 
charged a higher  premium, it can reduce its payment of that claim 
proportionately.
If there  isnt a claim,  the insurer can either terminate the policy  with adequate 
notice and return any unused premium amounts, or continue with the policy 
but pay any future claim in that policy year only proportionately.
There is no provision under CIDRA for Admiral  simply  to require Mr B to pay the 
increased premium as Admiral did here. This service also takes  the view that Admiral 
should have discussed all the options  with Mr B at the time, also allowing him to 
cancel his policy without  any sanctions  if he wished and find cover  elsewhere. 
So without applying  the remedies available to it under  CIDRA,  and without explaining 
to Mr B what all his options were, I dont  consider  Admirals demand for payment of 
the increased premium  on both his cars was reasonable.  Therefore, I consider it 
should repay that increased premium if Mr B has paid it, adding  interest.
Its clear to me that Mr B also didnt disclose  that he had to attend a driver aware 
course due to speeding or that his occupation had changed from being  a student to 
being employed when his policy renewed  in April 2018. I do consider this was 
careless non-disclosure but Admiral  told us it didnt take any of this into account 
when re-calculating  his premium. Therefore, I dont think any compensation is 
warranted in this Mr Bs case.
Neither Mr B nor Admiral  provided any further  comments on my provisional  decision.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so and in the absence of any further  comments from either party,  I see no 
reason to depart from the reasoning and outcome  outlined in my provisional  decision.
Therefore, I consider  this complaint should be upheld on the same terms.
Ref: DRN57646933my final decision
So for these reason, its my final decision that I uphold this complaint.
I now require Admiral  Insurance Company  Limited to do the following:
If Mr B has paid the increased premium it should return  the amount he paid adding  
interest of 8%  simple  per year from the date he paid to it to the date it refunds it.*
If Mr B hasnt  paid the increased  premium, it should now desist  from requiring him to 
do so.
*If Admiral Insurance Company Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to withhold income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr B how much  its taken  off. 
It should also give him a tax deduction certificate  if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the 
tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 February  2020.
Rona Doyle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5764693