K822xcomplaint
Miss T complains that BMW Financial  Services (GB) Limited (trading as MINI Financial 
Services) is pursuing her for money already paid.
background 
In August  2016  Miss T bought a car financed with a Hire Purchase agreement from MINI 
Financial Services. Following an accident on 1 October 2018, her insurer confirmed it had 
paid the settlement amount to MINI Financial Services on 14 November 2018.  Two months  
later, Miss T says MINI Financial Services was still pursuing her for the debt and threatening 
legal action. She says shes  now asked it not to contact her as its affecting  her health.
MINI Financial Services says the payment wasnt allocated to Miss Ts account  because her 
insurance company  did not include a reference  number. It says the payment has now been  
traced, but is short of the settlement balance by £547.76. It has offered to set up a payment 
arrangement for the outstanding amount.
Our investigator recommended the complaint  should be upheld in part. She found that MINI  
Financial Services was right to say Miss T still owed £547.76, but considered  its customer  
service could have  been  better when trying to locate the initial payment. Our investigator 
said MINI  Financial Services  should pay Miss T £200 for the upset this caused to her.
MINI Financial Services accepted the investigators opinion.
Miss T responded to say, in summary, that she had no input  into the payment of the 
settlement so should not be penalised for the wrong  amount  being  paid. She feels shes  also 
being penalised again after months  of harassment and that the money  is owed by her 
insurance company,  not her. Miss T adds that she has various disabilities and a more 
appropriate compensation figure for the distress  this has caused her is £1,000.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
MINI Financial Services sent Miss T a settlement figure of £13,262.31  on 7 November 2018.  
This figure was valid until 4 December 2018. Miss T contacted her insurance  company and it 
made a payment on 14 November 2018.
However, MINI Financial Services continued  to pursue Miss T for the payment as it said it 
hadnt received  it. Miss T told MINI Financial  Services  that the payment had cleared on 19 
November 2018  and sent confirmation from her insurance company. But, by January 2019, 
MINI Financial Services had still not found the payment and sent Miss T a default  notice. 
Eventually the payment was found  and allocated at the beginning of February 2019 and it 
materialised that Miss Ts insurance  company hadnt included a reference number. Miss T 
then asked MINI Financial Services not to contact her again  because it was affecting  her 
health. Unfortunately the payment was £547.76 short  of the settlement  figure  so MINI  
Financial Services continued to pursue her for the payment until this service requested it 
ceased contact  whilst  the complaint was reviewed.
Ref: DRN55343232I have looked  at the statement of the account  and the letter that includes the settlement 
figure and Im satisfied  that Miss Ts insurance company was £547.76 short of the required 
settlement figure. I accept  that Miss T had no input into the process,  but as MINI Financial 
Services relationship  is with her, and not her insurance company, I cant  conclude its wrong 
to say she owes the outstanding amount. I cannot speculate about  the reason for the 
shortfall, but if Miss T gives her insurance company and MINI Financial Services  authority to 
speak to each  other,  then hopefully the resolution will be identified.
That said,  I do not consider MINI  Financial Services did as much  as it could have done when 
Miss T contacted it about the missing payment. I say that because:
I have seen the contact notes provided  by MINI  Financial  Services  and it 
acknowledges that Miss Ts insurance  company is known  for not using reference  
numbers in its payments;
I consider it was unfair to issue a default  notice when it did as it knew  that Miss T was 
saying her insurance company had paid;
It continued to contact Miss T a number of times  after it had been specifically asked 
not to;
I acknowledge Miss T says she considers compensation of £1,000  is appropriate 
compensation for these issues and Ive seen  evidence of her disabilities. Much as I dont  
underestimate the effect that this has had on her health, I cant conclude  that such  high 
compensation is proportionate to the customer  service failings listed  above. I find £200  to be 
a fair and reasonable amount.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part. BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited 
(trading as MINI Financial Services) should  pay Miss T £200 to compensate her for the poor 
customer service  it provided.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 May 2020.
Amanda Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5534323