K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that Pepper (UK) Limited has kept the interest rate on his buy to let 
mortgage unfairly high  and that it has risen  when the Bank of England base rate has risen 
but hasnt fallen when base rate has dropped.
background
Mr C took out a buy to let mortgage over ten years ago. The loan has since been sold on to 
other lenders several times. Since  2016  its been owned by Pepper.
Mr C complains that the interest  rate hes been charged is too high. It was supposed to be a 
variable rate, but it hasnt changed other than to increase in line with base rate  there 
havent been any corresponding falls. Pepper  says the terms and conditions allow it to vary 
the rate, but Mr C doesnt think the relevant terms are clear or allow Pepper to do what  its 
done. He says hes been over-charged  for many years,  which has affected  his health.
Pepper said it wasnt responsible for what had happened, or the rate Mr C was charged,  
when the loan was owned by previous lenders. It said that since it had owned  the loan it had 
operated it in line with the original lenders terms and conditions.  The terms allowed it to vary 
the interest rate for several reasons, one of which was to reflect changes in base rate, and 
thats what it had done.
Our investigator didnt  recommend upholding the complaint, so Mr Cs asked for an 
ombudsman to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I dont doubt Mr Cs strength of feeling, or 
the importance he attaches to this matter, and Id like to reassure him that Ive carefully 
considered everything  hes said.
Ill start by making clear that Im only looking at whats happened since  Pepper  took the loan 
over in 2016. Its not responsible for how the previous lenders treated Mr C  and hell need  
to complain separately about  that if hes not happy.
Its common for a mortgage  to be offered  with an initial interest  rate  usually a fixed or 
tracker rate  and then for it to revert to a standard variable rate (SVR) at the end of the 
initial period.  Many  borrowers  will then move  to another interest rate, either  with their existing 
lender or by moving  to a new lender.
But theres no obligation on lenders to make a new rate available.  By the time Pepper took 
over the mortgage,  it was already on the SVR. Pepper doesnt offer new interest rates  to its 
customers  so its not treating Mr C any differently  to any other borrower.
Pepper has made some changes. When base rate reduced by 0.25% in 2016,  Pepper 
reduced the SVR by the same amount. And when base rate rose in 2017 and again in 2018,  
Pepper raised the SVR by equivalent amounts.
The mortgage terms and conditions allow Pepper to change the interest rate. The term is 
fairly widely drawn, and gives Pepper fairly  wide discretion. One of the reasons for making a 
Ref: DRN50489722change to the SVR is to reflect changes  in other  rates, including  the Bank of England base 
rate. So the changes it made in 2016,  2017 and 2018 were allowed by the terms and 
conditions. Nothing  in the terms and conditions say the mortgage will track base rate by any 
particular margin, or that changes  to base rate must be reflected in changes to the SVR  
but its one of the factors Pepper can take into account.
The terms and conditions  define the SVR as our standard variable rate of interest which  can 
be changed by us at any time before and after completion under condition 3 of section 3. If 
we enter  into a transfer, the standard variable  rate will be set by or on behalf of the 
transferee.
I think this confirms that the SVR is set by the lender  now Pepper, the latest  transferee   
and can be varied  in line with the reasons allowed  in section 3 of the terms.  Mr C puts great 
store on the inclusion  of the word our, but I think all that shows is that the current  lender 
(now Pepper) has the power to set a rate independently of any external benchmark.
Theres nothing in the mortgage  terms and conditions  that stops Mr C moving  his mortgage 
elsewhere if hes unhappy with the interest  rate. While Peppers SVR is broadly in line with 
the SVR rates of other lenders, other lenders offer interest rate products too, which Pepper 
doesnt. So Mr C might be able to get a better  rate if he moves  his mortgage.
Ive also borne in mind  that this is a buy to let mortgage  and one of several that Mr C has 
over a portfolio  of properties. This isnt his home, its an investment hes looking to profit  from 
 and theres no obligation  on him to continue with the investment if hes not happy with the 
returns hes getting from it.
Taking everything into account,  I dont think Mr C has been treated  unfairly.  And so I dont 
uphold his complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 January 2020.
Simon Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5048972