K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains that Tesco Personal Finance  PLC (Tesco Bank)  unfairly  applied  a handling 
fee to his transaction.
background
On 25 July 2018, Mr P used his Tesco Bank  credit  card to make a balloon payment on an 
agreement for a car. On 26 July 2018,  Tesco Bank  charged him a cash  transaction fee of 
just under £300. 
Mr P says he wasnt aware that a fee would be applied.  He contacted Tesco  Bank and was 
told a new fee had been introduced which was applicable if the credit  card is used to pay off 
a loan. He was also told interest  would be applied. He says that that he made the payment 
using his credit card because he believed it would  give him protection under the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974 and that had he known  about the fee he would have made  the payment 
through another route.  Mr P says he had other  money available  and he paid off the full credit 
card balance including the transaction fee. 
Tesco Bank says that Mr P was sent a notice of variation in April 2018  telling him about 
changes to his account. It says this set out that certain transactions  would be treated  as 
cash transactions and would  incur  a handling  fee and accrue interest  in line with other  cash 
transactions. It says the payment Mr P made was classified as a cash transaction and so the 
fee was applied. 
Our investigator didnt  uphold this complaint.
Mr P didnt accept our investigators view. He reiterated that he wasnt aware of the charge 
for cash transactions and didnt think the evidence provided showed he had been  told about  
this. He also said that it wasnt fair to be charged  almost £300 for having borrowed around  
£7,000 for such a short time.
Mr P said that he had received communication from Tesco Bank  about another  important 
change to its security arrangements. He said this information was sent by email and post 
whereas he said he wasnt informed of the changes to the charging structure.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconsistent or contradictory, I have  made  my decision based  on the balance of probabilities  
- that is what I consider  is most  likely to have  happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances.
In 2018, Tesco Bank  made changes to its charging  structure in regard to the types  of 
transaction it classified  as cash.  In its final response  letter it has set out that since 31 May 
2018, a number of transactions would  be classified as cash transactions,  including  repaying  
borrowing such as loans.  The applicable  charge  for cash transactions  is 3.99%.
As Mr P used  his credit card to repay a loan I accept that this falls within  the current  
definition of a cash transaction and so the charge was applied in line with the current  terms 
and conditions.
Ref: DRN52835212However, Mr Ps complaint is that he wasnt made aware of the change to the charging  
structure and that had he known his payment would result in a fee he would have used an 
alternative payment  method.
As Mr P repaid the amount on the credit card along with the fee when he became aware of it 
I accept that he did have other means of payment available to him at the time of the 
transaction.
Given the points  above I have considered whether Mr P was made reasonably  aware of the 
changes in regard  to the charging structure.
Tesco Bank says that Mr P was sent a notice of variation in April 2018.  It says this was sent 
as an attachment  either with a paper statement, or displayed  online  depending on Mr Ps 
communication preference. It has then sent a screenshot showing that Mr P doesnt receive 
paper statements but instead receives e-billing.  So, while I note Mr Ps comments  about 
receiving other information by both email and post I accept that in this case it would be 
reasonable for Mr P to be communicated  with online.
Tesco Bank has provided a copy of the emailed notice of variation that was sent to 
customers attached  to their statement. While I dont have a copy  of the email sent to Mr P I 
have nothing to suggest he wasnt receiving his statements and on balance I accept the 
notice was sent. 
The email  sets out that changes are being  made  to cash  withdrawals and transactions and 
notes that it is changing  the types of transactions that it classifies  as cash and sets out the 
applicable fees. It says that Mr Ps agreement has been updated  to make the distinction 
between cash withdrawals and cash transactions clearer and provides a link to the full 
details of the changes.  I have looked at this information and it shows the types of 
transactions that the 3.99% handling fee will be applied to, including  loan repayments.
While I appreciate Mr Ps comments about  not being  provided  with enough information about 
the new charging structure, Tesco  Bank can make changes as long as the required notice is 
given. In this case  the notice  was given before the change was made  and I find on balance  
that the information it provided was sufficient.
The amount  charged  is a transaction  based fee and is again set out in the information 
provided in the notice  of variation. So, while  I understand why Mr P is upset this charge was 
applied I do not find that I can say Tesco has done anything  wrong in this case.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 August 2019.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5283521