K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S are unhappy with a visit they received from a field agent in August 2018. They  
say the field agent was intimidating and unprofessional, which  led to them  asking him to 
leave. As a consequence, they say, they were  taken to court by Landmark  Mortgages 
Limited and so incurred legal  fees.  They say if the field agent had been professional then he 
would have left knowing Mr and Mrs S were in a position to start repaying  the arrears,  and 
so it wouldnt have  gone to court.
background 
Mr and Mrs S were  in arrears on their mortgage.  In December 2017 Landmark obtained a 
possession order on Mr and Mrs S property,  and an eviction date was booked  for 
February 2018. As the arrears were cleared before then the eviction was cancelled. 
Unfortunately the account went back into arrears and Landmark  had been trying to contact 
Mr and Mrs S about the arrears with no response. 
On 2 August  2018 Landmark  sent a letter to Mr and Mrs S saying that as they hadnt  replied 
to the previous letter or dealt with matters over the phone then a field agent would be 
instructed if there was no reply to the letter.
As Mr and Mrs S didnt respond  Landmark wrote  again on 20 August 2018 to say the field 
agent had been instructed.
The field agent  tried to call Mr and Mrs S on 22 August but there was no reply, so he went to 
the property on 28 August  and found Mr S in at that time.
Mr S says the field agent was intimidating  and unprofessional. He says the agent was in his 
face. The field agents company said he was stood close to Mr S so nobody  could overhear 
any of the personal  information being  discussed,  and apologised  if his presence caused 
Mr S to feel intimidated, saying that wasnt his intention. Mr S says he asked the field agent 
to leave and shut the door.  He also said he was worried it was a scam and wasnt  sure if he 
was a genuine representative.
As the field agent  visit was unsuccessful Landmark wrote to Mr and Mrs S saying matters 
would be going  to court.
A letter was issued by Landmarks  solicitor on 5 September which said Landmark was 
considering enforcing  the possession order, which would mean an eviction date would be 
scheduled. It said Landmark didnt want to evict them, but if Mr and Mrs S didnt phone  on 
the number given to make arrangements  to repay  the arrears then it would be left with no 
alternative than to proceed  to take possession.
The solicitor  sent a further letter  on 25 September in which it said it had now been instructed 
to enforce the possession order and that an eviction date would be scheduled. However it 
again said Landmark didnt want to take that action  and urged Mr and Mrs S to get in touch 
to discuss matters.
A warrant for eviction  was obtained for an eviction date of 11 October 2018. Mr and Mrs S 
then cleared the arrears on 1 October  2018 and the eviction was cancelled.
Ref: DRN52702162I understand since then the account  has gone back into arrears with further eviction  dates 
being obtained, which again were  cancelled when the arrears  were cleared in full. I wont be 
considering that here as it wasnt part of this complaint; I simply mention it for completeness.
Our case-handler didnt uphold  Mr and Mrs S complaint. Mr and Mrs S didnt agree and so 
its been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I trust Mr and Mrs S wont take it as a 
discourtesy that Ive condensed their complaint  in the way that I have. Ours is an informal  
dispute resolution service,  and Ive concentrated on what I consider to be the crux of the 
complaint.
I dont doubt that this is very important for Mr and Mrs S but although  Ive read and 
considered the whole file Ill keep my comments to what  I think  is relevant. If I dont comment 
on any specific point its not because Ive not considered it but because I dont think  I need to 
comment on it in order to reach the right outcome. This service  is impartial  between, and 
independent from,  consumers and businesses.
When considering  any complaint  like this, as Mr and Mrs S are the ones bringing the 
complaint against  Landmark, to uphold the complaint Mr and Mrs S version  needs  to be 
more likely than Landmarks version; not just as likely. They  say the field agent was 
unprofessional and intimidating,  but the field agents  company refutes  that. 
Mortgage arrears are always a sensitive  matter and it seems reasonable that Mr and Mrs S 
would feel uncomfortable  being visited at their home  about  that. But field agent  visits are a 
necessary  and sometimes valuable  tool in dealing with mortgage  arrears. Having 
considered everything  its simply one persons  word  against anothers,  and I cant  say 
Mr and Mrs S version is anything more than just as likely which  isnt enough for me to 
uphold this part of their complaint. Its not the case that I disbelieve them; its just that equally 
I have no reason to disbelieve  the field agent either.
Mr and Mrs S have  said they thought it might have been a scam but thats not really  likely. 
Landmark had already  written to Mr and Mrs S twice about sending a field agent, and the 
field agent knew personal information about Mr and Mrs S and all about  their mortgage and 
arrears. 
All that said,  there  was nothing stopping Mr and Mrs S having the conversation  they say they 
could have had with the field agent  with Landmark - or its legal representatives - directly. I 
would have expected Mr and Mrs S to be in contact with Landmark  to explain about their 
means of repaying  the arrears either before or after the visit, and especially  after receiving 
the letter about court action. Waiting for an eviction date to be booked before they got in 
contact with Landmark to discuss matters and to repay the arrears  wasnt  the best course  of 
action.
Mr and Mrs S have  said that  the court saw in my favour anyway, but charges  were still 
applied. We asked both sides about this and its still not clear what  Mr and Mrs S are 
referring to. Theres been no court action that was found in Mr and Mrs S favour. There was 
the original action which led to a straight possession order  being granted to Landmark in 
December 2017  (so was found in Landmarks favour), and theres been no further  court 
Ref: DRN52702163hearings since then.  The only times  the court has been involved since then is when 
Landmark has obtained eviction warrants, which have all been granted  (so again  the court 
has found in favour of Landmark). The evictions  each  time were cancelled  because 
Mr and Mrs S cleared their arrears before the eviction date, not because  Landmark had 
done anything  wrong.
Unfortunately, because each time Mr and Mrs S only cleared the arrears after an eviction 
warrant had been  obtained then there are costs  involved in that, and those costs are passed  
onto Mr and Mrs S. Thats completely  normal in the industry and will be explained in the 
terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs S mortgage account.
Mr and Mrs S mortgage was in arrears  and, as far as Landmark  was concerned, they 
werent co-operating with the process.  Mr and Mrs S say they were in a position to start 
repaying the arrears  and would have discussed  that in August with the field agent if hed 
been professional.  But that doesnt  tie-in  with the transactions shown on Mr and Mrs S 
account. That shows Mr and Mrs S made  a payment  on 2 July 2018 (for less than their 
contractual monthly payment) and then didnt  pay anything  further  until 28 September  2018 
which was after the solicitor had applied for an eviction date as nothing had been heard from 
Mr and Mrs S nor had the arrears been cleared. 
Looking at things  from Landmarks  point of view Mr and Mrs S werent answering its calls 
and werent replying to its letters.  They then refused to deal with the field agent that was sent 
out and still didnt pay the arrears owed even after the letter was sent about moving towards 
an eviction. Having considered all that, I wouldnt say Landmark acted inappropriately in 
moving things forward  through the legal  process. In such cases  lenders are looking for a 
response, so in this case it would have been looking for Mr and Mrs S to start repaying the 
arrears as they say they were in a position to, or at least  get in touch to discuss  the options. 
Had Mr and Mrs S done that then Landmark wouldnt have sought the warrant for eviction 
and the costs involved in that wouldnt have been  added to the mortgage account.
Finally, Mr and Mrs S have raised  concerns  about  data protection,  saying the field agent 
assumed he was talking  to Mr S. As it was Mr S the field agent was talking to then theres 
nothing for me to deal with here as theres been  no financial loss as Mr and Mrs S 
information hasnt  been disclosed to a third party. If Mr and Mrs S want  to raise  concerns 
about the information the field agent discussed without checking Mr S was Mr S, then thats 
something they can report to the Information  Commissioners Office (www.ico.org.uk) if they 
wish.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  My final decision concludes  this services consideration of this 
complaint, which  means well not be engaging  in any further consideration or discussion on 
the merits of it. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  25 April 2020.
Julia Meadows
ombudsman
Ref: DRN52702164
Ref: DRN5270216