K821x#15complaint
Mr P complains about advice in 2009  from The Falcon Group  Limited (Falcon) which
resulted in the transfer of his personal pension to a SIPP (self invested personal pension)
and investments in Merchant Place  Commercial Property Distribution Fund 1 (MPDF1) and 
Splash Broadcast  Limited (Splash).
Falcon later became part of Lighthouse Group  plc. Ive just referred to Falcon below. 
background
In March 2009 Mr P met Falcon's adviser  to discuss his pension. The note of the meeting 
records Mr P and the adviser  had known each other for some  twenty  years. Mr P was 
unhappy with how his personal  pension  had performed  the fund had reduced from about 
£190,000 to £130,000.  Converting the personal pension to a SIPP was discussed, as was a 
possible SIPP provider. The application and transfer  forms were  completed to be forwarded 
to the new SIPP provider and Mr Ps existing  provider.  How the fund would be invested was 
to be discussed  after the transfer was completed.
The adviser wrote on 1 April 2009 to confirm his recommendations. The letter  set out Mr Ps 
employment details  and that hed in financial services for twenty  years  and was very 
knowledgeable in that sector.  Mr Ps objectives  were to review his existing pension plans, 
improve future returns and increase investment  flexibility.  Hed seen a significant reduction  in 
his fund. He was 'keen to have [his] investment  aggressively managed and [was]  seeking 
opportunity for growth and higher returns.'
Mr P's circumstances were  recorded.  Including that his monthly net income was £6,000,  plus 
annual bonuses of £40,000 to £80,000; his house  was valued at £820,000 with a mortgage 
of £300,000; he and his wife had investments totalling £55,000; and he was a member of his 
employers pension scheme. The adviser  confirmed  he'd recommended that Mr P transfer 
his personal pension to a SIPP. They would  then decide where to invest the funds in line 
with Mr P's risk profile  which Mr P had identified as high for his SIPP.
There was another  meeting in June  2009. The note says Mr P 'was keen for his pension pot 
to be aggressively managed and is seeking opportunities for growth and high returns. ' His 
SIPP had a cash balance  of about  £136,000. He wanted 'to invest  a significant portion of this 
money and is seeking a high return. Investment opportunities had been discussed 
previously. Mr P was keen to invest in something  more adventurous.' Collective investments 
in commercial property had been discussed. The adviser had outlined  a longer term geared 
commercial property investment and gone  through the prospectus  for MPDF1 in detail. The 
note says Mr P was 'made fully aware  of the risk attached to this type of investment, but he 
is an experienced investor and was happy  that it met his current objectives.'
Mr P confirmed he wanted to proceed and signed a letter of authority  instructing the
SIPP trustees to invest £50,000 in MPDF1.  He also instructed  the adviser to apply for a
TIP (Trustee Investment Plan) with an insurance company and to invest  £35,000 in the S3 
Insynergy Odey  Fund (the Odey Fund).  The note records  that no advice was sought or given 
in respect of that particular investment. There's no mention  of any discussion about  Splash.
Falcon's adviser wrote  to Mr P on 12 June 2009.  About  the TIP and the Odey  Fund the letter  
said no advice had been given or sought.  The letter repeated Mr Ps current circumstances 
and his previous  employment which it said included specialising in pensions. He was 
Ref: DRN54556122financially sophisticated and an experienced investor who wanted  to adopt a high risk 
strategy for his pension  in the early  years.
A summary  of MPDF1 was set out. The letter said a copy of the prospectus was enclosed. 
The minimum investment was £50,000 but Mr P 'should only invest  what  [he could] afford to 
lose.'  He should  read what the prospectus said about the risk factors  and satisfy himself he 
was comfortable  in accepting them. The adviser said he'd put forward  MPDF1 on the 
understanding that Mr P was 'an experienced investor with the capacity to understand and 
assimilate the content of the Prospectus and make an informed decision based on the 
information it sets out.'
The adviser added that Mr P had said he wanted  to invest this tranche of his pension  
provision on a high risk/reward basis and he'd confirmed he understood and was prepared  to 
accept the risk to capital  in return for the potential gains. The product was at the latter  end of 
the low risk to high risk/speculative spectrum. It might provide a substantial gain but there  
was an attendant risk of a substantial loss depending  on future market conditions.  The letter 
said the content of the prospectus had been discussed in depth. Again, Splash wasnt 
mentioned. 
Mr P later complained to Falcon. It said any complaint about Splash was outside our 
jurisdiction. It said the adviser wasnt acting  for Falcon in any discussions about Splash and 
he wasnt authorised  to give advice about  Splash. And Falcon didnt uphold the complaint 
about MPDF1. It said Mr P had known what he was doing. Given his qualifications hed have 
understood the information hed been given and in particular the risks.
Mr Ps representative said Mr P needed  an adviser for his own financial planning. Hed taken 
expert advice from his trusted  adviser  of over ten years.  Mr P understood high risk in the 
context of retail products   such as a well diversified liquid global equity fund. And as a 
member of his employers pension scheme he had some capacity to take higher risks with a 
portion of his portfolio. But he didnt have  any appetite for speculative investments.  
The complaint was referred  to us. One of our adjudicators  looked  into it. But he didnt uphold  
it. He said the advice to transfer to a SIPP was suitable.  And, given Mr Ps investment 
knowledge, the security  of his employers final salary pension  and his willingness to accept 
investment risk, he couldnt  say MPDF1 was unsuitable. Splash was a very speculative  
investment. But the adjudicator didnt think the adviser was acting in his Falcon capacity  
when he discussed  Splash. Mr P would have known  that as Splash wasnt  mentioned in the 
recommendation letter. The adjudicator didnt think Falcon was liable for the investment. 
When the complaint  was first referred to me I considered jurisdiction (in relation  to the 
Splash investment) and merits (in respect of the advice overall). I said,  for the reasons I set 
out, we could consider the Splash investment as against Falcon.  But I went on to conclude  
that the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Essentially, I didnt think the advice to transfer to a 
SIPP was unreasonable. I thought it was Mr P's own decision to invest  £35,000 in the Odey  
Fund. And, on balance,  I concluded the recommendations to invest  in MPDF1 and Splash 
werent unsuitable for Mr P.
Mr Ps representative asked me to reconsider.  He reiterated that Mr P had known the 
adviser for many years and had trusted him. Just because Mr P had asked to invest in the 
Odey Fund didnt mean he was an active investor.  If he was so knowledgeable (and not time 
challenged) he wouldnt have needed an adviser.  Although Id said it was clear  hed been 
prepared to take a high level of risk, wed seen other previously  cautious  or moderate risk 
Ref: DRN54556123investors suddenly  becoming  adventurous and apparently willing  to gamble their pension  on 
speculative investments. Mr P hadnt  challenged what was recorded  about the level of risk 
he was prepared. Like other investors, he hadnt known what it was claimed  had been  said.  
Mr P had said that very little had been  discussed about Splash. Hed been contacted at work 
and told that he needed to invest immediately.  He'd left work and met the adviser who came 
with all the paperwork already prepared. The adviser explained that an investment he'd 
considered ideal for Mr P had now closed but hed come up with two alternatives - one fully 
secured on property involving student lets and the other  a very successful media investment. 
Mr P had no time to consider either. The meeting lasted 25 minutes.  Mr P signed the 
documents where asked. The adviser  said he'd follow  up with copies of everything.  That 
didn't happen. Mr P never got a prospectus about Splash. 
Mr Ps representative also said the recommendation to invest  in Splash was illegal  a third 
party cant  raise funds  for an unlisted company  without following various FCA protocols and 
regulations. And Mr P's representative referred to other decisions we'd issued upholding  
complaints against  Falcon.
Mr P's representative later made  further  detailed submissions, including about  how Splash 
came to be set up and how the adviser had promoted Splash and encouraged clients to 
invest through their SIPPs. That generated fees for the adviser. He may also have received 
a percentage  of the capital raised. Splash's  value  was hugely overstated and was just based 
on the advisers belief  as to potential value. He had a clear conflict  of interest.  He wasn't 
permitted to recommend  investing in unlisted  shares.  And he was in breach of the financial 
promotion regime. That meant the resultant transaction  - the Splash investment - was void.  
Falcon was alerted to the adviser's activities but failed to stop him continuing  to promote 
Splash and didnt  monitor  the transactions
Mr P wasn't in a position to understand the risks involved as he wasn't given a prospectus  
prepared by a suitably qualified person. The proposition was put to him by a retail financial 
adviser who wasn't permitted to recommend  shares, let alone  assess  the value of a 
company of which he was the architect.  Valuing  intellectual property is a specialist
area. The adviser lacked  the qualifications  and knowledge to understand and communicate
the risks. It would have  been impossible for Mr P to make an informed decision. Splash 
didn't involve investment risk but certainty  of loss and was, from the outset, a sham.
We shared what Mr P's representative  had said with Falcon. It didn't want to comment
further at this stage.
I considered the complaint again.  And I issued a revised provisional  decision on 18 
September 2019. In summary:
I maintained we could  consider the complaint  about Splash. 
Mr P hadnt said he didnt get copies of the letters dated  1 April 2009 and 12 June 
2009. The latter said a prospectus for MPDF1 was enclosed.  I said Id have expected  
Mr P to have requested  a copy if he didnt get one. 
Mr Ps situation was different to some  other  cases wed considered. First,  he was a 
knowledgeable investor (he was a chartered financial  planner). Even if he was 
employed in a sales role, his employment  history, qualifications and experience  
meant hed have understood information  he was given,  including the risks of an 
investment. Hed have known that investing  in unregulated collective investment 
Ref: DRN54556124schemes and unlisted shares was risky. And hed said he was willing  to take a high 
degree of risk. 
Secondly, and unlike in some other cases,  Mr P had some capacity for loss: his 
income was substantial;  he had some savings; considerable equity in his property; an 
expected inheritance;  other pension provision  and the ability  to make further 
provision.  
The advice to transfer to the SIPP wasnt unsuitable. Mr Ps fund was large  enough. 
His knowledge and experience meant he could be interested  in taking a more active  
role in the future and the opportunity to invest in what might be termed  non 
mainstream investments. 
I still didnt think the recommendation to invest in MPDF1  was unsuitable. Mr P was 
someone to whom MPDF1 could be promoted  he was a sophisticated or high net 
worth client.  
He was prepared  to take a high degree of risk  as evidenced  by the meeting notes 
and the recommendation letters. MPDF1  had been described as speculative.  The 
recommendation letter dealt adequately (for an investor such  as Mr P) with the risks. 
Hed have known  that MPDF1 wasnt  the sort of higher risk equity fund that hed 
mentioned. 
But my views about Splash had changed.  Ive recapped  what  I said below. 
But I do think Splash  is more problematic.  Ive considered very carefully all that Mr Ps
representative has said more recently about Splash. I dont agree with all of the points made
and, in particular,  the central  argument that the adviser couldnt recommend unlisted  shares
as an investment.
Advising on investments is a regulated activity under article 53(1) of the Financial Services
and Markets Act 2000 (Regulated Activities)  Order 2001 (SI 2001/544) (RAO). To come
within article 53(1) the advice must related  to a specified investment. Part III of the RAO sets
out the specified investments, which include shares. I cant see any distinction or exclusion
for shares  in an unlisted company. And PERG  8.24.1G says,  about advising on investments,
that it covers  advice on the merits of (amongst other things) buying, selling or subscribing for
a particular investment  which is a security,  a structured deposit or a relevant investment.
Mr Ps representative has also said that the adviser  didnt comply  with the rules about
financial promotions. Section 21 of FSMA  contains  a restriction on financial promotion. It
provides that a person  must not, in the course of business, communicate an invitation  or
inducement to engage in investment activity unless the promotion has been made or
approved by an authorised person or the promotion  is exempt.
But here the adviser was an authorised person.  So it was open to him to promote an
investment without being in breach of section 21. I dont  think whats been said about  there
being no prospectus approved by an authorised  person  applies when the adviser was
himself authorised. Nor does the promotion need  to have  been covered by an exemption.
Mr Ps representative suggests that the Splash investment  was a UCIS. Section 238 of
FSMA contains further restrictions on the promotion of unregulated  collective  investment
schemes (UCIS). Promotion of a UCIS by an authorised person is prohibited except where
there is a statutory exemption in an order made  by the Treasury  (see the FSMA (Promotion
of Collective Investment  Schemes (Exemptions) Order 2001  (SI2001/1060) (the PCIS Order)
or where  the financial promotion is permitted under the regulators rules  see COBS 4.12.
Ref: DRN54556125Collective investment scheme  is defined section 235 of FSMA. I dont think Splash was a
UCIS. But even if it was, and for the reasons Ive explained in connection with MPDF  1, I
think Mr P would have come within one of the exemptions such  that a UCIS could have been
promoted to him without  breaching section  238 of FSMA.
But I am concerned  about the overall proposition. In my provisional decision I said that I
didnt think the Splash  investment was unsuitable  for Mr P. In particular I thought  he was
prepared to take a high degree of risk, hed have known that buying shares in a small
unlisted company  was risky and he had the capacity for loss that could result.
But Ive thought about that again in the light of what Mr Ps representative has said about it
all, including how Splash came  about and what the basis  for the company was. Ive also
borne in mind  the regulators overarching principles which  firms must adhere to. These
include:
Principle 1: Integrity:  A firm must conduct  its business with integrity.
Principle 2: Skill, care and diligence: A firm must conduct its business  with due skill, care and
diligence.
Principle 3: Management and control:  A firm must take reasonable care to organise and
control its affairs responsibly and effectively, with adequate risk management  systems.
Principle 6: Customers interests: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its
customers and treat them fairly.
Principle 8: Conflicts of interest: A firm must  manage conflicts  of interest fairly, both between
itself and its customers and between a customer and another  client.
I noted before that Falcon was aware of the advisers involvement in Splash and that he
wanted to be able to be able to recommend  investment in Splash to certain clients as a
business opportunity.  But, although Falcon may have been concerned about the situation, it
doesnt appear Falcon took steps  to try to ensure  it wouldnt  be responsible  for anything the
adviser did in connection  with Splash. That was in breach of principle  3 and indicates a lack
of management  and control  over the adviser.
Thats particularly so given that there was a clear  conflict  of interest on the advisers part
(see principle 6). He was an officer of Splash. I think that was a conflict of interest in itself.
But he also stood to benefit financially. That may have been limited to advisory  fees. Or he
may have  had some arrangement with, or financial interest in, the company. Either  way,
theres no documentary  evidence so show that the conflict of interest was disclosed to Mr P.
Further, if the situation with Splash was as Mr Ps representative suggests  and there was no
real basis  for the project and any investment potential was nugatory, then principles 1, 2 and
6 may have  been breached.
I note that theres  no recommendation letter for Splash. So I cant be certain what  was said
and how the venture was explained  to Mr P and, in particular, if the adviser made his
involvement and interest in Splash  clear  and what sort of risk warnings were  given.
I think the degree of risk posed by the Splash investment was very high. Especially  as
£50,000 of Mr Ps SIPP fund was also to be invested in MPDF1  a UCIS and a fund which
the adviser himself  described as speculative. So the resulting overall risk rating  for Mr Ps
SIPP would have  been very high.
Its recorded that Mr P wanted to invest a significant  proportion of his SIPP  fund in a
Ref: DRN54556126something more adventurous. I now think the MPDF1 investment  on its own would have met
that brief. The further investment in Splash was too much. I think  it represented more risk
than Mr P (albeit an investor  who wanted  to take a high degree of risk with some of his SIPP
fund) had indicated he was prepared to take.
So I now dont think the recommendation to invest in Splash  was suitable. On that basis Im
upholding that aspect of the complaint.
I went on to set out how Falcon  should redress Mr P. I said redress should  be paid into his 
pension plan but, if a lump  sum was paid to him direct instead, a notional deduction could be 
made to allow  for the future income tax hed otherwise have paid. I went on to say I assumed 
Mr P would be a higher  rate taxpayer  in retirement.  
Mr P didnt want to comment substantively on my provisional decision. But his representative 
said Mr P would be a basic rate taxpayer  in retirement. Mr Ps representative also suggested 
an award for hurt and upset should be made. We told Falcon  that, as it appeared Mr P 
wouldnt be a higher rate taxpayer in retirement,  I proposed to adjust the redress 
accordingly. And that I might decide to include an award for distress and inconvenience.  
Falcon commented on my provisional  decision. It said that, in not upholding the complaint 
about MPDF1, Id taken  into account  Mr Ps previous  roles  and the time hed worked in the 
financial services industry. That applied too to the Splash investment. Falcon referred  to how 
Mr P described himself on a social  networking website for professionals.  His qualifications  
and his (senior) positions  with the companies he worked for meant  he wasnt  an ordinary 
member of the public  and he would have had a significantly better level of technical  
knowledge than a broker consultant.
Falcon maintained  Mr P was more than aware  of the type of investment he was making  and 
the risks involved and had made a fully informed  decision to proceed and accept the risks. 
Suggesting the investment wasnt suitable  for him would make a mockery of the financial 
services examinations hed taken  and the qualifications he held. 
Falcon set out the funds that Mr Ps pension was invested in before he transferred to the 
SIPP. That portfolio  of higher risk funds   wasnt that of a standard  investor but someone 
who was clearly highly experienced.  It evidences that the high risk rating  recorded  by the 
adviser was accurate. And it indicates an investor  who was more  than financially  aware  of 
the type of funds he actively wanted, and was prepared, to invest in. 
And, if what  it had said didnt convince me not to uphold the complaint, Falcon shouldnt be 
fully liable for Mr Ps losses  he was equally complicit in making the investment. Fair 
compensation would be for Mr P to bear equally the responsibility of any losses  for investing 
in Splash. 
We shared what Falcon had said with Mr Ps representative who responded with detailed 
comments. The main  points were: 
The qualifications Falcon had highlighted were  later acquired and so not relevant. 
Before then Mr P had been  a broker consultant and a sales manager. The only 
significantly better technical knowledge he had was in relation to sales and business 
management. Mr P didnt have (and has never  held) an authorised  position. 
He moved to a new role in 2010  and studied  for his diploma in financial planning and 
follow on qualifications. But even that wouldnt have assisted him in assessing  the 
Ref: DRN54556127viability of an unlisted company. That needs  someone with specialist accountancy 
qualifications and experience  such as Falcons  head of risk. 
Mr Ps expertise was in sales and management. His core skills were  people 
leadership; management;  development; problem solving; and change, people and 
budget management. Hed have understood what a personal  pension was, what 
funds were and sales  distribution channels. But he didnt have relevant expertise or 
qualifications to assess the proposition put by the adviser. The fact that Mr P 
continued to seek  and pay for advice proves that. 
He trusted his adviser based on years of dealings. That familiarity put him at a 
disadvantage. He was reassured  about what the adviser suggested and didnt regard 
it as abnormal or something to be wary  about. Neither was Mr P to know the 
information about Splash was based  on little, if any material  substance. He relied on 
the information provided by the adviser, his skills, status as a regulated adviser and 
his duty of care to Mr P. 
Prior to the transfer Mr Ps pension fund was highly diversified in terms of geography 
and sector with the largest  asset holding amount to no more  than 1.25% of the total. 
The current risk score appeared lower than a FTSE 100 tracker fund. Mr P hadnt 
constructed the portfolio  himself  hed used an off the shelf  portfolio which  are 
widely available. It doesnt demonstrate  he was an investment specialist.
Mr P was experienced in sales management and financial services distribution 
channels. He knew how to motivate staff.  He understood retail investment products 
and the nature of funds and model  portfolios. But he knew his limitations.  Hed never 
been a financial  adviser or had that sort of training, which  is why he sought advice. 
Splashs current and future values and potential returns were hugely misrepresented. 
Accounts filed in November 2010 showed  fixed assets of £3,150,000 and a net value  
£2,800,000. But the liquidators provisional  statement  in August 2011 (only eight 
months later) showed the realisable  values  of the fixed assets and book debts as nil. 
It was uncertain what stock (valued at £103,764) would fetch.  The only saleable item 
was equipment (£2,519). No funds were raised  in the liquidation.  The intellectual 
property rights were deemed worthless,  as was the stock and book debts. 
Falcons head of risk had been  alerted to the advisers plans. It he didnt  see the 
proposition was ludicrous Mr P couldnt have been expected to identify that. 
There was a pattern  to the advisers behaviour. Hed worked with Mr P for some  
years and had always  recommended mainstream products. But from about 2006 he 
started to urge all his clients to invest in SIPPs. Clients (including Mr P) whod always  
invested in conventional  pension  funds were recorded as apparently wanting to 
pursue a more  aggressive strategy for higher returns. The same  terminology appears 
in many file and diary  notes and recommendation letters.  It isnt credible that so 
many clients  suddenly  decided they wanted  to gamble their retirement savings. 
The suggestion that Mr P should take responsibility for half of his losses  on the basis 
that he was complicit (defined as being involved with others in an activity that is 
unlawful or morally wrong) was rejected. Falcon knew the adviser intended to 
recommend Splash  to clients. Falcon didnt veto his plans but instead  said it was 
happy to assist in the development of [the advisers] thinking and to have a structure  
which allowed him to operate  as he wished but which gave all parties  the peace of 
mind. Falcon had been complicit and had turned  a blind eye.  
my findings
Ive considered again all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN54556128I maintain what Ive said earlier about  the advice to transfer to a SIPP  and invest in the Odey 
Fund and MPDF1. A SIPP wasnt unsuitable for Mr P. And I think he made his own decision 
to invest in the Odey Fund. I dont uphold  those aspects of the complaint. And I still dont 
think, for the reasons Ive given elsewhere, that recommendation to invest  in MPDF1 was 
unsuitable for Mr P, given  his particular circumstances. 
But, as Ive said, Splash  is more  problematic.  Ive looked at Splash on the basis that Mr P 
was also investing  somewhere approaching  a third of his SIPP  fund in MPDF1, an 
unregulated collective investment scheme - a highly geared commercial property fund which 
the adviser described as at the latter end of the low risk to high risk/speculative spectrum. 
Even if Mr P did want to take a high risk approach  to investing his SIPP fund, investing a 
further £50,000 in an unlisted  company   in addition to the same amount in MPDF1 - would 
result in a very high overall risk rating  for Mr Ps SIPP. 
I note what Falcon has said about  how Mr Ps pension fund was invested  before the transfer. 
His portfolio was equity  based with a number of specialist  and emerging markets  funds. I 
agree that it was a high risk portfolio. But, contrary to what Falcon suggests, I think  it was a 
fairly typical high risk portfolio. It was well diversified and made  up of a range of funds 
offered by established  providers. Thats consistent with what Mr P has said about the 
portfolio being  off the shelf rather than having  selected individual  funds and amounts 
himself. 
Mr Ps SIPP  fund was then invested very differently. There  was a marked lack of 
diversification. Somewhere approaching two thirds of the fund was spread between two high 
risk and highly  specialist investments. That lack of diversification would of itself have 
increased the risk rating of the portfolio considerably. I maintain that the level of risk was too 
high, even for a higher risk investor such as Mr P. 
Falcons main point is that Mr Ps financial awareness should be taken  into account. I agree 
that an investors knowledge, understanding and experience is relevant. That said, if Mr Ps 
qualifications were  only later acquired, it wouldnt  be fair to take them into account in 
assessing what he knew or ought  to have known about the Splash proposition and, in 
particular, what the risks were. I also tend to agree that Mr Ps key skills seem to be more  
sales and management  orientated rather than technical as such. 
In any event, I dont think  its the case that Ive taken Mr Ps financial awareness into account 
in looking at MPDF1  and rejected  the complaint  but not for Splash  where  Ive upheld 
the complaint.  The point  is that the two investments were  very different. 
I think Mr P would have had some understanding of collective investment schemes and how 
they operated.  MPDF1 couldnt be promoted  to the general public but was available to 
certain types of investor (including high net worth  and sophisticated  investors). There was a 
detailed prospectus  setting  out the proposition,  how the scheme would operate, the 
investment strategy  and the risk factors. The scheme was professionally  managed with a 
team of other professionals, including specialist property advisers. It was one of a number of 
commercial property investments offered by Merchant  Place.  
From what  Ive seen Mr P had the prospectus  which  set out the risk factors   and he and 
the adviser discussed the investment in some  detail.  I think Mr P was in a position to 
understand the investment, including  the risks. 
Ref: DRN54556129But Splash  was a very different entity.  It was a small, new, unlisted company. There wasnt  
the same  sort of detailed, professionally prepared information available  about the venture. I 
agree that Mr P would or should have known that investing in shares in an unlisted company 
was very risky.  Mr Ps representative has stressed the difficulty  in assessing the value of an 
unlisted company  and its viability, prospects and the sort of return  that any investment might 
generate. But I think  the actual  proposition  would have been difficult for Mr P to assess. I 
think hed have been dependent on the advisers recommendation.  
The adviser introduced  Mr P to the idea of investing  in Splash. I remain concerned about the 
advisers involvement in Splash. I think he had a clear conflict of interest. Falcon  initially  
expressed some concern  about the situation but didnt  seem to follow up on that and ensure 
customers interests werent adversely affected  and they werent treated unfairly.  I dont think  
the adviser or Falcon  managed the conflict of interest properly or at all. 
I note Falcons suggestion that Mr P should bear half of the losses hes incurred  on Splash  
on the basis that hes been  complicit  in making  the investment  which  I take to be a 
reference to Mr Ps financial awareness.  But Ive explained above  why I dont agree with 
what Falcon has said about that, at least in so far as the Splash investment is concerned. 
Further, and in any event,  Falcon had to give Mr P suitable advice. I dont think the 
recommendation to invest £50,000  of Mr Ps SIPP fund in Splash was suitable, for the 
reasons I set out in my provisional decision and above. I think the Splash investment, 
coupled with the MPDF1 investment, meant that the risk profile  of Mr Ps SIPP  was too high, 
even considering that he wanted to adopt  a higher risk strategy.
Falcon is responsible  for the consequences  of its unsuitable advice. Mr Ps investment has 
been lost. Falcon  is responsible for that loss. I dont think  theres  any reason why Falcon 
shouldnt meet that loss in full. Ive set out below  how Falcon  should  redress Mr P. Ive 
adjusted the redress  to reflect the fact that Mr P will be a basic  rate tax payer in retirement. 
And Ive included an award  for distress  and inconvenience. Ive borne in mind  that Ive only 
upheld in part Mr Ps complaint.  
fair compensation
In assessing what would  be fair compensation, my aim is to put Mr P as close to the position
hed probably  be in now if he hadnt  been  given unsuitable advice. I take the view that hed
have invested  differently.  Its not possible to say precisely what hed have done differently.
But Im satisfied what Ive set out below is fair and reasonable given Mr Ps circumstances
and objectives  when he invested.
what should  Falcon do?
To compensate Mr P fairly,  Falcon  must:
Compare the performance of Mr Ps investment with that of the benchmark  shown  
below and pay the difference between the fair value  and the actual value of the 
investment. 
Falcon should also pay interest  as set out below.  
Redress should be paid into Mr Ps pension plan. The payment should allow  for the 
effect of charges and any available tax relief.  The compensation shouldnt  be paid 
into the pension  plan if it would conflict with any existing protection  or allowance.  
Ref: DRN545561210If payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection implications, it should be 
paid to Mr P directly as a lump sum after making a notional  deduction  to allow  for 
future income tax that would otherwise have been  paid. For example, if Mr P hasnt 
yet taken a tax free cash sum, 25% of the loss would have been tax free and 75% 
would have been taxed according to Mr Ps likely income tax rate in retirement. Id 
assume Mr P is likely to be a basic rate tax payer in retirement. So making  a notional 
deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects  this. 
Falcon should also pay Mr P £150 as compensation  for the distress  and 
inconvenience Mr P has been caused. 
investment name status benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end date)additional interest
Splash wound upFTSE UK 
Private Investors Growth total 
return index
date of 
investmentdate of my final  
decision8% simple  per 
year from date of 
my final decision 
to date of 
settlement (if 
compensation not paid within 28 
days of the 
business being 
notified of 
acceptance).
actual value
This means  the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date. My 
understanding is that the actual value is nil. So a nil value should be used in the calculation. 
fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a return
using the benchmark.
Any withdrawal, income or other payment out of the investment should be deducted from the
fair value  at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation
from that point on. If there are a large  number of regular  payments, to keep calculations
simpler, I will accept  if Falcon totals all those payments  and deducts that figure at the end
instead of deducting periodically.
Ref: DRN545561211why is this remedy suitable?
I have decided on this method  of compensation because:
Mr P wanted capital growth  and was willing to accept higher investment risk.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Growth total return  index (prior to 1 March  2017 the
FTSE WMA Stock Market Growth total return index) is made up of diversified  indices
representing predominantly equity based constituents. It would be a fair measure for
someone who was prepared to take a higher risk to get a higher return.
Mr P hasnt  yet used his pension  plan to purchase an annuity.
my decision
I uphold the complaint in part. The Falcon  Group Limited should pay the amount calculated  
as set out above. Details of the calculation should be provided to Mr P in a clear and simple 
format. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 January 2020.
Lesley Stead
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5455612