K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs T complained because Mortgages plc didnt  notify them about a shortfall on their 
mortgage until nearly six years after the sale.
They also complained about how the shortfall figure had been  calculated. And they said 
Mortgages plc hadnt provided any evidence that it had sold the property for the best 
possible price.
Mr and Mrs T would  like their debt written off.
background 
On 22 January 2013, Mr and Mrs Ts property was sold in possession  for £105,000. They 
owed Mortgages  plc more than this, so there was a shortfall of £79,414.65.  Mortgages plc 
marked their credit  files to show this was owing, but it didnt contact Mr and Mrs T at the 
time.
In September  2018, Mortgages  plc wrote to Mr and Mrs T. Mr and Mrs T had split up by this 
time. Mortgages plc said that the proceeds of the property hadnt been  enough  to repay  the 
mortgage, so a shortfall was outstanding. It asked for either a payment in full, or an income 
and expenditure  form to be completed and returned. 
Mr and Mrs T complained. Mr T initially told Mortgages plc that it had contacted them  too late 
to be able to reclaim the shortfall.  Mr T said his credit file had been damaged for six years,  
and now there was a risk his credit file would be damaged for another  six years, when it 
should have been sorted out by now. He also complained that there was no evidence to 
show that Mortgages plc had obtained  the best possible price for the property. He said it 
should have been marketed with a specialist agent. 
Mortgages plc replied that it was entitled to contact Mr and Mrs T about the shortfall, 
because the property had been sold in the last six years. It sent a mortgage statement which 
showed all the costs which had been added to the account, including  fees, charges and 
interest. The statement  showed a remaining shortfall  of £79,414.65.  And Mortgages  plc 
quoted the part of the mortgage  conditions  which said that the borrowers had to pay all 
costs, charges and expenses. Mortgages plc said it had achieved the best possible price at 
the time of the sale.
Mr and Mrs T werent satisfied and complained to this service.
Mr T explained that hed been aware, from checking his credit  file, that there was a deficit of 
around £70,000. But as Mortgages plc hadnt taken  any action to recover  this, and hadnt 
said it intended to do so in future, he thought the debt had been  written off. And in August  
2018, the marker on his credit file had dropped  off. Mr T also said that he had thought at the 
time that the property had been  sold grossly under its value. But he hadnt paid any further 
attention to the matter, because he believed Mortgages plc had written off the debt.
Mr T said that hed found it devastating  when he discovered the debt hadnt been written  off. 
Mortgages plc hadnt explained  why it had delayed, nor had it provided any evidence  to 
support its assertion that it had obtained  the best possible price. He said that if hed known 
at the time he could  have considered other  options such as an IVA or bankruptcy. He 
accepted that Mortgages  plc was within the six year timescale when it could  require the debt 
to be paid back, but he said that didnt make  it just or equitable.  
Ref: DRN57988752Our investigator explained that the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)s  rules  say a lender 
has to notify a borrower within  six years of the date of the sale, if theres a shortfall and the 
lender intends  to pursue  it. Mortgages plc had contacted Mr and Mrs T within  six years, but 
she believed  it should have contacted them  earlier. Shed asked Mortgages plc why it hadnt 
contacted Mr and Mrs T earlier, and the lender  had said it was at its discretion as long as it 
was within  six years. 
The investigator didnt  think this was good enough. She noted that Mr T had said he could 
have made  other arrangements to pay if hed been told earlier.  And as the possession had 
happened in July 2012, the markers had dropped off Mr and Mrs Ts credit files six years 
later in August  2018. So it was reasonable that Mr and Mrs T then thought Mortgages plc 
had decided not to try to recover the shortfall.
The investigator said that legally, Mortgages plc had six years  from the sale, so she couldnt 
ask Mortgages  plc to write off the debt. Shed contacted Mortgages plc to ask if theyd  do so, 
and it had refused.  Shed  also asked if theyd  reduce  the debt. Mortgages plc had said it was 
willing to negotiate  a reduction  in the balance, if Mr and Mrs T offered a lump  sum payment, 
or an arrangement for a regular  contribution.  
The investigator also said she would  ask Mortgages plc to pay compensation for trouble and 
upset, by not contacting Mr and Mrs T as soon as it could. She thought  £250  was 
reasonable.
The investigator also looked at the figures  and how Mortgages plc had reached  the shortfall 
figure. She said the charges  were applied in line with the terms and conditions.  And she also 
looked at the sale price. Mortgages plc had used three valuers to value the property, and it 
had been on the market  for four months before  it was sold.  So she thought it was reasonable 
that Mortgages plc had accepted the offer for £105,000.
Mortgages plc didnt accept the investigators  view. It said it had acted in accordance with 
the rules when, 5 years  and 8 months  after the sale, it had told Mr and Mrs T that it intended 
to pursue the debt. Mortgages  plc refused  to pay the £250  compensation for stress.
Mortgages plc said that at the time of possession, it had found out that Mr and Mrs T had let 
the property without permission for at least two years.  In 2011, the tenant had told them Mr 
and Mrs T were  living abroad,  and in 2012 the tenant had then said they were  living  
elsewhere in the area. So it said the opportunity to pursue the debt was limited, as phone 
calls werent being  answered. 
Mortgages plc did say that it was willing to negotiate  a reduction in the balance, if Mr and 
Mrs T offered a lump  sum payment, or an arrangement to make a regular contribution.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mortgages plcs letter about the shortfall  balance in September 2018
Its accurate that Mortgages plc had the power to require Mr and Mrs T to pay the shortfall  
balance, up to six years after the sale in January 2013. This is set out in the FCAs rules, 
called the Mortgage Conduct of Business (MCOB). The relevant section is 13.6.4, which 
Ref: DRN57988753says that the lender must  notify the customer within six years of the date of the sale.  So 
Mortgages plc had until January 2019  to send  the notification to Mr and Mrs T. It met this 
requirement, so it has the authority to require  them to pay the shortfall.
But section 13.6.3  also says that as soon as possible after the sale the lender must inform 
the customer in a durable medium of the sale shortfall. Mortgages plc took nearly six years, 
and it didnt give Mr and Mrs T, or our investigator, any reason when they asked why it had 
taken so long.  In Mortgages plcs response to the investigators view,  it provided what it said 
were its reasons. As Ive set out above,  these  were that:
-it had found  out that Mr and Mrs T had let the property without permission for at least 
two years;
-in 2011, the tenant had told them Mr and Mrs T were living  abroad,  and in 2012 the 
tenant had then said they were living elsewhere  in the area;
-so Mortgages  plc said the opportunity to pursue  the debt was limited,  as phone calls 
werent being answered. 
I find that these werent sufficient reasons  for Mortgages plc not to have tried to notify Mr and 
Mrs T in a timely way. Mortgages plcs contact notes show  that it made no attempt to make 
contact between January  2014 and September 2018. For example, it didnt write formally  to 
the property address, or try to contact them through any legal representatives who might 
have been involved  during the court proceedings. And when Mortgages plc did write  to Mr 
and Mrs T in September 2018, it wrote  to them both, at their separate  addresses,  and the 
letters got through. 
So although  Mortgages plc had the right to require  Mr and Mrs T to pay what they still owed, 
I find that it would have been  fair and reasonable to expect  it to have told them much earlier 
than it did. This service doesnt fine or punish businesses   thats the role of the regulator, 
the FCA. But I find that Mortgages plcs failure  to notify Mr and Mrs T of their continuing 
shortfall debt, in a timely way, caused Mr and Mrs T distress and inconvenience.  So I find 
that Mortgages plc should  pay them £250 compensation.
Amount of the shortfall balance
Ive looked at the detailed  figures which Mortgages  plc provided about  the account.  This 
shows all the fees and charges debited to the account. Its also provided  Mr and Mrs T with a 
copy. 
Ive seen no evidence  that any of these  charges  were incorrectly debited.  Mr and Mrs T were  
required to pay them under the terms and conditions of their mortgage.  So I dont find that 
the amount of the shortfall  balance was incorrect.
Sale price of the property
The rules  Ive quoted above, called MCOB, say that a lender  selling a property in possession  
has to:
-market the property as soon as it can, and 
-obtain the best possible price  that might  reasonably be paid, taking account of factors 
such as market conditions  as well as the continuing increase in the amount owed by 
the borrower.
This is set out in section 13.6.1 of the MCOB rules.
Ive checked whether  Mortgages plc did this. 
Ref: DRN57988754-It put the property  on the market in September 2012, having obtained the court  order 
in July. I find it met the requirements  by doing this.
-It obtained quotes from three valuers,  ranging  from £105,000 to £115,000. It also 
obtained a marketing report from an asset management company. This set out 
matters such as the local property market conditions, the propertys challenges and 
advantages, the propertys condition,  and local amenities. The report  made  a 
recommendation about a marketing strategy. It also set out a number of comparables 
 in other words,  properties on the market  or sold, locally to Mr and Mrs Ts property. 
I recognise that the property actually sold in January 2013  for the lowest price suggested by 
the original valuers.  But I note that the valuers estimates also came with estimates of the 
time to sell. The valuer which  suggested  a price  of £105,000 said it would take 4 months to 
sell at that price. The valuer which suggested a price of £115,000 said it would take 26 
months to sell at that price. Mortgages plc was required to balance sale price with the need  
to sell promptly. So I dont find that Mortgages plc broke the rules when it sold the property 
for £105,000  in January  2013.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. 
I do not uphold  Mr and Mrs Ts complaints that Mortgages plc:
-couldnt require  them to pay the shortfall balance they owed; 
-didnt calculate  what they owed correctly;  or 
-sold the property  for too little.
I do uphold Mr and Mrs Ts complaint that Mortgages plc caused  them  distress and 
inconvenience when  it didnt notify them that there  was a shortfall  until nearly six years  after 
the sale. I order Mortgages plc to pay Mr and Mrs T £250 compensation for this.
I note that Mortgages  plc has said it is willing to negotiate a reduction  in the balance if 
Mr and Mrs T make an offer of a lump sum payment or an arrangement to make  regular 
contributions. So its open to Mr and Mrs T to contact Mortgages plc to discuss this.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  16 June  2019.
Belinda Knight
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5798875