K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs C complained  about Allianz  Insurance Plc. They werent happy about the way a 
claim was dealt with under their home insurance policy.
The complaint has been advanced by their representative and Mrs C has sadly  passed away 
while the complaint  was being considered by this service.
background
I considered the complaint in full and issued my provisional decision a few weeks ago. In 
summary I said;  
Mr and Mrs C had a leak at their home  address that was attended to by their home 
emergency provider.  They contacted  Allianz and made a claim under their home insurance 
policy in April 2017 for the damage  caused  by the leak.  Their  property had to be dried out 
and repairs were undertaken.
Unfortunately, Mr and Mrs C noticed problems with the repair work and Allianzs  appointed  
engineers realised the original leak hadnt been fixed properly and so further drying  out and 
repair work had to be undertaken. The problem was made worse as asbestos was identified  
in the property and Mr and Mrs C had to move  to alternative accommodation.
Allianz accepts its repairer  didnt  do a very good  job and repairs were  delayed for a 
prolonged period of time.  It offered £500 in acknowledgement of a clear delay of about six to 
eight weeks. And it also felt its offer of alternative accommodation should have been better 
suited to Mr and Mrs Cs needs  and agreed to increase its £10 per day payment for being 
away from the house to £20 per day. But it didnt believe  that it should pay costs Mr and 
Mrs C incurred when they appointed  a loss assessor to help with their claim.
As Mr and Mrs C remained  unhappy they complained to this service.  Our investigator looked 
into things for them  and upheld the complaint.  He felt Allianz should increase its offer of 
compensation by a further £500  and it should pay 50% of Mr and Mrs Cs appointed loss 
assessors costs. This was because he thought Allianz hadnt fully considered  the full impact  
of the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr and Mrs C or taken  account  of the value 
added by the loss assessor.
Mr and Mrs C didnt agree. They thought  that this didnt take account of the period they were  
stuck in their house without reasonable furniture and facilities  in addition to the stress  and 
inconvenience outlined.  So, they thought they should be awarded considerably more 
compensation and have  their loss assessors full costs paid. As neither side agreed with the 
investigators position the matter has been  passed  to me for review.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Im currently  minded to 
partly uphold this complaint. Ill explain  why.
This is a difficult case to decide as Mr and Mrs C were put to an awful  lot of stress, hassle 
and inconvenience  while struggling with their own poor health. Allianz acknowledged it got 
things wrong and that its appointed contractor shouldve  dealt with things far quicker. As it 
Ref: DRN52724272accepts responsibility  for its failings  the only thing left to decide is the level of compensation 
that should be awarded and whether Mr and Mrs Cs loss assessors costs should  be 
covered.
I know Allianz doesnt feel it should  have  to pay the loss assessors costs as they dont feel 
he added  any value,  but I dont agree. I say this as the loss assessor became the main point 
of contact for Mr and Mrs C once they were appointed which  reduced the stress and 
inconvenience caused to Mr and Mrs C. And Allianz  acknowledged the loss assessor was 
correct in insisting  that a surveyor  was appointed  which  made sure the claim was eventually  
considered fully and all the necessary work was undertaken.
So Im satisfied the loss assessor added value and I agree with the investigator  that Allianz 
should pay 50% of their costs. I know Mr and Mrs C feel that all his costs should  be paid but 
I think this feels fair. It isnt ordinarily  necessary to appoint anyone  else to help finalise a 
claim and they couldve  approached this service with a complaint if they werent happy. But I 
do agree  that the loss assessor added some value in this particular  case and Ive not seen 
anything to suggest Allianz told Mr and Mrs C that they wouldnt be paying  the loss 
assessors costs. So I agree that paying  half their costs feels fair in this instance.
Turning to the level of compensation that should be awarded I dont  think  Allianzs offer of 
£500, or the investigators suggestion of a further  £500, goes far enough. 
Allianz have highlighted that Mr and Mrs C didnt complain about the alternative 
accommodation provided at the time.  But they didnt realise how long that they would be 
stuck in the hotel  for. And Allianz should have revisited things once it realised  the initial 
timescale of four weeks  wouldnt be met. Im sure the hotel accommodation  was acceptable 
for a short period of time. But Mr and Mrs C didnt have any everyday amenities that they 
were used to. They  shouldve been found a property to rent for the time they were out of 
their house.  This wouldve  left them with a sense of normality and allowed them to look after 
their welfare and health needs.
Plus, Mr and Mrs C felt a little in limbo as they werent sure what additional payments they 
would get and only got their disturbance allowance (£10 a day) around the time they were  
due home.  It wouldve been helpful to have got this payment earlier  so they could use it to 
pay for their daily needs as they werent  at home. Allianzs increase  in disturbance  pay (from 
£10 to £20 per day) for this time has acknowledged  part of this. But while I accept it covers 
the daily disturbance  and hassle. I dont think it covers any of the additional stress, 
inconvenience and hassle that Mr and Mrs C had to endure throughout the significant 
amount of time they were  out of their house.
I know a lot of things were  out of Allianzs  control,  such as the asbestos problem, but I think 
this all should have  been done a lot quicker.  And, as acknowledged above, it took the 
intervention of a loss assessor to get a surveyor involved and to really get to the bottom of all 
the problems the leak had caused.
So I dont  think £500 compensation is sufficient. I accept it covers the six to eight-week  delay  
identified by Allianz. But it doesnt  acknowledge  all the stress and inconvenience  caused - 
including being  in unsuitable accommodation  especially considering  the poor health of Mr 
and Mrs C. I know the investigator has suggested  a £500 uplift  is appropriate. But I dont 
think that covers the additional stress  and inconvenience Mr and Mrs C experienced when 
they were left at home without furniture. They didnt  have  any curtains, a television or a 
suitable bed at times. So I think  a further £1,000 (total £1,500)  is fairer  in the circumstances.
Ref: DRN52724273replies
While Mr C didnt  respond Allianz  accepted  my provisional findings.  It agreed to pay the 
additional compensation (£1,500 total)  and agreed to pay half of the loss assessors  costs.  
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Im not changing my 
position.
As Allianz  has accepted my provisional decision and Mr C, or his representative, hasnt 
responded which is understandable in the circumstances. I dont propose to rehearse the 
position again here. Ive given a detailed account  of the background and circumstances  
surrounding the complaint  above. And I remain of the view that the position outlined is fair. 
my final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above,  that this complaint should be partly upheld. And I 
require Allianz  Insurance Plc to pay Mr C £1,500 (total) in compensation and half of his loss 
assessors costs.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 September  2020.
Colin Keegan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5272427