K821x#15complaint
Miss L says Elevate  Credit International Limited  lent to her irresponsibly. She says that she 
couldnt afford the loans due to the high interest she was charged.  Miss L says this caused  
her problems making the repayments and paying her other household bills. 
background
This complaint is about one running  credit account and a further five instalment loans Sunny 
provided to Miss L between July 2014 and April 2016. Some  of the information Sunny has 
provided about the lending is in the table  below.
loan  
numberdate startedamount  
borrowedterm date ended
1 30/07/2014Running  credit account. 
With a credit limit of £35026/01/2015
2 17/02/2015 100 6 months 25/02/2015
3 15/05/2015 100 6 months 25/06/2015
4 25/06/2015 400 6 months 24/07/2015
5 04/07/2015 100 6 months 24/07/2015
6 18/04/2016 200 6 months 25/05/2016
Our adjudicator partially upheld the complaint. She thought that Sunny shouldnt have 
approved loans 4 and 5. Sunny disagreed  with the adjudicators opinion. So the complaint 
has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to make  a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Sunny needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Miss L could 
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account  a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early  stages  of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might  be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Sunny  should fairly and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
Ref: DRN56785802the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
And the loan payments being  affordable  on a strict pounds and pence  calculation might be 
an indication  a consumer  could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt 
automatically follow this is the case.  The industry regulator defines sustainable as being 
without undue difficulties  and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting  other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having  to borrow  
to meet  the repayments. And it follows that a lender  should realise,  or it ought  fairly and 
reasonably to realise, that a borrower  wont be able to make their repayments  sustainably if 
theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments  without  borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Ls complaint. Ive decided  to uphold  Miss Ls 
complaint in part and have explained  why below.
Miss L didnt  disagree with our adjudicators opinion not to uphold  loans  1 to 3 and loan 6. 
Because of this I dont think there  is any ongoing  disagreement about  these  loans. So I wont  
be making a decision  about this lending.  But they were part of the borrowing relationship 
Miss L had with Sunny. So they are something  I will take into account  when considering  the 
other loans  she took.
why I dont  think Sunnys checks were  proportionate for loans 4 and 5 and what 
proportionate checks wouldve shown
As the table shows, there were some  shorter breaks in lending.  But by loan 4, Miss L and 
Sunny had been in a lending relationship for just under a year. And there are only around 3 
months where Miss L wasnt making repayments to Sunny. The loan amounts werent high 
over this year. But Miss L started  loan 4 at the same time as she repaid  loan 3. And the 
amount she borrowed  increased from £100 to £400.   
So I think Sunny  couldve  realised at that time that Miss L may have some  longer term 
financial problems rather than just using the loans  to help with a temporary cash flow 
problem. Sunny shouldve also become concerned about whether it knew enough about 
Miss Ls true financial situation.
I think that it wouldve  been proportionate  to make a full review of Miss Ls finances before 
approving this loan.  And Sunny shouldve verified this information as far as it could. This was 
to make sure Miss L was in position to make the repayments sustainably.
I dont think Sunny did this. So I need to think about  what Sunny wouldve seen if it had 
carried out proportionate checks. 
Miss L has provided some information  about her financial circumstances which includes part 
of a recent  credit report. I accept that this isnt exactly  what Sunny wouldve seen at the time. 
But I think it wouldve found  out similar information if it had made proportionate checks, so I 
think its reasonable to rely on it.
Ref: DRN56785803This shows that, at the time of loans 4 and 5, Miss L was having problems managing her 
money. In particular she had been  unable to fully pay her mortgage. And this had been 
happening for some time before this. So as Miss L was unable to repay  one of her most 
important creditors it seems  reasonable to say that she would be unable  to sustainably repay 
any further borrowing. 
I think that Sunny wouldve found  out this information if it had made proportionate checks.  
And I think Sunny wouldve seen  Miss L wouldnt have been  able repay loans 4 and 5 in a 
sustainable way. So I think that Sunny shouldnt have given loans 4 and 5 to Miss L and 
I think shes lost out as a result of this. So Im upholding  Miss Ls complaint about  loans 4 
and 5. Sunny should put things right as Ive detailed  below.  
putting things right  what Sunny needs  to do
refund  all interest and charges Miss L paid on loans 4 and 5;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement*;
remove any negative information  about loans 4 and 5 from Miss Ls credit file;
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Miss L a certificate showing  how much  tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I partly uphold  Miss Ls complaint.
Elevate Credit International Limited should  put things right by doing what  Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss L to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 June  2020
Andy Burlinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5678580