K820x#14complaint
Mrs D has complained about the sale of a payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy 
taken out in May 2003 in connection with a store card.  The underwriter of the PPI policy  
now AXA France IARD (AXA)  has taken responsibility for answering this complaint, so 
Ill refer to AXA from now on. 
background
AXA didnt agree to this service considering the complaint because it said Mrs D sent it to us 
too late. Thats because it was sent to us more  than six months  after the date of AXAs  final 
response letter. 
Our adjudicator looked at the complaint and said that we couldnt consider it because  it 
hadnt been referred in time.  
Through her representatives, Mrs D disagreed with that view. The representative  argued  the 
final response letter had been issued on 31 August 2018 and they referred the matter to us 
on 21 September 2018. It was further argued that the complaint was made in time. 
As Mrs D doesnt agree  with what our adjudicator said,  the matter  has been passed  to me so 
I can make  a jurisdiction decision.  I wish to make  clear  I am only looking at whether we have 
powers to look at her complaint.  I havent  considered whether the complaint should be 
upheld. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This service can only consider a complaint if it falls within certain criteria laid down in the 
case-handling rules we have to apply. These are found in the Dispute Resolution  (DISP)  
section of the Financial  Conduct Authority Handbook  this can be found online, or we can 
provide a copy on request.
The rules  say that where a business  doesnt  agree, I cant consider a complaint which  is 
referred to this service  more than six months  after the business sends the complainant its 
final response letter advising  them that they may refer the complaint to this service.  Dispute 
Resolution (DISP) rule 2.8.2R can be found in the Financial Conduct Authoritys handbook 
of rules and guidance (available  online).
The first thing Ive thought  about  is when the time limit started to run in this case.  
AXA provided us with a copy of a final response letter  dated  20 December 2017, which it 
says was sent to Mrs D and her representative.  The representative sent us a copy  of a 
covering letter from AXA enclosing that same  final response letter. And it looks as though  
that document was received in the representatives  offices on 2 January 2018.  
I am satisfied that the final response  letter sent to Mrs D on 20 December  2017  was a valid 
final response letter. In particular, I note that it set out what she needed to do if she was not 
happy with the decision. Information was provided  about this service, and the letter also set 
out the six-month time limit. On that basis, Mrs D had to refer her complaint to this service no 
later than 20 June 2018. It wasnt received until September  2018,  so Im satisfied that it was 
referred out of time under the rules  I have to apply. 
Ref: DRN59262252Mrs Ds representative argues that a further  letter dated 31 August 2018 constitutes the final 
response. Im afraid I dont agree. The letter of 31 August 2018 was in response to the 
representative resubmitting the same  complaint to AXA. It stated that time would run to refer 
the complaint  to this service from the letter of 20 December 2017. No further  referral  rights 
were given on 31 August  2018 and I cant reasonably say this correspondence  amounted  to 
the final response letter when it had already been issued some months earlier. On that 
basis, it did not change  the time limit which started to run on 20 December 2017. 
I can consider complaints  made out of time where  Im satisfied the failure to comply with 
the time limits was due to exceptional circumstances that prevented  Mrs N from referring 
her complaint to us in time. I havent been provided  with any information  as to why the 
complaint was referred late, so I cant say exceptional circumstances apply. I cant  say the 
letter of 31 August 2018 affects my decision in this regard not least because  by the time 
that was sent,  the complaint was already out of time under  the rules  I have  to apply. 
Im satisfied the complaint was referred  to us outside the time limit under the rules I must  
apply and the provisions in respect  of exceptional  circumstances  dont  apply. Im afraid that 
means this service cannot consider  Mrs Ds complaint.  
my decision
For the reasons  set out above, my decision is that this service does not have power to 
consider Mrs Ds complaint because  it was referred  out of time.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 August 2021.
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman 
Ref: DRN5926225