K820x#14Complaint
Ms P says Bank of Scotland Plc, trading as Halifax, mis-sold her a Total  Mortgage  Protection 
Plan (TMPP).  A TMPP is a type of protection policy which  typically includes mortgage 
payment protection insurance (MPPI)  together with other features, such  as life insurance  
and critical illness cover (CIC). The individual elements  of the TMPP can be added or taken 
out as the consumer wishes.  
We now know Ms P was sold all the above elements of the TMPP; that is to say, MPPI, life 
cover and CIC.  Only the first of these is a form of PPI, as this protected  Ms P in the event of 
her losing her job or being unable to work. 
The life cover and CIC protected  different eventualities and I understand Ms P has been 
offered redress in respect of these by Halifax.
Background
One of our adjudicators has already provided Ms P with an answer  about  her MPPI 
complaint. They said that they didnt think it was mis-sold. Ms P disagreed  and asked for an 
ombudsmans final decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Having done this Ive decided not to uphold Ms Ps complaint.
Ms P says she wasnt  told enough  about the MPPI  or given any documents.  She thinks  she 
was coerced into having it. Halifax  was only able to supply us with certain  bits of information 
as nearly all the documents relating to the sale are no longer available. However, as the 
sale was in 2004, some 15 years  ago, it isnt that unusual that we dont have the original 
documents left. Businesses arent required  to keep records indefinitely.
Nevertheless, we still have some records, and I think theres  evidence  to support that Ms P 
probably agreed to the cover. Its obviously now possible that because  of the passage of 
time, Ms P has forgotten  about  this. 
For example, Halifax sent me screenshots of its computer system relating to Ms Ps 
account. These would  have probably been inputted  at the time of the mortgage  meeting 
and they show  she was asked a number  of questions about her job and health. This 
suggests to me that this discussion was about  TMPP products. 
Ive also seen quite  a few very similar sales to this and I know  from these that Halifax  
tended to set out which (if any) TMPP  products  the consumer had agreed  to buy on a 
schedule which was sent to them. Consumers were  also usually given details  about  the 
policy rules.  I note Ms P bought life and CIC cover too. Again, to me, this makes it far less 
likely she wasnt  sent or given something explaining what  shed  agreed  to buy. Overall I 
think what she would have been  given would have been quite  comprehensive.
Ref: DRN55047852So, whilst accepting that neither party has much hard evidence left after so long, I think  all 
these things indicate its more likely Ms P would have agreed  and been  able to see shed 
accepted certain  elements of cover. I think this would have shown her that these were all 
optional products. In short, I find it more likely  Halifax properly obtained her consent.
 
Next, I specifically looked to see if the MPPI  was suitable for Ms P because  Halifax 
recommended this to her as part of an advised sale. I think  it was suitable and I say this 
because Ms P seems  to have been eligible  for the cover  and not caught by any of the 
major exclusions  we tend to see in these policies. 
Ms P also said she already had some sickness protection with her job. Ive thought carefully 
about this and I understand the point thats being made. But Im afraid this doesnt 
necessarily mean the cover wasnt suitable  for her. I think  her mortgage was a significant 
and long-term financial  commitment and secured against her home.  So the consequences 
of her not being  able to make the repayments  could  have been serious. The MPPI cover,  
on the other hand, was designed  to pay a monthly  sum for up to 24 months if shed needed  
to claim. In my experience, this period  is for longer than many MPPI policies that were sold 
at around that time and it was for much longer than the protection provided  with her job.
Halifax also had a duty to provide information that was clear, fair and not misleading. From 
similar policies  Ive seen, evidence that the costs  were  set out during the sale was usually 
present. I accept we no longer have the actual copies now in respect of Ms P, but I think its 
more likely she would have known  what  the cover was costing.
Having carefully considered this case,  I think its more likely that Ms P tailored the cover to 
suit her needs of the time. I think she probably  agreed to the MPPI because it was 
something she thought  would  be useful  to have at the time.  Im sorry to disappoint her.
My final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Ms Ps complaint  and I dont direct  
Bank of Scotland Plc to do anything to put matters right. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Ms P to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 September 2019.
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN5504785