K821x#15complaint
Mr D complains that British Gas Insurance Limited (BGI) mistakenly  arranged  for an 
engineer to visit and enter his home under his home  emergency insurance policy, when his 
elderly mother was there alone, which caused  distress to him and his mother.
background
Mr D lived in the downstairs part of a property with his elderly mother. The upstairs part of 
the property was owned by someone else (unconnected to Mr D) who let it to a tenant. 
Mr D had a home emergency policy with BGI covering his central heating  boiler and system. 
Coincidentally, Mr Bs upstairs  neighbour also had a home emergency insurance policy with 
BGI for his boiler.
In November 2018 the upstairs tenant phoned BGI to arrange a visit for their boiler.  BGIs  
representative failed  to check BGIs records properly and by mistake  set up the visit for      
Mr Ds house. 
The engineer arrived, and Mr Ds mother was alone  in the house.  She wasnt expecting a 
visit from BGI as Mr D hadnt said anything to her. However the engineer  was carrying a 
worksheet with her sons name on it, so she let him in. She phoned Mr D on his mobile 
phone.
Mr D said he hadnt arranged any appointment and told his mother to ask the engineer  to 
leave. The engineer rang the contact number he had been given. He spoke to the upstairs 
tenant, when the mistake  was discovered, and the engineer left Mr Ds house.
Mr D complained to BGI. He was worried there had been a breach by BGI of his personal 
data, and complained about  the distress  the incident  had caused him and his mother.
BGI acknowledged that its representative had made a mistake and sent its engineer to the 
wrong address.  It apologised  for this and paid Mr D compensation  of £70 for the distress and 
inconvenience it had caused him and his mother.  It said there hadnt been any breach of     
Mr Ds personal  data.  Mr D didnt think £70 was sufficient compensation and complained  to 
us.
Our investigator recommended that this complaint should be upheld. She said she had 
listened to a recording of the initial phone call with BGIs representative setting  up the visit. 
She agreed  there hadnt  been any breach in respect of Mr Ds personal data. However the 
representative had failed to ask the relevant questions  to establish the identity of the 
policyholder of the upstairs flat.
The result was the representative booked  the visit for the wrong property.  The visit had a 
significant impact on Mr Ds mother  because  she wasnt  expecting any visit from BGI, and 
then she found  her son hadnt arranged  it. So the investigator recommended  that BGI 
increase the compensation for the distress it had caused to £200, inclusive of the £70 it had 
already paid.
Mr D accepted the investigators recommendation. However BGI responded to say, in 
summary, that:
Ref: DRN53913582its representative had made  a genuine  mistake when the visit was set up;
its engineer would have arrived in a BGI van, worn a BGI uniform, and carried a BGI 
identity pass;
Mr Ds mother  allowed  the engineer into the house. She could have refused entry  
while she phoned her son to check if he had arranged a visit;
when the mistake became evident,  it was resolved quickly.  As soon as the engineer 
saw the mothers  agitation he left Mr Ds house; and 
it thought the £70 it had paid was fair compensation  in the circumstances.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think BGIs  representative was careless,  and didnt follow BGIs procedures correctly,  when 
she set up the visit, with the result that the engineer went to the wrong address. In these 
days of scams and fraudsters Mr D says his mother is afraid  of people coming into the house 
without prior arrangement, which I can quite understand.
The engineer seemed  to Mr Ds mother  to be a genuine BGI engineer and carried 
documentation with Mr Ds name on it. So she let him in, but prudently  checked with her son. 
It then transpired  that he hadnt arranged the visit, which  caused  both Mr D and his mother 
distress. Her agitation  was evident to the engineer at the time.
While in other circumstances, and with other customers, BGIs compensation payment of 
£70 might have been  reasonable,  in the circumstances  of this particular case I dont think it 
sufficiently recognises  the degree of distress Mr and his mother suffered. I agree with the 
investigator that appropriate compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused to    
Mr D and his mother is £200,  inclusive of the £70 it has already paid.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint, and order British Gas Insurance Limited to pay 
Mr D compensation of £200, inclusive of the £70 it has already paid.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 November  2019.
Lennox Towers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5391358