K821x#15complaint
Miss G complains  that HSBC UK Bank Plc, (trading  as First  Direct),  mis-sold  her a 
mortgage payment  protection insurance, (MPPI), policy.
background
Miss G took out the policy by post in late 2007 / early 2008. It covered Miss G for accident,  
sickness and unemployment.
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint should be upheld. As First Direct 
disagreed, the matter  has been passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to sales about payment protection  insurance  on our 
website. Ive followed this in deciding Miss Gs complaint
Ive decided to uphold this complaint. Im focusing on one issue  which Im satisfied is 
sufficient for me to conclude that the MPPI was mis-sold.
The terms of the policy included that it wouldnt pay out for any medical condition that Miss G 
knew of, or should reasonably have known  of, on the start date of the insurance  and which  
recurred within 12 months of such start date, (the term). I find that this would have 
mattered to Miss G. I say this because  she had a medical condition that I think  it would be 
reasonable for her to have thought,  at the time she took out the MPPI,  might so reoccur. 
I dont think that First Direct recommended Miss G to take out the MPPI. This means that it 
was up to her to decide whether she wanted it, in the light of her circumstances at the time.  
But First Direct had to give Miss G clear, fair and not-misleading information about  the 
insurance so that she could make an informed decision. The term was set out in the policy  
document and a key facts summary  of it. But these were closely worded documents.  And 
there was nothing in them, or any other  documents  Ive seen,  drawing Miss Gs attention to 
the term. So Im not satisfied that First Direct made  the term clear enough. Had it done  so, I 
think that Miss G would have changed  her mind and declined  the policy, as she wouldnt 
have been able to claim in all the circumstances that she would otherwise have expected  to 
be able to.
So I think that Miss G has lost out because of what First Direct did wrong during the sale.
putting things right
First Direct  must put Miss G into the position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out MPPI. 
First Direct  should:
Pay Miss G the amount she paid each month for the MPPI;
Ref: DRN54681572Add simple interest to each payment from when she paid it until she gets it back.  
The rate of interest is 8% a year;
As Miss G made  a successful claim under the MPPI policy First Direct  can take off what 
she got for the claim from the amount it owes her.
 If First Direct considers  that its required by HM Revenue  & Customs to withhold  income  
tax from that interest, it should tell Miss G how much its taken off. It should  also give Miss G 
a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue 
& Customs if appropriate.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint and I order HSBC UK Bank Plc to pay Miss G 
compensation calculated as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 March 2019.
Ros Barnett
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5468157