K820x#14complaint
Miss M complains about HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) regarding its handling of her 
application to increase  her credit card limit. She wants HSBC  to agree her limit increase and 
to pay her compensation for the inconvenience  she has been  caused. 
 
background
Miss M is a long standing  customer of HSBC and has held a credit  card for some time.  
Some years  ago, HSBC proactively increased  Miss Ms credit limit. She then requested  it be 
set back to a lower level and HSBC  reduced her limit. 
Miss M has substantial savings in another HSBC  account. 
In mid 2017,  Miss M wrote to HSBC asking that it increase her credit card limit by £250.  
HSBC wrote back to her and advised that she would  have to attend  an appointment in 
branch in order to apply  for any increase. 
Miss M attended the branch  and applied for an increase in her limit. She was not employed 
at that time.
HSBC rejected her application to increase her limit. A member  of staff that Miss M had met 
with made  further  efforts to have the application agreed,  but was unsuccessful.  
Miss M complained to HSBC that it had rejected her application. She commented  that her 
circumstances had not changed  since her limit was increased some years earlier, and her 
savings with the bank were  sufficient to show that she could repay any borrowing. She 
therefore wanted to know why her application had been rejected. 
HSBC wrote to her explaining  that it could not consider her savings as an income  for the 
purposes of lending and so it maintained its decision not to increase her credit  limit. HSBC 
credited Miss M £30 as a goodwill gesture because she had had to attend the branch. 
Miss M wrote again to the business  and asked what had changed since her earlier credit 
limit increase. 
HSBC sent her its final response letter in October 2017. This set out that the decision 
information and lending criteria were commercially  sensitive and could not be shared with 
her. 
Miss M did not receive  that letter in October, so chased the business in November. A copy  of 
the response was provided to her in early December 2017. 
Miss M was not happy with the response  and contacted us. 
One of our adjudicators has looked into this matter and set out her view to the parties.  This 
was that HSBC is entitled to decide  whether and when to lend or to extend lending  and we 
cannot force  the business to lend more than it wishes to. She did not think  there  was any 
evidence of HSBC  acting wrongfully and so did not recommend that the complaint be 
upheld. 
Ref: DRN50411582Miss M was not happy with this view and asked  that an ombudsman review  her complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Miss Ms confusion at the change in HSBCs appetite to lend to her, especially 
when her circumstances have not changed.  I appreciate that this would be frustrating,  
especially given that Miss Ms use of a credit card has changed and she now has to make  
additional purchases on it for another person. 
However, I agree with the adjudicators view that businesses are entitled to decide who they 
lend to, and what  criteria  they are prepared to accept  in lending. 
Miss M has noted that she has substantial savings with HSBC which would cover the 
additional lending,  but those savings  could be removed at any time and are not held as 
security for lending.
Miss M indicated that she does not have a regular income, and I do not think  it unreasonable 
that HSBC decided not to increase lending to Miss M in the circumstances. 
Miss M says that she feels that she has been discriminated against. I have not seen any 
evidence of discrimination and the decision appears  to be based on lending  criteria, 
including affordability, which was reasonable. 
As a result, I cannot say that HSBC has acted  wrongly towards Miss M in rejecting her 
application. 
Miss M says that she was inconvenienced  by having to attend  an appointment in branch to 
apply for the increase as HSBC would not process the application by letter.  I accept this but 
do not think that it is unreasonable for HSBC to want to have direct communication with an 
applicant, either by telephone or another method. Since Miss M did not use telephone  
banking it was reasonable to require her to attend an in person appointment. I do not criticise 
HSBC for this, but in any event note that it has already credited Miss M £30 as a goodwill 
gesture for her inconvenience. I would not ask it to do anything further. 
Whilst I understand that this will be disappointing  for Miss M, I do not uphold her complaint  
and do not ask the business to do anything further.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I do not uphold Miss Ms complaint  and do not ask HSBC UK 
Bank Plc to do anything  further. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 February  2019.
Laura Garvin-Smith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5041158