K821x#15complaint
Mr Z complains that Skipton Building  Society made an entry against his name on the CIFAS  
fraud prevention database when it declined an application he made for a buy to let 
mortgage.
background
Mr Z applied, through a broker, for a buy to let mortgage in 2014. Skipton refused the 
application. 
Some years  later, in 2018, Mr Z was advised  to check the CIFAS register. He made  a 
subject access request and found  that Skipton had registered an entry for application  fraud 
in connection  with the mortgage application.
Mr Z complained. Skipton removed the marker, explaining that it had reviewed the 
circumstances of the application following his complaint.
Mr Z complained to us. He didnt think removing the marker was enough. He wanted 
substantial compensation. He said he had been planning to expand  his business around that 
time. But he hadnt been able to because he had been refused credit to buy transport and 
equipment. He said hed lost out on bigger contracts  and profit  as a result.  And he said 
other banks  and building societies had refused  him mortgage applications and closed or 
refused to open  bank accounts. He hadnt  understood why until he found out about the 
CIFAS entry, but the problems with his finances over the years  had caused  him significant 
financial loss and had affected his health.
Our investigator recommended upholding the complaint and said Skipton should  pay Mr Z 
£1,000 compensation. Neither  party was happy  with that. Skipton said that while  it wouldnt  
place the entry on the register now, it had done  so in compliance  with its policy  at the time. 
So it didnt think the complaint should be upheld at all. And Mr Z said the compensation 
didnt go nearly  far enough to recognise  the impact  on him  or take into account  his 
financial loss.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think the first thing to say here is that mortgage  lenders  dont have to accept  applications, 
and are entitled to refuse to lend, as long as the decisions not made on grounds that are 
unfair or unlawful.  And theres no obligation to give reasons for a refusal. In any case, the 
lending decision itself isnt the subject matter  of this complaint, so Im not going to comment  
on Skiptons lending decision.
As any lender  does,  Skipton  considered  all the documentation  Mr Zs broker  provided and 
considered the outcome of its various  underwriting checks. That consideration not only led it 
to refuse  the lending   it led it to place an entry on the CIFAS database, and its that entry 
thats the subject  of this complaint.
Its unfortunate that Skipton  hasnt been able to give a consistent explanation of why it 
placed the entry. At first, it told our investigator  that it was because it appeared Mr Z was 
Ref: DRN53412212receiving the rent for a different buy to let property he hadnt  declared. Mr Z told the 
investigator that property  belonged to his parents,  who gifted him the income from it.
Skipton then said that wasnt  the reason for the entry. It said it was because of 
inconsistencies in Mr Zs income  which it wasnt able to verify using its standard checks. It 
said that at the time, it was its policy to record a marker when information couldnt be 
verified. But now it doesnt do so without making  further investigations. It followed its policy 
at the time, so it doesnt think it acted unfairly  and it removed the marker, in line with its 
current policy, once Mr Z challenged  it.
I accept that Skipton followed  its policy at the time. But I dont think  thats the end of the 
matter. An entry on a fraud prevention database  is a serious  step. It suggests that a lender 
believes an applicant has committed fraud. 
CIFAS now publishes principles for its members. One of the principles says that lenders 
should only record entries on its database  when  the standard of proof  is met  the standard  
is that the lender should have reasonable grounds to believe a crime has been committed 
such that the matter  could  confidently be reported  to the police  (though its not a requirement 
that a report actually be made). It applied a similar  test at the time Skipton placed the entry  
on the register.
Bearing that in mind, and bearing in mind whats fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances, I dont  think  it was fair for Skipton to have recorded  an entry in 2014. While it 
couldnt verify what Mr Z had told it, I think it could  have done more,  once it learned that, to 
try to find out whether that was a result of a genuine error or a fraudulent  application, or 
some other reason. I dont think Skipton has shown that the evidence  it had in 2014 was 
sufficient to reach the threshold of being  able to make a justifiable  report  of fraud to the 
police. And while its policy  was to make  a report to CIFAS at the time, as its since said one 
of the reasons it changed the policy was because it came to understand it wasnt  correct.  
That being  the case, I now need to decide  what Skipton needs  to do to put matters right.  Ive 
considered what  Mr Z has said about his financial  losses. But I dont have enough evidence 
to say that Skipton is responsible for them. 
I dont know why other lenders refused his applications and closed his accounts. But a 
marker on the database should not lead to an automatic refusal  lenders must still make  
their own checks  and make their own decisions.  I dont  have  any evidence of what  decisions 
the other banks and building  societies made or why they made  them, so I cant  fairly say that 
the refusals were  because of Skiptons marker  or that, but for the marker, Mr Zs 
applications would have been granted.
Ive seen Mr Zs business plan. It shows his projected income. But theres no guarantee that 
would come to pass. And to the extent Mr Z was prevented  from expanding  his business 
because of a lack of access  to credit,  as Ive said I cant fairly say that this was because of 
Skiptons marker.
However, its clear that discovering the marker has caused Mr Z substantial  distress. Ive 
taken his health conditions into account   and even while  I dont have evidence  they were  
caused by Skiptons actions, I do think they meant learning about  it had a particular impact 
on him. In all the circumstances, I agree £1,000 is fair compensation.
Ref: DRN53412213my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I uphold  this complaint and direct Skipton 
Building Society to 
Pay Mr Z £1,000 compensation; and
If it hasnt  done  so, remove external fraud  markers from Mr Zs name
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr Z to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 December 2019.
Simon Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5341221