K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
1995. Mrs S and Mr T say Santander  UK Plc mis-sold them the PPI. 
background
In 1995 Mrs S and Mr T took out a PPI policy with a mortgage. They paid a monthly amount 
for the policy.
The policy provided  cover  for Mrs S only for accident, sickness and unemployment. If she 
had made  a successful  claim the policy would have paid out the monthly benefit for up to 
36 months if she had been unable to work  due to accident or sickness  and for up to 
12 months if she was to become unemployed.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. Santander disagreed  and so the matter  has been  
passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs S and Mr Ts case. 
Ive decided to uphold Mrs S and Mr Ts complaint.  Ill explain why.
Neither party can provide  any details about  where or how the sale took place, however, 
Santander has told us that they recommended the policy to Mrs S and Mr T. This means it 
had to take reasonable steps  to ensure that the policy was right for Mrs S. But, based  on 
what Ive seen about her circumstances  at the time, I dont  think  the policy  was right for her.
Santander has given  us a copy of the policy summary which it says would have been the 
document applicable  at the time of Mrs S and Mr T taking out this policy.  On this document  it 
states that cover wont be provided for the recurrence of any disability or illness for which  
you sought medical advice in the 2-year period immediately prior to the start of your cover. 
Mrs S has told both Santander and us that she had a pre-existing ongoing medical condition 
at the time of taking out the policy. And she has gone  on to explain that this ongoing  
condition required her to receive treatment  and/or  medication. I think its likely that any claim 
for sickness or unemployment  would be excluded as a result  of the term stated above. And I 
think this would have  mattered to Mrs S especially  when considering  the ongoing nature of 
this type of condition she was suffering from.
Santander has said that any pre-existing conditions would have been  discussed at the time 
of the sale and it would have formed part of a suitability check to make sure the policy was 
right for Mrs S and Mr T. It also said that the exclusion would have been discussed with 
Mrs S and she would  have received the leaflet  with the information. While Ive noted these 
comments, I dont have any evidence to support that Santander  asked questions  about 
Mrs Ss health at the time of the sale and, having then found out about this condition, it went 
on to advise her that it was unlikely the policy would provide  cover  for this. I dont think that, 
Ref: DRN59496882if Mrs S had been told she wouldnt be covered for the condition she was suffering from, she 
would have thought this policy would  have been  a good choice for her. 
So when taking  everything Ive seen and been told into consideration, I dont think  Mrs S 
would have gone ahead with the PPI had Santander  advised her, as it should have, that she 
wouldnt be covered  for this condition. And so I think Mrs S and Mr T have lost out as a 
result of what Santander did wrong.
what the business should  do to put things right
Santander should put Mrs S and Mr T in the position  theyd be in now if they hadnt  taken  out 
PPI. The policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled already, and Santander 
should:
Pay Mrs S and Mr T the amount they paid each month for the PPI
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back.  The 
rate of interest is 8% a year.
If Mrs S and Mr T made  a successful claim under the PPI policy, Santander  can take off 
what they got for the claim from the amount it owes them.  
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Santander to take off tax from this interest. Santander  
must give Mrs S and Mr T a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for 
one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mrs S and Mr Ts complaint.
Santander UK Plc should put things right by doing what  Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs S and Mr T 
to accept or reject my decision before 28 April 2019.
Jenny Giles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5949688