K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains about Aviva Insurance Limited  refusing  continuing cover  under a 
Rent Protection and Legal Expenses Insurance Policy.
background
I sent the parties a provisional decision last month  setting out the background to the 
complaint between Mr S and Aviva. Ive attached an italicised extract  from that decision 
which includes my reasons for not being  minded to uphold  Mr S complaint. 
replies
Aviva confirmed it had nothing to add. Mr S has sent a comprehensive reply setting out his 
disagreement with my provisional decision.  Ive taken his reply into account but wont  detail 
every point he raised in this decision.
In summary,  the main points Mr S raises  are:
Funding was withdrawn because of disrepair not on tenant  payment schedule
It wasnt his intention  to override the policy terms
There was no disrepair
The tenants were  responsible under the tenancy for ensuring appropriate heating 
and ventilation
Mr S has set out a number of questions he wants me to answer.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint,  including the full extent of his reply.
While I appreciate Mr S is disappointed by my provisional decision he hasnt raised  anything  
new that leads  me to reach a different outcome. I understand Mr S was trying to facilitate his 
tenant catch up on rent arrears and didnt  want to take more  serious  proceedings, unless the 
tenant defaulted on the catch up payments. But for the reasons outlined  in my provisional 
decision Im not persuaded to reach a different outcome;
the agent  was aware of the tendency for the tenants to pay their rate late and that 
housing benefit  timeliness was put forward as a contributory factor. A note in the 
agents information of 13 April 2017 says rent indemnity will only be paid out where 
notice (I take to be under  the Housing Act) has been served on the tenant. On 
13 April its apparent that Mr S had spoken with the agent and sent an email  saying 
he preferred for the agent to chase the tenant further for rent. Im satisfied that it was 
made clear the policy would only kick-in where  notice had been served but Mr S 
preferred not to go down that route.
The other issues I detailed as my provisional  findings remain unchanged  by Mr S reply. The 
issue about maintenance and repair were specific actions against Mr S and indeed which the 
defence and counterclaim addressed. Mr S had also reached  an agreement  with the other  
sides solicitor and I remain  satisfied  that this prejudiced Aviva by the altering of the tenancy  
agreement payment terms, dealing with and reaching a form of agreement  with the other  
side and not serving  a notice on the tenants  when informed about  it.
Ref: DRN54611132my final decision
I dont uphold Mr S complaint against  Aviva Insurance  Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 February  2019.
Sean Hamilton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN54611133COPY OF THE PROVSIONAL  DECISION
Mr S was in dispute with tenants who were behind  in rent payments for a property he rented to them.  
Mr S wanted  legal assistance to recover rent and gain possession of the property and so made a 
claim.
Solicitors were appointed, but shortly after this cover  under the policy was withdrawn. In summary, it 
was concluded that;
Mr S had failed to mitigate his losses by not enforcing his rights under the tenancy agreement 
earlier
Mr S was in breach of the tenancy agreement as hed failed  to maintain the property.
And because  of these aspects the policy didnt cover Mr S.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint  and explained that there was a history of Mr S 
agreeing to accept late rental payments from around 2016 and this was in breach of the insurance  
policy. But he noted that rent was always brought up to date within 60 days  of being due and was 
apparently frustrated by delayed  housing benefit payments. So he thought it was reasonable  for Mr S 
not to commence repossession  proceedings. And it was only when  rent arrears reached more than 60 
days that Mr S claimed cover under  the policy.
The investigator also noted the agency  that dealt with the management of the property was the same 
business that administered claims on behalf of Aviva.
The investigator explained that there were  no apparent  losses as a result of Mr S failing  to maintain 
the property.  And the policy only excluded  loss of rent for breach of the tenancy  agreement where  the 
breach directly or indirectly led to the loss. And he thought  it was only when  Mr S initiated  action for 
loss of rent that the tenants brought  up the issue of disrepair. A surveyors report  suggested the 
property was in reasonable condition except  for condensation and mould growth, which could be a 
result of how the tenants were managing the property.
So the investigator  thought  the agent should have raised any issues with Mr S about  his potential  
breach of the tenancy agreement earlier than came to light. He said the legal costs should be covered 
and interest  added to any payments that Mr S had made.
Aviva disagreed with the investigator on a number of issues.  A summary of Avivas points are as 
follows:
The agent  doesnt  fall under financial services regulation so couldnt discuss the financial  
product as that could be construed as advice
Mr S should  have been aware  of the policy  terms and conditions 
Relevant Housing legislation permits  Mr S to issue  notices to the tenants where there are two 
clear months of arrears, but Mr S continuously allowed late payment and there was no 
evidence that housing benefit was paid late
Mr S had actually reached  a settlement with the tenants, which  included permitting them  to 
remain at the property  after legal proceedings resulting  in another  tenancy agreement  being 
signed
Arrears started in 2013, a notice to evict was served in June 2016 but no further action taken 
by Mr S.
Mould and damp problems were raised  in January 2017 and attempts  to repair were not 
successful and put Mr S in breach of Rent Protection general exceptions
Mr S had unilaterally contacted the other sides solicitors and prejudiced proceedings.
Ref: DRN54611134The investigator wasnt  persuaded  to change his view and didnt think Aviva  had been  prejudiced. In 
relation to mould growth he said action  was taken after discovery and although  the problem continued  
the surveyor  had suggested this could be a result of how the tenants were managing the property 
(poor ventilation and heating).  And he explained that had Mr S initiated  eviction earlier  its not certain 
that Aviva would have been more likely  to recover  its costs  from the other side.  Also,  there was no 
certainty that he would have  been successful in evicting  the tenants.
Aviva asked for an ombudsman  to make a decision making a number of further points,  including:
If the circumstances in which the insurance  was entered into are materially altered without 
Avivas written consent  the policy shall be voidable from the date of the change.
Mr S changed  the fundamental terms & conditions of the tenancy agreement by permitting the 
tenant to make payments 60 days later than the official rent due date specified in the legally 
binding tenancy  agreement. 
By accepting late payment dates Mr S adversely affected the Rent Protection & Legal 
Expenses Insurance. 
Mr S compromised  his insurance in July 2017 by reaching a private agreement  with the 
tenants to make  payment of an additional  amount  each month.
Despite historical rent arrears Mr S chose not to take Avivas advice to serve a Section 21 
Notice, and this would have mitigated his losses  and prevented the tenants from lodging  such 
a defence/counterclaim. 
The Independent Report upon which the defence/counterclaim  was lodged cites a clear 
breach of Mr Ss statutory obligation under  Section 11 of the Landlord  & Tenant Act by failing  
to address the defects cited.
Mr S breached  a number  of clauses  of the Assured  Shorthold  Tenancy Agreement including   
Condition of the Premises and Repair.   
Mr S breached  parts of the General  Exceptions section of the Rent  Protection  & Legal  
Expenses Insurance Policy.
The Courts permit  tenants to bring to their attention up to and including the date of the 
hearing any matters  of disrepair,  irrespective  of the landlords/agents having any prior 
knowledge.
Addressing any disrepair issues on defended cases / counterclaims will not be funded under 
the policy  and as such the landlord is required to address them  directly.
Funding was withdrawn  upon the case becoming defended due to disrepair. 
Mr S no longer instructed the allocated Solicitors and attempted to address the matter 
himself, however he only compounded  the matter by contacting the other sides (Legal Aid 
funded) Solicitors declaring his hand and by default admitting liability, letting them know fully 
of his plight and handing  them  the incentive to proceed knowing full well he wasnt in a 
position to fund such  proceedings. Only at this stage did Mr S reinstruct the solicitors, but in a 
more detrimental position.
The complaint was initially raised  prior to the landlord  making a subsequent full & final Out of 
Court Settlement  with the other sides solicitors, 
oincluding a further  period of tenancy despite  the history of arrears
oWriting off the debt
oReturning the security deposit
Mr S also reached a Full & Final settlement with the local management branch.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
The starting  place to establish whether  Mr S is entitled cover under  the policy, in the circumstances  of 
the claim, is the policy itself.
Ref: DRN54611135The policy is six pages and is presented in boxes some of which with numbered  sections with bold 
writing briefly describing each section. Under the general conditions section 3 is about change in 
circumstances and says;
If the circumstances in which the insurance  was entered into are materially  altered  without [Avivas] 
written consent this Policy  shall be voidable  from the date of the change.
The policy sets out that Aviva agrees  to cover Mr S for legal expenses  incurred in connection with 
proceedings for possession of the property when The Tenant is in arrears  by failing to pay rent.  And 
there is cover for rent arrears for loss of rent where the tenant in arrears  by failure to pay rent. 
Under the general exceptions section (section 3) the policy says it doesnt cover loss of rent or legal 
costs directly  or indirectly caused by or contributed to or arising from;
(a)[Mr S] failing to comply  with the terms of the Tenancy Agreement  in so far as these apply to 
[Mr S]
(b)[Mr S] failing to comply  with any Statutory duties imposed upon [him]  as the Insured/Landlord
(c)Any dispute between  [Mr S] and the Tenant in relation to [Mr Ss] obligations under  the 
Tenancy Agreement  or failure to comply  with them
(d)Any dispute between  [Mr S] and the Tenant in relation to the Tenants obligations under  the 
Tenancy Agreement  or failure to comply  with them, with the exception  of the Tenants 
obligation to pay rent
(e)[Mr S] failing to ensure  that The Premises are in a satisfactory condition for rental  and 
complies with all current legislation.
And under a section How to Claim it says all claims  for rent arrears are processed automatically by 
the agent  acting as Avivas agent. And the agent will notify Aviva once it becomes aware that the 
tenant is in arrears for more  than one calendar  month after the rent due date.  
While that sets out the contractual obligations  under  the policy my role is to consider what  is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. As a starting point Im satisfied based on 
everything Ive seen  that it was reasonable for Aviva to conclude that Mr S materially altered the 
terms of the tenancy agreement in relation to late / deferred rental payments. And, on balance, there 
were issues  with the property that are highly  suggestive  that it wasnt  maintained in a satisfactory 
condition. It seems that the main issue was with a defective  hallway radiator and the surveyor 
commented on the importance  of this working  properly to best mitigate  the condensation issues. 
However, he is also clear that there were likely  to be issues  with the way the tenants used heating  
and ventilation in the property. I note that the agent managing the property did so on a fully managed 
basis. 
What is apparent from all the information is that the agent was aware  of the tendency for the tenants 
to pay their rate late and that housing  benefit timeliness  was put forward as a contributory factor. A 
note in the agents information  of 13 April 2017 says rent indemnity will only be paid out where  notice  
(I take to be under the Housing Act) has been served on the tenant.  On 13 April its apparent that 
Mr S had spoken with the agent and sent an email  saying  he preferred for the agent to chase the 
tenant further for rent. Im satisfied that it was made clear the policy would only kick-in where  notice 
had been served but Mr S preferred not to go down  that route.
By May 2017 Mr S explained to the agent that the tenant had offered to pay the monthly  rental fee 
plus an additional £50 to make up rent arrears and he was happy with that. And even during the 
course of litigation the notes say Mr S preferred to try and reach an out of court settlement.
Taking everything into account there are certainly  issues that negatively  impact on Mr Ss ability to 
have a valid claim  under the policy; not least the fact that despite it being  clear  in the policy when  
cover for rent arrears would apply, even  when  reminded about  this Mr S chose to do something in the 
alternative.
Ref: DRN54611136I dont agree with the investigator or Mr S that there were no apparent  losses due to the condition of 
the property.  The defence and counterclaim  cite these specifically and to properly defend this would  
necessitate lawyers  dealing with this on Mr Ss behalf. Indeed  some of the solicitors fees that Mr S is 
liable for specifically  cite the preparation of a reply and defence to the counterclaim. And as 
mentioned earlier in italics  in this decision, the policy  excludes cover for legal costs caused by or 
contributed to or arising from the property being in a satisfactory condition or any statutory obligation 
on Mr S as a landlord.  
I appreciate that Mr S was perhaps trying to accommodate his tenants but the rental  issues were  not 
a one-off and carried on a period of time. Despite  being told about how the policy  intervenes on the 
issue of rent arrears, Mr S made  his own arrangement with the tenants to create a new payment 
schedule.
Further issues  arose with Mr S dealing  with the other sides solicitors and reaching a form of 
agreement. In all the circumstances I am satisfied that Mr S has prejudiced  Aviva by the altering of 
the tenancy agreement payment terms, dealing  with and reaching a form of agreement with the other 
side and not serving a notice on the tenants when informed about  it. Taking all the information into 
account I am satisfied that Aviva acted  within the policy terms and also that it was fair and reasonable 
for it to have withdrawn  cover under the policy.   
my provisional  decision
Im not intending to uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN5461113