K820x#14complaint
Mr B and Ms M complains  that Skipton Building Society (Skipton) mis-sold them  payment 
protection insurance (PPI).
Mr B and Ms M took out a mortgage  with Skipton in 1996. They were also sold a PPI policy 
which wouldve covered  the repayments  on their mortgage for up to 12 months at a time if 
either of them  wasnt  able to work due to being too unwell or became unemployed. 
Our adjudicator thought that Mr B and Ms Ms complaint should be upheld.  Skipton didnt 
agree with the adjudicators opinion  so the complaint was passed to me to make a decision. I 
issued my provisional decision (a copy of it is attached to the end of this decision) in July 
2019 and asked for any further comments or evidence  to be sent to me. Both parties 
confirmed they had received my provisional  decision. 
Skipton had nothing further to add. Mr B and Ms M responded with detailed points. I have 
summarised those below:
Mr B and Mrs M believe the policy was advised by Skipton.
They have said they had a lot of outgoings  and they did not need  to take on another  
additional cost at the time.
Mr B and Ms M believe  the policy was unsuitable due to Ms M becoming self-
employed in 1998  and then not being  able to claim on the policy when she became 
unwell a few years  later. 
They have said it was unlikely Mr B would have become unemployed due to the 
nature of his job.
Mr B and Ms M say that Skipton hasnt repaid their commission because  if they had 
accepted the offer,  it would be in full and final settlement of their complaint. 
Mr B and Ms M want me to comment on whether Skiptons  offer to repay the 
commission is fair compensation  or whether it is just following the basic  guidelines  of 
what it is required to do. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr B and Ms Ms case. 
Id firstly  like to stress  that, while Ive only included a summary of what Mr B and Ms M have 
said, Ive carefully read and considered  everything theyve said in reaching my decision. 
Having done this, Im not upholding Mr B and Ms Ms complaint. Ill explain why in 
addressing Mr B and Ms Ms further  points below. 
Did Skipton give a personal  recommendation to Mr B and Ms M?
Ref: DRN58479152Mr B and Ms M maintain that Skipton advised  them to take out the policy  during the meeting. 
They have pointed  out that the section regarding the PPI was completed by the advisor 
during the meeting in branch. They have also said that they were  the only ones actually 
present during this meeting. 
I dont doubt that these  are their recollections.  But I also have to consider that the sale took 
place over 23 years ago. And the adviser may have  told them  it was a good idea to take out 
the PPI. But this isnt the same as advice.  
Looking at the application form,  I agree that there  does seem to have been  completed by 
different sets of handwriting. This is likely to have been as a result of a discussion between  
Mr B, Ms M and Skiptons representative. But  again  this isnt indicative  of a personal 
recommendation being given. 
Taking everything Ive been given into account, whilst also keeping in mind what I know  
about how Skipton  sold policies  such as this at the time, I am still not persuaded that this 
was an advised  sale. But even if Skipton had advised Mr B and Ms M, I still think  the policy  
wouldve been suitable for them for the same reasons explained  in my provisional decision. 
The cost of the policy
Mr B and Ms M says they had a lot of outgoings at the time the policy was sold and it was an 
additional cost they couldve done without. But theyve  not provided any information about  
the policy being unaffordable for them. 
As this was a non-advised sale, Mr B and Ms M had to weigh up in their own minds the cost 
of the policy  against the benefits offered and the potential consequences if they didnt insure 
against the risk of either of them  being unable to work. 
Mr B and Ms M chose  to take this policy out. So I consider that its reasonable to conclude 
they had some interest in the benefits offered by this type of insurance. But they made this 
decision based on incomplete information.  So what Mr B and Ms M thought  they were 
getting is not exactly what they got. The extent to which this differed is a relevant 
consideration when determining if Mr B and Ms M have suffered  any loss or detriment. 
The information Mr B and Ms M were given about  the monthly benefit was clear. But the 
information about other aspects of the policy, such as the cost and limitations  and exclusions 
wasnt as clear as it should have been.  
Although I consider it more likely than not that Mr B and Ms M knew they would have to pay 
something for the policy, it doesnt appear Skipton told them  the exact premium at the point 
they applied for the policy. Having said that, it seems likely Mr B and Ms M would  have been  
told the cost before the policy started  and they paid for the policy for a number of years, so if 
the costs were significantly at odds  with their expectations at the point of sale,  its possible 
they might  have raised that with Skipton at the time, or reconsidered their decision.
Overall, I am not persuaded Mr B and Ms M would have found  the cost unacceptable if they 
had been given the exact figure during  the meeting in which  they agreed to the policy.
Was the policy right for them at the time of the sale?
In reaching my decision, I am only looking at the events at the time of the sale of the PPI. 
Ref: DRN58479153Mr M and Ms B say Ms B was unable to claim on the policy when  she became unwell in 
2000 as she was self-employed. Ms B became self-employed in 1998. But at the time of the 
sale  two years earlier  - she was employed and from the information Ive been  given,  there 
was no indication she was planning on becoming self-employed in the near future. I 
appreciate that it must have been  very disappointing for the policy to not pay out at a time 
when Ms B needed  it to. But at the time the policy was sold,  it was right for Ms B given her 
circumstances. 
Mr M and Ms B also say that Mr B had very little need for the employment  element of the 
policy  as his job was secure and the nature of his employment meant it was highly unlikely 
that he would be made  unemployed.  Ive given this consideration but I dont think the 
possibility of him losing his job couldve been  entirely ruled it out. In any event,  Mr B and   
Ms M opted for both of them to be covered,  so they must have considered that the policy 
would be of some use to both of them.  
Overall, this means Skipton doesnt  have to pay back all the costs of the PPI to Mr B and 
Ms M.
The commission offer from Skipton
Mr B and Ms M have  asked for me to comment whether  Skipton is offering  the minimum it is 
required to do in relation to the commission. They have also clarified that whilst  Skipton has 
offered to refund a percentage of the commission, they havent accepted that offer yet. 
As Mr B and Ms M have correctly  said,  Skipton is following  the guidelines set out by its 
regulator, the Financial  Conduct Authority (FCA). 
The FCA has said that if a business got a high level of commission and profit share from the 
PPI policy   more  than 50% of the PPI premium  and it didnt tell the consumer, then that 
could create  an unfair relationship between the parties. So to put that right,  the FCA said that 
businesses should  pay back  the amount of commission  and profit share that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium. 
So to put things right Skipton offered to refund the extra Mr B and Ms M paid each month 
because the commission  and profit share  it received was more  than 50% of the cost of PPI 
for the time there was an unfair relationship. It also included 8% per year simple interest to 
compensate Mr B and Ms M for the time they were out of pocket. 
Ive thought about whether theres anything about  Mr B and Ms Ms particular complaint and 
circumstances that means Skipton should  do something different to put right the unfairness 
caused by not telling them about the amount of commission and profit  share it got. But I 
dont think there is. 
In answer to Mr B and Ms Ms question,  as I dont think the policy  was mis-sold to them,  I 
think the offer thats been made is a fair way to resolve this complaint. So I wont  be telling  
Skipton to do anything  more.  
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Skipton Building Society does not have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mr B and Ms M. 
Ref: DRN58479154But Skipton  Building  Society does have to pay back to Mr B and Ms M any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  I also think Skipton Building 
Society has correctly worked  out what it needs to pay Mr B and Ms M. 
Skipton Building  Society should  update and pay its offer to Mr B and Ms M if it hasnt done  
so already. It is now up to Mr B and Ms M to decide whether they want  to accept the offer or 
not. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B and Ms M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  13 September 2019. 
Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of 
PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr B and Ms Ms case. 
Having done this, Im thinking of not upholding Mr B and Ms Ms complaint. Ill explain why. 
Skipton shouldve  taken reasonable steps to ensure Mr B and Ms M was aware the policy was 
optional. Mr B and Ms M say they were strongly advised to take it as Skipton said it was a good idea. 
Skipton says it wouldve  made  it clear and has a provided a copy of Mr B and Ms Ms mortgage 
application documents.
Ref: DRN58479155In the copy of the mortgage application, I can see there is a section headed  Insurance  Services.  In 
this section it asks applicants to select whether they want PPI or not and then indicate who they want 
cover for and what amount of monthly benefit do they want. I can see Mr B and Ms M have selected 
the PPI and theyve then written  they want both of them covered and for the benefit  to be £1,000 per 
month. I can also see that if they had opted not to have the PPI, Skipton wouldve  provided free 
unemployment cover  for the first named  borrower. So I think its most likely  that Mr B and Ms M 
considered the best type of cover  for their circumstances. 
So I think Mr B and Ms M chose to buy the PPI knowing it was optional.  
Mr B and Ms M say Skipton recommended  the PPI to them. Skipton says it didnt  recommend the 
policy. Based  on my experience of how Skipton usually sold policies at the time,  I dont think  it gave 
them specific  advice about  whether to buy the policy. Ive noted     Mr B and Ms Ms comments about 
Skipton strongly recommended  that applicants took the policy.  Looking at the application form,  I can 
see that the section for PPI on the form it says we strongly recommend that all Borrowers but this 
was a generic  statement and not Skipton making a tailored recommendation for them. So this meant 
Skipton didnt  have to check  if the PPI was suitable  for Mr B and Ms M. But it did have to make  sure 
they got the information they needed  to decide if the policy was right for them.
Looking at the information  Mr B and Ms M wouldve  been given I think Skipton  couldve explained  the 
cost of the policy better than it did. But even  if it had, I think Mr B and Ms M would  still have bought it. 
I say this because theres nothing to suggest Mr B and Ms M had a particular need to keep costs 
down or couldnt afford the monthly repayments. And I think they wouldve found  the cover helpful. Mr 
B and Ms M was taking on a large  financial commitment secured against their home, so I think  they 
wouldve benefitted from the security the policy  couldve offered if either  of them  wasnt able to work  
due to being too unwell  or becoming unemployed. 
Mr B and Ms M say they had sick cover from their employers as well as savings they couldve used to 
make their repayments. They have also said Mr B had an income protection policy. Our adjudicator  
upheld the complaint on this point. He felt that Mr B had enough other means with the income 
protection cover to manage without the PPI. 
Ive thought about this point carefully,  but Mr B and Ms M opted  to take the policy  without any 
personal recommendation from Skipton and the income protection policy  only covered  Mr B and only 
if he was off work due to an accident or illness whereas the PPI also covered unemployment. They 
chose to take the policy  jointly so I think its likely they considered it would  be useful for them.  The 
policy was described as insurance against inability to make mortgage payments due to being  too 
unwell or unemployment  so I think they wouldve had a broad understanding  of what they were 
buying. 
In addition, having the PPI wouldve left Mr B and Ms Ms sick pay and savings available  for other 
household expenses. So overall, I think the policy gave them useful cover.
Its possible Skipton didnt point out the main things the policy didnt cover.  But it doesnt look like Mr 
B and Ms M were affected by any of the limitations or exclusions.  So even if Skipton didnt give Mr B 
and Ms M all the information  it shouldve  done, I dont think theyve  lost out as a result. Which means  
Skipton doesnt have  to pay back all the cost of the PPI to Mr B and Ms M. 
But Skipton has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr B and Ms M because:
Skipton got a high level of commission  and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so 
it should  have told Mr B and Ms M about that. Because Skipton didnt tell Mr B and Ms M, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Skipton has paid back the amount  of commission and profit share  that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ref: DRN58479156I know Mr B and Ms M feel strongly and will be disappointed by this outcome. Theyve put time and 
effort into their complaint. And Ive thought carefully about all the points theyve raised.  But for the 
reasons Ive outlined above, these points dont change my decision. 
Ref: DRN5847915