K820x#14Complaint
Mr and Mrs A say Nationwide Building  Society mis-sold them mortgage payment protection 
insurance (PPI).
Background
Mr and Mrs A took out a mortgage (without PPI) through Nationwide in 1982. Mr and Mrs A 
arranged a further mortgage advance  in 1992 and were sold regular  premium  PPI at the 
same time. The policy covered Mr and Mrs As monthly mortgage repayments if either of 
them couldnt work due to disablement or unemployment. 
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld.  Mr and Mrs A disagreed  with the 
adjudicator, so the complaint was passed  to me to review afresh.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website. And Ive taken this into account in deciding  
Mr and Mrs As case. 
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
Unfortunately, there are some gaps in the information thats still available  from 1992.  I dont 
find that surprising  given how long ago that was. Nevertheless, Ive taken into account  the 
information I do have,  together with the arguments  raised by the parties. 
I note, for example, that Mr and Mrs A say the available paperwork shows  the PPI was 
compulsory if they wanted the further  advance. Nationwide  accepts that the PPI was 
compulsory with the product arranged for Mr and Mrs A in 1992,  and that that was only way 
for them to secure  a fixed (as opposed  to variable) rate of interest on their borrowing with 
Nationwide at the time.
It wasnt wrong of Nationwide to make  the PPI compulsory per se, as long as it informed 
Mr and Mrs A accordingly. From what Ive seen, theres nothing to suggest Nationwide  didnt 
make it clear  to Mr and Mrs A that they had to take PPI with the mortgage  theyd  chosen.  I 
think it was open  for Mr and Mrs A to have, for example, looked at a different product or 
approached another lender if they werent happy  with the arrangement.
I dont believe Nationwide  recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs A, so it didnt have to check  
if it was right for them . But it did have to make sure Mr and Mrs A got the information they 
needed in a clear, fair and not misleading way to decide if it was right for them . 
Its possible the information Nationwide gave Mr and Mrs A about the PPI wasnt  as clear as 
it should have  been. But, based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time it 
doesnt look like better information would have  put them off the policy anyway.  I say that 
because, for example, Mr and Mrs A werent affected by any of the exclusions to, or limits 
on, the PPI cover. And I cant see that theyd  have found the monthly  premium  unaffordable. 
Ref: DRN55230722It seems  as though Mr and Mrs A were entitled to enhanced sick pay and redundancy pay 
from their employer. But the PPI benefits would have paid out on top of that and were 
considerable; potentially paying  out for up to 12 months for each successful claim. If they 
had savings, the PPI meant they could  have retained them or used them  to cover their other 
living costs  if either  of them wasnt working.  And I think the PPI provided different cover  to 
that provided by, what theyve referred  to as, health  insurance.
Overall, I believe Mr and Mrs A would have see the PPI as providing affordable  and useful 
additional protection for them if something went wrong, especially as it helped protect 
borrowing that was secured  against  their home. 
Taking everything into account,  I dont believe Mr and Mrs A have lost out because of how 
Nationwide sold them the PPI.
My final decision
For the reasons  given,  I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision  before  25 October  2019.
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN5523072