K820x#14complaint
Mr H  on behalf Company W  complains  that The Salvation Army General Insurance 
Corporation Ltd (SAGIC)  have  unfairly  declined his claim for business  interruption. 
background
Company W  a takeaway  shop and restaurant   is the policyholder  of a commercial  
combined policy with SAGIC that covers the business against various risks.  The companys 
premises suffered an infestation of vermin  due to work being completed on a neighbouring 
property. Mr H says the problem was becoming progressively worse,  so he says he decided  
to close the business in April 2019  because he was concerned it would  be shut down by the 
authorities for health and safety  reasons. 
Mr H submitted a claim for loss of profits under the business interruption section of his 
policy. However, SAGIC declined the claim because he had closed  his business voluntarily 
rather than it being forcibly closed by the local health authority. Mr H has complained that the 
term is unfair and that SAGIC have acted unreasonably by declining his claim because it 
would have required him to trade until he was shut down, which would have  put his 
customers health at risk. He also submits:
The term creates a significant imbalance between  the parties in favour of the insurer, 
such that it should be declared  void under the Unfair Terms in Consumer Contract 
Regulations 1999.
The requirement that the local health authority close  the premises operates as a 
condition precedent such that it falls within section 11 of the Insurance Act 2015,  
which prevents an insurer  from avoiding cover if non-compliance with the condition  
precedent would not have increased  the risk of the loss.
The risk of loss would not have been any different  if, once the vermin appeared, the 
premises was closed  by either  the local health  authority  or Mr H. 
The term is void for uncertainty  in any event given that the term local  health  
authority refers to NHS services rather than environmental  health. 
The term is against public policy given the undesirable and potentially dangerous 
consequences of its requirements.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint as she did not think SAGIC  had acted 
unreasonably by declining the claim.  Mr H disagreed, so the matter  has been passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold it.
First, given that Company  W is a business  that has claimed under a commercial policy,  it 
does not meet the definition of a consumer under the Unfair Terms in Consumer Contract 
Regulations 1999 or the Consumer Rights Act 2015, meaning that neither of these Acts 
apply to this contract. So I will not address the submissions concerning these Acts any 
further within this decision. 
The policy term in dispute states  that:
Ref: DRN51924682the following insured  events are included within the Business Interruption  cover
ii. Defective drains or sanitation, pest or vermin resulting in closure of the premises  
by the local Health authority.
SAGIC declined Mr Hs claim because he closed  his business voluntarily rather than it being 
closed by the local authority. 
Mr H submits that the requirement  that the local health authority close the premises  operates  
as a condition  precedent  such  that it falls within section 11 of the Insurance  Act 2015, which 
prevents an insurer from avoiding cover if non-compliance with the condition precedent 
would not have increased the risk of the loss. 
But I do not think it operates  as a condition precedent  because  the policy  term in question 
appears to be defining the risk as a whole , such that being closed by the local authority is 
the insured peril itself. The policy does not designate closing as a result of vermin  to be an 
insured event itself that will be indemnified on the condition  that the business is closed by 
the local health authority. Instead, I think its clear  that it only provides cover for unexpected  
instances of a trader being closed  down by a local authority in the circumstances outlined in 
the policy. That is the insured event in this instance,  and Mr H has not been  able to show  
that any such event  occurred as his business  was not closed by a local authority. And given  
that section 11 of the Insurance  Act 2015 does not apply  to clauses which  define  the risk as 
a whole, I do not consider it necessary to consider the issue of non-compliance with a 
condition precedent any further.
I appreciate that Mr H felt the need  to close his business given the risks involved.  But it is a 
long-established principle that there  is no insurance  or indemnity available  for deliberate or 
voluntary acts. Insurance is to cover uncertain and unexpected events. So in any event, I do 
not consider it would be fair and reasonable to direct SAGIC to cover Mr Hs loss that was 
resulted from his voluntary act. 
Mr H also submits that the policy term is void for uncertainty  given that it refers  to a local 
health authority,  which is an NHS agency rather than anything  to do with environmental 
health. I appreciate  that this could have  been clearer.  But in any event, I think  the 
reasonable commercial  policyholder would understand local  health  authority in this context 
to mean  the local government agency responsible for food and hygiene rather than any 
agency related  to the NHS. 
But even accepting that this wording does  create  an ambiguity, it does not result in the term 
being declared void as Mr H submits. Instead, it means that any ambiguity is to be 
construed in favour of the policyholder. And in the circumstances, this would simply mean 
that the term should be construed  as referring to the appropriate government agency rather  
than anything to do with the NHS, which still would not change the fact that there is no 
insured peril here given that Mr H closed his business voluntarily.
So, in summary,  I do not think SAGIC  have acted unreasonably by declining Mr Hs claim, as 
there was ultimately  no insured event covered under the policy.  
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN51924683Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H  on behalf 
of Company W  to accept or reject  my decision before 15 February  2020
Jack Ferris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5192468