K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs C have complained about the service provided by British Gas Insurance Limited
in relation to a central heating insurance  policy. 
background
Mr and Mrs C held a policy with British  Gas for a number of years,  since the boiler  was 
installed. As part of the cover, their boiler  was serviced each year by British  Gas, most 
recently in July 2017. When their policy came up for renewal in January 2018,  Mr and Mrs C 
decided to change  to a new provider. The new provider carried out an inspection  of their 
boiler and found  that a sensor  pipe had twisted and broken; it had wrapped and reattached 
with duct tape.
Mr and Mrs C complained  to British Gas, as they say this must have been done by one of its 
engineers, or not spotted the broken part during any one of the annual services. Mr and Mrs 
C are concerned that their boiler  was left unsafe  as a result. In addition,  they were  without 
heating and hot water as the gas had been disconnected until the boiler  was repaired.
British Gas arranged  for an engineer to attend and he confirmed that the part was broken. 
British Gas said that the part required was now obsolete  and so the boiler  would have to be 
replaced. British Gas offered a £700.00 discount  on a new boiler.
Mr and Mrs C remained unhappy and brought the complaint to our service when they didnt 
receive a response  from British Gas. British Gas told us that it would offer £30 compensation 
for the delay  in responding to Mr and Mrs C.
In the meantime, they were able to get their own engineer to find the part and repair  the 
boiler. However, they were without heating and hot water for almost three weeks. This was 
extremely inconvenient  and, due to a medical condition which is affected by the cold and 
stress, Mrs C had to stay with her daughter. 
One of our adjudicators looked  into the complaint, He considered that it should  be upheld,  as 
he was satisfied that British Gas either  should have noticed the broken part or had caused it 
itself as no other engineers had worked on the boiler He recommended that British Gas 
reimburse Mr and Mrs C for the cost of the repair;  and pay £300 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience caused by not having heating  and hot water  while  the repair  was 
done and the failure  to respond to their complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
British Gas had serviced the boiler for a number  of years  since  it was installed - and 
covered it until shortly before the broken  part was found. If it was broken during  the 
installation of the boiler then Id have expected it to have been  noticed during one of the 
services. It is likely therefore  that this was broken  by one of British Gass  engineers.   
. 
In any event, British  Gas did intend  to carry out the repair but said the part was obsolete and 
offered a discount  on a new boiler as an alternative. In the circumstances therefore I agree 
with the adjudicator that it should  reimburse  the private costs incurred by Mr and Mrs C in 
Ref: DRN55340302having it repaired, together with interest at our usual rate. Mr and Mrs C have provided a 
copy of the invoice showing this cost them £138.  
I also agree  that some  additional compensation is warranted. Mr and Mrs C were without 
heating and hot water for almost three weeks and this would have caused considerable 
inconvenience, especially for Mrs C. Mr and Mr C were also understandably  concerned  
about having been left with a boiler  that was apparently unsafe.  British Gas also failed to 
respond to the complaint properly, including  once it was with us and Mr and Mrs C were 
required to sort out their own repair. Even  if British Gas didnt cause the damage,  this 
inconvenience could  have been  mitigated if it had been noticed at an earlier  service  
appointment. However, for the reasons set out above, I am satisfied its more likely  than not 
that it did cause  the damage.  Having  considered  everything I agree with the adjudicator that 
the sum of £300 is appropriate  to compensate  for this. 
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  against British Gas Insurance  Limited and require it to: 
Reimburse Mr and Mrs C for the cost of repair of their boiler, together  with interest at 
8% simple per annum from the date they paid for the repair to the date of 
reimbursement; and 
Pay Mr and Mrs C £300 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused  by 
this matter. This is in addition to the £30 already  offered and which  should  also be 
paid if it hasnt already.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  15 March  2019.
Harriet McCarthy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5534030