K822xcomplaint
Ms H complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) underpaid interest on her Help To 
Buy ISA.
background 
Ms H had an ISA with her previous bank,  which  she closed and transferred to Barclays on 
21 August 2018.  She complains that Barclays started paying  her interest the day after the 
transfer was completed, instead of the same day. And that she later made two deposits  of 
£200 on Saturdays, that did not start accruing  interest until the following Mondays. She says 
she should have  been paid interest  from the Saturdays.
To put things right, Ms H wants  Barclays to pay interest for the missing days, and 
compensation for the distress  and inconvenience  caused by the situation.
When Ms H first raised the complaint with Barclays, the branch dealt with it as an enquiry  not 
a complaint. The branch arranged for the missing interest  (£0.47) to be credited to Ms Hs 
account on 13 September 2018, but didnt formally  respond to Ms Hs complaint. The branch 
didnt respond  to Ms H regarding the weekend deposits, because  she raised that matter  
later.
Having not received a response, Ms H brought her complaint to our service. When  our 
investigator contacted  Barclays,  it explained why Ms H had not had a formal  response and 
apologised for the confusion. It said it had offered Ms H £25 in compensation for any trouble 
and upset caused.
Barclays also explained that its standard industry  practice not to class weekends as working  
days, and that credits  received on a weekend or bank holiday earn interest from the next 
working day.
Our investigator looked at the complaint and decided Barclays  had done enough to put 
things right by crediting  Ms H with £0.47 and offering £25 in compensation. And that 
Barclays hadnt acted  unfairly in not paying interest  until the first working  day after the two 
deposits in question were made.
Ms H didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to consider the matter afresh.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having reviewed Ms Hs complaint, I have 
decided not to uphold it for the following reasons.
Barclays has paid Ms H the £0.47  she originally requested, so the matters left for me to 
consider are whether Ms H should  receive  interest from the day of the deposits  in respect of 
the two deposits of £200 made on Saturdays.  And whether Barclays should pay any 
compensation over and above the £25 it has already offered.
Ms H has referred to the terms and conditions of the ISA account, the Help To Buy ISA 
scheme rules and the banking: conduct  of business sourcebook. She also says that its not 
Ref: DRN59533252true to say that its industry  practice  to pay interest in weekdays  only,  because  other  banks 
such as Nationwide  and Santander do pay interest  on weekends.
Ive considered all of the documents  Ms H has referred to, but none of them say Barclays 
must pay interest on deposits made  on a weekend. In fact, they are all silent on the matter. 
And while it may be true that some banks do pay interest on deposits made on a weekend,  I 
havent seen anything that persuades me Barclays was obliged to do so. So, I dont consider 
Barclays acted unreasonably  in applying the standards it has, and declining to pay interest 
on the four days in question.
In any event, I consider  Barclays  has put Ms H in a better position than she would have been  
in, by offering  to pay an additional £25 in compensation.  While it didnt formally respond  to 
Ms Hs initial  complaint about  the £0.47,  it did put the matter right by crediting her account in 
the sum of £0.47. So, I dont think its reasonable to ask Barclays to pay any further 
compensation.
And, because Ive said Barclays didnt act unreasonably in declining  Ms Hs request for 
interest on the weekend  deposits, it follows that it shouldnt have to pay any further  
compensation to Ms H in that regard. Barclays has said the offer of £25 remains  open, so 
Ms H should  contact Barclays to accept  that offer if she wishes  to do so.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 June  2020.
Alex Brooke-Smith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5953325