K822xcomplaint
Mr B is unhappy with how Halifax, a division of Bank  of Scotland  Plc, dealt with a 
chargeback request for him. Mr B also says Halifax  has discriminated against him. 
background 
Mr B and his wife have  disabilities which mean they are unable to write  and have  difficulties 
in using a computer. To protect the privacy of Mr B and his family, I wont  go into any further 
detail about these disabilities. 
In August  2018,  Mr B booked and paid for accommodation at a holiday park. When  booking  
the accommodation he requested a room with facilities appropriate for his needs. But when 
Mr B arrived  at the park, the accommodation  he was offered wasnt what hed asked for. 
Hes said that the holiday park wasnt able to provide  suitable  accommodation.  
Shortly afterwards, Mr B contacted Halifax to ask for the payment he made  for the 
accommodation to be reversed using the chargeback procedure. He understood that the 
refund request was being processed when it seems  that Halifax needed information  from 
him. 
During this period, Mr B made numerous calls to the bank about getting  a refund of his 
payment. He also made multiple complaints to the people he spoke to, saying they were  
putting barriers in his way and this was discrimination.  This included Halifax  telling  Mr B it 
didnt have the facility to provide him with a pre-addressed envelope for him to send further  
information to the bank.  
Halifax didnt uphold  Mr Bs complaint. The bank  said it didnt agree that it had discriminated 
against him. Halifax also said it had told Mr B on a number of occasions  that it would contact 
him if further  information was needed.  The bank also noted  that Mr B had raised his voice  
and shouted over its employees. Halifax told him that its employees arent expected to deal 
with customers who are behaving in an abusive,  threatening  or offensive way, and they were 
allowed to terminate such calls. 
Mr B wasnt  happy with Halifaxs response. He brought his complaint to our service. One of 
our investigators looked into this complaint.  She didnt think  Halifax  had discriminated 
against Mr B. But she did think it had given him misleading information  and one of the 
questions it asked Mr B had been phrased  in an insensitive  way. She thought Halifax  should 
pay £150 to him for the upset it had caused.  
Mr B was very unhappy  with the investigators  view that Halifax hadnt discriminated against 
him. Halifax agreed with the investigators  recommendation that it should pay Mr B £150. 
As Mr B didnt agree  with our investigator, his complaint has been passed  to me for a final 
decision. I can see Mr B is unhappy with how our service has dealt with his complaint. To be 
clear, what  follows is a decision on the merits of Mr Bs complaint against  Halifax. The 
concerns hes raised about our service  have been  dealt with separately.  I wont  be 
commenting on these.  
Ref: DRN53385092my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  This includes listening to all the call 
recordings Halifax has provided  to us. Having done so, I dont  think  the bank has treated 
Mr B unfairly due to his disability. But I do think it needs to pay him £150 for the poor service 
it gave him. Ill explain  why. 
But first, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint briefly  and in my own words.  No 
discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what  I think are the key issues 
here: did Halifax treat Mr B unfairly; and, did it handle  his chargeback request in a fair and 
reasonable way? 
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal  nature  of our service  as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres  something Ive not mentioned,  it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every  individual  point or argument  to be 
able to reach what I think is the right outcome.
Ill now turn to whether Halifax has treated Mr B unfairly on the grounds  of his disability. I 
would point out here that its not our role to say whether or not Halifax  has acted unlawfully, 
or discriminated against Mr B - thats for a court to decide. Our role is to decide  whats fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
To do that, there are a number of things that I have to take into account. These include 
relevant law. One of the relevant laws here is the Equality Act 2010 (the Act). So, although  it 
would be for a court to decide if Halifax has breached the Act, I need to take this into 
account when  thinking about  whether  Halifax treated Mr B fairly. 
Ive thought about whether Halifax treated Mr B less favourably than someone without his 
disability. From the available evidence, Im not satisfied it did treat him less favourably.  
Mr B was able to make his chargeback request  over the phone. He was also able to raise his 
concerns about  Halifaxs  service over the phone. When  Mr B asked if Halifax would send  
him a pre-addressed envelope  for him to send in information about his refund request, the 
bank explained  it didnt offer this facility to customers. But Mr B wasnt  being treated less 
favourably than someone without his disability - Halifax doesnt offer this service to any of its 
customers. 
I would point out that where a customer is disabled, the Act says that businesses  must make 
reasonable adjustments so that the disabled  person  can access  its services. But this 
requirement doesnt mean Halifax has to provide Mr B with any or every option he asks for 
or thinks hes entitled to. The question of reasonableness of an adjustment is an objective  
one and is ultimately for the courts to decide.  
In Mr Bs case, I can see that on one of his calls to Halifax - notwithstanding his 
acknowledged difficulties  in using a computer - he asked if he could email  information to the 
bank. Halifax said he could, but the call ended before  the bank could arrange to provide full 
details of where to email  the information.  
Mr B was also able to take his information  to a local Halifax branch where it would be sent 
overnight to the relevant team. I can see that Mr Bs nearest branch is within  what  I consider 
Ref: DRN53385093to be a reasonable distance of his home.  In the circumstances here, I think the options 
available to Mr B to send  information to Halifax are both fair and reasonable. 
Ive also thought about whether Halifax treated Mr B unfairly in an indirect way. That is, in 
general terms, did Halifax apply a provision that put Mr B at a particular disadvantage  when  
compared to someone  without  a disability? 
Again, after looking  at the available evidence, Im not satisfied that Mr B was treated unfairly 
because of any such provision, or that any such a provision was actually applied.  As Ive 
already said, he was still able to make  his charge back request and raise his concerns over 
the service provided  by Halifax. As above,  I think Halifax  provided Mr B with reasonable 
options for his circumstance  for him to be able send  information to the bank. 
Ill now turn to the service Halifax provided  to Mr B in relation to his chargeback  request. 
When Mr B spoke  to the bank to see when he would get the refund, I can see there was 
confusion over the process. 
On one call, there was a discussion about  what evidence was needed  to support Mr Bs 
refund request. Halifax confirmed it would put through the request using information  from the 
holiday parks website  about the availability of disabled facilities. The bank told Mr B that it 
would be in touch  if any further information was needed. So, I can completely understand at 
this point why Mr B thought he didnt need  to do anything further  and why he was 
distressed when this turned out not to be the case. 
Ive also listened  to the call where Halifax asked Mr B about  the extent of his disability. I 
think the question  was phrased  in a clumsy away. Again, I can understand why Mr B would 
have found this distressing. But Im satisfied that the bank employee was making a genuine 
attempt to understand the exact  nature  of the help and support Mr B needed.  I think  it was a 
case of poor customer service, not discrimination. I also think  its fair for Halifax  to 
compensate Mr B for this poor customer service.
Lastly, I can see that prior to the chargeback  issue, Mr B also had difficulties when he had to 
use Halifaxs automated  process to pay in a cheque. He found this problematic. Mr B didnt 
comment on this at all when responding to our investigators view. But Halifax has made  it 
clear that he can use its counter service to pay in cheques. Im satisfied this is fair and 
reasonable. 
For completeness, I would note that on the call recordings Ive listened to, Mr B often gets 
agitated to the point where  the call is no longer  productive. I think  its reasonable for Mr B to 
expect a decent level of customer service  from Halifax. But in return,  as Halifax  pointed  out 
to Mr B, I also think its reasonable for the bank to expect its employees not to have  to deal 
with customers who are behaving in an abusive,  threatening  or offensive way.
I can see from Halifaxs records that its previously  given  Mr B a written warning about his 
conduct when  speaking to the bank. It told him that further re-occurrences of this behaviour 
could lead to its banking relationship with him being severed. I would remind  Mr B that 
Halifax can choose to close his account by simply giving him the notice required by the 
account terms and conditions. I would remind both Mr B and Halifax that going forward,  its 
in everyones interest for all interactions to be conducted  courteously and politely. 
Ref: DRN53385094In summary,  I dont think that Halifax treated  Mr B unfairly on the grounds of his disability. 
But I am satisfied its poor customer service  caused  upset to him. In the circumstances here, 
I think £150 is a fair and reasonable amount  for Halifax to pay Mr B for the upset  caused.  
my final decision
My final decision is that Bank  of Scotland Plc should pay £150 to Mr B. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 March 2020.
John Miles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5338509