K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain that Bank  of Scotland  Plc trading  as Halifax (Halifax) acted unfairly 
by not contacting Mrs G sooner about  a mortgage  shortfall debt. Mrs G wants compensation 
for not being  contacted  earlier about  the debt.
background
Mr and Mrs G had a mortgage  with Halifax, but Mrs G said that she believed it had been 
dealt with when  her property was sold, Mrs G was contacted by a debt collector in 2018 and 
told that there was still money due from the mortgage, together  with interest  (the shortfall). 
Mrs G thought that this was a mistake and was unhappy that no-one had contacted her 
earlier.
Mrs G complained to Halifax. It said that when  the property was sold in 2013, enough money 
wasnt raised to pay the mortgage in full; this led to the shortfall. Halifax said Mrs G knew 
this at the time and agreed to repay  the shortfall.  It also said that since  2013, various  debt 
collectors had attempted to collect payment, which was why Halifax hadnt been in contact. 
Halifax said Mrs G still owed the money and was liable the balance to pay in full. It confirmed 
that it had previously refunded fees and charges  following a mortgage review  in 2017.
Mr and Mrs G complained  to us, saying that no debt collector had been in contact with Mrs G 
before May 2018. Mrs G also said that she did know about  the shortfall at the time her 
property was sold and her ex-husband had paid his share of the debt. The adjudicators view 
was that Mrs G had known that the mortgage hadnt  been paid in full and the evidence 
showed that when the property was sold, she agreed to pay the shortfall;  she even proposed  
a repayment plan in 2013. The adjudicator  said that Mrs G had been written  to by debt 
collectors in 2014,  and then again  in 2018. He thought that Halifax  had acted fairly as Mrs G 
had been aware  of the mortgage shortfall, and owed  the money.
Mrs G disagreed. She said her complaint wasnt about owing Halifax  money, but about  how 
long it took someone  to contact her about  the debt. She denied receiving a letter  from the 
first debt collector in 2014 and said it shouldnt have  taken  four years  for the matter  to be 
followed up. Mrs G noted that she would end up paying more  than Mr G due to interest.  The 
adjudicator said that his view hadnt  changed  and noted that Mr G responded to the debt 
collector in 2014,  unlike Mrs G, which was why he paid less interest. He pointed out that all a 
lender had to do was make contact within six years, which Halifaxs  agents had done, and 
that Mrs G had known  about  the debt and taken no action. Mrs G felt she shouldnt pay more 
than Mr G towards the debt.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its important to point  out that this service isnt a court of law. If Mrs G wants  to get legal  
advice about the agreement reached  between Mr G and Halifax, and whether the same 
amount should  be agreed with her, thats a matter for her, not this service.  All I can look at is 
whether Halifax acted fairly in contacting Mrs G through its agents to ask her to pay the 
outstanding debt.
Ref: DRN56797992As a matter  of law, limitation hadnt  expired on the debt by May 2018.  This means Halifax  
was entitled to ask for payment. Was it fair to do so in 2018?  I think it was. First,  Mrs G knew 
about the shortfall debt  she signed  an agreement to pay it in 2013 and made an offer, 
which she didnt follow through. Im satisfied that Mrs G knew the debt existed and remained 
outstanding from the evidence available  to me. Its also clear from Mrs Gs account that she 
didnt take any action to deal with the debt, which led to the interest claimed by Halifax. The 
terms and conditions of the mortgage  required Mrs G to pay the shortfall in full.
Next, Im satisfied from the evidence  available to me that the first debt collector tried to 
contact Mrs G in 2014. It wrote to the correct address; the debt collectors  arent responsible 
for the delivery  of post, but I think its more likely than not that the letter  was delivered.  Mrs G 
asks why she wouldnt have dealt with the matter then  I dont know  what was happening at 
the time,  but I do know that Mrs G knew the debt was outstanding, that she was legally 
required to pay it, and that she didnt do so.
I also know Mr G did contact the debt collectors  and reached an agreement. This is why the 
interest hes paid is lower than the amount sought  from Mrs G. This is fair as Halifax  didnt 
have to wait so long for its money. 
Mrs G feels that its unfair nothing was done  between 2014 and 2018. I understand her view, 
but it isnt accurate. Mr G was reducing  the debt and paid off the agreed sum by late 2017. 
The debt was then passed to another debt collector  who promptly contacted Mrs G. And as 
all Halifax  had to do was contact Mrs G within six years of the shortfall arising, which  it did 
both in 2014 and 2018, I cant say that Halifax has acted unfairly in the circumstances.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to accept or reject my decision 
before 15 November 2019.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5679799