K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs T are unhappy with the way Legal & General Insurance Limited  (L&G) have 
handled a claim  under their home insurance  policy.
background
Mr and Mrs T tell us they had a bag stolen whilst on holiday in December  2018.  The bag 
contained a number of items including several  rings. They reported the theft to the local 
police and contacted L&G to make  a claim when they returned from holiday in January 2019.
L&G advised  Mr and Mrs T that some of the rings  were  not covered but advised that 2 of the 
rings were  specified in the policy. And they accepted the claim for these  2 rings. A jewellery 
business acting  for L&G advised they could replace the 2 rings. But Mr and Mrs T said theyd 
prefer a cash settlement. And were offered £5,198 by the jewellery business.
L&G later revised this offer. They say the 2 rings were specified in the policy  with a 
combined value  of £4,150. So theyd only pay the amount  specified  in the policy  and 
wouldnt pay the balance  of the cash settlement initially offered.
L&G recognised theyd caused  some  confusion and hadnt been clear  and offered Mr and Mr 
T £50 as redress.
Our investigators view was L&G hadnt  been as clear as they should be but felt it was unfair 
to ask it to pay more than the amounts specified in the policy. And felt that £50 was a 
reasonable offer to acknowledge the mistake theyd made.   
Mr and Mrs T didnt  agree  with our investigators view and asked that an ombudsman decide  
their case.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And having  done so Ive reached the 
same outcome as our investigator  and for broadly similar reasons which Ill explain.
Its not in dispute  that Mr and Mrs T suffered a loss and that the 2 rings at the heart of this 
complaint are covered under their policy. The issue is the amount of the settlement.
Mr and Mrs Ts policy, in common  with many home  insurance policies allows  the insurer  to 
settle a claim in a number  of ways including replacement of the stolen items. L&G, through 
the jewellery business they appointed to settle  the claim offered  to replace the rings. And 
had this happened theyd have met their obligations  under the policy. 
Mr and Mrs T advised that theyd prefer a cash settlement rather  than replacement items, 
giving them flexibility as to how to replace the stolen rings.  And the jewellery business 
agreed to this on behalf of L&G. They said the cash settlement would be £5,198 which was 
less than the estimated retail value. And Mr and Mrs T accepted this figure..
L&G then advised  Mr and Mrs T that the rings were specified on the policy with a combined 
value of £4,150. And that this was the most they would  pay to settle the claim. 
Ref: DRN51799282Ive looked at the policy and can see the specified items, and their value.  So Im satisfied 
that L&G have  done whats required under the policy. It wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me 
to ask it to pay more than the amount Mr and Mrs T insured the rings  for under the policy. 
And itd be reasonable for it to deduct  any excess stated in the policy.
I can understand why Mr and Mrs T would  be unhappy with the conflicting information  they 
were given. However, the decision  to only pay the amount specified in the policy was 
communicated to Mr and Mrs T soon after the original offer was made.  And, in the 
circumstances of this case Im satisfied that £50 is an appropriate offer.  So I wont be asking 
L&G to do anymore.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  16 October  2019.
Martyn Tomkins
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN5179928