K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs P complain  about the actions of their mortgage lender, Leeds Building  Society  
(LBS). Theyre unhappy that LBS recalculated their monthly mortgage repayment, and 
included an additional  sum to repay previous arrears, fees and costs without them agreeing  
to this. 
Mr and Mrs P have  now been told by LBS they can choose to pay this additional balance  at 
the end of the mortgage term. Theyre unhappy  they werent given the choice to defer  these 
costs before.  Instead Mr and Mrs P say theyve  struggled to meet  these additional amounts 
every month and this has made their financial difficulties worse.
Mr P has managed the complaint  throughout. He asks that LBS refund all the additional 
amounts hes paid alongside  his contractual monthly repayments over the years.
background
Mr and Mrs P took out a mortgage with LBS in 2007. They borrowed £180,000 over 35 years 
on a capital repayment basis. 
In 2009 the mortgage  fell into arrears and LBS granted Mr and Mrs P an interest  only 
concession as a way of helping them in their financial  difficulties. Over the years  
Mr and Mrs P have  fallen into arrears a number  of times. LBS has agreed to capitalise 
arrears on a number of occasions too. Mr and Mrs P capitalised arrears  of around £8,000 in 
2011, £3,500 in 2012, £2,000 in 2014 and more recently £6,500  in 2018.
In 2018 Mr P queried an amount  of around £60 he was paying each month  called excess 
debt. Mr P says he spoke to a number of people at LBS to try and find out what this extra 
payment or fee was. He was eventually told that this was an extra amount he was paying for 
previous arrears, fees and costs that had been  incurred on the mortgage.  LBS said it had 
calculated how much extra Mr and Mrs P would need to pay each month to have settled this 
amount in full by the end of the mortgage term. And its system had added this monthly  figure 
to their repayments each  month.
In April 2018 Mr P was given the choice to repay this excess  debt as a lump sum at the end 
of the mortgage  term instead of through extra monthly repayments. He asked to defer  this to 
the end of the mortgage and complained about why he hadnt been given this choice before.
LBS gave its final response on 14 June 2018.  It said its policy wasnt  to offer all its 
customers the choice  of whether to defer this excess  debt.  It thought it was in most 
customers best interests to pay this amount  over the mortgage  term rather  than leave a 
lump sum to be paid at the expiry  of the mortgage. But, it accepted  that it had spoken to 
Mr P many times about his arrears and financial difficulties. It thought it should have offered 
this as an option before. LBS offered Mr P £150  as a goodwill gesture.
Mr P was unhappy with LBS response and brought his complaint to us. Our investigator 
looked into the complaint and thought it should  be upheld. He thought  LBS should do more 
to put things right. He thought LBS should  refund half of the additional payments 
Mr and Mrs P had been making for excess debt (going back to 2012). He also thought  LBS 
should pay the £150 it had offered before  as a goodwill gesture. LBS disagreed with our 
investigators findings. LBS asked for an ombudsman to review the case  again and reach a 
final decision  on the matter.
Ref: DRN53175132my provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision, dated 13 June 2019.  I thought  the complaint should be 
upheld but I thought something different needed to happen to put things right. 
I said:
Its encouraging to see that LBS have  accepted  the reasons why this complaint has been 
upheld by our investigator. LBSs concerns seem to be about  what needs to happen now to 
put things right. 
Im in broad agreement  with our investigator  about why this complaint should be upheld.  I 
can see the point  LBS makes  about it thinking that it is in most  of its customers best 
interests to not have  remaining  loan balances outstanding at the end of the mortgage  term. 
However, Im also mindful that Mr and Mrs P are 12 years into a mortgage with an agreed 
term of 35 years. Theyve experienced financial difficulties and theyre struggling to meet 
their monthly repayments. Theyve spoken  to LBS about this on a number of occasions and 
have taken various different steps  to try to stay up to date with their mortgage payments.
LBS accepts that it had a number of opportunities to talk to Mr and Mrs P about the option to 
defer repayment of the excess debt to the end of the loan term. If it had, Im persuaded that 
Mr P would have chosen to defer  this amount to expiry of the mortgage so he could keep his 
monthly payments  lower.
what do I think needs to happen next?
Where we decide that a business  has made a mistake or should  have done something 
differently, we typically look to put consumers back in the position they wouldve been in, but 
for the mistake. In this case, I think LBS should  have given Mr and Mrs P the option  to defer 
payment of the excess debt to the end of the mortgage term. Instead, based on the 
evidence presented to me by LBS,  Mr and Mrs P have paid additional amounts each month  
of between £22.70 and £64.62 from 2012 to 2018.
To put things right, I think LBS should rework Mr and Mrs Ps mortgage  as if these additional 
amounts hadnt  been paid by them each month. Instead LBS should treat the excess debt as 
if it had been deferred for repayment at the end of the term. Id like LBS to show 
Mr and Mrs P what this means in terms of i) the payment back  to them now and ii) what  
excess debt  would  then become due at the end of the term. It should be made clear to 
Mr and Mrs P and this service what the impact of this reworking would be to the mortgage 
account (in terms of interest that theyd pay, their credit  rating  and any other  implications). Id 
like Mr and Mrs P to be able to make an informed decision about  whether theyd like these 
extra payments they have  already  made to repay a debt to be unwound.
Id like to make it clear to Mr and Mrs P that Im not planning to direct LBS to write off any 
part of the excess  debt which relates  to arrears, fees and costs theyve incurred. Im 
exploring what would have happened if LBS had given them the chance to put off repaying  
this debt into the future. If Mr and Mrs P would like to understand more about  what  this might 
mean for them, Id suggest that they speak to a debt charity before they agree to unwind 
additional payments theyve  made from 2012  to 2018 towards a debt that they owe LBS.
Ref: DRN53175133LBS offered  Mr and Mrs P £150  for not discussing this option with them sooner. I think  this 
compensation doesnt go far enough.  Ive thought about Mr and Mrs Ps situation.  Theyve  
been under  some financial  pressure for years  now. Mr Ps said theyve had to borrow money  
elsewhere to meet  the extra payments needed  for LBS each month. I appreciate  that LBS 
has taken steps  to help them in their financial difficulty such  as offering interest only 
concessions and capitalising  arrears. However, deferring this excess debt was another  valid 
option that wasnt explored or discussed with them for years. In recognition of this, and the 
increasing debt burden that LBS placed upon  them over this period of time, I think  LBS 
should pay Mr and Mrs P £500  for the trouble and upset caused by not exploring  this option 
sooner.
responses to my provisional  decision
Mr P had no further comments to make  having  received my provisional  decision.
LBS replied to say, in summary, that it thought there  was a section in the terms and 
conditions (2007) which allowed it to apply excess debt  in the way that it has. LBS also said 
Mr and Mrs P didnt  make all the excess debt payments it had incorporated into their 
contractual monthly payments  each month. For this reason it would be very difficult for LBS 
to work out how much  it should pay back to Mr and Mrs P to unwind  the excess debt.
LBS agreed to pay the increased compensation for trouble and upset caused to Mr and Mrs 
P that Id said was appropriate. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive carefully reconsidered this case, 
taking into account  all the further  arguments  put forward by LBS. Having done so, I still think 
this complaint should be upheld. 
Ive looked at the relevant  section  in the mortgages terms and conditions that LBS referred 
me to. And Ive thought  again about the wider circumstances of this complaint  and Mr and 
Mrs Ps specific situation.  
LBS has agreed that it had the opportunity to discuss  options  and plans to repay  arrears  with 
Mr and Mrs P. But rather than discuss  this with them, it chose to add repayment of 
outstanding interest  and fees to their mortgage  payments each month. This may have been  
permitted within the mortgage terms and conditions,  but it doesnt  feel fair in this situation. It 
had the result of making Mr and Mrs Ps financial difficulties worse.  I genuinely  dont think 
that was LBS intention,  but Im persuaded that was the result.
Ive thought about LBS comments  about  how difficult it will be in practice to try to unwind  the 
payments of excess debt over the years  that have been paid. LBS has also pointed out that 
the excess debt wasnt always paid, along  with other  missed  monthly  payments.  This is 
shown by the arrears  escalating  a number of times on this mortgage.  Mr and Mrs P have 
capitalised arrears onto the mortgage  balance on a number of separate occasions.
Ref: DRN53175134I appreciate that it might  be difficult for LBS to rework the mortgage and effectively undo the 
payments of excess debt made by Mr and Mrs P over the years. But this is at the heart of Mr 
and Mrs Ps complaint  and it seems the only way to put things right in this complaint. While 
this may involve some manual calculations and assumptions,  I do consider this is needed  to 
resolve this matter.
Id like to remind Mr and Mrs P that I am not directing  LBS to write off any mortgage debt.
Im saying that LBS should have spoken  with Mr and Mrs P about  making  plans to repay  the 
arrears and given  them  the choice to add it to their monthly mortgage payment or pay it at 
the end of the loan term. I am now giving  Mr and Mrs P the choice to either leave the extra  
payments theyve made towards their mortgage as it is, or to have it repaid to them. If the 
excess debt payments are to be repaid  to Mr and Mrs P, it will mean their mortgage  balance  
increases. They will then owe more  money to LBS to be repaid at the end of their mortgage 
term.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Leeds Building  Society.  
To put things right, Mr and Mrs P should be given the choice of whether theyd like to leave 
their mortgage overpayments towards  arrears and interest as they are, or ask LBS to unwind 
the additional payments theyve made to excess debt from 2012 to 2018. 
If Mr and Mrs P choose to unwind the overpayments, LBS should rework the mortgage as if 
these overpayments  hadnt happened. The amount of the additional payments should be 
paid back to Mr and Mrs P plus 8% interest.  
Regardless of whether  Mr and Mrs P choose  to have  their mortgage reworked by LBS, 
Leeds Building Society should pay Mr and Mrs P £500 for the trouble  and upset caused  to 
them by its actions.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  22 August 2019.
Emma Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5317513