K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) to 
Mr D. 
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in 2006.  Bank  of Scotland sold 
Mr D the policy at the same time that he applied for the card.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  be upheld. Mr D disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive considered what Mr D and his representatives have said, but Ive decided the policy  
wasnt mis-sold.  I will explain why:
I think Bank of Scotland made Mr D aware that the PPI was optional  and that he 
chose to take it  although I can understand if he can no longer remember this. I can 
see that the PPI is set out as a choice on the application form, which you make by 
ticking a box to say you want  PPI. Mr D has signed in that box. So I think  Mr D knew  
he had a choice  and decided he wanted PPI at the time  though  it wouldnt be 
surprising if he doesnt know  remember, as this was about 13 years ago. 
Bank of Scotland says it recommended the PPI to Mr D, but it doesnt  look as if it was 
unsuitable based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time. As Mr D has 
said, he had generous workplace employer benefits. But the PPI could have helped 
pay the credit card bill for a period longer  than Mr Ds employer sick pay lasted. And 
it would  have paid out at the same time as any sick pay or redundancy pay, so 
leaving Mr D more financially secure for longer. It would have meant Mr D wouldnt 
need to fall back on other  resources  so soon. So, overall,  the PPI was potentially 
useful. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. And I cant  see any other reason why 
the recommendation was unsuitable.
Its possible the information Bank of Scotland gave Mr D about the PPI wasnt  as 
clear as it should have  been. But I dont think,  in his circumstances, full information  
about costs and benefits would  have affected whether he took the PPI, as the PPI 
could have paid out for longer than his full sick pay lasted. And it doesnt  look like 
hed have been affected by any of the significant  exclusions in the policy. 
This means  Bank of Scotland doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr D. But 
Bank of Scotland has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr D because:  
Bank of Scotland got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of 
the PPI premium) - so it should  have told Mr D about that. Because Bank of Scotland 
didnt tell Mr D, that was unfair. 
Ref: DRN51199312To put that right, Bank of Scotland has paid back the amount of commission  and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this 
case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland  plc does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr D.
But Bank of Scotland plc does have  to pay back to Mr D any commission  and profit  share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand  it has already done this, and 
so Im not awarding  any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 December  2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5119931