K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
2003. Mr G says National Westminster Bank  Plc (NatWest)  mis-sold him the PPI.
background
Mr G was sold the PPI when he applied for a mortgage. The policy  covered Mr G against 
being unable  to work due to an accident,  sickness or unemployment. The policy initially  cost 
£25.60 and couldve paid a benefit of £500  for up to 12 months if Mr G couldnt work or lost 
his job.
In 2007 the policy was amended to cover Mr G for £800 per month and the cost increased to 
£40.96 per month.
Our adjudicator didnt  think the PPI was mis-sold.  Mr G disagreed with the adjudicators 
findings so the complaints  been  passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive decided the PPI wasnt  mis-sold because:
NatWest has shown  us a copy of the PPI application  form from 2003.  I can see Mr G signed 
to say he required cover of £500 per month.  I also see Mr G couldve signed to indicate he 
didnt require the cover or that he already had cover  in place.
I also note the PPI remained in force for many years, and over the years  the level of cover  
was amended and increased. If Mr G hadnt wanted the PPI Id expect him to have 
questioned it at an early  stage but Ive not seen any evidence he did so.
Taking everything into account  I think NatWest made it clear  that Mr G didnt have to take 
out the PPI and they chose to take it out  although  I can understand why he cant  
remember this after so many years.
NatWest didnt recommend the PPI to Mr G so it didnt have to check  if it was right for him. 
But it did have to make  sure Mr G got the information he needed to decide if it was right for 
him. 
After so many years  I cant be sure exactly what was information was given to Mr G during 
the meeting where the PPI was sold to them. Its possible  the information NatWest  gave    
Mr G about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve been. 
But he chose to take out the PPI and it looks  like he thought about the level of cover  
required. So it looks like he wanted  this type of cover.
Based on what Ive seen  of Mr Gs circumstances  at the time it doesnt  look like he was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover. So he couldve claimed if he 
Ref: DRN56390322needed to and it wouldve been  useful  for him if something went wrong. It also looks  like the 
PPI was affordable.
So I dont  think better information about the PPI would have put Mr G off taking out the 
cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mr G has said, including  what  he told us about  his sick pay.   
Mr G has said his employer wouldve paid him full pay for up to six months, followed by half 
pay for a further six months if he became too unwell  to work. But the PPI policy  would pay a 
monthly benefit on top of any sick pay and for up to 12 months. So I still think Mr G wouldve 
found the policy useful if he became unwell or had an accident,  particularly if he was off work 
for a prolonged period.
The policy would also have paid out if Mr G lost his job, meaning he could use any 
redundancy pay for other  living costs.
I see Mr Gs employer provided  medical insurance, but this was a different type of insurance 
for health care and didnt duplicate the cover provided by the PPI.
Ive also thought about the commission Mr G paid on his PPI  and whether NatWest treated  
him unfairly.  
NatWest has told us that the commission  for Mr Gs PPI was less than half of what he paid 
for each  premium. Weve  looked at how NatWest has been working this out and based on 
what weve seen it looks like its right  Mr Gs commission was less than half the cost of the 
PPI. As thats the case, I dont think it needed to tell him about the commission  so I dont 
think NatWest treated him unfairly. This means  it doesnt need to pay Mr G back any of the 
commission he paid for the PPI. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 April 2019.
Steve Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5639032