K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains that Great Lakes Insurance SE is responsible for poor service in connection 
with a home emergency insurance policy.
background
The Financial Ombudsman  Service treats  a complaint about a claim under an insurance  
policy as a claim against the insurance  company responsible for dealing  with that claim. In 
any final decision we name that insurance company but we dont name any other company 
or individual.
Mr A had a central heating system  with a hot water  cylinder upstairs.
In about January 2019 Mr A took out a central  heating boiler  insurance  policy. It bore the 
names of an energy company  and an insurance  intermediary.  But Great Lakes  was the 
insurance company  responsible for dealing with any claim. 
Where I refer to Great Lakes I include the intermediary, engineers and others insofar  as I 
hold Great Lakes  responsible for their actions.
Mr A says he had home buildings  insurance with another insurance company.
In February 2019  Mr As radiators werent working  properly. So he made a claim under  the 
home emergency policy. Great Lakes said Mr A would have to pay £96.00  for draining-down 
the system before it would replace the three-port  valve attached to the cylinder. So Mr A paid 
that.
On 4 March 2019 Great  Lakes replaced the three-port valve without draining-down the 
system. So Mr A asked for a refund and got his £96.00 back.
On 8 March 2019,  Mr A reported a leak through the ceiling below the hot water cylinder. He 
says he made a claim to his home  buildings insurance company. He complained that his 
home emergency insurance company  was responsible for damage  to a ceiling, walls and 
flooring. 
The intermediary declined  the complaint. So Mr A brought his complaint to us. He asked for 
his home  emergency  insurer to cancel the policy, reimburse his home buildings insurer for its 
outlay and to reimburse  him his policy excess and to pay him compensation for distress and 
inconvenience.
our adjudicators opinion
Our adjudicator treated  the complaint as a complaint against  the intermediary.  He 
recommended that the complaint should  be upheld in part. He thought  that the intermediary 
was responsible for causing or failing to identify the leak.
The adjudicator didnt recommend that the intermediary should  reimburse  the home insurer. 
But he recommended  that the intermediary should  pay Mr A £250.00  compensation for 
distress and inconvenience.
Ref: DRN54680482my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr A 
and to Great Lakes  on 3 March 2020. I summarise my findings:
Mr A had fallen short  of showing that Great Lakes  is responsible for work  below a 
reasonable standard. So I wasnt minded to find Great Lakes responsible  for causing 
the water  damage  or the associated distress and inconvenience suffered by Mr A 
and his family.
Subject to any further information from Mr A or from Great  Lakes, my provisional decision 
was that I wasnt minded  to uphold this complaint. I didnt intend to direct  Great  Lakes 
Insurance SE to do any more in response to this complaint.
Neither Mr A nor Great  Lakes has responded to the provisional decision. So I see no reason 
to change my view.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
The policy covered the boiler  - not the whole of the central heating system. The policy  
covered - as part of the boiler  - motorised and selector valves . I consider that it covered 
three-port valves  which select water from the boiler to the radiators and/or to the hot water 
cylinder. 
I dont consider that the policy covered gate valves - which are simple manual  valves  to open  
or close a flow along a pipe. 
The policy didnt cover draining-down  or refilling the system unless there were suitable 
isolation and drainage points.
The policy terms included the following:
You are not covered for:

4. Any damage  that may be caused to your home, its fixtures and fittings  or its 
contents. This includes: 
(i) redecorating your home; 
(ii) restoring the building to its original condition; 
(iii) replacing ceilings,  flooring, plaster,  tiles or carpets;
5. Any damage  that is caused directly from tracing the problem or carrying out 
repairs. This exclusion will not apply  if our approved contractor has been  negligent.
In any event, I would find it fair and reasonable to hold Great Lakes responsible for any 
damage it caused to the home  by negligence  that is by falling below the standard  of care 
reasonably to be expected. I consider that Mr A bears the burden of providing evidence of 
negligence.
Ref: DRN54680483I can see why Mr A thinks that Great Lakes took a short-cut by not draining-down the system  
and only being  on site for less than an hour on 4 March 2019.  And within about four days 
there was a leak from the same general  area as the replacement three-port  valve.
But Great Lakes went back and fixed a leak from a gate valve. Ive said I dont consider that 
the policy covered  simple  gate valves. And theres  not enough evidence that Great Lakes did 
anything negligent  in relation to a gate valve.
In particular Mr A hasnt provided any evidence from the plumber he says attended  later. 
And he hasnt provided any evidence from his home  insurer.
The absence of evidence  form his home  insurer also means that he hasnt shown what  it 
paid  and he hasnt shown that he paid or suffered a policy excess  of £100.00.
Mr A asked Great Lakes  to cancel the policy. The final response letter  of 29 March  said he 
couldnt cancel.  I dont think that was strictly true. I think he could cancel but there  was no 
point because - having  made a claim - he wouldnt  get a refund of premium.  I dont find that 
unfair. 
The policy was a yearly  policy.  And the claim is over a year ago. So by now there mustve 
been a renewal date and an opportunity for Mr A to not renew the policy.
Overall I find that Mr A has fallen short of showing that Great Lakes is responsible for work 
below a reasonable standard.  So I dont find Great Lakes responsible for causing the water 
damage or the associated distress and inconvenience suffered by Mr A and his family.
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  explained, my final decision is that I dont  uphold  this complaint. I 
dont direct Great Lakes  Insurance SE to do any more in response to this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 April 2020.
Christopher Gilbert
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5468048