K820x#14complaint
Mr A is a director  of a limited company. He brings the complaint on the companys behalf. He 
complains that National  Westminster Bank Plc:
declined a transaction when they shouldnt have
were rude and unhelpful  on the phone when he called them  to query  this
didnt get their security team to call him back as he was told they would
blocked the account for two weeks without  telling him, or explaining why theyd done 
this when it became  unblocked
background
On 25 August 2018 Mr A wanted  to make a payment  for some items hed bought, and tried 
to use NatWests mobile app to set up a new payee to make the transaction from his 
companys account.  The transaction was declined, so Mr A called NatWest  to speak about 
this.
He says they were  rude and unhelpful on the phone, and made him feel humiliated.  During  
the call NatWests adviser attempted to make  the payment, but they said it was declined  for 
security reasons, and it couldnt go through until Mr A had spoken to someone  from the 
security team. The adviser said theyd get someone  to call Mr A back before 5pm on the day 
of the call. No one from the security team called Mr A back.
Mr A was unhappy with the transaction not going  through and the service hed received, and 
complained. In their response to the complaint NatWest said theyre  entitled  to stop any 
payment if they deem it necessary  and often  when a payment is stopped its for security 
reasons. And when  they responded to the complaint they said they couldnt locate the call 
Mr A had made, but had no reason to doubt what hed said - so paid £90 compensation. This 
was paid to his companys account  on 7 September 2018.
Mr A wasnt  happy with this, and asked us to look into his complaint. He said as a result of 
NatWest not allowing this payment to go through his business  had suffered  a £500 loss. And 
when he spoke to us, he also said the day after he tried this transaction  his companys 
account was blocked, and he had to rely on his wifes account for two weeks. 
Our adjudicator considered the complaint. By the time they sent their file NatWest  had been 
able to locate  a recording of Mr As call. Our adjudicator listened to this call, alongside all the 
other evidence wed received  at that point,  and felt the case  shouldnt  be upheld.  In 
summary he said:
The transaction Mr A attempted to make was more than £250, which  the limit 
NatWest sets for new payees  set up through online banking. Although Mr A wasnt  
aware of this, our adjudicator felt NatWest didnt do anything  wrong by not allowing 
the payment to go through.
He couldnt  say the adviser had done  anything substantially wrong in the way they 
handled his call.
He thought £90 was fair compensation for the security team  not calling back when 
they said they would.
Hed seen evidence  to show the account  was used during the time Mr A said it was 
blocked. And the banks records showed  no blocks had been  placed on the 
companys account.
Ref: DRN57435922Mr A didnt agree with the adjudicators findings, and asked for a copy  of the call recording. 
Our adjudicator sent this to Mr A, and his case has subsequently  been  passed to me to 
decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not going to uphold 
Mr As complaint, which I know will come as a disappointment to him. Ill explain  why.
declined transaction
NatWest have told us their mobile limit was £250.  Thats reflected on their website currently,  
so what theyve said is likely correct. 
And in referring  the transaction to the security team the terms and conditions of Mr As 
company account  allow  the bank to delay or refuse transactions in certain circumstances. 
This is generally done to protect  themselves  and their customers which  I dont think is 
unreasonable.
rude and unhelpful on the phone
Ive listened to the phone call Mr A had with NatWests adviser  on 25 August  2018. I dont 
agree the adviser was rude. She was polite throughout the call, and explained  to Mr A what  
the next steps were. These next steps  were that Mr A would  receive a phone call from the 
security team before 5pm. I can see why from Mr As point of view hed say she was 
unhelpful  as he needed this transaction to go through sooner because of arrangements 
hed made.  But I dont agree she was unhelpful. She was explaining that he needed to 
speak to the security  team before the transaction could go through.
security team didnt  call back
NatWest have accepted the security team didnt call back before 5pm as they shouldve. 
Theyve said this fell below their usual standards of service and paid £90 into the company 
account on 7 September  2018. While I can understand this was very frustrating for Mr A, Im 
satisfied £90 is fair compensation for this mistake. 
account blocked
Mr A says his companys  account was blocked  for two weeks. NatWest have given us a 
statement that covers the time Mr A says the account was blocked. Theyve also given us 
internal screenshots they say show no blocks were placed on the account.
Ive looked carefully  at the statement, and it shows a transaction  going through  around  a 
week after Mr As declined  transaction on 25 August 2018. And looking at the internal screen 
shots these dont show any blocks being  placed  on the account. Because of this Ive not 
seen enough to say the account was blocked when Mr A says it was.
Ref: DRN57435923my final decision
For the reasons  Ive mentioned above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A, on his 
companys behalf,  to accept or reject  my decision before 26 March 2019.
Jon Pearce
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5743592