K820x#14complaint
Mrs L complains  that Vitality Health Limited  declined her daughters claim under her private
medical insurance policy.
background
In 2017 Mrs L took out a private health  policy for herself, her husband and her daughter 
through a broker.  The policy insurer was Vitality. Mrs L understood shed taken out the policy 
on a moratorium basis switched on the same terms as the moratorium policy they had taken 
out through the same broker, with a different insurer, in 2016.
Mrs L says in 2018 her daughter had problems  with her nasal septum and she claimed for a 
referral for a consultants review of the problem. Vitality declined the claim. It thought that in 
answer to the questions  Mrs L was asked when applying for its policy  she should have said 
her daughter  had a medical assessment for the problem already planned. If Vitality had 
known about the assessment it would have excluded the medical condition. It added an 
exclusion to apply retrospectively from the start of the policy. Vitality also initially  said Mrs L 
hadnt taken out a moratorium policy with it although  it later accepted  she had.
Mrs L complained to us. She said:
her daughter had seen a consultant in 2015  when she was 14 years old for her nasal 
septum. Shed been told she didnt need treatment and even if symptoms worsened 
nothing would be done until she was much older  and her daughter  might  benefit from 
a further assessment when she was about 16 years old. Her daughter  hadnt  needed  
an assessment until spring 2018 when she developed problems
she told the broker about her daughters medical condition  in 2016 and on that basis  
the broker advised a moratorium policy and a switch on the same basis  to Vitality in 
2017
she answered all questions honestly  and carefully, including a specific  question  on 
application for the 2017 policy about whether any treatment was expected.  She 
thought most people  wouldnt  understand  a medical  review  to be expected or 
planned treatment  which  is what the broker asked about. She said shed taken 
reasonable care with her answer  so under the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure  and 
Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA) Vitality should accept the claim and remove  the 
exclusion
she wants Vitality  to cover the cost for the private treatment her daughter needed  
also or alternatively she thinks the broker mis-sold the policy.
Two of our investigators considered the complaint against Vitality. They thought Mrs L 
should have said her daughter had planned  or expected treatment in response  to the 
question she was asked  on applying for the policy so Vitality fairly declined  the claim.
Mrs L disagreed and wanted an ombudsmans  decision. She said no one had explained to 
her the policy  definition of treatment and using the usual meaning of treatment none was 
planned or expected at the time of taking out the policies  in 2016 or 2017.  She said her 
daughter was waiting for treatment on the NHS  and Mrs L wanted  compensation  for the 
additional psychological impact the delay had on her daughter.
Before I made my decision I asked both parties for some information.  I asked Mrs L to 
update me about any treatment her daughter had or was due to have and about whether she 
Ref: DRN57201042and her family had continued with Vitalitys policy. Mrs L told us that her daughter had the 
treatment she needed on the NHS and no further treatment  is currently scheduled. But her 
daughter had been experiencing  difficulties with breathing and her nose has been swelling 
so shes likely to have  to see the consultant for further diagnosis  and possible further 
treatment. She also said the policy with Vitality had been renewed as her husband  now 
unfortunately had a new serious medical condition which the policy  covered.
Vitalitys final response letter was based  on the incorrect understanding  that the policy 
wasnt on a moratorium basis. So I asked it for information about  what it would have done if 
it had always known  the policy was a moratorium switch from another insurer.  It said it would 
still have added the exclusion.
my provisional findings
I made  a provisional decision  that I was intending to not uphold  the complaint  against 
Vitality. I said:
This decision is just about whether Vitality fairly and reasonably declined the claim. Ive 
made a separate decision about the broker. Both are provisional decisions as depending on 
what further evidence  I receive I may need to reconsider which business is responsible for 
putting things  right.
On the evidence I have Im intending to not uphold the complaint against  Vitality. Ill explain 
why
Vitality now accepts the policy should  have  been  on a moratorium  basis from the start when 
it was switched from another  insurer. It accepts it was at fault for incorrectly setting up the 
policy.
A moratorium policy means Vitality wouldnt pay claims for the treatment of any medical 
condition or related condition which Mrs Ls daughter had received medical treatment for, 
had symptoms of, or had advice on in the five years before her cover  started.
The consultants assessment of her nasal spectum  in October  2015  was within those  five 
years. But, subject to the policy terms, a pre-existing medical condition could become 
eligible for cover providing she hadnt  consulted anyone for medical  treatment or advice on 
the condition or any related condition for two continuous years after the cover  start date.
However, importantly Vitality has told me that when a policyholder switches a moratorium  
policy it still has the right to add any additional  appropriate exclusion.  The policy says it has 
that right. Im satisfied from what Vitality has said that if it had known Mrs Ls daughter had a 
planned assessment  for her medical condition it would have added  the following exclusion  to 
the policy at the date of transfer  of the policy in January  2017:
Benefit will not be payable under this plan for any further investigations or treatment 
due to
1.Lump on nasal bridge and related conditions
2. Deviated nasal septum and related conditions.
When the policy was sold to Mrs L in 2017  she was asked:
Do you or any person to be insured have any planned or expected  out-patient, day-
patient or in-patient treatment for any condition not already  disclosed  in answer to
Ref: DRN57201043questions 1, 2 or 3?
The policy defines  treatment as:
Surgical or medical  services (including  diagnostic tests) that are needed to diagnose,
relieve or cure a disease, illness or injury.
So Vitality  says Mrs L should have answered  yes to that question  because  the medical  
evidence shows that when her daughter was seen by the consultant  in 2015 she was 
advised to return  for a review of the condition when was 16 years  old.
The consultants 2015 report  said:
(Mrs Ls daughters) nasal airways are slightly reduced on the left hand side due to a 
mild deviation  of the nasal septum and I have explained to (Mrs L and her daughter) 
that there  is nothing to be done until she is nearly  16 years  of age. I think  she would 
benefit from having a formal assessment in 18 months time
Vitality could reasonably  understand from the consultants report  that Mrs L daughter did 
have a medical assessment planned at the time Mrs L took out the 2017  policy  (and the 
2016 policy). I also think it could reasonably say that the medical assessment met the policy  
definition of treatment  for her daughters  medical  condition.
Mrs L says on the 2017  policy sale the policy definition  of treatment wasnt  explained to her 
and that given the common understanding of treatment  she reasonably didnt understand it 
would include an assessment. Ive seen all the points  she makes about  her having taken 
reasonable care with her answer.  But the legislation she refers to, CIDRA, only applies to 
contracts between insurers and consumers so unless the broker was acting for the insurer  
when arranging the policy, CIDRA isnt relevant.
On the evidence I have Vitality  wasnt responsible  for the sale of the policy to Mrs L. I dont 
think the broker was acting as Vitalitys  agent when it sold the policy. Ive seen no evidence  
that the broker was acting  as Vitalitys appointed representative. Although  I dont think the 
broker charged Mrs L a fee Ive looked  at the brokers website and it works with a range of 
insurers and describes itself as an intermediary. So Im satisfied the broker was giving Mrs L 
impartial advice following a review  of the market,  acting  on her behalf  as her agent.  Ive 
considered whether the broker did anything wrong  in my separate decision.
I think Vitality  fairly and reasonably declined the claim on the basis that Mrs Ls daughter 
was going to have planned  or expected treatment as defined by the policy and if it had 
known it would have  added the above exclusion at the start of the policy.  It doesnt need  to 
remove the policy exclusion.
If Mrs Ls daughter does require further treatment for her lump  on her nasal bridge, deviated 
nasal septum or related  conditions  she wont be covered by Vitality  under the policy.
Vitality was wrong to tell Mrs L that she didnt have  a moratorium  policy.  But she hasnt been 
disadvantaged by that error so I dont  think Vitality needs to give an apology (as Mrs L 
requested) or pay any compensation for any inconvenience.
Ref: DRN57201044responses to my provisional  findings  and developments  
Vitality said it had nothing  further to add.
Mrs L said she was disappointed  I hadnt upheld her complaint against Vitality. She thought 
it  had acted unreasonably in saying  the consultants review  was planned or anticipated or 
treatment under the policy  terms. 
Since my provisional decision about Vitality the policy renewal date has passed so Mrs Ls 
not able to make a claim in the 2019/20  policy year. She renewed  the policy for 2020/1 
knowing the exclusion was in place.
Ive made  two provisional decisions  and now a final decision about the broker upholding 
Mrs Ls complaint about the mis-sale of the policy and setting out what the broker must do to 
put things right for Mrs L and her daughter.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont uphold Mrs Ls complaint against  Vitality.
I think Vitality  was reasonable to say the consultants review was planned or anticipated or 
treatment under the policy  terms. Treatment includes medical services, including  
diagnostic tests, that are needed to relieve  a medical condition. The consultants 2015 report 
says there  was nothing  to be done about Mrs Ls daughters medical condition because of 
her age in 2015  and she would benefit  from having  a formal assessment  in 18 months 
time
Even if the result of the assessment had been that nothing needed to be done the 
assessment was for the medical service of a consultant to consider what could be done to 
relieve the medical condition. I think its clear from the consultants  2015 report said that the 
assessment was planned or expected. 
If Vitality  had known of the anticipated/planned  treatment it would have  added  the above 
specific policy exclusion in respect of Mrs Ls daughters condition  at the start of the policy. 
Im satisfied that Vitality  fairly and reasonably applied the exclusion and declined the claim. It 
didnt need to remove the policy exclusion.
The broker  has provided a lot of evidence in response to my provisional decisions about  
which business was responsible for the sale of the policy to Mrs L. Ive still seen  no evidence 
that Vitality was responsible. Ive explained in my decisions about  the broker  why I think  the 
broker was responsible or the mis-sale of the policy to Mrs L.
my final decision
I dont uphold the complaint against  Vitality  Health Limited.
Ref: DRN57201045Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 October  2019.
Nicola Sisk
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5720104