K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (trading  as Scottish Widows Bank) incorrectly placed  
a fraud  marker  on his record.  He says this has caused him hardship and financial loss.
background
Mr A took out a residential mortgage with Scottish Widows in 2008. In 2012,  he applied  for a 
further advance. This application  was declined and a marker  was placed against  Mr As 
name with CIFAS, a national fraud database.
Scottish Widows  wrote  to Mr A in July 2013  after he requested the marker be removed. It 
refused to remove the marker and explained  the reasons  why. In summary, it said it had 
found information to suggest Mr A was not living at the property and found  inconsistencies 
on another mortgage application he made. Scottish Widows concluded there had been  
misuse of the mortgaged  property, due to the evidence showing it to be a Buy to Let (BTL) 
rather than a residential mortgage.  It also applied  an unauthorised letting fee to the 
mortgage account.
In 2018, Mr A raised a complaint with Scottish  Widows. He said he had lived between two 
properties and provided reasons for the inconsistencies in the mortgage  applications.  Mr A 
said due to personal and health reasons, he didnt pursue the matter  after receiving the July 
2013 letter.  He felt that he had lost out financially and suffered inconvenience due to the 
CIFAS marker  being  placed on him.
Scottish Widows  didnt  uphold Mr As complaint. Essentially, it provided the same reasons as 
it had in 2013 for placing the marker  on Mr As record and didnt think  it should be removed.  
It did tell Mr A that the marker was due to drop off his record  later in 2018, as it had been six 
years since  it was first placed.  
Mr A referred his complaint to this service. One of our investigators  reviewed the available 
evidence. She understood Mr As position, but she didnt think Scottish  Widows  made  a 
mistake when it applied  the CIFAS marker  in 2012.  So she didnt recommend that it remove 
it or pay Mr A any compensation.
Mr A remains unhappy. So he has asked for his complaint to be reviewed. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The point I have to decide in this complaint  is whether Scottish Widows made  a mistake 
when it put a marker against Mr As name on the CIFAS database in July 2012. To record  
information with CIFAS,  Scottish Widows needed  to have enough  evidence  to make  a formal 
complaint to the police  or other relevant law enforcement agencies about  Mr As mortgage  
application. CIFASs website (at the relevant time Mr As marker was added)  said that before 
an organisation is able to place a warning on its database, they must have carried  out 
checks of sufficient depth to satisfy  this standard of proof. It goes  on to say that there isnt an 
obligation to report  everything to the police. 
Ref: DRN56439952Ive considered the information Scottish  Widows  has provided  to support its actions. As part 
of the 2012 application  review, Scottish Widows  found that Mr A was on the electoral role at 
another address. It also says it found  that two other  people were registered to vote at the 
property mortgaged by Scottish Widows  who had been on the electoral role for several 
years. At the time, the letter was sent in July 2013, Scottish Widows found there were now 
four people registered to vote at the address  and Mr A remained registered elsewhere. 
Scottish Widows  also says that during the underwriting of the 2012 application, it became 
aware of a mortgage application Mr A made with another lender. This was for a residential 
mortgage on the property he was registered  to vote at. Scottish Widows says information 
received from the other lender showed that Mr A had said that his Scottish Widows 
mortgage was on a buy to let (BTL) basis and that he had no other residential  mortgages. 
And there was a discrepancy in the employment details Mr A had provided  to the other  
lender compared  to what he declared on the 2012  further advance  application  with Scottish 
Widows. 
I think the information Scottish Widows  found  did provide them with reasonable cause for 
concern that the property wasnt being used as per the original  intended mortgage. Im 
satisfied that Scottish Widows met the appropriate criteria when placing the marker. It wrote 
to Mr A several times in 2012  to get clarification  on the residency status of the property 
without reply. It sent him a letter in July 2013 to explain  the reasons for the marker. The 
letter gave information to explain why it believed the property  was being let despite a 
residential mortgage being the agreed  lending basis. It provided several sources  of 
information to explain its concerns. Mr A didnt dispute this letter at the time. I note Mr A has 
now provided reasons  why he didnt challenge  the marker in 2013. But I dont  think  hes 
provided enough to explain why it took nearly five years to raise  his concerns. 
I have considered Mr As comments about the evidence he provided to prove he was 
resident at the mortgaged property. Im satisfied  that Mr A has been given the opportunity to 
provide any evidence he believes supports his case. I have seen a copy  of the email  he sent 
to Scottish  Widows  in November 2012 that attached a council tax bill for the property for the 
period 1 September 2012 to 31 March 2013.  This shows an exemption from council tax for 
this period. It isnt clear  why the exemption  was given but it seems  likely because the 
property had been declared  unoccupied. I dont think this information supports  that Mr A was 
resident in the property when the marker was placed. It is also for a period after the marker 
was placed. So, it follows that I havent  seen reason to support that Scottish Widows  should 
have removed the marker.  
Overall, I dont  think that Scottish Widows  made a mistake when it put a marker against     
Mr As name on the CIFAS database  in 2012.  I appreciate that Mr A thinks that Scottish  
Widows shouldve given him the chance  to respond  before placing the marker. But it wasnt 
required to do this.
Scottish Widows  says the marker has now fallen off Mr As record. As I think it was entitled 
to record it, I dont  think it would be fair or reasonable for me to ask it to compensate Mr A for 
the losses he says he has suffered as a result of the marker  being recorded against him. 
Ref: DRN56439953my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr As complaint against  
Lloyds Bank  PLC (trading  as Scottish Widows).
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 February  2019.
Daniel Little
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5643995