K820x#14complaint
Mr T complains about the service he received from Phoenix Life Limited after making an 
income protection claim,  as well as its handling of his later complaint. 
background
After Mr T made a claim under his income protection policy,  Phoenix made the decision to 
turn down his claim. One of its staff members (who  Ill call Mr K) called Mr T to let him know  
this. 
Mr T complained about the manner in which Mr K conducted himself  during that phone call. 
Unfortunately, the call wasnt recorded  so Phoenix couldnt listen  to what  had been  said. 
However, it apologised if Mr T had been upset by the conversation.  
When Phoenix listened to later calls Mr T had had with its staff when making  his complaint, it 
thought he hadnt been given the information  hed requested. It offered him £150  
compensation for this. It also offered a further £50 for its delay in dealing with his complaint. 
Unhappy with this, Mr T brought a complaint to this service.  He thought compensation 
should be in the region of £750 for the way Mr K spoke  to him, and for Phoenixs handling of 
his later complaint  about this.
Our investigator recommended Phoenix increase  the compensation amount to £300.  She 
thought the additional  £100 was warranted because Phoenix had taken  into account 
previous compensation amounts that had been given to Mr T for past complaints when it 
made its offer of £200. But also because it led Mr T to believe it would send  him call 
recordings of his conversations  with it about his complaint,  however  it didnt  do so and 
instead asked  that he make  a Subject Access Request if he wanted  the call recordings.
I issued a provisional decision on 5 August 2019. My provisional findings were:
I think  Phoenix has caused  some  confusion here.  The compensation Phoenix  offered  was 
for its handling of Mr Ts complaint, rather than any failures that may have been  made  by 
Mr K during  his call with Mr T. However, one of Phoenixs staff members later mistakenly led 
Mr T to understand that Phoenix  had accepted his recollections of the call with Mr K, and the 
compensation took this into account. 
Because of this confusion, our investigator  thought Phoenix had accepted Mr Ts version of 
events regarding the call, and that its offer of compensation was based  on this. This was 
incorrect. 
We have jurisdiction to consider complaints  about  regulated activities  (amongst other  
activities). However, complaint handling isnt a regulated activity  (or any other activity that we 
have jurisdiction to look at) and so I cant consider Mr Ts concerns about Phoenixs  handling  
of his complaint.  Ive therefore only been able to consider his concerns about the call that 
took place between him and Mr K.
Unfortunately, the call in question  wasnt recorded. Mr T says the way in which Mr K told him 
his claim had been declined was inappropriate  and unprofessional, and he was extremely 
distressed as a result.  
Ref: DRN50960142Mr K says that when  he spoke with Mr T, he told him why his claim had been declined. And 
that this information was confirmed in a letter of the same date, which Ive read. 
As I havent  been  able to listen to the call, I cant conclude that Mr K acted in an 
inappropriate or unprofessional manner.  However, Phoenix has apologised if Mr T was upset 
after the call, and I think this was reasonable. 
I therefore dont  intend to require Phoenix to do anything further, or pay any compensation. 
However, Phoenix has confirmed that its offer of £200 compensation remains open to Mr T 
for its handling of his complaint. If he wishes to accept this, he should contact Phoenix 
directly.
I asked both parties to provide me with any further  comments they wished to make. 
Phoenix responded to say it had no further comments  to make.  
Mr T responded with the following main points:
He thinks our investigator was right that Phoenix had accepted his version of events 
relating to the phone  call with Mr K.
His complaint is about the service he received from Phoenix when making a 
complaint, and he thinks it was incorrect for me to say I dont have jurisdiction to 
consider this.
If I am only able to consider his concerns about  the call that took place between him 
and Mr K, then he has been placed at a disadvantage as a result of the call not being 
recorded. He maintains that he felt extremely distressed during the call, and thinks 
Phoenix should offer more than just an apology to recognise this.
He thinks this service should ask Phoenix  why the call with Mr K wasnt  recorded.  
I said in my provisional decision that he should  get in contact  with Phoenix directly if 
he wants to accept  the £200  compensation,  but Phoenix has told him that any further  
correspondence about his complaint wont be replied to. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr T maintains that Phoenix had accepted his version of events relating to the phone  call 
with Mr K. 
As Ive explained in my provisional decision, one of Phoenixs staff members mistakenly led 
Mr T to understand that Phoenix  had accepted his recollections regarding the phone call and 
its offer of compensation took this into account.  However, its apparent from the file papers 
Ive read that this wasnt correct. The total compensation of £200 offered by Phoenix  was 
directly related to its handing of his complaint  the trouble and upset he was caused by this, 
as well as the delay in dealing with his concerns.
As Ive said,  I dont have  jurisdiction to consider Mr Ts concerns about Phoenixs handling of 
his complaint. I therefore cant consider  this aspect of his complaint. Ive only been  able to 
consider Mr Ts concerns about the call with Mr K. 
Ref: DRN50960143Mr T says that since the call between him and Mr K wasnt recorded, hes been placed at a 
disadvantage as a result  of this. He wants Phoenix to offer more than an apology, and also 
wants to know why the call wasnt recorded.  
I can appreciate Mr Ts frustration that the call wasnt recorded. As I understand it, Phoenix 
doesnt record the calls made by staff members in Mr Ks department,  as they dont often 
speak to customers. Phoenix may want to reconsider this practice,  particularly if staff 
members in that particular  department are communicating claims decisions to customers. 
However, I cant require it to record its phone calls. 
As Ive said,  since the call wasnt recorded,  I cant  conclude that Mr K acted inappropriately. I 
therefore remain satisfied  that it was right for Phoenix to apologise to Mr T if he was upset by 
the call, but I dont  require  it to do anything further.  
Ive noted Mr Ts concerns that Phoenix has said it wont  communicate further with him 
about his complaint. However, Phoenix  has confirmed to us that its offer of £200  
compensation remains open to him. I would  therefore expect Phoenix  to make this payment 
to Mr T if he tells it he wishes  to accept the offer, but in the unlikely event that it doesnt 
respond to his acceptance,  then Im sure our investigator would be happy to speak to 
Phoenix on Mr Ts behalf regarding this.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 October  2019.
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5096014