K821x#15complaint
Mrs M says Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold her a payment  protection  insurance (PPI) 
policy. 
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy Mrs M took out in 2002. It was added  to her 
account when  she applied for her card by post.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. Barclays disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaint  has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ms case. 
Ive decided to uphold Mrs Ms complaint because I dont think Barclays  gave Mrs M clear 
enough information about the policy. The policy excluded claims for conditions  you knew  
about before  the start date, or for which you got advice, treatment or counselling for from any 
doctor in the 12 months before the start date. This was a significant exclusion  and 
shouldve been  made clear.  
I think this wouldve mattered to Mrs M as she had been on preventative medication and 
undertook regular health checks  for a number  of severe conditions since  the 1990s.  Had 
she been aware that she wouldnt have  been able to make  a claim for these conditions, I 
dont think that she wouldve  considered  the policy was right for her  and I dont think  she 
wouldve taken it out. 
I dont accept that, as Barclays  has suggested,  Mrs M may have felt that there wouldve 
been only a small  risk of needing to make a claim,  due to the preventative measures put in 
place, or that she couldve claimed for other conditions. The fact that Mrs M was put on 
preventative medication  at such a young  age suggests that she was more at risk of 
developing these  conditions, and I think that wouldve  made a difference  to her choice to 
take the policy.
putting things right
Barclays should put Mrs M in the financial position  shed be in now if she hadnt taken out 
PPI.
A.Barclays should  find out how much Mrs M would have owed when she closed her credit  
card account if the policy hadnt  been added.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges. 
Ref: DRN59925892Barclays should then refund the difference between what Mrs M owed when she closed  
her account  and what she would have owed  if she hadnt had PPI.
If Mrs M made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Barclays can take off what she 
got for the claim from the amount it owes her.  
B.Barclays should  add simple interest  on the difference between what  Mrs M would have 
owed when she closed her account  from when  she closed it until she gets the refund. 
The interest rate should  be 8% a year. 
C.If  when  Barclays works out what Mrs M would have owed each month without  PPI  
Mrs M paid more than enough to clear her balance,  Barclays  should  also pay simple 
interest on the extra Mrs M paid. And it should  carry  on paying  interest  until the point  
when Mrs M wouldve owed Barclays something  on her credit card. The interest rate 
should be 8% a year. 
D.Barclays should  tell Mrs M what its done to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires  Barclays  to take off tax from this interest. Barclays must give Mrs M a 
certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mrs Ms complaint.
Barclays Bank UK PLC should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 June  2019.
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5992589