K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains that AXA Insurance UK Plc has turned  down a claim made  under his 
building and contents insurance policy for a missing  watch. 
background
In late 2018 Mr P made a claim under the contents part of his insurance  policy  for a watch  
he said had been  stolen. The watch was a specified item on the policy  with a value of 
£1,600.
Mr Ps partner,  Miss S, was taking delivery  of a bed at the home address. A while after the 
delivery they both noticed the watch had gone missing. Both of them remember  seeing  the 
watch the night  before the delivery,  but later it was discovered missing.
Mr P approached the delivery company to investigate what happened, and also contacted  
the police. The delivery company didnt take any responsibility, and the matter wasnt  
pursued by the police.  Mr P then made a claim under his policy with AXA.
AXA turned down the claim applying a policy exclusion  which  says this situation wasnt  
covered unless violence or deception was used to gain entry  into the home. Because Miss S 
had allowed the delivery men into the property and there  was no sign of deception, the 
exclusion applied. 
Mr P remained unhappy  the claim was turned  down,  telling AXA that there was deception as 
one delivery man distracted Miss S whilst another took the watch. AXA again  looked into the 
circumstances. They said Mr P originally  told them he didnt witness  the theft, and he didnt 
notice the watch  was missing for two days. Because of this they considered this to be an 
unexplained loss which is excluded under the policy, so again  the claim was turned down. 
Mr P was unhappy with this so brought his complaint to our service.
One of our investigators  looked into what happened. He thought  AXA had applied the policy 
terms correctly when  turning down  the claim; for two reasons. Firstly,  because  Mr P did not 
witness the theft and couldnt fully explain the loss, it was fair of AXA to say the loss of the 
watch was unexplained, and therefore  excluded under the policy.  Secondly, because the 
delivery men did not enter by deception or violence it was fair of AXA to apply that exclusion. 
Mr P disagreed saying  that because the watch was a specified  item he thought it would be 
covered to a higher degree. He also thought  there was deception by the delivery men so the 
claim should be covered.  Our investigator said that whilst he didnt doubt Mr Ps version of 
events, the claim was still excluded as there  was no deception to gain entry. Mr P remained 
unhappy so the complaint has come to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I find myself coming to 
the same  conclusion as our investigator  for broadly the same  reasons.
I think its important to tell Mr P Im satisfied the watch is missing, and that it clearly has a lot 
of sentimental value which has caused a great  deal of upset. But its also important to say 
Ref: DRN54935782that my role is not re-underwrite the claim, but to decide whether or not AXA acted  fairly  
when applying the policy terms and turning down the claim. 
Insurance policies  cant, and dont, cover  every eventuality. Insurers  are free to decide what 
events they wish to provide  cover for under  a policy. They  are also free to include exclusions 
in policies for events  they dont want to cover. Here  the policy has two exclusions which  AXA 
has relied upon when deciding not to pay the claim.  
AXA firstly applied a policy  exclusion which  says claims  for theft are dependent  on signs  of 
damage caused by a thief getting into the home, unless violence or deception was used to 
gain entry. There was no damage to the home,  and no violence was used to again entry. 
This means  the only way AXA would consider the claim is if deception was used to gain 
entry. Miss S allowed the delivery men entry to the house to deliver  the bed, so there was no 
deception involved. Mr P says there  was deception as Miss S was distracted by one of the 
men. This might be the case, and she mightve been  distracted; however,  the policy talks 
about deception being used to gain entry, and there was no deception when gaining  entry  to 
the property. Im therefore satisfied AXA has acted fairly when applying this exclusion and 
turning down the claim.
AXA then applied a second exclusion which says cover for losses  is restricted to theft only,  
and that unexplained or accidental losses are excluded. AXA says Mr P told them he was 
unsure where  the watch actually was prior to when  it went  missing,  he didnt witness the 
theft, he didnt  notice it was missing  for a few days and the police have taken  the decision 
not to pursue the claim.  Because of this information  AXA considers what  happened to be an 
unexplained loss. 
Miss S says Mr P has dyslexia, is easy to confuse  and wouldve had a mixture of emotions 
at the time he was giving  the information. Whilst this might  be the case, its not disputed  that 
neither Mr P nor Miss S witnessed the incident.  It also seems it wasnt  noticed for some  time 
that the watch was missing. Mr P has said what he thinks mightve happened, and from what 
Miss S says its a possible explanation of how the watch went  missing. Taking all of the 
above into account, and keeping in mind that its not my role to re-underwrite the claim, I 
dont think AXA have  acted unreasonably saying  that what happened is an unexplained loss. 
Even if I was to think differently about  how AXA interpreted the information  given to them by 
Mr P, it remains that no violence or deception  was used to gain entry to the property so that 
exclusion applies as Ive explained above.
Whist I have sympathy for Mr P as I believe the watch is indeed  missing, Im satisfied that 
AXA acted  fairly and reasonably by turning down the claim when applying the policy terms 
and conditions. I therefore wont be asking AXA to take any further  action.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 December  2019.
Warren Wilson
Ref: DRN54935783ombudsman
Ref: DRN5493578