K822xcomplaint
Mr H complains about the service that hes received from Bank of Ireland (UK) plc, trading  
as Post Office Money, on his credit  card account. 
background
Mr H had a credit card account with Post Office Money. Hed paid £4,561.52 to the account  
in May 2018  to clear the balance and there  was no further activity on it until January 2019  
when Mr H made a payment of £4,562. He phoned Post Office  Money  about  two weeks  later 
and asked for the payment to be returned and the account closed. He was transferred to the 
card security  team in error before being transferred back to the customer services  team.  The 
payment was then returned to him and his account  was closed. But he complained to Post 
Office Money about the service that hed received. He was offered £100 during a phone call 
but its final response letter only offered him £50 compensation. So he complained  to this 
service.
The investigator recommended  that this complaint should be upheld.  He said that £100  was 
fair and reasonable compensation for the trouble and upset caused to Mr H as he received 
his refund and his account was closed  on the day that he requested it so he couldnt justify 
any further compensation.
Mr H has asked for his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. Hes responded in 
detail and says,  in summary,  that:
Post Office Money  held a credit  balance on his credit card account for a prolonged 
period and didnt provide him with any information about it and, when he contacted  it, 
it wasted his time, misled him, lied to him and only awarded  him £100 compensation;
hes not been given any written confirmation  that there were no adverse markers on 
his account;
Post Office Money  has referred to an historic complaint that has nothing  to do with 
this complaint;
his complaint is being upheld because the investigator has required Post Office 
Money to overturn the outcome in its final response letter;
Post Office Money  has failed to understand his complaint, has knowingly offered him 
less than that he was offered on the phone  and hasnt treated him fairly in 
accordance with the Financial Conduct Authoritys, and other,  rules  and hes also 
contacted the Financial Conduct  Authority; and
failure to comply with those rules should  be considered  as part of his complaint and 
he should receive more compensation for that.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear that Mr H feels very strongly that Post Office Money  hasnt treated him fairly and 
hasnt complied with applicable rules. There have  been references to a final decision issued 
by this service on another complaint made  by Mr H  but he didnt accept that decision and 
Im not going  to say anything further  about it other than one comment below.
Post Office  Money says that Mr H had a credit card account with it which  had a balance of 
£4,561.52 in May 2018 and that Mr H made  a payment  to clear the balance and there was 
Ref: DRN50783172no further activity on the account until January 2019. It says that Mr H then made  a payment 
of £4,562 to the account.
Mr H phoned Post Office  Money about  two weeks later and asked for the payment to be 
returned and the account closed. There was then clearly an error by Post Office Money and 
Mr Hs call was transferred  to its card security  team.  Because of the decision made on his 
other complaint I can understand  why Mr H would be concerned  about  being transferred to 
the card security team. But his call was then transferred  back to the customer services  team  
which was able to refund the payment of £4,562 to him and his account was closed. 
Mr H wasnt satisfied with the service that hed received on that call so he made a complaint 
to Post Office Money at that time and he was offered £100 compensation. He didnt accept  
that offer so his complaint was considered further and he was sent a final response letter in 
March 2019 in which he was offered £50 compensation.  He then complained  to this service.
Mr H says that Post Office Money  held a credit balance on his credit  card account for a 
prolonged period. But Post Office Moneys evidence shows that it only held a credit balance 
for less than two weeks  and Im not persuaded that there was any requirement  for it to 
contact him about  the credit balance during that period. And when he contacted  it and asked 
for the payment to be refunded to him and for his account to be closed  that happened. Post 
Office Money has confirmed that there  were  no adverse markers on Mr Hs credit card 
account. 
There were errors by Post Office Money  Mr Hs call was transferred to its card security  
team when there was no reason for that to happen and the amount of compensation that he 
was offered in its final response letter was less than the amount  that hed been offered  on 
the call. But Post Office Money  has confirmed  that it will pay Mr H the higher amount of £100 
that he was offered  and I consider that to be fair and reasonable compensation for any 
distress and inconvenience that hes been caused  in these circumstances.  Im not 
persuaded that a higher  award of compensation is justified  and in particular Im not 
persuaded that the compensation of £1,500 that hes claimed  would be appropriate.
Nor am I persuaded  that theres enough  evidence to show that Post Office Money has failed 
to comply with any applicable rules  or that it would be fair or reasonable for me to require it 
to take any other action  in response to Mr Hs complaint. Mr H says that Post Office Money 
hasnt provided  him with the information  that hes requested. But it says that it gave him 
information about how to make  a data subject access  request.
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I uphold Mr Hs complaint in part. And I order Bank  of 
Ireland (UK) plc, trading  as Post Office  Money,  to pay £100 to Mr H. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 December  2019. 
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5078317