K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs G say that Ageas Retail Limited  mis-sold them  a legal expenses insurance 
policy. 
For ease, Ill refer to Mr G only within  my decision as hes been in contact with us about  the 
complaint. 
background
Mr G has had home insurance for many years which included  an optional  add on for legal 
expenses insurance.  He renewed this each year. 
In June 2018 Mr G made a claim for the legal costs of a contract dispute. But this was 
declined by the insurer because the policy Mr G took out only covered contract disputes 
which related to buying or renting goods and services and that wasnt  the sort of dispute  that 
Mr G was claiming for. 
Mr G believes  his policy was mis-sold to him. In particular he says at the previous renewal in 
2017 the limitations on the types  of contract disputes the policy  would cover  werent  made 
clear to him. 
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. He said the policy was sold on a non-advised 
basis. And Mr G hadnt asked any questions about what the legal expenses  add on covered 
when he spoke to Ageas after receiving  the documentation for the 2017 renewal. He was 
also satisfied Ageas had provided Mr G with the policys terms and conditions booklet which 
provided the full details  of what is and isnt covered.
Mr G disagreed. He said Ageas hadnt  made the limits on what  the policy covered clear in 
the renewal information or when he called it following  that. And he argued  the fact the 
documentation had subsequently been  changed  was evidence of that.
I reached a provisional  decision on the complaint last month.  In summary I said:
Ive thought first about whether Ageas recommended  this policy to Mr G when he renewed in 
2017. I note its terms of business  from the time say it wouldnt have done so unless  it had 
spoken to him prior to the issue of the renewal invitation. And while  I can see that in this 
case Mr G did speak to Ageas that was after the renewal had been sent to him and he called  
because he was unhappy with the price that had been offered. 
So I think its likely this was a non-advised sale. That means Ageas didnt have check  
whether the policy  was suitable but it did have to provide Mr G with clear, fair and not 
misleading information so he could decide  whether it was right for him.
The renewal  invitation  that Ageas sent to Mr G in August 2017 included amongst other 
things, a key facts document summarising the policy cover. Section six of this document  is 
headed optional cover policy summaries. Under  the significant  features and benefits of 
Personal Legal Protection it includes contract  disputes.  The document  goes on to set out 
the significant exclusions and limitations  of the policy  but doesnt make  any reference to the 
fact the policy  only covers contract disputes  relating to buying or renting goods  or services. 
Ref: DRN52342142Ive listened to the calls Mr G had with Ageas to see if he was provided with any additional 
information about what this policy covered during these calls. I dont think  he was. The only 
reference to the legal protection  cover during these calls was Mr G querying whether this 
was included to which the advisor correctly confirmed it was. 
The relevant  rules say a consumer should be provided with information about  the key 
features and exclusions of a policy.  And while I appreciate it isnt possible to include every 
detail about a policy in a key facts document I think the limitation on the cover the policy 
provided for contract disputes  was a significant  feature  of it. So Ageas should  have done 
more to draw this to Mr Gs attention when he renewed the policy in 2017.  
But where I identify  a business has got something wrong I also need  to consider whether the 
person bringing  the complaint has lost out as a result. In this case  I dont think Mr G has. I 
say that because the renewal information  Ageas sent in 2013 explained that a different 
insurer would be providing the legal expenses  cover. It included with that renewal a short  
document on personal legal protection (headed whats changed)  with a table. And that table 
does contain the policy definition of a contract  dispute.  
I think that would have been  clear  to Mr G and would have made him aware of the cover the 
policy provided for contract  disputes. And he renewed his policy  on that basis. As hed been 
given information  at that time about  what cover the policy would provide I think  its unlikely 
that if Ageas had provided him with the same information in 2017 it would have affected his 
decision making and caused him to take out a different  policy.
In any case Mr Gs key concern is that the claim he made in June 2018  wasnt  covered. But 
even if Mr G had looked for alternative cover at renewal  in 2017 (and for the reasons Ive 
explained I dont  think he would) I dont think hed have  been able to find a policy that would 
have covered this dispute. 
Even if hed have been able to find a policy with wider cover for contract  disputes  his claim 
relates to a dispute  with the executor of a will. And from the evidence Ive seen he knew 
there was a problem  here in May 2017 because thats when the executor of the will refused 
to honour an agreement to pay money to members of Mr Gs family that he believed  had 
been agreed by the deceased.  
But legal expenses  insurance policies like these dont generally cover claims a policyholder  
knew about before they took out cover. So even if Mr G had sought alternative cover at 
renewal (in August  2017)  I think its unlikely hed have been  able find a policy that would 
have covered a dispute he already knew about at a price hed have been prepared  to pay. 
As a result while I do think Ageas should have  made  the limitations of the policy  clearer to 
Mr G in 2017 for the reasons  Ive explained  I dont think hes lost out because  it didnt. And 
so I dont think theres anything Ageas needs to do to put things right in this case. 
responses to my provisional  decision
Ageas didnt respond to my provisional  decision. Mr G did provide further comments. In 
summary he said:
Ref: DRN52342143Although he had received the renewal  documentation Ageas sent in August 2013  the 
document on personal legal protection formed part of a sixteen page enclosure  which  
said the cover provided had been enhanced. So he didnt feel the need  to consider the 
documentation which  set out the definition of a contractual dispute;
He accepted it was unlikely hed have been  able to obtain an alternative  policy  that 
would have covered his dispute  with the executor. But he argued hed had continuous 
cover for contract disputes under this policy. And it wasnt  necessary to report  this 
dispute to his insurer until he knew there  was a problem which was in June 2018. So he 
felt there  was no prejudice to the insurer and so the claim should be covered; 
So I need to reach a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This is a complaint  about the sale of the policy   not the decision on the claim. So the 
questions I need  to consider are whether Ageas did anything  wrong  when this policy was 
sold (including at renewal) and, if it did, whether Mr G has lost out as a result. Im not 
considering as part of this decision the claim Mr G made to his insurer which  is where his 
argument about prejudice might apply (though my understanding is that the claim wasnt 
declined because of any issue with late notification but simply because  the policy doesnt 
cover the issue that Mr G was claiming for).
Turning to the issue of the sale its clear that while Mr G is covered for contract  disputes,  
since at least 2013, that cover  has been  limited to contract disputes relating to buying or 
renting goods  or services.  I note the comments that Mr G has made about the information 
provided about this in 2013 and I agree with him that Ageas should in any case have made 
the definition of contract disputes clearer when the policy renewed. 
But having  identified a failing I then need  to consider whether Mr G has lost out as a result. 
Mr G feels Ageas should take responsibility  for the claim he subsequently made. However,  
in order to say it should  Id need  to be satisfied that, but for the error Ageas made, Mr G 
would have had a policy in place that would have covered  this claim. 
I dont think he would.  This policy doesnt do so. So hed have needed to take out one that 
did. But for him to have  had reason to do so hed likely have known there  was a dispute he 
needed assistance with. And legal expenses insurance policies like these dont  generally  
cover claims a policyholder knew about before they took out cover. As explained in my 
provisional decision I dont think hed have been  able find a policy  that would have covered a 
dispute he already  knew  about  at a price  hed have been prepared to pay. 
So even if Ageas had made the contract  dispute exclusion clearer to him I dont think Mr G 
would have had a policy in place that would have covered  the claim he subsequently made. 
And thats why I dont  think Ageas  needs  to do anything to put things right in this case.
Ref: DRN52342144my final decision
Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint.  Under  the rules  of the Financial  Ombudsman  
Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or reject my decision before 4 July 2020.
James Park
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5234214