K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (MPPI) policy  taken out in 2004  
Mr and Mrs S say Nationwide Building  Society mis-sold them the MPPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of MPPI on our website and Ive 
taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs S case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
Mr and Mrs S say that they felt they wouldnt  be offered the mortgage without taking the MPPI.  
I cant be sure what was said at the time, and Mr and Mrs S havent said much about  how they 
were made to feel this way. Nationwide has provided a copy of Mr and Mrs Ss mortgage  
application summary  in this theres a section relating to MPPI which  sets out the level of 
cover selected and how it is split between Mr and Mrs S. The policy  is presented as optional   
and theres nothing in this paperwork  to suggest  that a mortgage would be more  likely to be 
approved by taking  PPI cover.  Mr and Mrs S have then signed this paperwork  agreeing  to the 
information on it. Nationwide has also provided  a sample which  illustrates how the paperwork 
would look if a customer declined MPPI,  so I think  Mr and Mrs S couldve declined  the policy if 
they wanted to. 
So taking everything in to account,  Im satisfied that the paperwork provided is reflective of a 
conversation that took place between Nationwide and Mr and Mrs S  and I think Nationwide 
made it clear  that Mr and Mrs S didnt have to take out the MPPI  and that they chose to take it 
out  although I can understand why they cant remember  this as it was so long ago.
Nationwide didnt  recommend the MPPI  to Mr and Mrs S so it didnt have to check if it was right 
for them. But it did have  to make sure Mr and Mrs S got the information  they needed to decide 
if it was right for them.  
Its possible the information Nationwide gave Mr and Mrs S about the MPPI wasnt  as clear as 
it shouldve been. But as I think they chose  to take out the MPPI - it looks  like they wanted this 
type of cover. Based on what  Ive seen of their circumstances  at the time it doesnt look like 
they were affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the MPPI cover - so it would have  
been useful for them  if something went wrong.  It also looks like the MPPI was affordable.  So I 
dont think better  information  about  the MPPI would have  put them off taking out the cover. 
This means Nationwide doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the MPPI to Mr and Mrs S.
But Nationwide will pay back some  of the cost of the MPPI to Mr and Mrs S because:  
Nationwide got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the MPPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs S about that. Because Nationwide didnt tell Mr 
and Mrs S, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Nationwide  has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission and 
profit share that was above 50% of the MPPI premium - and I think  that offer is fair in this case.
Ref: DRN53989592Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs S have  said - but these points dont  change  my decision, 
and for the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. .
what the business needs  to do
Nationwide has to pay back  to Mr and Mrs S any commission and profit  share it got that was more 
than 50% of the MPPI  premium. Nationwide should also pay back  to Mr and Mrs S any extra  
interest they paid because of that.
Nationwide should  pay back  to Mr and Mrs S the extra they paid each month because the 
commission and profit share it got was more  than 50% of the cost of MPPI. Nationwide should also 
pay Mr and Mrs S 8%* simple interest  on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr and Mrs S can claim back the tax if they dont  pay tax.
my final decision
The MPPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Nationwide Building Society does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the MPPI  to Mr and Mrs S.
But Nationwide Building Society does have  to pay back to Mr and Mrs S any commission  and profit  
share it got that was more than 50% of the MPPI  premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 March  2019.
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5398959