K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs L complain that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) acted unfairly and 
unreasonably when dealing with their mortgage.  They want matters  put right.
background
Mr and Mrs L had a mortgage with NatWest and decided that theyd like to overpay to repay  
it in full early. They  asked for a redemption figure, and said that they were told £10,000 was 
left to pay. Mr and Mrs L overpaid £500  a month,  but were  sent a letter  by NatWest saying 
that it had incorrectly  credited  someone  elses money to their mortgage  and it had been  
reversed. The monthly mortgage payment was also reviewed.  Another  letter  was then 
received, telling Mr and Mrs L that they were behind  with their mortgage.  Upon asking  what  
was going on, Mr and Mrs L said that they were  told NatWest had accidentally credited their 
mortgage with £1,724.04  in 2017  and this transaction was reversed  in July 2018. 
Mr and Mrs L complained  to NatWest. It explained  what had happened about  the incorrect  
credit made on the mortgage account and accepted  that this had caused  confusion to 
Mr and Mrs L about how much they owed  under  the mortgage. NatWest  said that the 
balance was now correct  and it sent a detailed breakdown of the transactions made affecting 
the mortgage so Mr and Mrs L could check their payments were correctly credited. It also 
paid £250 compensation  for the trouble and upset caused.
Mr and Mrs L complained  to us, saying  that they believed  that £1,724.04  wasnt  used to 
reduce their mortgage  balance as their monthly  mortgage payment didnt change.  They also 
thought theyd been charged default  interest for a failure to make payments (when they 
hadnt missed a payment). 
The adjudicators view was that NatWests offer was fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances. He was satisfied that £1,724.04 has been wrongly credited to Mr and Mrs Ls 
mortgage account, and that the balance and interest charged was now correct. The 
adjudicator said £250 compensation for the trouble and upset caused was fair and 
reasonable.
Mr and Mrs L disagreed. They said that they wanted another  investigation by an 
ombudsman and more  compensation  for the worry theyd suffered.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  My role isnt to punish businesses for 
making a mistake,  but to ensure that consumers are put back into the position  that they 
shouldve been  in all along. 
In Mr and Mrs Ls case, if NatWest hadnt accidentally  credited their mortgage with 
£1,724.04, they still wouldve owed the full amount due under the terms and conditions of the 
mortgage. NatWest has provided a detailed breakdown to enable  them  to check  all 
payments made have  been credited and the balance is correct. No missing payments have 
been identified.  And I can see that the £1,724.04 was credited to their account, which 
reduced the balance until the transaction was reversed. 
Ref: DRN54176042I appreciate that Mr and Mrs L are suspicious that their monthly mortgage payment didnt 
change when the money was wrongly credited, but the account  history shows credits  alone 
arent sufficient to trigger a change  to the monthly payment (for example, when Mr and Mrs L 
made overpayments). The monthly  payment only changes when the payment to each sub-
account is sufficient  large   as the wrong credit was split between  three  sub-accounts, it 
didnt trigger a change. The reversal had to be undertaken  in a different manner due to one 
sub-account having  closed  in the meantime, which was significant enough to trigger  a 
change.
While I appreciate Mr and Mrs L are disappointed to owe more than they thought,  this 
doesnt mean NatWest  should write  off money to which it is legally entitled under the 
mortgage. Im satisfied that the current balance of the mortgage  is correct, though this 
service isnt an account checking service  and Mr and Mrs L can instruct a specialist 
accountant to check the account  at their own expense if they wish.
Mr and Mrs L believe that they have been charged  default interest  due to alleged arrears. 
Having considered the evidence available to me, I cant see any default interest has been 
charged. Only the usual interest has been charged, which isnt unfair or unreasonable.
But I agree  that Mr and Mrs L have  been caused  trouble  and upset by the confusion  over 
how much  they owed under their mortgage and the disappointment caused by NatWests 
mistake in incorrectly crediting the account  with £1,7024.04. I also think that it was unfair and 
unreasonable for NatWest to send a letter saying Mr and Mrs L were behind with their 
mortgage when  they werent  (though I accept this was triggered by the reversal  of the money  
wrongly credited  to the mortgage). 
Money never  truly compensates for trouble and upset, and I must bear in mind  this services 
guidelines. I accept  Mr and Mrs L have been  worried, but theres  no evidence of any impact 
on their credit records. I also accept Mr and Mrs L have been  upset, but I also have to bear 
in mind that part of the upset is caused by NatWest requiring them to pay money that they 
owe, something for which I cant award  compensation as this isnt unfair  or unreasonable. In 
all the circumstances  of this case,  I think  £250 compensation is fair and reasonable.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs L to accept or reject  my decision 
before 7 March  2019.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5417604