K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains about the valuation MCE Insurance Company  Limited offered for his 
motorbike under his motor  insurance policy after it was stolen. He wants  it to pay £2,300.
background
Mr Cs bike was stolen and MCE offered him around £600 in settlement of his claim. Mr C 
said the bike was insured  for £3,500. He thought MCE should pay him £2,300 taking into 
account his excess. 
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought  Mr Cs 
policy provided for the market value of his bike in the case of its loss, not an agreed value. 
She thought  MCE  had reached its valuation by considering the market guides. She thought 
its offer was fair and reasonable. So she didnt think it needed to do anything further. 
Mr C replied that MCE hadnt told him when he took out the policy  how it would settle  claims.  
He said hed only seen  the policy details after he made his claim.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C said MCE  hadnt made it clear how it would settle any total loss claims. He said he 
thought MCEs  offer should be the insured  value  less his excess, which was around £2,300. 
He said hed never have taken the policy if he had known how the bike would be valued. But 
I dont think MCEs done anything wrong. Ill now explain why I think this.
Mr Cs policy  provides  for the claim value of his bike, less the policy excess, in the case of 
its total loss. The claim  value is defined in the policy booklet,
The cost of replacing  your motorcycle with one of the same make,  model, age, type and 
condition will normally be determined by a number of factors, including  but not limited to 
valuations provided  by published buyers  guides available  in the market  place, independent  
engineers reports,  your estimate of value
So I think this isnt an agreed value policy where  the consumer and the insurer  agree  the 
value of bike. I think how a total loss claim  would be settled  is made  clear  in Mr Cs policy  
terms and conditions. This is very similar to other policies Ive seen so I dont think the term 
is unusual or unfair. 
Mr C said he didnt receive  these  Terms and Conditions until after he made his claim. I can 
see that Mr C found  his policy through an online comparison site. After  filling  out an online 
application form, he was then directed to MCEs website. Here he was asked to tick boxes to 
confirm that he had read and accepted the policys Key Facts and Terms  and Conditions.  
The online process  wouldnt  proceed  unless he did this. 
Ive also seen evidence  from MCE that it sent out Mr Cs policy documents, including the 
Terms and Conditions, by email on the day he bought his policy. I think it was then for Mr C 
to cancel his policy within the cooling off period if it didnt suit his needs. 
Ref: DRN57422722So I think MCE made Mr C reasonably aware  of the policys Terms and Conditions, including  
how a total loss claim would be settled, before he bought  his policy  and immediately 
afterwards. So I cant say that MCE acted unfairly  or unreasonably in applying  its policy.
Mr C said he insured  his bike for £3,500. But this was the estimated  value  that he placed on 
the bike at the time. This doesnt mean that the bike was insured for that amount as it wasnt  
an agreed value  policy. MCE said the claim value was £1,612.50 less the policy  excess. 
The investigator has explained this services approach  to vehicle valuations in that we dont  
provide valuations but seek to assess whether the insurers offer is reasonable. 
In assessing whether  a reasonable offer has been  made, we obtain  valuations from motor-
trade guides. These are used for valuing second  hand vehicles. We find these guides to be 
particularly persuasive,  largely because their valuations are based  on nationwide research 
and likely sales figures. The guides also take into account regional variations. We also take 
all other available  evidence into account,  for example, engineers  reports.
MCE said it obtained valuations for Mr Cs bike from two trade guides and calculated  an 
average figure of £1,625.50. It then deducted Mr Cs excess,  which is always  the first part of 
a claim to be paid. And its settlement offer was then £577.50. 
Ive checked how the valuations were  made.  I can see that they took into account the bikes 
make, model, age and condition. I think they were made according to our approach  except 
that the bikes mileage  couldnt be included as there was no reliable mileage recorded since 
2006. MCE said it had therefore used a mileage of 1. Ive also looked  at another  guide  we 
use, and its valuation falls within the range  of the valuations MCE obtained. So I think MCEs 
offer was fair and reasonable and I dont  require it to increase this. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 February  2019.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5742272