K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that Advantage Insurance Company Limited declined his claim on his motor  
insurance policy following  the theft of his car. He wants it to pay his claim.  Mr B is 
represented in this matter by his relative,  Mr C. 
background
Mr B said his car was stolen when he left it unattended overnight.  Advantage had the cars  
two keys examined. This found that these were the cars second  and third key and key two 
had last been used twelve days before Mr B said hed last driven the car. So Advantage 
declined the claim  as it said Mr B had misrepresented facts  related to the claim.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought  
Advantage was entitled to decline a claim if information provided wasnt true or correct. She 
thought the analysis of the keys showed that the car had last been driven twelve  days before 
Mr B said hed last driven it. She didnt think a recent  roadside  assistance report or recall 
notice showed  that the key was faulty. So she thought Advantage had reasonably  declined  
the claim.
Mr C asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.  He said Mr B had driven the 
car in the twelve day period after the last recording on the key and before the car was stolen. 
So the complaints  come to me for a final decision.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach in cases like this is to consider whether the insurers  acted in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy and fairly and reasonably.
In Mr Bs policy under General Conditions there is a section on Making  Claims. There  is a 
term stating that all information must be true and correct.  The policy then states that 
reasonable care must be taken to ensure  that information supplied  was provided honestly,  
fully or correctly. Otherwise,  it warns that the policy could be cancelled  and the claim 
declined. 
Advantages decision to decline the claim was made because  the data recorded  on the cars 
keys was different  to what Mr B had reported.  It said the car was last used twelve  days 
before Mr B said hed last driven his car and so he couldnt have driven the car to the 
location of the theft. Advantage also conducted  a detailed interview with Mr B about the 
circumstances of the cars theft. Ive listened  to a recording of this.
Advantage obtained the information about the keys from an analysis by a dealership garage.  
Ive listed to the call that was made  to share the garages findings. The engineer  said the 
keys would be updated when they were used in the car. Key one wasnt  provided and Mr B 
said hes only ever had two keys. The engineer said key three  had last been used at the 
date when Mr B had purchased the car. Key two had last been used twelve  days  before the 
theft. The engineer went  on to say that if the date or time in the car was wrong, then the 
keys data wouldnt be accurate. 
Ref: DRN58020532Mr B supplied a report from a recent breakdown  and a recall notice for his car. Ive looked  at 
these but I cant see that they are relevant to the keys being correctly  updated.  Also, when 
he discussed the claim with Advantage, Mr B said thered been no mechanical problems with 
the car and he hadnt had any recent electrical  or mechanical work done on the car. 
The report  from the breakdown service  said that assistance was provided four days  before 
the cars  key last recorded it as being  used. The report said that whilst the car was driveable, 
garage attention  was required  as soon as possible. I havent seen that Mr B had his car 
looked at in a garage  as advised. 
So I havent seen  any evidence to show that the keys werent correctly updated and I 
therefore think it was reasonable for Advantage to rely on this. 
Mr B said hed used his car to travel to work  after the date the keys last recorded the car as 
being used. He said hed driven  the car to the location where the car was stolen. But I 
havent seen any independent evidence to show this. Mr Bs family wouldnt be considered  
to be independent witnesses. 
Mr B said he reported the theft to the police who provided a crime reference number but they 
didnt attend the scene.  So theres no police report for Advantage to consider.  
So, in summary,  I think Advantage reasonably investigated the claim and considered  the 
evidence before deciding that Mr B had provided  incorrect information and so declined the 
claim. I think  its entitled to decide  this by the policy terms and conditions.  So I cant  say that 
its done anything  wrong in declining  the claim. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 March  2019.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5802053