K820x#14complaint
Mrs G complains about how esure  Insurance Limited has handled  claims made on her motor 
insurance policy. She wants compensation for her stress and for the additional premiums  
shes paid due to the loss of her No Claims Discount  (NCD).
background
Mrs G found that esure had three  claims recorded against her in one policy year.  This led to 
the loss of her 11 years  NCD,  an increase  in premium, and esure declining  to renew her 
policy. Mrs G said she was only involved in one of the incidents  that led to a claim. But esure 
said it had kept the other two claims open whilst  they were being  investigated.  esure agreed 
it had made  mistakes on Mrs Gs proof of NCD and on other  service  areas.  It paid her £150  
compensation for this.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  should  be upheld.  She thought esure 
had fairly  paid claim one as it had no evidence to defend it. So she thought it had correctly 
recorded this claim  as fault. She didnt think esure had caused Mrs G excessive 
inconvenience in its handling of the claim or that it had failed to contact  her. Claims two and 
three have  now been  closed.  The adjudicator thought it wasn't wrong  for esure  to record 
them as fault and keep them open  whilst  it investigated them. She thought esures offer of 
compensation for its service shortfalls was fair and reasonable. 
Mrs G replied that esure hadnt left messages when it said it had tried to call her. She 
thought it was unfair that esure had all the evidence whilst  she had none to provide  to show  
its treatment of her. She thought it had made a false accusation against her and this had 
affected her health.  Mrs G said esure hadnt told her that her NCD had been restored. Mrs G 
asked for her complaint to be reviewed  by an ombudsman,  so its come to me for a final 
decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mrs G had a stressful and worrying time when she had three  claims 
made against her. I was sorry to hear that this has affected her health. Our approach  in 
cases like this is to consider whether the insurers acted fairly and reasonably  and in line 
with the terms and conditions of the policy. In doing  this, we look at the available evidence.  I 
know that Mrs G thinks  this unfairly  favours the insurer.  But we rely on evidence so that we 
can stay impartial when  looking  at complaints.  
For claim one, I can see from its records that esure  tried to contact Mrs G by phone  a few 
days after the claim was notified by her, but without success. I can also see that esure did 
leave a voice mail message on this occasion. So I cant say that esure didnt try to contact 
Mrs G.
Mrs G was frustrated  that esure  settled  the claim against her wishes.  The adjudicator  has 
already explained that it isnt our role to decide  who was responsible for causing the 
accident. This is the role of the courts. Instead,  our role in complaints  of this nature is simply 
to investigate how the insurer made  the decision to settle the claim. Did it act fairly and 
reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy?
Ref: DRN58022292As esure has explained, its entitled  under the terms and conditions  of its policy  with Mrs G 
to take over,  defend, or settle a claim as it sees fit. Mrs G has to follow its advice in 
connection with the settlement of a claim, whether she agrees with the outcome or not. This 
is a common term in motor insurance policies and I dont find it unusual. Insurers  are entitled  to 
take a commercial decision about whether its reasonable to contest a third party  claim or 
better to compromise.
I can see that esure obtained Mrs Gs version  of events. She explained that this was a low 
speed accident where she was reversing in a car park. It said it wouldnt be able to defend  
the matter if it went to court as the greater onus was on Mrs G as the reversing party.  It 
thought the claimed for damages were consistent with the circumstances. And so it settled 
the claim as I think its entitled to do under  the policy terms and conditions. I appreciate that 
Mrs G thinks this was a crash for cash. But I cant see that esure  had evidence  of this. So I 
cant say it did anything  wrong in settling the claim. 
As esure made an outlay, the claim was recorded  on the Claims and Underwriting  Exchange  
(CUE) as fault. I think this was correct.  
Mrs G was very unhappy that esure  had accepted claims two and three from other drivers, 
recorded them on CUE and kept them open whilst it awaited evidence  to show  that Mrs G 
was involved and negligent. I can understand that this was stressful  and worrying for Mrs G. 
But I think esure was obliged to respond to the allegations when they were received. Its 
standard industry practice  to keep claims open  and recorded  as fault whilst they are being 
investigated. I think it was reasonable for esure to wait for the other drivers to present 
evidence. So I cant say that esure  did anything  wrong here. 
esure contacted Mrs G and asked  for her response  to both complaints. It passed on what 
information it had at the time. Mrs G thought esure  had alleged  that shed acted criminally. 
But I disagree. I think esure told her what the other driver had alleged. Mrs G also contacted 
the police  and she said she was told she may have left the scene of an accident.  I can 
understand Mrs Gs worry, but I cant see that esure  did anything  wrong  in this. 
Mrs G thought esure should report her claims to the police. But I cant  see that esure had 
firm evidence of wrong-doing  to report.  I think it was for Mrs G to report  her concerns if she 
thought there had been criminal behaviour. 
esure agreed that there  had been  some service  failings. It said it hadnt kept Mrs G updated 
about claim two and had recorded the closed claim  incorrectly.  This has now been corrected. 
esure said it had issued an incorrect NCD proof  and Mrs G had to make  two phone  calls to 
have this corrected.  And it said it should  have logged her complaint when she first raised  her 
concerns. 
esure paid Mrs G £150 compensation for these errors. I think this is fair and reasonable as 
its in keeping with what Id award in similar circumstances. So I dont require esure to 
increase this. 
Ref: DRN58022293Mrs G said she was disgusted that esure  sent her notice by email  that it wouldnt renew her 
policy. But I think that as Mrs G had provided  this means  of contact, it wasnt  wrong for esure 
to use it. esure has provided  evidence  from its underwriters  that it wouldnt offer renewal if a 
consumer had more  than two claims open.  In any case, Mrs G had already told esure that 
she didnt want to renew. So I cant say esure made  a mistake  in this. 
Mrs G took out a new policy elsewhere.  She can now show the new insurer  proof  of her 
restored NCD if this will reduce her premium and provide a refund.  
Mrs G has raised  further concerns about esure not telling her the outcomes of claims two 
and three  and that her NCD had been  restored. But as the adjudicator has explained, Mrs G 
will have to raise these  new concerns with esure  in the first instance to give it a chance  to 
respond. If she remains unhappy, she can bring her complaint  to us. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 October  2019.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5802229