K820x#14complaint
Mr A has complained that Lloyds Bank  PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold him two packaged bank 
accounts. The first was called a Gold  account and the second was called a Platinum  
account. 
Mr A paid monthly fees for both packaged accounts and received several potential benefits  
in return. He thinks that Lloyds should refund him all the fees he paid, plus interest.
background
One of our adjudicators has already looked into Mr As complaint and didnt think that Lloyds 
had mis-sold either account to him. 
Mr A didnt agree with adjudicators findings and asked for an ombudsman to review  his 
case. So it has come  to me to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained  how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website,
and Ive used  this approach to help me to decide what  to do in Mr As case.  Ive looked into 
everything that Mr A and Lloyds have told us or sent us about the case,  and Ive decided not 
to uphold it. Ill explain why.
During our investigation into this complaint,  there has been some  debate  about which types 
of account Mr A held at what times.  In outline:
Mr A and Lloyds have agreed  that he opened  a fee-free account in 1996. Neither 
party has sent us any detailed records from that long ago, and some recent 
correspondence has suggested that Mr A didnt open the account until 2001. 
However, as Lloyds and Mr A agree  that his account goes back  to 1996, I have taken 
this date to be correct. 
Mr A has told us that before 2001,  Lloyds sold him a Silver account;  but Lloyds has 
told us that it didnt start to sell Silver  accounts  until 2007.
Lloyds has told us that it sold the Gold account to Mr A, for which he paid a fee, in 
2001. Mr A seems to have agreed with this and I have  taken it to be correct.
Lloyds has told us that it sold the Platinum  account to Mr A, for which  he paid a 
higher fee than he had for the Gold account, in 2005. Again, Mr A seems  to have 
agreed with this, and I have  taken it to be correct. 
With respect to the Silver account, I fully accept Mr A is doing  his best to remember the 
details of the accounts he held with Lloyds. But its now over 15 years since 2001 when he 
recalls having a Silver account; and as we have no records of Lloyds selling such  accounts 
at that time, I think its more likely  he still had a fee-free account. So, Ive considered his 
case on the basis that the key points in his account history are as follows 
Ref: DRN54188022he opened a fee-free account in 1996
Lloyds sold him the Gold account in 2001
Lloyds sold him the Platinum account  in 2005
Mr A has raised two main  points in his complaint. Hes said that he asked Lloyds for a loan, 
and it told him that he needed to buy a packaged  account in order to receive one, which  he 
now knows wasnt true; and that Lloyds didnt tell him there was an alterative fee-free 
account. He has also told us that he didnt  need any of the potential benefits that came with 
either the Gold or Platinum accounts.  
Although Mr A has raised  similar points about  the way Lloyds sold him both accounts, to 
make sure I havent missed  anything,  I have considered each of them  in turn. 
the gold account
Lloyds and Mr A have agreed  that Lloyds sold this account to Mr A during a meeting at one 
of its branches and that Lloyds recommended that he should buy it. This meant that Lloyds 
had to check that the account was appropriate  for Mr As circumstance and tell him about its 
costs and benefits clearly  and fairly,  so he could  decided if he wanted it. 
When Lloyds sold the account to Mr A, its potential benefits included travel insurance,  
purchase protection and cheaper interest  rates on loans and overdrafts than Lloyds offered 
to customers with fee-fee  accounts. 
Obviously, I dont know what Lloyds  told, or didnt tell, Mr A about the account during the 
meeting, but I understand that Mr A travelled to Europe from time-to-time and he has already 
mentioned that he wanted a loan. So I think that some of the benefits of the Gold account  
may have  been  quite  well matched to Mr As circumstances  and that it was reasonable  for 
Lloyds to recommend  the account  to him.
I understand that Mr A had previously  taken loans from Lloyds before he held the Gold 
account, so it seems unlikely to me that Lloyds would have told him he needed to take the 
Gold account to get a loan. After all, this would have contradicted Mr As direct  experience.  
I fully accept that Lloyds  may have told Mr A that he could get a cheaper  loan with the Gold 
account than without it, but this isnt the same as telling him he had to take the Gold  account. 
I think it would have  been reasonable for Lloyds to tell Mr A about this. 
I also think that Lloyds  would have told Mr A about the monthly  fees as they would appear 
on his statements from that point onwards and I dont think Lloyds tried to hide them. 
As Mr A had held his fee-free account  for several years before  Lloyds  sold him the Gold  
account, and I havent  seen anything  to make me think that Lloyds told him he couldnt keep 
that account, I also think its likely that Lloyds allowed Mr A to choose which account he 
wanted. 
So, although  I cant be certain that Lloyds  did everything right for Mr A when it sold him the 
Gold account, I think it made a reasonable recommendation, told him about the accounts 
main features and cost,  and allowed him a choice to switch  or to keep his fee-free  account.  I 
dont think that Lloyds mis-sold the Gold account  to Mr A. 
Ref: DRN54188023the platinum account 
Neither party has been able to tell us for certain if Lloyds sold this account to Mr A during a 
meeting, over the phone,  on-line or in some other way; or whether Lloyds recommended  it to 
him or sold it to him on an information  only basis. So in fairness to Mr A, I have assumed 
that Lloyds did recommend  this account to Mr A, which means  that I would have expected  it 
to meet  the same conditions as when  it sold the Gold  account.  
By 2005, Lloyds had added mobile  phone insurance and car breakdown cover to the 
potential benefits  of the Gold  account.  These were also available  with the Platinum account, 
but the car breakdown cover was more extensive.  Similarly, both accounts  offered travel 
insurance but the cover provided  with the Platinum account could  be more wide ranging.
. 
The Platinum account also offered  other potential benefits such  as access to airport  lounges 
and card protection cover. However, neither account  provided  cheaper  loans than Lloyds 
gave to its customers with fee-free accounts.  
As previously, I cant tell for sure what Lloyds said, or didnt say, to Mr A about the Platinum 
account in 2005. But it has sent us some of its notes from the time which  show that it 
discussed travel insurance with Mr A, so I think that he may have found the travel  benefits  of 
potential use. Similarly, he drove  a car and may well have found the increased car 
breakdown cover of interest. 
Once again, I havent seen anything to make  me think that Lloyds told Mr A he had to 
change accounts  and Im satisfied  it gave him a choice.  I think it was reasonable for Lloyds 
to recommend the Platinum account  to Mr A for the travel, car breakdown and other  benefits,  
even though the account didnt offer cheaper loans. I also think  its highly likely that Lloyds 
told Mr A he would have to pay a higher fee for the wider range of potential  benefits. 
So, as with the Gold account, I cant be certain  that Lloyds got everything right when it sold 
the Platinum account to Mr A, but I dont  think the account was mis-sold. 
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  set out above, I am not upholding Mr As complaint about Lloyds 
Bank PLC, I am not going to tell it to give him any money back. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 June  2020. 
Steve Townsley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5418802