K821x#15complaint
Mr K complains that U K Insurance Limited,  trading  as Direct Line Car Insurance,  cancelled 
his motor insurance policies from the outset. Ms S is a named driver on the policy and is 
helping Mr K to bring his complaint. 
background
In December 2016, Mr K took out a motor insurance policy  with Direct Line. In December 
2017, the policy was renewed automatically.  
Its common ground that when he took out the first policy, Mr K gave Direct Line incorrect 
information about the number of cars in his household, whether he owned his home, his job 
and Ms Ss job.  
In June 2018, Direct Line asked Mr K about  the information hed given and, as it wasnt  
satisfied with his explanation, it cancelled  Mr Ks policies from the outset and retained  the 
premiums. Direct Line said that Mr K had deliberately misrepresented  certain  information  
when he took out the first policy. 
Mr K subsequently had difficulty  taking out motor insurance with other insurers.  He wants  
Direct Line to remove reference to its cancellation  of the policy from internal and external 
databases.
Our investigator said that Direct Line was entitled  to cancel  the policies from the outset as 
Mr K had given it incorrect information  about  his home ownership status and the number of 
cars in his household. He said that the incorrect information affected the premium  Direct Line 
offered to Mr K. 
The investigator didnt  think that Mr K had acted deliberately. He thought that Mr K had acted  
recklessly. He said that meant that whilst Direct Line could retain  the premiums Mr K had 
paid, it should  remove any information  that it mightve reported to any fraud databases.  
Direct Line didnt agree with the investigator. It maintained that Mr K had acted deliberately,  
rather than recklessly. Direct Line said that one or two inaccuracies could be reckless but a 
number of inaccuracies for two different policies, which make the premium cheaper, 
demonstrates deliberate  behaviour. Direct Line said that these types of inaccuracies are 
common in policies taken  out fraudulently. 
Mr K regretted that Direct Line didnt accept  the investigators view. Ms S said that Direct 
Line had treated  them  unfairly. She said that they accepted  their mistakes. Ms S said that 
they need their cars and have found  this matter very stressful.  
As there was no agreement between the parties, the complaint was passed to me, an 
ombudsman, to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN58533322Where a complaint  arises  from non-disclosure of information important  to an insurer, we look 
to see that it asked clear  questions when the policy was taken out. We check  that the 
information given  would  affect whether a policy  was offered or its terms. And we check  
whether the policyholder has taken reasonable care to provide accurate information. If not, 
we consider whether the policyholder did so deliberately,  recklessly  or carelessly.  
Its common ground here that Mr K gave inaccurate information about  the number of cars in 
his household, whether he owned  his home, his job and Ms Ss job. Ive looked at how 
Direct Line asked those  questions  and Im satisfied that in each case, it asked  the question  
clearly. 
Mr Ks policy  renewed automatically in 2017.  Direct Line says that, on renewal, it sent Mr K a 
renewal invitation  and the onus was on him to tell it about any mistakes  in the information 
hed previously given.  Failure to comply with an insurers request to confirm or amend details 
previously given is capable of being a misrepresentation. Mr K didnt correct the earlier  
incorrect information hed given. 
Direct Line says that the incorrect information  Mr K gave about  jobs didnt alter the terms of 
the policy it offered.  But the information about home  ownership and the number of cars in the 
household meant that Direct  Line offered  Mr K a lower premium  than it would have offered 
him if it had known the true position.  
I need to decide whether Mr K acted  deliberately,  recklessly  or carelessly in relation to the 
incorrect information he gave to Direct  Line about his home ownership and the number of 
cars in his household. 
Considering everything, I think Mr K acted more than carelessly  when he told Direct Line that 
he owned his home  and that he had four cars. Neither of those answers  was true. Mr K 
doesnt own his home  and had two cars. I think those  matters are not ones that individuals 
commonly get confused about. I think it would be unusual to get those  answers wrong 
merely carelessly.  
Direct Line says that Mr K acted deliberately. I dont think its established that was the case  
here. It says that the three answers that were wrong  are fraud indicators, there  were  similar 
misrepresentations on another policy and the incorrect  answers  made the premium cheaper, 
not more expensive. 
The fact that Direct  Line has identified certain  fraud indicators doesnt help me to decide 
Mr Ks state of mind  at the relevant times or his intention  when  he gave the incorrect  
answers initially and didnt later correct  them.  I understand that other misrepresentations  
Direct Line refers to were  in relation to a policy taken out later by Ms S. Again, that doesnt 
show that Mr K acted deliberately here. 
Two of the three areas in which Mr K gave incorrect information led to a reduced  premium. I 
think it would  be widely understood that being  a homeowner may reduce the premium  but I 
dont think its clear  that saying you own four cars instead of two would do so. 
Considering everything, I dont think that Direct  Line has shown that Mr K acted deliberately. 
I think the evidence  shows that he acted recklessly.  Direct Line was entitled to cancel the 
policies from the outset and retain the premiums.  I dont think its unfair  for it to do that here.   
Ref: DRN58533323Direct Line is obliged to update certain internal  and external databases with relevant  
information. Mr K wants it to remove reference  to its cancellation of the policies from internal 
and external databases. But that wouldnt help him, as hes obliged to disclose the 
cancellation of the policies to prospective  insurers in any event. I dont think  its appropriate 
to tell Direct  Line to remove  any information  that it mightve reported to any internal or 
external databases  except to say that it should  not report this as deliberate 
misrepresentation or on any fraud  databases.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. U K Insurance  Limited,  trading as 
Direct Line Car Insurance, was entitled  to cancel the policies from the outset, retain the 
premiums and record the cancellation  from the outset on internal or external databases. But 
it should not record this as deliberate misrepresentation or fraud on any internal or external 
databases. If it has already recorded  that cancellation was due to deliberate  
misrepresentation or fraud, it should remove or amend the record. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K and Ms S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  5 March 2019.
Louise Povey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5853332