K820x#14complaint
Mrs T says Allianz Insurance Plc mis-sold  her a payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  Mrs T took out with a charge  card in 1992. Its been  
agreed that Allianz should take responsibility for the complaint. So, for clarity, Ill refer to 
Allianz in my decision.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs T disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ts case.
Having done so, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why below.
When selling  the PPI, Allianz had to make it clear  to Mrs T that she had a choice about  it. 
But Mrs T says it wasnt made clear that the policy was optional.
Allianz has sent us a copy of Mrs Ts application form for the charge card.  This included a 
section on PPI with a box to be ticked if Mrs T wanted to take it out, and space for the name  
and date of birth of the person to be covered to be filled in. And the box has been ticked  and 
Mrs Ts name  and date of birth has been  filled in.
If Mrs T didnt want the PPI, I think she could have  left this section of the form blank. So I 
think it was made clear to Mrs T that she had a choice about the PPI, and that she chose  to 
take it knowing she didnt  have to.
I havent seen  clear evidence that Allianz  gave  Mrs T any personalised advice about the PPI. 
So I dont  think it recommended the PPI to her. This means it didnt have to check if the PPI 
was right for Mrs T. But it did still have to make sure she got the information  she needed to 
decide if it was right for her.
Its possible the information Allianz gave  Mrs T about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it shouldve 
been. But, based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, Mrs T doesnt appear 
to have been affected by any of the main exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover. The policy 
couldve paid out for longer than shes told us she wouldve been entitled to full sick pay. And 
it wouldve  meant she didnt need  to rely on any savings she had to make her repayments  if 
she wasnt earning.
Mrs T initially told us she was working  for less than 16 hours per week  at the time, and so 
wasnt eligible for the policy. But shes since said she isnt sure how many hours she was 
working and it may have  been more. And the charge  card application form says customers 
must be working at least 16 hours per week just above where Mrs Ts name and date of birth 
were filled in, so I think its likely  she would  have seen this and wouldnt have completed the 
Ref: DRN58401362section if she was working less than this. So I think its likely Mrs T was working at least 16 
hours per week at the time, and so the policy would have been eligible for the policy.
So I think the PPI policy would have been  useful to Mrs T if something  went wrong. And I 
dont think better information  about  the PPI would have  put her off taking it out.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ts complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 September  2019.
Alan Millward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5840136