K820x#14complaint
Mrs A says Capital One (Europe) plc mis-sold her a payment protection insurance  (PPI)  
policy.
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in 2007.  The policy was added  to 
Mrs As credit  card account  when she phoned Capital One to activate the card.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs A disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaints been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs As case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs As complaint. Ill explain why.
 Ive seen a copy  of Mrs As signed  credit card agreement. It included a section on 
Optional Capital One Payment  Protection Insurance, with a box to tick if the applicant  
wished to take the cover.  The box wasnt ticked, and PPI wasnt  added  to Mrs As 
account at the outset. But Im satisfied that it would have been clear  to Mrs A from the 
way the agreement was set out that the PPI was optional.
 PPI was added to the account  the following  month, when Capital Ones records show  
that Mrs A phoned it to activate  the card. Capital One hasnt been  able to provide a 
recording of the phone call. I dont think thats surprising or unreasonable, given that it 
took place so long ago. But Ive seen a copy of the call script in use at the time. It 
instructed the agent to gain the cardholders explicit consent before adding  PPI to the 
account. Ive no particular reason to think that the script  wouldnt have been followed in 
Mrs As case. And I think its most  likely that PPI was added to Mrs As account 
because she agreed to take it.
 Ive also borne in mind that the premiums for the PPI would have been clearly shown 
on Mrs As monthly  credit  card statements. And given  that Im satisfied that she knew  
the PPI was optional, Id have expected  her to query this with Capital One if she hadnt 
agreed to the cover.  Ive seen nothing to suggest that she did so.
 Taking everything into account,  Im satisfied that Capital One made  Mrs A aware that 
the PPI was optional. And I think she decided to take it, knowing that she had a choice 
 although I can understand how she may no longer remember this, so long after the 
event.
 Capital One didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs A so it didnt have to check  if it was 
suitable for her. It was for Mrs A to decide whether she wanted the cover,  knowing 
what alternative means shed have  had of making her monthly  credit  card repayments 
if she was off sick, or if she lost her job.
Ref: DRN57690172 Mrs As told us she wouldnt  have been  entitled to any sick pay or redundancy pay 
from her employer  at the time.  And she had no savings or other means she could have 
used to make her credit  card repayments if she was off sick, or if she lost her job. If 
shed made a successful claim on the policy for accident, sickness  or unemployment, 
the PPI policy would have helped with Mrs As credit  card repayments for up to 
12 months. So I think the PPI provided  her with useful cover.
 Its possible the information Capital One gave Mrs A about  the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been.  But Mrs A chose  to take out the policy. So she appears to have 
wanted this type of cover,  even if shes understandably forgotten that now. Based on 
what shes told us about her circumstances at the time, she wasnt  affected by any of 
the exclusions or limitations  (for example,  provisions about unusual working 
arrangements or existing  medical  conditions).  The policy was competitively priced and 
apparently affordable. And since Mrs A was paying for it monthly, she could have 
cancelled it at any time with no further cost,
 So taking everything into account,  I think it unlikely Mrs A would have  made a different  
decision if better information had been provided. On balance,  I think shed still have  
taken out the policy.
Ive taken into account all of Mrs As comments, including  what  shes  said about Capital One 
not having told her that a similar  policy  might  be available  more cheaply elsewhere. But 
Capital One wasnt  obliged to tell Mrs A about  products  that might  have  been  available from 
other providers. 
Mrs A has also commented on the fact that she didnt claim on the PPI when she was 
diagnosed with a serious medical  condition. She says that if shed  known she had the policy,  
shed have claimed. So she believes the fact that she didnt claim supports her view that she 
didnt know the PPI had been  added to her account. 
From what  shes  told us, it appears that Mrs As medical condition  was diagnosed a few 
years after she took out the policy. Ive concluded  that Mrs A knew  that the PPI was optional, 
and Im satisfied, on balance, that she consented  to the policy  being added  to her account at 
the time of sale. So Im sorry to disappoint  Mrs A, but the fact that she didnt claim on the 
policy when she may have been  able to do so doesnt change my view that the policy  wasnt  
mis-sold.
This means  that Capital One doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs A.
But Capital One has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs A because:
 Capital One got a high level of commission and profit share  (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium)  so it should have told Mrs A about  that. Because Capital One didnt tell 
Mrs A, that was unfair.
 To put that right, Capital One has paid back  the amount  of commission and profit share 
that was above  50% of the PPI premium  and I think  thats  fair in this case.
Ref: DRN57690173my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Capital One (Europe) plc does not have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mrs A.
But Capital One (Europe) plc does have  to pay back to Mrs A any commission  and profit  
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand that it has already  
done this, so I dont  award any further compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 September  2019.
Juliet Collins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5769017