K820x#14complaint
Miss G complains  about Santander  UK Plcs refusal to give her the refund she has asked it 
for. 
background
Miss G was overseas and needed urgent dental  treatment. She paid two deposits on 
account for two different  sets of dental treatment.  She had one lot of treatment, which  she 
said wasnt done to a professional standard and she had to have it redone.  The other  
treatment she didnt  have  at all, she told us. She explained she had not wanted to pay the 
deposits but after some  to and fro she had been obliged to, as otherwise the supplier wasnt 
going to do the work  and she was in pain. 
Miss G asked  the supplier  for a refund, but she found out that the supplier  was now saying 
the deposit was non-refundable. Since  Miss G had got nowhere with the supplier, she 
wanted Santander to refund the money for both the treatment  she suggested was 
substandard, and the treatment she didnt get. 
Miss G had paid the deposits using her credit  card issued by Santander. She sought to rely 
on the protection provided under Section 75 of the Consumer  Credit Act 1974.
Santanders stance  was it wasnt responsible for the refund. But it did agree it should  have  
dealt with her complaint  better than it had done.  It credited  £50 to her account to make up for 
this.
Dissatisfied, Miss G came to our service.
Our investigator looked into Miss Gs complaint. She didnt recommend upholding it. Our 
investigator was satisfied that in order to investigate whether Santander had treated Miss G 
fairly she could look at Section 75. However, Section 75 only applies in certain  
circumstances. Our investigator  took on board that Miss G said that there had been a breach 
of contract. Section  75 does  apply to some breaches of contract. But here our investigator  
wasnt persuaded the contract had been breached. It followed she did not think  she had any 
proper basis to tell Santander it had to do anything more.
Santander accepted our investigators recommendation, Miss G did not. In summary,  she 
responded to say she was disappointed. Further, she suggested wed overlooked crucial 
information, such as shed asked the supplier for a refund. She wasnt  satisfied with the 
suppliers standard  of work so naturally  shed  not asked it to complete the full contract. 
Also, she pointed out again, she had not wanted to make  the payments in the first place but 
the supplier had insisted on them. 
Moreover, she indicated  she had a verbal contract with the supplier. Under the verbal 
contract, shed agreed with the supplier that it would refund her if she was unhappy with the 
work/if she didnt go ahead with the work.  
Miss G underlined that she had not just made a casual purchase. She had gone ahead  with 
this contract only because she was in pain and needed the service.
Ref: DRN57750032Miss G also let us know she was looking for compensation  for distress and inconvenience as 
well as the refund.  Also she wanted  compensation for all the chasing  shed had to do for 
over a year.
Miss G asked  that an ombudsman review  her complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive finished my review  of Miss Gs 
complaint. Im not going  to uphold  it. I realise  this may well disappoint Miss G. From  her 
perspective she is out of pocket, she has had to do all the running  here,  she made a contract 
when she needed  urgent dental treatment and now she finds she isnt going to get her 
money back. Please let me explain why Ive reached this decision.
Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties and in 
my own words. Im not going to respond to every single  point made  by all the parties 
involved. No discourtesy is intended  by this. Instead,  Ive focussed on what  I think are the 
key issues here. 
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal  nature  of our service  as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres  something Ive not mentioned,  it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every  individual  argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome.
Further, where there is a dispute about what happened, (as is the case in part, here) I have 
based my decision  on the balance  of probabilities.  In other words, on what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the evidence.
I think its important to set out my role here. In considering a complaint about a financial 
services provider, Im not determining the outcome of a claim that a party  might  have under 
Section 75. Rather, when I think about what is a fair way to resolve Miss Gs complaint,  I 
have to take account of relevant law, amongst other  things. Section 75 is relevant law, 
therefore Ive taken it into account.  But that doesnt mean Im obliged  to reach the same 
outcome as, for example,  a court might reach if Miss G pursued  a claim for breach of 
contract or misrepresentation. This is because, as I have already mentioned our service is 
an informal alternative to the courts and operates under a different set of rules.
The general effect of Section 75 is that if Miss G has a claim for misrepresentation or breach 
of contract  against the supplier she can also bring that claim against Santander.
Ill look at misrepresentation first. Then  breach of contract.
misrepresentation
In this context, misrepresentation is a false statement of fact that induced a party  to enter  
into a contract and make a loss.
I realise that Miss G suggests she was more or less forced into entering into this contract  
because she was in pain and needed treatment. I should think  anyone who has ever had to 
have urgent dental treatment can sympathise with her situation.  But I dont think this is 
Ref: DRN57750033misrepresentation, as it does not mean being in a weak bargaining position or being in pain. 
Nor does  it mean having to choose  between two or more unattractive  options.
That said,  she also tells us she was told specifically that she could get her money back 
either if she was unhappy  with the work or if she did not go ahead  with all of the work. Shes 
got nothing that says this in writing. But then again, Id not necessarily expect there to be 
anything in writing.  By their very nature such alleged verbal misrepresentations are hard to 
substantiate and I therefore have to assess this aspect on the basis of the balance of 
probabilities.
Santander contacted the supplier but its records  show it didnt reply, so we dont have its 
first-hand account  of what happened  here. However,  whilst this is not ideal, we do have 
Miss Gs version of events. Ive also looked at the wider circumstances.
I think it is significant that Miss G talked  about  language difficulties at the time that she went 
to see the supplier. I think something  crucial could  have  been lost in translation.
Also, I can see why a supplier relying on repeat business and word of mouth might say the 
sort of thing that Miss G tells us about. But that does not seem to be the case  here. 
I do take on board Miss Gs behaviour. She went back to the dentist and tried to get her 
money back. But that by itself, does not persuade me that was what  she was promised.
Miss G suggests that the supplier wasnt keen to do anything without money up front. Im not 
persuaded that a supplier who takes such a hard-nosed approach,  is at the same time going 
to agree to refund  money simply on the basis of its customer deciding  either  they are not 
happy or that they just dont want to go ahead with the work. 
Also Miss G was overseas, needing  urgent dental  care I think she may well have been  very 
anxious to get treated. But she tells us she nonetheless in the midst of all of this, she took 
the time to negotiate these terms with the seemingly inflexible, supplier and it agreed.  
When I think about all of this, I dont find this sequence of events persuasive in the 
circumstances. 
In addition, I have  thought  about  what Miss G would  have  done differently if she had known 
she was not going to be able to get a refund. Would she have walked away? In all the 
circumstances I dont  find it likely either. She was in pain, it does not seem she was in a 
state to shop around for the best deal.
For all of these reasons I dont uphold this part of Miss Gs complaint.
Ref: DRN57750034breach of contract
Miss G outlines what she says were the terms of her verbal contract with the supplier. It is 
perfectly possible in principle to have  a verbal  contract. But as I have said above I dont on 
balance, find it likely  that was what was agreed. So if these were not terms of the contract 
they cannot have been breached.  That being  so, it follows  that she cant fairly rely on a 
remedy that depends on there having  been a breach of contract.
She also suggests that the work wasnt done properly and she had to have it done  again. 
This could  be a breach of contract. But I just dont have enough to go on here. All I have got 
by way of contractual documentation for example is receipts, no dental  plan or anything like 
that. I cant tell which  tooth for example  was worked  on by the dentist overseas and if that 
same tooth was then worked on by the dentist  when she got home. And if that is so, did both 
dentists do essentially the same thing or not.
I accept it is possible she didnt go ahead  with all the work  she intended for the overseas 
dentist to do, but that could have  been  because she just changed her mind or it was no 
longer convenient for her as she was no longer based  overseas.  
It follows, for the reasons I have gone  through above that I dont uphold this part of Miss Gs 
complaint.
distress and inconvenience
Miss G talks about the distress and inconvenience  she has experienced, for the most part 
this seems to be related  to customer service provided by the supplier. I cant  fairly and 
reasonably hold Santander  responsible for this behaviour of this third party.
I can see how frustrating Miss G found  it to deal with Santander about her complaint.  It took 
a while  to tell her its position on her complaint. 
However, I can see it investigated her complaint and that included trying to get information  
from overseas and trying to understand documents in a foreign language. 
That said,  it acknowledges it could have done better, it has made a payment to her in 
recognition of this. And the main  thrust of her complaint  is not about Santanders complaint 
handling. Rather it is about misrepresentation and breach of contact. 
Bearing all this in mind, I think the payment  Santander has made for this part of her 
complaint goes far enough.
As I said earlier on, I realise  Miss G will be disappointed with my decision,  especially since 
she has had to wait so long for it. But it brings  to an end what we, in trying  to resolve her 
dispute with Santander informally, can do for her. Im sorry we cant help Miss G any further.
Ref: DRN57750035my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 April 2020.
Joyce Gordon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5775003