K821x#15complaint
Mr F is unhappy  with Unum Limiteds  decision to decline his claim for an income protection  
benefit under a group income protection policy. 
background
The background to this decision  is set out in my provisional findings (a copy of which is 
attached below).  But Ill summarise  each partys position here.  
Mr F became unwell and was signed off work by his GP due to stress. He made a claim on 
his group income protection  policy in July 2018 but Unum declined  the claim.  It said Mr F 
was suffering from stress  rather than a disabling mental health condition. 
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint as stress wasnt  an illness. But I felt that Unum  
should re-assess Mr Fs claim as there  was enough  to persuade  me that from October 2018, 
Mr Fs mental  health deteriorated when he was diagnosed with depression.  I said Unum 
should begin the deferred period from October  2018  when  Mr Fs condition met the definition  
of illness.
Both sides have responded to my provisional  findings and have accepted  what  I have said.  
So there arent any new arguments  for me to consider.  
And so I will now make  my final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im upholding Mr Fs 
complaint. 
My reasons  for doing so have already been explained as part of my provisional findings. I 
believe there is enough to suggest that from October 2018, Mr F was unable to work  due to 
illness. Up until October  2018,  Mr F suffered from stress but his diagnosis  then changed and 
he began  suffering with depression. This is supported by the increased dosage of his anti-
depressant medication  and also referral to counselling and other  therapies.  
Neither party has provided any further  comments for me to consider  and both sides have 
accepted what  I have said. I therefore see no reason to depart from my provisional decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im upholding  Mr Fs complaint. 
Unum Limited must now reassess Mr Fs claim and use October 2018 as the start of the 
deferred period.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 February  2020
Ref: DRN52896342Shamaila Hussain
ombudsman
Copy of provisional  decision
complaint
Mr F is unhappy with Unum Ltds decision to decline  his claim  for an income protection benefit under 
a group income protection policy. 
background
Mr F was employed as a customer  experience leader but in April 2018, he was signed off work by his 
GP due to stress. He made a claim  on his group income protection policy  with Unum in July 2018.  He 
was initially signed off as unfit to work  by his GP due to stress as a result of personal  issues, but he 
began taking anti-depressants from July 2018. 
Unum declined  the claim as it didnt think the evidence showed Mr F had been experiencing a 
medical health condition of a severity to impact (his) function and ability to work. Unum said his 
condition was a stress reaction rather than a disabling mental health condition.  
Mr F provided further evidence from his GP which  confirmed he was suffering  from anxiety and 
depression. Unum reviewed the further evidence  but maintained its original decision to decline the 
claim as the GP hadnt  seen Mr F during  the deferred period and the GPs report contradicted the 
findings of the doctors who had examined  Mr F during the relevant  time.
Mr F was unhappy with Unums decision and referred his complaint to this service. Our investigator 
looked into the complaint  and didnt  think Unum had done anything wrong as there was insufficient 
medical evidence to support his claim.  But Mr F disagreed  and so the case  has been passed  to me to 
make a decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Having  done so, Im minded  to uphold Mr Fs complaint. Ill explain  
why.
The relevant rules  and industry guidelines say that Unum  has a responsibility  to handle claims  
promptly and fairly. It shouldnt reject a claim  unreasonably. 
The policy sets out the definition of incapacity and says a benefit will be paid when a member:
(a) Becomes an incapacitated member, and 
 (b) Has been incapacitated throughout the entire deferred period.
The deferred  period is six months. 
Incapacity is defined in the policy as:
(a) unable, by reason of their illness or injury,  to perform  the material and substantial  duties 
of the Insured occupation
Illness is defined as ill heathas  evidenced  by a significant or objectively determined deterioration in 
physical or mental health.
Ref: DRN52896343Under the terms of the policy,  the benefit  would be paid after 26 weeks if Mr F was unable to perform 
the material  and substantial duties of his normal occupation due to illness or injury.
Its important to note that before the duties of the job can be considered, Mr F must demonstrate that 
he is incapacitated due to an illness  or injury. Stress is not defined as an illness and so he would  not 
meet the policy definition if he was diagnosed  with stress alone.
Although Mr Fs absence from work was due to stress initially, his condition  deteriorated, and he was 
prescribed with anti-depressants. He was also referred for counselling and other therapies. 
Ive seen that Mr F obtained  an additional  report  from his GP in December 2018 and this confirmed 
that he was suffering from depression but prior to this, he was signed  off work due to stress  as a 
result of personal issues. 
Unum didnt think the medical evidence supported  that Mr F was suffering from depression throughout  
the deferred period and noted  the comments  made  by his GP during reviews.  Unum didnt place 
much weight on the GPs assessment as the GP hadnt  met with Mr F during the time the diagnosis 
changed. 
I have reviewed the medical notes from Mr Fs GP. I am satisfied that between  April 2018 and June 
2018, there is no evidence or reference  to depression  or anxiety in Mr Fs notes and so he would not 
meet the policy definition of illness. 
However, from July 2018 onwards, there is evidence in the medical notes which confirms that Mr F 
was still feeling stressed but that he was also feeling anxious, had had counselling and wanted to try 
antidepressants.
 The following  history is relevant:
July 2018  Mr F started taking anti-depressants which would be reviewed  in 2-4 weeks and 
he would continue with counselling
August to September 2018  Mr F is invited to join a wellbeing educational course  and is sent 
appointments for wellbeing classes
September 2018  discussion with Unum where Mr F confirmed that he had been prescribed 
with antidepressants and his GP had indicated he may increase the dosage. He also 
confirmed he would be attending group therapy.
September 2018 - Unum  assessed  and declined Mr Fs claim. It said While you have been 
prescribed with medication, you have not received any onward referrals, or other treatment,  in 
relation to your mental health. Overall, the evidence  held does  not support that you have  been 
experiencing a mental health condition of a severity  to impact your function  and ability  to work 
throughout the deferred  period. As the condition  being  experienced is attributed to non-work 
related stress and your GP has confirmed  that there is no evidence of a mental  health  
disorder, the definition of incapacity has not been satisfied and liability has therefore  been 
declined.
Up until this point, Mr F was noted as having  a stress related problem. 
October 2018  Mr Fs GP wrote to Unum to confirm that he was suffering with low mood and 
anxiety  and this had been going on for at least 6 months.  The GP confirmed  Mr F was 
taking antidepressants  (Sertraline 100mg daily).  In addition,  he had been referred to the local 
Psychological Therapies  team and was waiting to start therapy  with that team.  
October 2018  Mr F emailed his employer  to say that his condition  had deteriorated since  his 
medical records had been requested and he was unable to cope with groups of people and 
Ref: DRN52896344felt nervous and anxious. He had been re-evaluated by the NHS wellbeing hub and had been 
assigned individual sessions instead of the initial  group  sessions he was first assigned. 
October 2018  GP notes  record a stress related problem and anxiety with depression and 
his anti-depressant  medication dosage has been increased to 100mg. 
Unum reviewed the claim again in November 2018 and maintained its decision to decline the claim  on 
the basis  that although Mr Fs anti-depressant medication was increased and he was referred for 
counselling, this did not imply that he was experiencing a mental illness. It said this type of treatment 
was often  recommended  to help patients who complained of low mood, anxiety  and sleep  problems 
as anti-depressants  have been found to be helpful even when someone was not depressed. 
Similarly, talking therapies and counselling  were  known to help all sorts  of people  in lots of different 
situations and can be accessed by anyone who is going through a difficult  time, or experiencing  
emotional problems, not just those with serious  mental health problems. Unum said that while Mr F 
had been prescribed  anti-depressant  medication and would be accessing counselling,  the new 
medical evidence did not demonstrate that he was experiencing a functionally  restrictive mental  
health condition. 
Mr F feels his condition hasnt been properly  documented by his GP throughout the deferred period. 
And Im satisfied that although Mr Fs condition  began as a stress reaction, his GP confirmed a 
diagnosis of depression which is also supported by his increase in anti-depressant medication  and 
referral to counselling  and talking therapies. I therefore dont agree with the approach taken by Unum  
that the GPs diagnosis had no obvious clinical rationale. The GPs  letter confirms Mr Fs medication  
had increased and he had been referred for counselling and one to one sessions.  And so I am 
satisfied that the GPs diagnosis of anxiety and depression was based on Mr Fs decline in mental  
health. 
I dont think Unum have placed enough weight  on the GPs letter and diagnosis. Not only did Mr FS 
medication increase but he was also referred for other treatments. The GP confirmed he was 
suffering with anxiety and depression  and so I think Unum has unfairly declined  Mr Fs claim. 
I therefore  think Unum  should reassess  Mr Fs claim  as if the deferred period started in October  2018 
which is when the GPs diagnosis changed  to one of depression, Mr F had been referred for therapy 
and his medication  had increased to 100mg. At this point, I think  Mr F met the definition of illness.
my provisional  decision
I have provisionally decided to uphold this complaint.  Im recommending Unum Ltd reassess  Mr F s 
claim and start the deferred  period from October 2018.
Shamaila Hussain
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5289634