K820x#14complaint
Mr M and Mrs T complain that Bank of Scotland Plc (trading as Halifax)  mis-sold a payment
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out by Mr M and Mrs T in 2007, in connection  with 
a mortgage. The policy provided cover for Mr M if he couldnt  work because of accident,
sickness or unemployment.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.  Mr M and Mrs T disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here),  I reach my decision on the balance of
probabilities  that is, what I think is most  likely to have happened  in light of the available
evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr M and Mrs Ts case.
It seems  to me that the relevant considerations in this case  are materially the same  as those
set out on our website.  And the main  questions I need to consider are:
-If Halifax gave any advice or recommendation, did it make  sure the product it
recommended was suitable  for Mr M and Mrs Ts needs?
-Did Halifax  give Mr M and Mrs T the information they needed  to decide whether to 
take out the policy?
-
If there was a problem  with the way the policy was sold then I need to consider  whether
Mr M and Mrs T are worse off as a result. That is, would they have done something  different 
 such as not taking out the policy  if there  hadnt been any problems with the sale?
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr M and Mrs Ts case and Ive set out my reasons below. 
Mr M and Mrs T say they dont remember  PPI being discussed when they took out their 
mortgage, and they didnt  know  it had been  added to their account. 
The difficulty  I have is that I cant be sure what was discussed between  Mr M and Mrs T and 
Halifax when the policy was sold. 
But Ive reviewed the documents from the point of sale,  and note that Halifax carried  out a 
demands and needs  assessment for Mr M and Mrs T. Following the assessment Halifax  
recommended the PPI to them. It said, in connection  with Mr M:
Ref: DRN57272202We identified a need to replace your income  should you become unemployed and be unable 
to work due to accident, sickness or disability,  in order to help you maintain your mortgage 
payments.
The PPI was also described as Optional  Insurance in Mr M and Mrs Ts mortgage offer.
So without anything  else to support  what Mr M and Mrs T have told me, it seems likely to me
that Halifax made them aware the PPI was optional and they chose to take it out.
Halifax advised Mr M and Mrs T to take out the policy and it doesnt look like it
was unsuitable  for them  based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time. I say 
this because:
-Mr M was eligible for the policy given  his circumstances  and the PPI terms and 
conditions.
-Mr M says he was entitled to sick pay from his employer if he couldnt work due to 
sickness or accident. But the policy  would  have paid out in addition to Mr Ms 
employer sick pay and would do so, it seems, for longer. Having the policy  in place 
would mean Mr M and Mrs T could use Mr Ms employer benefits to pay for other 
expenses. So I think Mr M and Mrs T would have had some use for the policy  despite  
their existing  arrangements.
-Mr M wasnt affected by any of the conditions limiting the policys  main  benefits, such  
as those affecting self-employed people or people with pre-existing medical 
conditions. As he could have benefited  from the full extent of the cover I think  it 
unlikely he and Mrs T needed better advice or information about the policys 
exclusions and limitations.
-The PPI cost was set out in Mr M and Mrs Ts mortgage offer, so I think they 
wouldve known how much they were paying for the cover and found  it acceptable.   
The policy was competitively priced  and had a reasonable  benefit.  So I think  it 
unlikely Mr M and Mrs T would have made a different decision if better  information  
about the cost had been provided.
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr M and Mrs T about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
should have been. But as Ive already  said, Mr M wasnt affected by any of the exclusions  or 
limitations and the policy  seems to have been  affordable. So I think it unlikely Mr M and 
Mrs T would have made a different decision if better information had been  provided  
overall, I think they would  still have taken out the policy.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  22 November  2019.
Ref: DRN57272203Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5727220