K820x#14complaint
Mr M says Coventry Building Society  mis-sold him payment protection insurance  (PPI).  
background and summary to complaint
The PPI covered Mr M for accident, sickness and unemployment, subject to its exclusions 
and limitations, paying  a monthly benefit for up to 12 months  to help with his mortgage  costs.
Mr M first bought  cover  in 2001, two years after taking a mortgage.  Coventry  says this sale 
followed a PPI mailing letter it issued to its existing  borrowers. Mr M took replacement cover  
at around the time he took further  borrowing in 2002, 2003 and 2004.  Coventry  says he took 
further borrowing  at other  times during that period without amending  the PPI. Mr M says the 
PPI was bought  at meetings. Coventry  says it was sold by post.
Coventry says the PPI in 2001 offered to pay £310 a month and cost £11.77 a month, with 
the first six months free. It says the amended benefit  was £400 a month  costing £20.79 a 
month in 2002  (with three months free), £100  a month costing £5.20  a month in 2003 (with  
six months free) and £510 a month  costing  £26.51  in 2002 (with  three  months free). 
Mr M was employed throughout as a design engineer with at least four years  service. Hes 
told us he was entitled to redundancy pay and full sick pay, although hes unsure how long 
this wouldve  been paid for. From  what hes told us, at the time of each sale Mr M was in 
good health and hadnt had any health  issues.
Coventry has sent us evidence to show the mortgage account closed in 2004. Mr Ms 
representative has made lengthy  and substantial representations on his behalf. I will not 
restate them all here,  but I have  read and considered them  all carefully.  In summary, Mr Ms 
representative says:
Coventry failed to meet the sales  standards  which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on handling 
PPI complaints under DISP App 3, it should be presumed Mr M wouldnt have taken the 
PPI and the complaint should  be upheld. Mr Ms representatives believe  there  to be no 
evidence to rebut that presumption;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a successful 
claim meant  the PPI was of inherently  poor value  as shown by the low claims ratio.  The 
common law duty of utmost  good  faith means Coventry should have told Mr M about the 
poor value; 
The PPI excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress, which are some  of the most 
common reasons people are off work.  This significantly reduced the value of cover;
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Coventry should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mr M and the impact they 
would have had on his chances of making a claim; 
The PPI only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is generally 
someones biggest ever long-term  transaction  cover would stop at the time it would be 
most needed; and
Ref: DRN50051432The information Mr M received was misleading. These policies were promoted as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and had a chance to 
give their responses to the adjudicators  opinion.  Mr M disagreed  with the adjudicators 
opinion for several  reasons. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been  
passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Ms. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ms complaint.
The PPI was sold in 2001, 2002,  2003 and 2004, before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated by the FSA in January 2005. So the FSAs and the 
FCAs overarching principles for businesses and insurance conduct rules  (ICOB and ICOBS)  
are not applicable to this complaint; nor is the FCAs  Perimeter Guidance  (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2004. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme  Court judgment in Plevin  about  s.140 of 
that Act and the rules  and guidance  made by the FCA about  the handling of complaints  
about the non-disclosure of commission in light of the Plevin  judgment, arent applicable.  
There were a number of industry codes in existence,  which  I am satisfied are applicable  to 
my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  In 
particular, The General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance  Code for private 
customers  the GISC Code. 
The sales  were made  during a period of industry  self-regulation by the General Insurance  
Standards Council (GISC).  It published the GISC Code, which  set out minimum standards  of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling  insurance, including  PPI.
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
Coventry, selling  insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for all 
intermediaries (Including Employees of Insurance Companies)  other  than Registered 
Insurance Brokers   The ABI Code.  The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Ref: DRN50051433Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct Marketing/ 
Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
While not all intermediaries  who sold PPI at the time were a member of the ABI or GISC, I 
consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Coventry at the time.  So Im satisfied  I should take these codes into 
account when  deciding what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable in the circumstances of 
Mr Ms case.
There was also the Mortgage Code which was a voluntary code followed by subscribing 
lenders and mortgage intermediaries. While predominantly about  mortgage related matters, 
it also included some insurance related commitments. 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   the Office of the Building Societies Ombudsman  
in this case  might  have  been expected to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Building  Societies  Ombudsmans terms of reference  the Ombudsman  
was required to decide complaints by reference to what  was, in his opinion, fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Coventry was required  to take into account the provisions  in DISP App 3 as if they were  
guidance when  considering Mr Ms complaint.  
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me the key questions  I need to 
consider in deciding what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this 
complaint, are:
-If Coventry gave advice, whether it advised Mr M with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the PPI was appropriate or suitable  for him, given his needs and 
circumstances. 
-Whether Coventry gave Mr M sufficient, appropriate and timely information  to enable  him 
to make an informed choice about  whether  to take the PPI, including  drawing to his 
attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions 
of the PPI and significant limitations  and exclusions. 
Ref: DRN50051434-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr M, I must 
then go on to consider  whether  and to what extent Mr M suffered  loss or damage and 
what I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr M and 
Coventry, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ms complaint. Ive set out my reasoning  below. 
did Mr M know he had a choice?
Coventry had to make it clear the PPI was optional. Mr M has said he had no interest in PPI 
and has said it was just included as part of his mortgage package. But, from what I have, 
Mr M took his mortgage a few years before he first took PPI, so the PPI wasnt included  as 
part of his mortgage package. As he had already got his mortgage when he first took PPI, I 
think it likely  Mr M knew at the time that he didnt have to take the PPI to get his mortgage. 
Also, Ive seen nothing  to suggest the sale in 2001  coincided with new mortgage borrowing. 
With all this in mind, Im persuaded its likely Mr M first took the PPI knowing it was separate  
from his mortgage  and not something  he had to take to get his mortgage.
From what  Coventry has said and sent us, Im persuaded that to take the cover  its likely 
Mr M applied  each  time using a PPI application  form. Coventry has sent example copies of 
the forms it thinks were used. It doesnt  have Mr Ms actual forms, but this doesnt make  me 
think it likely  cover was set up without an application  form of some kind.  In my view the use 
of a separate PPI application  form to apply for the cover, wouldve tended to suggest each 
time that the PPI was something  separate from any mortgage borrowing decision Mr M was 
making at the time  and that he had a separate decision to make about the PPI. 
With this in mind, Im not persuaded the PPI was just included  as part of the package with 
borrowing. In reaching this view Ive considered also what Coventry says about  Mr M having 
increased his borrowing  on occasion  without changing the PPI. I note also that the effect of 
the 2003 replacement PPI was to reduce, rather than increase, the cost and amount of PPI 
cover Mr M had in place.
Mr M hasnt  said anything  to make me think he was pressured, on each or any of these 
occasions, into opting for PPI cover. Taking everything into account, I think  its more  likely 
Mr M knew the PPI was optional and agreed to take it without undue pressure.
did Coventry provide  advice?
Coventry says it didnt provide advice during the PPI sales.  Also Ive nothing  from the sales  
to suggest Coventry  gave  or offered to give advice.  
Taking into account also what Mr M has said, Im persuaded Coventry  didnt provide advice 
when it sold Mr M the PPI. This means Coventry  didnt have to check if the PPI was suitable 
for Mr M. Instead,  it had to give him sufficient,  appropriate and timely  information to enable  
him to make  an informed  choice about  whether to take the PPI, including  drawing to his 
attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions of 
the PPI and significant limitations and exclusions.
the information
Ref: DRN50051435Im satisfied its more likely than not Mr M was given a broad description of what the PPI was 
intended to cover (that is, it would help protect  his mortgage payments if he were unable to 
work due to accident, sickness or unemployment) and of the approximate cost.  Ive reached 
this conclusion because  I think  it unlikely Mr M wouldve taken the PPI without any sense of 
what it was for and of how much  it might cost.
But the evidence  from the time of each sale doesnt  tell us whether Coventry gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost or the exclusions or limitations 
before Mr M agreed to take the PPI. 
So I dont  think Coventry gave Mr M sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable  
him to make  an informed  choice about  whether to take the PPI, including  drawing to his 
attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions of 
the PPI and significant limitations and exclusions. 
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr Ms representative has raised a number 
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr Ms. 
Ive considered these  carefully and summarised them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have explained 
the low claims  ratio  what Mr Ms representative  considers to be poor value  and the 
fact much of the premium went to the business rather than the insurer.  
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just told 
Mr M about the limitations and exclusions,  it should  have  gone  further  and explained the 
significance of them to him. 
Im not persuaded by Mr Ms representatives views  on this. The duty of utmost  good  faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find this extended to the insurer having to disclose the claims 
ratio information or explaining the significance of the limitations and exclusions  in the way 
Mr M has suggested. And, taking into account the law, industry codes and standards  of good  
industry practice applicable  to this complaint, I dont think its fair and reasonable to conclude 
Coventry ought to have  done either. 
what effect did Coventrys shortcomings  have on Mr M? To what extent did he suffer  
loss or damage as a result?
Ive found Coventry  didnt  do all it should have done  when it sold this PPI to Mr M. So I have 
gone on to consider whether it would  be fair and reasonable to conclude  Mr M suffered loss 
and damage as a result.  To answer  this, I must  decide whether or not he would have still 
taken the PPI, had Coventry done things  properly.
Ref: DRN50051436Mr M says he wouldnt have  taken it and believes I should presume this to be the case  given 
the significant failings identified above.  Ive considered the representations of both sides and 
the evidence relating  to this carefully.
As the sales  were non-advised, Mr M had to weigh up in his own mind the cost of the PPI 
against the benefits offered and the potential consequences if he didnt insure against the 
risk of being  unable  to work. 
As Ive found above, Mr M chose to take the PPI. So I consider it reasonable to conclude he 
had some interest in the benefits  offered by this type of insurance. But he made this decision 
each time based  on incomplete information.  So what he thought he was getting  is not exactly  
what he got. The extent  to which this differed is a relevant consideration when determining if 
he has suffered any loss or detriment. 
Although I consider it more likely than not Mr M knew  he would have to pay something for 
the PPI, Ive nothing  to show  Coventry  told him the exact premium each time at the point he 
applied. That said, I dont  think it likely he wouldve taken the PPI without  some  idea of the 
approximate cost. Also if, when he started paying  it or got a policy  schedule  showing the 
cost, this had been  significantly different to what hed expected,  Mr M mightve raised  this 
with Coventry at the time or reconsidered  his decision, rather  than continuing to pay it for a 
number of years and repeating the buying process on a number of occasions.
Overall, Im not persuaded Mr M wouldve found  the cost unacceptable if hed been given the 
exact figure each  time when he agreed to the PPI. 
Also, while Ive seen  nothing  to show Coventry  made clear exactly  what  Mr M would get if he 
made a successful claim, Ive seen no suggestion  he had expectations about the monthly 
benefit that were  significantly  different to what the PPI actually paid. Also, from what Ive 
seen, I think it likely the benefit was shown on the policy schedules sent to Mr M. Overall, I 
dont think the monthly  benefit each policy provided is likely to have been too different to the 
benefit Mr M expected.  
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr M thought  he had bought  and 
what he actually bought were the following:
The PPI excluded any claim caused or resulting  from any health issue Mr M knew or 
should reasonably have known  of on the start date, or for which  he had received or been 
referred for treatment  or advice in the 12 months before the policy  start and which  
recurred within 12 months of the policy start;
The policies limited,  and in some situations  excluded, unemployment cover if Mr M 
wasnt a permanent employee;
To qualify as disabled  Mr M had to be stopped from doing his own or any other  work for 
which he was reasonably qualified;
The PPI protected  payments for up to 12 months, rather  than the remaining term of the 
mortgage; and
Cover would end when Mr M reached  age 65 (or, if earlier, when  he retired).
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations or exclusions above might  well have caused 
Mr M pause for thought  and may well have caused  him to conclude the PPI wasnt  as good 
as he thought and he might  have decided not to proceed. The limitations  on the cover,  when 
coupled with the other shortcomings in the way the PPI was sold, might have dissuaded 
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr M from taking  the it. 
Ref: DRN50051437But the evidence  about Mr Ms circumstances when  he bought  the PPI shows  it wasnt  
fundamentally wrong for him. He was eligible for its benefits and it provided cover  that, 
despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proven valuable  to him should  the insured 
risks have become  a reality. I also havent  seen any evidence to suggest  Mr M wouldve 
been caught by any of the significant exclusions  he was in permanent  employment, for 
example, and he didnt have any health issues or existing  medical  conditions  that the PPI 
mightve excluded.  So, I think Mr M still had some good reasons to take the PPI.
The PPI didnt exclude back or mental  health  conditions or place any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
wouldve applied to any other disability claim. And I think it unlikely Mr M wouldve expected  
to make a disability claim without first providing some evidence  to support that claim.
Coventry may not have told Mr M any claim he made would be limited to 12 months.  This 
may have  differed from what  he expected  and mightve hoped  for. But it would  be unusual to 
be entitled to as much as 12 months  full pay as sick pay  so I think  it likely  12 months was 
longer than Mr M wouldve received full pay for if he were sick. A redundancy entitlement of 
12 months full pay would also be unusual, particularly given Mr Ms length of service.  So its 
likely the PPI wouldve  paid out for longer than Mr Ms work benefits wouldve lasted. In any 
case, the benefit wouldve  been paid on top of Mr Ms work benefits, reducing  his outgoings 
and potentially helping  preserve his sick pay or redundancy pay for other uses  at what could 
be a difficult time if he were unemployed or too sick to work. The PPI benefit would help him 
manage the consequences  in that situation  and help make  it less likely his home  would be 
put at risk if he were  unable to work in the circumstances the PPI covered.
If Mr M had known  he could only claim for disability  if he were stopped from doing his own 
work and also stopped  from doing  any other work  for which he was reasonably qualified,  this 
might have played into his thinking  about what to do, and I accept it may have given him 
pause for thought. But given Mr Ms circumstances, on balance,  I think  he wouldve still been 
interested in taking the cover. 
Having considered all the evidence and arguments in this case,  I consider  it more likely than 
not Mr M would still have taken the PPI. It was sufficiently close to what its likely he thought 
he was getting  and provided  benefits  that would help him manage the consequences  if he 
were made redundant, or unable to work through accident or sickness. In the circumstances, 
I consider it more likely  than not Mr M wouldve taken  the PPI in any event,  notwithstanding  
the limitations on cover.
Mr Ms representatives say the rules about  how to handle PPI complaints (DISP  App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken PPI, unless there is evidence to outweigh  the presumption. 
They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances. 
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
Ref: DRN50051438presumed Mr M would  not have  bought  the PPI he bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption.
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted  
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Mr Ms 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  he found  
himself in as a result of the sales was the same position he wouldve been in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr M believes the presumption may only be rebutted  when the flaws in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including his own comments that he would not have taken 
the PPI. I am not persuaded by these  arguments.  
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), Im only doing  so because I dont consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr M in the position he would have been in if he had not 
bought the PPI. That is because, while I accept its possible  he wouldnt have taken the PPI, 
Im satisfied, of the two possibilities,  its more likely  than not he would still have taken the PPI 
had he been given clear,  fair and not misleading information about the PPI he was buying.  
So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable, in those circumstances, to conclude 
Coventry should pay Mr M compensation, as that would put him in a better  position  than he 
wouldve been in if everything had happened as it should have done. 
Im also aware Mr M thinks Coventry  misrepresented the terms of the PPI in how it described  
the PPI. I accept theres a possibility a court might  conclude  some of Coventrys statements 
for each  policy  misrepresented the contract, but in my opinion the reason Coventry failed to 
act fairly and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  Coventry gave Mr M, in the way it did, was 
insufficient to meet  the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to have met in 
2001, 2002, 2003 and 2004 when providing information about  insurance policies.
Ive also thought about the approach Mr Ms representative says a court might take if it were 
to find Coventry, for any of the policies, negligently misrepresented  the contract to Mr M and 
about the remedy a court might award  if it were to find that Coventry had been in breach of 
its duty of utmost  good faith.  But this doesnt persuade  me to alter my conclusions  about 
what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of the complaint  including  what  I think 
is fair compensation in the circumstances  of this case. For the reasons Ive already set out, I 
dont think it would be fair and reasonable to put Mr M in a better position than if everything 
had happened  as it should have  done.
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 September 2021.
Ref: DRN50051439Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5005143