K821x#15complaint
Mr B complains that Elevate Credit International Limited  (trading as Sunny) irresponsibly lent 
to him.
background
The background to this complaint was set out in the provisional decision I issued on 8th 
November 2019.  An extract  from this is attached and forms part of this final decision, so 
I wont repeat that information here.
In my provisional decision I set out why I thought the complaint should  be partially upheld 
and what Sunny needed to do to put things right. I invited  both parties to let me have any 
further comments and evidence. 
Mr B responded on 15th November 2019  and had no further  comments  to make  relating to 
his complaint and is happy with the provisional decision.
Sunny responded on 22nd November 2019  and has made several  points regarding  my 
provisional decision. In summary:
General
It says that I concluded Sunny should not have granted loan 8, but that it was not 
wrong to grant the previous 7 loans to Mr B.
Loan 5
It says that when Mr B applied  for loan 5 it undertook an independent  check  of his 
credit commitments  as part of its affordability assessment. It says it took into account 
all other  credit commitments as part of every  affordability assessment it carried out. 
Sunny then goes  on to note several  factors about Mr Bs borrowing up to loan 5 
being granted. 
Sunny  says my decision  appears  to give disproportionate weight to the fact Mr B 
repaid early which has led to me considering he may have been facing problems 
managing his money. Sunny does  not consider it was reasonable for me to conclude 
Mr B was likely to be having problems managing his money solely because he chose  
to repay  his previous loans early.
Sunny  also says I have suggested  Mr Bs behaviour of repaying  early indicated that 
he needed to re-finance loans on a regular basis. It says they have no evidence that 
Mr B was doing  this. 
Loans 7-8
Sunny  summarises my rationale  for upholding loan 8. It then says that I pointed again 
to the likelihood of Mr B re-financing  as a reason why loan 8 should be upheld  but I 
have not explained what evidence I have  to support this. It goes on to note several  
factors about Mr Bs borrowing up to loan 8 being granted.
Ref: DRN51479852Sunny  says that whilst  it agrees pattern of lending and number of loans are a factor 
that may indicate  someone is struggling,  my decision regarding  loan 8 places 
disproportionate weight on these factors and not on others  that it has already 
mentioned, that demonstrates loan 8 was affordable and sustainable.
Sunny  goes on to make further points. It says that it would be artificial  to make 
affordability and creditworthiness dependant on the number  of previous loans taken.  
It says it was not required to undertake any assessment of the overall sustainability 
of Mr Bs borrowing  in general, both with it and other creditors. It says it was only 
required to consider Mr Bs ability to meet  repayments during the term of each loan.
Effect on Mr Bs credit  rating
Finally, Sunny says it is incorrect for our service  to assume the number of loans 
granted by it alone, in the absence of other factors impairs Mr Bs ability to access 
mainstream credit. 
my findings
Ive once more  considered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have considered Sunnys comments carefully. I will respond to its points in the order  that I 
have summarised them  in the background section of this decision. 
General 
Sunny says that I concluded it was not wrong to grant the first seven loans it gave Mr B. But 
I didnt conclude that in my provisional  decision issued on 8th November 2019. I concluded 
that it was not, on balance,  wrong  to grant the first four loans.  From loan 5 however, I felt 
Sunny should  have  realised that it couldnt safely rely on the information it was provided with 
from Mr B and that it should  have taken steps to verify his true financial position. I then went  
on to conclude that I wasnt able to say if better  checks  had shown Sunny that it shouldnt 
give loans 5-7 and this was because Mr B hadnt been able to provide our service with 
further information about his finances at that time (such  as bank statements). 
Loan 5
Sunny says it undertook an independent check of Mr Bs credit commitments  as part of its 
affordability assessment  and this would have included any short term loans that Mr B took 
out that were  reported to the credit reference agencies that it uses. I acknowledged and 
listed out the checks Sunny carried out in my provisional decision including that it asked Mr 
B for information  about  his income and outgoings  as well as carrying  out credit checks. 
The regulations provided by the FCA say that assessments should be proportionate  to the 
circumstances of the lending and the consumer. It may be reasonable early on to rely on 
what the consumer  has said or to rely on assumptions about their circumstances but it might 
not be reasonable to do so in all circumstances. So by the time Mr B asked  for loan 5, I 
didnt feel that the checks  it carried out including the credit check, was enough. I felt Sunny, 
at this stage, should  have  carried  out further checks than relying on what Mr B had said and 
the credit  search  that it routinely carried out in its affordability assessment.
Ref: DRN51479853Sunny says it does  not consider it was reasonable for me to conclude  Mr B was likely to be 
having problems  managing his money solely because he chose to repay  his previous loans 
early. It says there was no evidence  Mr B early indicated he needed to re-finance on a 
regular basis. 
But I dont agree with Sunny on the point it has made here. When I look at the number of 
times Mr B borrowed shortly after making  a repayment, I think its likely Mr B was struggling 
to repay  his loans  from this point at least enough that Sunny should have been looking  to 
make more checks.
I say this because  Mr B repaid his first two loans and had two existing loans in place before 
he went back again and asked to lend from Sunny on a fifth occasion. I felt the consecutive  
agreements taken out and repaid with Sunny was enough at this point that Sunny should 
have realised that it couldnt safely  rely on the information it had gathered.  But in this case,  I 
was unable to see what better checks would have  shown, for the reason I have already 
given. 
Loan 8
Sunny doesnt  consider the number of loans Mr B took, or his pattern of borrowing, 
demonstrates that he was struggling  to manage his finances. It points out that loan 8 was for 
a relatively small amount,  and that the contractual repayments for that loan were a small 
proportion of Mr Bs disposable  income. 
Sunny says Mr B was using the loans for their intended purpose. It also says the borrowing  
period wasnt inconsistent with the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) definition of short  
term high cost credit. It says it was only required to consider Mr Bs ability to meet 
repayments during  the term of each loan.  
Ive thought carefully about everything Sunny  has said. I accept that from the evidence 
available to Sunny loan 8 may have  appeared affordable to Mr B. But as I explained in my 
provisional decision, there is another consideration I need to take into account here.  There  
may come a stage where Sunny should reasonably have seen that further lending was 
unsustainable, or otherwise harmful  even if the loans appeared to be affordable  on paper. 
And so Sunny should have realised  that it shouldnt have provided any further loans. 
Mr B took out seven  loans with Sunny between April and August 2016 and was asking  for 
his eighth. He has been continuously indebted  to Sunny over this time.  From  the information 
Sunny provided,  Mr B took out £200 altogether from his first two loans. He then repaid the 
first loan and took out another £450 across  another two loans. He repaid loan 2 and then 
went on to take out a further loan of £150  before repaying all three outstanding loans. He 
then took out a further £500  over two more loans  and repaid one of these before he 
approached Sunny again for loan 8. When he did so loan 7 was still running.  
Mr B was at this stage,  asking to borrow a lot more  than when  he first asked to lend from it. It 
doesnt seem to me that he had made any inroads into his debt and over four months of 
lending continuously  to Mr B, Sunny would have  seen Mr B repay loans only to take out 
more credit with it and this happened  on a number of occasions. 
The purpose of short term loans was set out in OFT guidance (Section 6.25 referenced by 
CONC Section 6.7). They  are a short term solution  to temporary cash  flow problems. The 
FCA defined what is meant by this short term solution (credit  due to be repaid or 
Ref: DRN51479854substantially repaid within 12 months of advancement) but it doesnt define  what is meant by 
a temporary cash flow problem. Its reasonable to consider that this could mean different 
things for different consumers depending on their circumstances. And in this case,  I think by 
the time Mr B asked for loan 8 he was not likely  to have been borrowing to solve a short  term 
problem, but rather to meet an ongoing  need.  This means I still think this loan had the effect 
of unfairly prolonging Mr Bs indebtedness by continuing to allow  him to take expensive 
credit intended for short-term use.
Sunny says that Mr B repaid all his loans on time. But successfully repaying loans, doesnt 
necessarily equate to being able to repay loans sustainably, in other  words,  without having 
to borrow again.  Something that Mr B was doing  with regularity before he asked  for loan 8.
Effect on Mr Bs credit  rating
Sunny says it is incorrect to assume the number  of loans granted  by it alone, impairs Mr Bs 
ability to access mainstream credit. It also points to other finance providers.
I am not concluding  that Mr B was unable to access any form of mainstream  credit  of any 
amount solely  because of Sunnys loans. But that borrowing from Sunny potentially limited 
his access to mainstream credit as the number of loans  he borrowed was likely  to have been 
viewed negatively by other lenders. And so there was a risk that agreeing  further credit at 
this point would cause harm. It may be that Mr B was treated unfairly by other lenders but 
this complaint is against Sunny and so its actions or omissions are the focus of my decision. 
So having  considered everything  Ive received in relation to this complaint, both before and 
after issuing my provisional decision, I am not persuaded to change those initial conclusions. 
Sunny now needs  to put things right with regards to loan 8. 
putting things right
I dont think Sunny should have agreed to lend to Mr B the loan that he took on 21/08/2016 
(loan 8). So for this loan Sunny should;
Refund any interest and charges paid by Mr B on the loan. 
Add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum to each of these amounts from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement*.
Any information recorded about  loan 8 is adverse. So all entries about this loan should 
be removed from Mr Bs credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Mr B a certificate  showing  how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Bs complaint and direct  Elevate Credit International 
Limited to put things  right as detailed above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 May 2020.
Ref: DRN51479855Mark Richardson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN51479856EXTRACT FROM PROVISIONAL DECISION
Complaint
Mr B complains that Elevate Credit International Limited (trading as Sunny) lent to him in an 
irresponsible manner.
background
Mr B was given eight  loans by Sunny between April 2016 and August  2016. All of the loans were to 
be repaid by Mr B over 6 monthly instalments but generally Mr B repaid the loans within a few weeks 
of taking them  out. Mr B took out more  than 1 loan at a time. A summary of Mr Bs borrowing from 
Sunny is given as an appendix.
Mr Bs complaint has been assessed by one of our adjudicators. She thought  Sunny wasnt wrong to 
give the first five loans to Mr B. But she didnt think the remaining loans should have been agreed. So 
she asked Sunny to pay Mr B some compensation.
Both parties were still not in agreement after that view was issued. So, as the complaint  hasnt been 
resolved informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage  of our 
process. If Mr B accepts  my decision it is legally  binding  on both parties.
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  
lending - including all of the relevant rules,  guidance and good  industry practice  - on our website.  
Sunny needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice  this 
means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make  sure that Mr B could  repay  the 
loans in a sustainable  manner. These checks  could  take into account a number  of different  things, 
such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income  and 
expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough 
checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Sunny  should fairly  and reasonably have done more  to 
establish that any lending was sustainable  for a consumer.  These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more  difficult  to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount  due to be repaid  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular  level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period  of time during 
which a customer has been given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing  had become,  or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point  where  the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think  that it is important  for me to start by saying that Sunny was required to establish  whether  Mr B 
could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict 
pounds and pence calculation.  
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might  be an indication a consumer could  
sustainably make  their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. This is 
Ref: DRN51479857because the FCAs Consumer Credit  Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable as being  without 
undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time,  while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet the repayments.  
And it follows that a lender should realise,  or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise,  that a borrower 
wont be able to make  their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their 
repayments without borrowing further.  
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this context and 
what this all means for Mr Bs complaint.
Sunny did a number of checks before  it lent to Mr B. It asked him for details  of his income  and his 
normal expenditure. It gathered data from credit reference agencies about other credit repayments 
that Mr B would need to make over the coming  months. And it then used this information to calculate 
how much  disposable income Mr B had left over each month. Sunny also used the credit reference 
agency checks  to gather some more  information about Mr Bs financial  situation at that time.
The results  from the credit  checks Sunny carried out didnt  show any information  that might have 
suggested Mr B was having  problems managing his money. The repayments  that were shown  by the 
credit check didnt appear unaffordable  based on what hed said about  his normal income  and 
expenditure. And the checks didnt  show any other concerning information such  as a reliance on other  
short term loans, or a significant number  of delinquent  or defaulted accounts.  
As I mentioned earlier  each  of Mr Bs loans was repayable over a six month period.  So the amounts  
that he needed to repay each time were smaller  than if hed taken a normal payday loan. But of 
course he was committing to making those  repayments  over a far longer period.  And at times Mr B 
had a number of loans outstanding together. So Ive needed to consider the total amount  that Mr B 
needed to repay to Sunny each month.
I think  the fact that Mr B typically repaid his loans much earlier than planned should have caused 
some concerns to Sunny. That might be the sort of behaviour that would indicate that someone was 
facing problems  managing  their money and needing to refinance loans on a regular basis. So Ive 
also taken that into account  when looking at whether  Sunny  should have given  the loans to Mr B.
That being said, the repayments that Mr B had agreed  to make on his first four loans were relatively  
modest compared to the disposable income that hed declared to Sunny. So given these repayment 
amounts, what was apparent about Mr Bs circumstances at the time, and his borrowing history with 
the lender, I dont think it wouldve been proportionate for Sunny to ask him for the amount  of 
information that would be needed to show the lending  was unsustainable before agreeing  the first four 
loans. 
I think  by the time Mr B asked for loans 5 to 7, that Sunny should have realised that it couldnt safely 
rely on the information  he was providing  about his finances. I think it should  have taken  steps at that 
time to independently verify Mr Bs true financial position. We asked Mr B, through his 
representatives, for copies of his bank  statements so we could see what  better checks  would  have 
shown Sunny  but we have not received these. So I have not been able to see what  Sunny would have  
seen if it had carried out better  checks when  it agreed to these  loans. 
I have seen that Mr B did have another outstanding short term loan at the time he applied for loans 5 
and 6, and if Sunny  had carried out further checks it would have been aware of this. But I cant see at 
this stage that it would have necessarily shown that Mr B had problems managing his finances.  So Im 
not able to say that better checks  would  have shown Sunny that it shouldnt have given loans 5-7 to 
Mr B.
But looking  at the overall pattern of Sunnys lending history  with Mr B I think  by loan 8 the lender 
should reasonably have seen that further lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so 
Sunny should have  realised  that it shouldnt  provide  any further loans. 
Ref: DRN51479858I say this because:
By the time Mr B asked for loan 8, it would have been clear  to Sunny that he wasnt making 
any inroads to the amount  he owed  it. The overall capital that he owed at this point had 
increased and he had at this point been borrowing  from it for over 4 months.
When Mr B applied for loan 8, he had repaid 5 loans with Sunny and taken  out further loans 
within a short period of time. So it ought to have realised that it was more likely than not Mr B 
was having to borrow  further to cover the hole repaying  his previous loans were leaving in his 
finances. And because the overall  amount he was borrowing wasnt decreasing his 
indebtedness was not sustainable.
I think  that Mr B lost out because:
Agreeing further credit  after this point had the effect  of unfairly  prolonging his indebtedness by 
continuing to allow him to take expensive  credit intended for short-term use over an extended 
period of time.
This was likely to have  had negative implications on Mr Bs ability  to access  mainstream  
credit and so keep  him in the market for these high-cost loans.
So I dont think Sunny  should  have agreed to lend to Mr B loan 8. Sunny needs to pay Mr B some 
compensation.
Ref: DRN5147985