K820x#14complaint
Mr W has complained about Tandem Bank Limiteds refusal to review his credit limit on his 
credit card account.
background
Mr W opened a credit card account  with Tandem in April 2018. He says he asked several 
times when  he could increase his credit limit and was told he would have to wait until hed 
had the card for at least six months.  Mr W contacted Tandem  again  in November 2018, six 
months after he was issued the credit  card, but was then told hed have to wait 12 months. 
Tandem said a business decision had been  made  to change  the timeframes  involved in 
reviewing credit limit increases. It said it was sorry Mr W had been caught  up in its change  in 
process but said it wouldnt review his credit limit until April 2019. Mr W wasnt happy and 
complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She said the information  Tandem had given  
Mr W when he opened the account  had been  correct at the time. She said reviews  of credit 
limits didnt form part of the terms and conditions of Mr Ws account  and she didnt think 
Tandem had to inform him about a change  to its process as that was a legitimate business 
decision. She therefore didnt think it would be fair to ask Tandem to review  his account 
before it was eligible for review. 
As Mr W remained unhappy, the complaint has been passed to me to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I realise this will be disappointing  to Mr W 
but, having done so, I find that I agree with the investigator and for largely the same reasons.
I can understand why Mr W was upset with Tandem. When he opened  the credit card 
account, Tandem  said it would review the credit limit after six months. But when  he 
contacted Tandem six months later,  it had changed  its position  and said hed now have  to 
wait for 12 months.  
However, Tandem are entitled to make many  commercial  operational decisions without  
consulting its customers. And I think this is one of them. When Mr W applied  for a credit  card 
account, Tandem  considered the information hed provided, and the information  held on his 
credit file, against its lending criteria. It then set his credit limit accordingly.  This was the 
amount it was happy to lend Mr W and he accepted the offer. And, as far as I can see, 
Tandem didnt give any guarantees to Mr W that it would increase his credit  limit in the future  
at whatever point  in time that the review  might have taken place.
Ive seen the terms and conditions  Mr W received when  he opened his account. Tandem 
said it may increase  or reduce the credit  limit from time to time and, if it does,  it would let the 
customer know the new limit in writing and give them at least  30 days  notice. The terms and 
conditions also say that the customer may ask Tandem to change the credit  limit. But there 
is nothing in the terms and conditions that specifies when Tandem will review the credit limit 
 or when it would  allow  customers to seek a review. So I dont  think  there was any 
obligation on Tandem  to review Mr Ws credit limit after six months.
Ref: DRN53288872I recognise that Tandem  initially  told Mr W it would review his credit limit after six months but 
that was correct information at the time. While I can understand  why this might  have been 
disappointing for Mr W I think it was a legitimate commercial decision for Tandem to delay 
undertaking such a review.
In light of the above, I dont think Tandem have treated  Mr W unfairly.  It apologised for the 
fact hed been caught up in its change in process and I dont think it needs  to do any more. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 June  2019.
Richard Walker
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5328887