K820x#14complaint
In summary,  Mr S has complained that Everyday Lending Limited irresponsibly provided him 
with a loan that he wasnt able to afford. Hes also unhappy that it paid some of the loan 
funds directly to him. 
background
In November 2017 ELL provided Mr S with a loan for £3,500 repayable  over two years. It 
was a high interest  loan with an interest rate of 108.9% APR.  The total charge for the credit 
was £3,1740.40, which meant the total amount repayable by Mr S for the £3,500 he was 
borrowing, was £6,674.40. The monthly repayments were £278.10. 
The information Mr S provided to ELL shows that he was working full time and had an 
average income of approximately  £2,200  a month.  He rented his home. Mr S rent was 
calculated at £300 a month, creditor repayments of £499  a month and living expenses of 
£779 a month.  After  the monthly payment for the new loan ELL calculated  he would be left 
with £398 a month disposable income. 
In its response to Mr S complaint, ELL said the loan was taken out in part to consolidate a 
loan and to pay for a holiday. It said it carried out a number of suitability and affordability 
checks including a credit  search. It believed  it had correctly approved Mr S loan application.
Mr S concerns were  investigated by one of our adjudicators. He didnt uphold the complaint. 
He said he thought ELL had carried out extensive checks prior to providing Mr S with the 
loan. He thought ELL had calculated Mr S income  in a reasonable way. He thought Mr S 
existing debts were manageable, and the credit  checks  didnt show  any signs  of difficulty.  
The adjudicator went on to say that although  part of the loan was recorded  as being for debt 
consolidation, ELLs records  showed  that the loan to be consolidated had been settled. Mr S 
had subsequently asked for the all of the loan money to be paid directly  to him. 
Mr S didnt agree with the adjudicators assessment. He said in relation to the loan being 
provided to him, that he had several  other  loans  and wasnt  able to afford the payments. He 
didnt think his financial circumstances  had been taken into account.  
The case  was passed to me for review. I wrote to Mr S on several  occasions  asking him for 
information about his circumstances at the time the loan was taken out. He didnt reply to my 
requests for information. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to considering unaffordable and irresponsible  lending complaints  
on our website - including the key relevant rules, guidance, good  industry  practice and law. 
And Ive considered this approach when deciding Mr S complaint.
Having done so, Im decided  not to uphold Mr S complaint. Ill explain why.
Ref: DRN51679882There are several questions that Ive thought about when deciding if ELL treated Mr S fairly 
and reasonably when it provided  him with the loan.
1)Did ELL complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr S 
would be able to repay his loan in a sustainable way? 
2)If not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks  have shown  at the time? 
3)Ultimately,  did ELL make a fair lending decision?  
4)Did ELL act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Did ELL complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr S would be 
able to repay his loan in a sustainable way? 
The rules  that ELL had to follow, required it to carry out checks  that would enable  it to 
reasonably assess,  whether Mr S could afford  to repay the loan he was wanting  to take out. 
This is often  referred to as an affordability assessment.  
The rules  dont set out what  specific checks it needed to carry out, but it did set out that 
those checks needed to be proportionate to the circumstances of the application. I think  what  
this meant  in practice, was that the scope and extent of ELLs checks needed to reflect the 
nature of the loan, bearing  in mind things such as the amount of credit,  the interest rate, the 
duration of the loan,  the monthly  and total amounts repayable, and any indications  of 
customer vulnerability.  
The checks  ELL carried out as part of its affordability assessment, needed  to be borrower  
focussed. What I mean  by this is that the checks had to assess  whether paying the loan 
back would  cause Mr S any difficulties or have any adverse consequences for him. It would 
also need to take into account  factors such as the amount of money being lent, the term of 
the loan and the monthly repayments, the total charge for the credit and the interest  rate 
being charged. This isnt an exhaustive  list. 
And as a result of the above I think a reasonable and proportionate check needed  to be 
more thorough if Mr S had a low income. This would reflect that it could be more difficult for 
him to make  the loan repayments with a low income.  
It would also need to be more thorough the higher  the amounts he had to repay, as it would 
be more difficult to make higher loan repayments  on a given income. 
The length  of the loan term would  also be relevant,  partly because  where  the loan duration is 
longer, the total cost of credit was likely to be higher. It would also be relevant because there 
is greater risk of a negative change in circumstances  affecting Mr S ability  to repay, where 
repayments need to be sustained over a longer period. 
With these principles in mind Ive thought about  whether ELL completed  reasonable and 
proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr S would  be able to repay his loan in a 
sustainable way.
In summary,  then, the circumstances of this loan application are as follows:
Mr S was applying for a high-cost credit product which had an APR of 108.9  %.
The monthly loan repayment was approximately  12% of Mr S recorded monthly income. 
Ref: DRN51679883The total cost of the loan was very high, particularly when viewed as a percentage of 
what Mr S borrowed. 
ELL has said it did carry out some checks before it agreed to provide  Mr S with the loan. And 
this seems to be based on carrying out a credit check, reviewing his bank statement for the 
month before taking  out the loan, reviewing his payslip and carrying  out an affordability 
assessment based  on this. It said it made  an allowance of £779 for his monthly  living 
expenses and £300 for rent. Creditor payments were £499 a month which  was recorded  on 
a schedule of his loans. Based on its assessment, ELL says that it thought  Mr Ss loan was 
affordable for him. 
Mr S was borrowing £3,500 over two years. From what  Ive seen, I think  that ELL carried  out 
reasonable and proportionate checks on Mr Ss financial position in this particular case. I say 
this because it appears to have  his bank statement, carried out a credit  check and verified 
his income. I understand that Mr S doesnt agree with ELLs assessment of his income.  
But I think using an average  of his year to date income shown on his payslip, wasnt  an 
unreasonable approach in this case.  This would  in my view show an average of Mr S 
income over a period of a number of weeks, rather than just a snapshot of his income from 
one month. And its apparent from the bank statement that Mr S income did vary week on 
week. Using the information, it had about Mr S, Im satisfied that ELL carried  out an 
affordability assessment  taking into account his income and outgoings. 
Mr S has also disputed  the outgoings figures  used by ELL. He has said his outgoings each 
month were  £1,650.  Ive looked  at the figures used by ELL. The total outgoings figure 
(including existing  credit repayments) it recorded was £1,578 a month. It seems to me the 
figures used by ELL were very close to the figure Mr S assessed  his own monthly 
expenditure to be. So, Im satisfied that in this case the expenditure figures used by ELL in 
its affordability calculation, were representative of Mr S monthly expenditure.
ELL also discussed with Mr S why he wanted to take out the loan. Im satisfied from the 
evidence Ive seen,  that the purpose  of the loan was partly for debt consolidation and partly 
to pay for a holiday.  And in the context of his salary and the amount being borrowed,  I think  
for the reasons Ive summarised above,  the checks it carried out were reasonable and 
proportionate in all of the circumstances  of this particular case.
Notwithstanding the above, I also need to consider what the impact of this additional  
borrowing would be on Mr S financial position, and in that context, the appropriateness of 
ELLs lending  decision. And that ELL did carry out an appropriate affordability assessment 
on Mr S. 
Did ELL make a fair lending decision?  
So, with this financial background  for Mr S in mind, Ive thought very carefully about the 
lending decision ELL made to offer him the loan, and the impact  on him of it providing him 
with this additional credit.
 
Ref: DRN51679884The analysis ELL carried out, could suggest  that further lending shouldnt  have been made 
to Mr S. I say this because  debt consolidation which was one of the recorded reasons for 
borrowing, is often an indicator that someone  such as Mr S arent managing  their finances in 
an effective or sustainable manner. But Im satisfied that as 27% of the loan was for debt 
consolidation, most  of the loan was for the purposes of paying for a holiday. And although 
this happened  after the lending was approved, Ive also noted that the debt which  was to be 
consolidated was paid off from other sources. 
Mr S has expressed concern that some  of the funds  in relation to the debt consolidation 
were paid directly to him. I dont think it was necessarily wrong  of ELL to have paid these 
funds directly to Mr S. I say this because the case  notes  record  that this was done at Mr S 
request. This appears to be as a result of the debt having been paid from other sources.  And 
given these circumstances,  I dont think it was unreasonable of ELL to have paid the funds to 
Mr S as he asked it to do. 
Im satisfied from the checks that ELL carried out in this case that the loan was affordable  for 
Mr S. I say this because for the reasons Ive explained above, Im satisfied that the income 
and expenditure  figures obtained  by ELL were a reasonably accurate reflection of Mr S 
financial position at the time he applied for the loan. And, after taking  into account the 
monthly loan repayments for this new borrowing, Im also satisfied that Mr S would have 
surplus income each  month. 
I accept that Mr S did have existing  creditors. However, the affordability analysis completed 
by ELL took that into account.  I can also see from the credit report  ELL obtained that Mr S 
appears to have been managing his existing credit payments. So, Im satisfied from 
everything Ive seen, that he would have been in a position to sustainably  repay  this loan. 
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  Im satisfied  that the loan was affordable for Mr S. So, I 
dont think it was wrong for ELL to provide  him with the loan, or that it acted unfairly  towards 
him in some  other way.
my final decision
My final decision is not to uphold Mr S complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 April 2021.
Simon Dibble
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5167988