K820x#14Complaint
Mr G, in his capacity as executor of the estate  of the late Mrs G, complains that Clydesdale 
Bank Plc failed to provide  ongoing advice in respect of an investment bond it sold to Mrs G.
Background
In 1999 the late Mrs G opened  an Offshore  Discounted Gift Trust Bond (the bond),  
investing a sum of £189,999.58. The bond was set up to provide  regular  income of £833.33  
per month to Mrs G.
Sadly, Mrs G passed away in 2017.  In 2018,  Mr G complained. This was because  when  the 
bond had been redeemed, it only provided  a lump sum of around £95,000. Mr G said the late 
Mrs G had been led to believe  the capital investment  in the bond would be preserved, if not 
increase. He said the bond started  to perform poorly and Clydesdale  had failed to advise  
Mrs G as to the best course of action to maintain her investment.
Clydesdale said as the bond  had been  sold so long ago, it had very little paperwork from the 
time. It said it could see some fund switches had been made in 2007, but it wouldnt have 
been responsible for this as it stopped providing  advice  in 2005. It originally decided that the 
bond had most likely been mis-sold, and was prepared  to offer compensation. However, it 
followed this up with a further final response, saying the complaint was out of time. It also 
highlighted to Mr G that the late Mrs G had received total income of £187,467.35 from the 
bond which had to be taken into account when considering the overall performance of it.
Mr G referred  the complaint to our service.  He said Mrs G had paid a large commission to 
Clydesdale when the bond  was sold and Clydesdale had an ongoing obligation to review the 
suitability of the bond for Mrs Gs needs.  He also didnt think  the bond  was actually suitable 
for Mrs Gs needs at the time of the advice given  the decrease in value.
Our investigator told Clydesdale that he thought Mr G had made  the complaint in time, which  
it accepted. However,  the investigator  didnt  uphold the complaint. He didnt think there was 
sufficient evidence to say the bond had been mis-sold. He also didnt think  Clydesdale  had 
agreed to provide Mrs G with ongoing  advice.
Mr G asked for an ombudsman to provide a final decision on the complaint. He said Mrs G 
had been a long-standing customer of Clydesdale and it provided her with advice on her 
other investments. He said Mrs G couldnt  have managed such  a complex investment by 
herself and she had paid a significant  commission at the outset to pay for ongoing advice.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding it for 
largely the same reasons  given  by the investigator.
The sale of the bond
Mr G has told us that the purpose  of the bond was to provide an inheritance and to offset 
inheritance tax. He says Mrs G was led to believe the bond  would ensure the capital was 
preserved or would  grow,  whilst also providing  Mrs G with an income. As the capital value 
Ref: DRN56971992has significantly decreased, he questions whether the bond was suitable for Mrs G and her 
attitude to risk.
The bond  was sold to Mrs G in 1999.  Because of the time thats since passed,  only limited 
documentation from the time of the sale is available. This includes  an illustration and 
Clydesdales terms of business letter. There isnt a fact find available, or a letter  explaining 
why the bond was recommended  to Mrs G. So, whilst Ive taken what  Mr G has said into 
account, Im mindful that he wasnt present when the bond  was sold to Mrs G and there isnt 
any objective documentary evidence from the time of the sale which shows what  Mrs Gs 
objectives were and her attitude to risk.
Nevertheless, if I were to accept what Mr G has said the late Mrs G wanted to achieve,  
I cant say that it was unsuitable. The bond  provided Mrs G with an income, an investment 
return and it reduced the inheritance tax liability on the estate. The investment return  was 
dependent on market performance  and the illustration made it clear that performance 
couldnt be guaranteed.  In fact, the illustration demonstrated that after 10 years Mrs Gs 
investment was likely  to be worth less than she put in if the investment had grown at an 
annual rate of 6%. So, I think Mrs G wouldve understood  her capital investment could be 
worth less, particularly if she continued to take income from the bond.
At the time the bond was purchased in 1999,  investment returns were  generally much 
higher. Significant  events  since  then, such as the global financial crisis of 2007,  have 
affected investment  returns, which are now projected to be much lower than the level of 
returns predicted in 1999.  This couldnt have  been known at the time. Nevertheless, I can 
see that in September 2007,  Mrs Gs investment was worth  £171,804.69. Although  Mrs G 
had been invested in the bond for around eight years, this was broadly in line with the value 
predicted in the illustration  if the investment grew annually by 6% after 10 years.  I say this 
because the illustrations valuation was based on Mrs G investing £200,000,  and she 
invested around £10,000 less than this.
Overall, I havent seen enough  to say that the bond  wasnt suitable  for Mrs G. And I think  
she was given enough information at the time to know that the final value of her investment 
couldnt be guaranteed.
Whether Clydesdale had an obligation  to manage the bond or provide ongoing advice
Mr Gs main concern is that after establishing the bond, Clydesdale failed  to carry out any 
further reviews or prevent  the loss in value.  Mr G says Mrs G had an ongoing  advisory 
relationship with Clydesdale. As it provided her with ongoing advice in respect  of other  
investments, he believes  it ought to have provided  further advice in respect of this bond. He 
also feels the significant commission payment made  to Clydesdale  ought to have covered 
ongoing advice.
As I understand it, Mrs G held an equity portfolio with Clydesdale  which  it managed for her. 
However, I havent seen  evidence  showing that Clydesdale agreed  to provide Mrs G with an 
ongoing service  in respect of this investment, which was held by a third party.
Mr G says in the absence of any evidence it is reasonable to conclude  that Clydesdale  ought 
to have provided ongoing advice in respect of the bond, because it provided ongoing advice 
on other investments.  But there isnt an absence of evidence  here.  The terms of business 
letter, which the late Mrs G signed on 26 January  1999 says the following:
Ref: DRN56971993When [Clydesdale] has arranged any investments  following  advice to you, we will not give 
further advice  unless you require it, but will be glad to provide advice at any time you ask us 
to do so.
So, the evidence  shows that Clydesdale wouldnt be providing Mrs G with further advice on 
this investment unless  she asked  for it. I havent seen any evidence to show  Mrs G asked for 
further advice  on this investment after it was established in 1999. I note Mr G has said it was 
reviewed in 2000, but I dont think Mrs G was likely  to have had any concerns with the 
investment until it started to lose value. And there  isnt any evidence  to show  that she did, so 
I cant say Clydesdale  did anything wrong here. Im satisfied if Mrs G had asked for further 
advice it would have  been provided, or Clydesdale wouldve informed her if it could no longer  
advise on this investment.
Mr G says the commission  payment  was to pay for ongoing  advice,  but there isnt evidence  
to support this. The illustration shows the sum paid as commission  was to pay for the initial  
advice and arrangement of the bond.  There  is no reference in the illustration to this sum 
being used to pay for ongoing advice.
I appreciate Mr G is disappointed with the performance of the bond. But overall,  I dont think 
it was mis-sold and Im not persuaded Clydesdale had any obligation to provide ongoing 
advice or manage  the investment after it was sold.
My final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G, on behalf of 
the Estate  of the late Mrs G, to accept or reject  my decision  before  1 October 2020.
Hannah Wise
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN5697199