K820x#14complaint
Mr N has complained about Skyfire Insurance Company Limiteds handling  of a claim he 
made on his motor insurance policy.
Reference to Skyfire includes its agents.
background
Mr N was in an accident which  wasn't  his fault.  He asked for Skyfire to sort out repairs.  
Skyfire said that it would only repair some of the damage to Mr Ns car. It also said that it 
wouldnt pay for all of Mr Ns hire car costs.
Mr N didn't think that was fair and brought his complaint to us. Our investigator thought that 
Skyfires decisions concerning the claim  were reasonable. Mr N didn't agree so his 
complaints been  passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not going to uphold 
it. 
In bringing this complaint Mr Ns made  a number  of detailed points. I've considered  
everything hes said but in this decision  I will focus  on what I see as being the key points  
following our investigators  assessment of Mr Ns complaint.
Mr N was in an accident at a roundabout  when another  car ran into the back  of his. Mr N 
said that the impact  pushed his car off the road, causing him to hit something which 
damaged the front wheel  and rear quarter panel of the car.
Skyfire said that when Mr N had first reported the accident he didn't tell it hed been run off 
the road and said that the only damage was to the rear bumper area of the car. Skyfire sent 
engineers to look at Mr Ns car and the other car involved in the accident.  The engineers 
noted that the other car only had scuffs to the front wheel arch.  And they didn't believe that 
all the damage to Mr Ns car had happened  in the accident. So Skyfire  said it would arrange 
repairs to the rear bumper of Mr Ns car, which it believed was damaged in the accident, but 
it wouldn't pay for the other areas  of damage to be repaired.
The engineers whove looked  at the cars all agree that the damage  to Mr Ns car - except  for 
the damage to the bumper - is unlikely  to have been caused in the accident. And from a lay 
perspective I think its very unlikely that contact which caused such minimal damage to the 
other car, which only left scuff marks with no obvious denting or deforming  of the bodywork, 
could force Mr N off the road and into a an object. 
Also, I've seen images of the object  that Mr N said his car hit. This is a fairly small concrete 
block. But I can't see how a collision with that could have caused the damage to Mr Ns car 
as the damage  doesn't appear consistent  with the size of the block. And I note Mr N hasn't 
provided any engineering or other  expert evidence to show that the accident has caused the 
damage that he want Skyfire to pay to repair. So the expert evidence  all says the damage to 
Mr Ns car didn't happen in the accident Mr N described.
Ref: DRN59909242Mr N did give us a witness statement that supports  his version of events. That appears to 
have been prepared on a computer and printed  out. It isn't signed. I don't think  Mr N ever 
gave that statement to Skyfire. Our investigator spoke with the witness who told him that 
shed given Mr N a handwritten - not printed - statement. So I'm not convinced  that the 
printed witness statement  is reliable. So I think Skyfires decision to only pay damage  to the 
rear of the car, which it agreed had been  caused by that accident, was reasonable.
Mr N is also unhappy that Skyfire refused to pay for the full period he had a hire car for. And 
as a result  the hire company  billed Mr N for nine days  of hire costs. Mr N said Skyfire told 
him during a phone call that he could keep  the car for the extra nine days.  But I've 
considered the relevant calls and I haven't heard Skyfire tell Mr N that he could  keep the car. 
So I think its decision not to pay for the car for the extra nine days  was reasonable.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 July 2020.
Joe Scott
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN5990924