K821x#15complaint
Mr G complains that Society of Lloyds  (SOL)  didnt pay his full claim  under  his travel 
insurance policy.
In this decision Ill use SOL to include the underwriter and assistance company.
background
Mr G had an accident abroad and hurt his back. He was treated in two hospitals, and his 
injury meant he wasnt able to carry out his usual daily tasks himself.  He says the second 
hospital told him he could stay in hospital  for a few days until his return  flight to the UK. But 
the doctor allowed him to be discharged on the basis his existing guide could assist  him with 
his daily tasks. 
SOL paid Mr Gs claim in part. It said it wouldnt pay the cost for his guide to act as his 
assistant. SOL said it hadnt known about  the assistant until he was due to fly home,  and it 
wasnt a cost which was covered  by this policy. Mr G didnt agree, and sent emails hed sent 
to SOL about  the assistant while he was still abroad. SOL agreed to pay 50% of the cost for 
the assistant, but said it wouldnt pay the full amount. He came to us.
Our investigator thought SOL should pay the full cost of the assistant. SOL didnt agree so 
the complaints come  to me for review. Since issuing his opinion letter our investigator  has 
told both Mr G and SOL that we would usually award 8% simple  interest  on a delayed  claim 
payment. 
For completeness, I should say that Mr Gs other  complaint that SOL didnt offer him proper 
assistance, in particular with the first hospital,  has been resolved  separately by this service. 
So I wont  make  any findings on that issue in this decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
I think its fair in the specific  circumstances  of this complaint for SOL to pay Mr Gs claim for 
the cost of his care assistant in full, together  with interest. Ill explain why.
Mr G had an injury  to his back. The medical evidence  from the second  hospital that treated 
him was that he was unable to carry out his normal activities due to his condition. He was 
told he was fit to fly in business  class, accompanied  by a nurse or family  member, friend or 
airline staff. SOL was aware  of this as theres  a note on its file on 9 January 2018 that hed 
need a business class  seat with a friend/relative.  The same day the note said that SOL 
needed to establish if he was travelling  with anyone as it would be appropriate for him to 
have someone with him. 
Under the policy Mr G was entitled to ask for a friend or family  member to fly out to help him 
and escort him home,  if that was medically necessary. I think hes provided enough evidence  
that it was medically  necessary. SOL seems to have accepted that at the time.  
Mr G said he would  try to manage on the flight by himself, but he needed  help both with daily 
living and with getting to the countrys capital city for his return  flight. In doing so, he 
Ref: DRN57968362effectively saved SOL the cost of a friend  or relative  to fly out to assist  him while  abroad  and 
in getting home. 
The evidence is that Mr G did tell SOL that hed had the support of his guide as an assistant, 
from the time of his accident until he returned home.  Hes sent an email  exchange  with SOL 
from 10 January 2018 explaining that, and that hed need a ticket for them both to the capital  
city. This was a week before he returned  to the UK. I find that SOL was aware  of the 
position. 
It was right that SOL paid the cost of the assistant to travel  with Mr G from a regional airport  
to the countrys  capital  city, where  Mr G had a pre-booked flight home,  for her hotel for one 
night and her return to the regional airport. And I think that given the nature of the injury,  the 
medical evidence  and the repatriation guidance from the hospital its also fair for SOL to pay 
the full cost of the assistant. I think hes shown that it was necessary  for him to have help, 
and it was more  cost efficient for that to be from someone already abroad rather than 
arrange for a friend to fly out and help escort him home.
It follows that I think a fair outcome to this complaint is for SOL to pay Mr G the full cost he 
claimed for the assistant. I understand that SOLs already paid him £313.87 being 50% of 
the cost of £627.75 (converted from the local currency). So it must pay Mr G the remaining 
50% being an additional £313.88. In line with our usual  approach  SOL must also pay Mr G 
interest on £313.88 at 8% simple as set out below. 
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  Within 28 days  of the date on which  we send it Mr Gs acceptance of 
this final decision I order Society of Lloyds to pay Mr G the remaining balance of his claim 
for an assistant, being an amount of £313.88.  It must add interest*  to this amount at the 
simple rate of 8% per year from the date of claim until the date it pays Mr G. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 March  2019.
Amanda Maycock
ombudsman
*If Society of Lloyds  considers  that its required by HM Revenue  & Customs to take off 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr G how much  its taken  off. It should also give 
Mr G a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim  the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs  if appropriate.
Ref: DRN5796836