K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains that Barclays Bank Plc wont refund money that was not dispensed from a 
cash machine but which was still debited from his account.
background
On 5 May 2018  Mr A tried to withdraw  £260  from an automated teller machine (ATM). He 
says that only £10 was dispensed,  and then the roller kept going round as if more notes 
were going  to be issued but nothing else came out. He says this ATM is known to be 
unreliable, and when he reported the problem to the owner of the shop where  the ATM is, 
the owner told him that this had happened  before and that he should contact his bank. It 
transpired that £260 had been debited from his account with Barclays.
Barclays investigated, but it declined Mr As request for a refund. It said that the cash in the 
ATM had been counted and there was no extra cash (which there would have been if some  
cash had not been dispensed)  the ATM balance was exactly what  it was meant to be. 
There was no evidence  of any error  with the machine. So Mr A brought  this complaint to our 
Service.
Our adjudicator did not uphold this complaint, for the same reasons Barclays  had given. So 
Mr A asked for his complaint to be looked  into again,  and for the shops CCTV footage to be 
considered. That was in July. This complaint has now been referred to me for an 
ombudsmans decision.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think Mr As request to obtain the shops CCTV footage was reasonable. It might have been 
useful to have  it. But it is no longer  possible to get it, and it was probably already not 
possible when he asked  our adjudicator  for it in July. CCTV footage is only kept for a limited 
time, usually  28 days. So I have had to decide  this complaint based on the available 
evidence.
If £250 was not dispensed  from the machine, then I would expect the cash balance in the 
machine to exceed the expected balance by £250. But when the cash  in the ATM was 
counted, the balance was just what it was expected to be. No errors have been reported with 
the ATM.
The conclusions in the previous paragraph were based on a summary  document,  so I asked 
Barclays to provide the more detailed full journal  report for the transaction,  which  it has now 
done. Barclays also provided the journal  report for the whole  day. These documents  say that 
£260 was requested and £260  was dispensed.  There was a total of £40 in the purge bin. No 
notes were retracted. On 27 May the notes still in the machine were counted, and were 
found to add up to the difference between the amount which  had been put into the machine  
in the first place (on 26 April)  and the amount  the machine said it had dispensed.
I accept that evidence, and so I am unable to conclude  that Barclays was wrong to deny 
Mr A a refund.
Ref: DRN57722532my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Richard Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5772253