K820x#14complaint
Mr D says Nextcredit Limited (Nextcredit) mis-sold  him payday loans because  it didnt carry 
out sufficient affordability checks  before agreeing to lend. 
background
The background to this complaint was set out in my provisional decision dated  September  
2019. An extract from this is attached  and forms part of this final decision, so I will not repeat 
that information here.
In my provisional decision I set out why I wasnt minded to uphold the complaint. I invited 
both parties to let me have any further  comments and evidence. However, neither Mr D nor 
Nextcredit have provided me with any new comment or information to consider. 
my findings
Ive once more  considered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither Mr D nor Nextcredit had anything  further to add, I see no reason to depart from 
the findings in the provisional  decision.  Therefore, based on everything  Ive seen, I still think, 
for the reasons Ive outlined  in the provisional decision, that Nextcredit didnt make an error 
by providing Mr D with these loans.  
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, and in my provisional  decision, I dont  uphold  the complaint or 
make any award against Nextcredit Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Me D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 November  2019.
Robert Walker
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN52128842EXTRACT FROM PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr D says Nextcredit Limited (Nextcredit)  mis-sold him payday loans because it didnt  carry out 
sufficient affordability checks before agreeing  to lend. 
background
Mr D took 3 loans from Nextcredit  between October 2013 and November 2014. Based on the 
information Ive been provided, it seems Mr D had some problems repaying his final loan, and an 
outstanding balance remains.  
A summary  of Mr Ds borrowing, based on the information provided  to us from Nextcredit, can be 
found below:
loan number loan amount received date repayment date
1 £400.00 26/10/2013 16/11/2013
2 £300.00 07/12/2013 24/01/2014
3 £300.00 08/11/2014 outstanding
Our adjudicator thought Nextcredit had made an error when it provided  Mr D with his final loan 
because the information Nextcredit gathered before providing this loan indicated that there had been 
some recent  defaults recorded  on Mr Ds credit file. And, in these circumstances, the adjudicator  
thought this showed Mr D wasnt in a position to take on this loan. 
Mr D didnt respond to the assessment or provide any further  comments. However,  Nextcredit  didnt 
agree with the adjudicators assessment about the third loan. It made a number of points,  including:
the presence of two satisfied defaults  was not sufficient to say that Mr D was having  financial 
difficulties and
the accounts that defaulted had low balances relative  to Mr Ds disposable  income. 
No agreement could be reached,  so the case  has been passed to me for a decision. 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  
lending - including all of the relevant rules,  guidance and good  industry practice  - on our website.  And 
having thought about all of this, Im not intending to uphold Mr Ds complaint and Ive explained why 
below. 
Given the gap in lending  of almost nine months between loans 2 and 3 I dont consider it 
unreasonable that Nextcredit could  treat Mr Ds third application as a new chain of lending  and 
therefore treat Mr Ds application afresh. And Ive kept this in mind  when thinking about the outcome 
Ive reached.  
Nextcredit needed to take reasonable steps to ensure  that it didnt lend irresponsibly.  In practice  this 
means that it should have carried out reasonable checks to understand whether  Mr D could repay  his 
loans in a sustainable  manner. These checks  could  take into account a number  of different  things, 
such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income  and 
expenditure. 
Ref: DRN52128843Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of how much 
information it gathers and what it does to verify that information  in the early stages  of a lending 
relationship. 
But we might think it needed  to do more  if, for example,  the consumers income  was low or the 
amount lent was high. And the longer  the lending  relationship goes on, the greater the risk of it 
becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect  a lender to 
be able to show that it hasnt  continued to provide these loans to a customer irresponsibly. 
Nextcredit says it agreed to Mr Ds applications after he provided details of his monthly income which 
he declared  to be around £3,000. And with Mr Ds expenditure information Nextcredit believed  he had 
around £1,730 of disposable  income in which to repay loans 1 and 2.
Nextcredit also appear to have carried  out some sort of credit check  before providing the first loan. 
But, we havent been given the results of this check and I dont have  a copy  of Mr Ds credit file, so I 
dont know what Nextcredit may have seen  at the time. So, based on what Nextcredit did know about  
Mr D, this information suggested that he would be able to make the repayment he was committing to. 
And in these circumstances it wasnt  irresponsible to provide Mr D with his first two loans. 
I accept that Mr Ds actual circumstances  may not have been reflected either in the information he 
provided, or the other information Nextcredit obtained. And Mr Ds actual financial position  might well 
have been apparent if further information  such as bank  statements or detailed credit checks   had 
been obtained. But at this point in the lending  relationship I dont think it was necessary  for the checks 
to extend beyond what Nextcredit carried  out. 
The adjudicator upheld the third and final loan because, they thought based on the credit check  
results that Nextcredit  provided these indicated that Mr D was having  financial difficulties and 
therefore, it shouldnt have provided this loan. 
Ive thought about these  credit check results very carefully, and having  done so, in this case  I dont 
agree with the adjudicator. Having looked at all the other information  Nextcredit was provided with, 
Ive not seen  anything  else to make  me think  Nextcredit  was wrong to have  provided this loan. 
As Ive said,  above, loan three, was actually the first loan in a new chain of lending. 
For this loan, Mr D declared an income of just over £3,000 and he again provided  information relating 
to his monthly expenditure, such as £300 for rent and £500 for other outgoings. And based on the 
information provided  by Mr D, Nextcredit reasonably believed hed be able to repay the loan. 
Nextcredit also provided this service  with the result of its credit checks before this loan was approved, 
and Ive looked at these to see whether these checks alone wouldve  been sufficient for Nextcredit to 
have declined  the loan.  While, I can see that Mr D had recently satisfied  two defaults, I dont think, in 
this case,  that information  its own is enough for Nextcredit to have declined the loan application. 
Looking the credit  checks,  Nextcredit  was aware that Mr D was solvent and didnt have any County 
Court Judgements against him. There also wasnt any other indication of current  reliance  on short  
term lending, for example,  at the time this loan was approved Mr D only had 4 active  credit facilities. 
These couldve  been  personal  loans, credit card,  store cards  or any other type of credit.  But 
Nextcredit was aware 3 had been  opened  within  the last six months. To me, this isnt a sign that 
someone was reliant on short term loans or was having wider money management issues. 
There were  no other indications of problems  managing money, and while the satisfied defaults were 
present, these on their own, in my opinion, are not sufficient to uphold  Mr Ds final loan. 
Ref: DRN5212884