K822xcomplaint
Mr L complains  that Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc (BoI)  will not refund  the money he lost after
falling victim to a scam.
background 
I issued a provisional decision  which is attached to and forms part of this final decision, in 
January 2021.  In my provisional decision I explained  why I was minded to uphold the 
complaint in part.
responses to my provisional  decision  
Mr L replied to say he agreed  to my findings outlined  in my provisional  decision and BoI 
replied to say it had reviewed my findings  and had no further  comments  to make. 
my findings 
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As neither party has provided anything  
new for me to consider,  I see no reason to depart from my provisional findings. I remain  of 
the view that this decision should  be partially  upheld for the reasons set out in my provisional 
decision.
my final decision 
For the reasons  given  above and those  set out in the provisional decision, my final decision 
is that I uphold  this complaint in part. 
I require Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc to do the following:
Reimburse Mr L from the second payment  in total £3,511; plus
Refund any fees and charges associated with those payments if applicable
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 March  2021.
Staci Rowland
ombudsman
Provisional decision (copy) 
complaint
Mr L complains  that Bank  of Ireland (UK) Plc (BoI) will not refund  the money he lost after
falling victim to a scam.
background
I think  its helpful to explain  at the outset that Mr L made earlier payments as part of this scam from an 
account he held with a different bank (Ill refer to as Bank A) - prior to those he made using his BoI 
Ref: DRN50900152credit card account. The earlier payments have been considered under a different complaint with our 
service. So, in this provisional  decision,  I am only looking  at the payments Mr L made  from his credit 
card account  with BoI.
While I will not be commenting on the payments made from Mr Ls account with Bank A, I may within 
this provisional  decision refer to information which  I think provides further understanding around what 
has happened  in the particular circumstances  of this scam.
Mr L was duped by a woman he was in touch with on a dating website. Unbeknown to Mr L at the 
time, the person he was in contact with was a fraudster.
Our investigator, within her view of the complaint, explained that Mr L said hed been speaking with 
this woman on a daily basis  for around a week  prior to her asking him for money  and they were 
getting on well. It was during  their contact this woman told Mr L she was on holiday but that she lived 
in Kent. The woman  told Mr L she needed  money for a flight home  and that on her return  to London 
they would meet and stay at a hotel. The woman  explained to Mr L that her credit card had been 
declined and that she didnt  have sufficient funds in her current account.
When Mr L reported the scam to Bank A, I can see Mr L provided some more detail  about his contact 
with the woman and what  had taken  place. Its important to note that overall the version of events 
Mr L provided to BoI and Bank A are consistent but greater detail as to how the scam unfolded has 
been seen within the information provided.
In addition to the above, Mr L explained to Bank A that hed not met or spoken to this woman on the 
phone, but theyd been chatting over email and were getting on well. The woman informed Mr L that 
she was going to be going away for a weeks holiday  to buy some artwork.  She arrived on holiday and 
was there a few days  and theyd exchanged various  emails during this time.
Mr L says the woman  first asked him to pay for her hotel  bill as her debit card was blocked on her UK 
account. Mr L says this seemed reasonable as it was for a fairly small  amount. Mr L paid the hotel bill 
plus extra for a taxi to the airport.
When speaking with the woman  she said shed gone to the airport and had been stopped at customs  
for trying to export a piece of ceramic that had ivory  in it. So, couldnt fly on the flight and claimed to 
be in some sort of custody/jail. Mr L said he knew  ivory was illegal  and so it seemed genuine. Mr L 
then heard from a solicitor, whom Mr L says was polite  and also seemed  genuine. Mr L paid the 
customs fine and to get the woman  out of custody/jail. It would appear this was not a genuine solicitor 
and that Mr L was in touch with a fraudster at this point too.
It was following this Mr L says he started to receive requests from the woman to say she wanted to 
urgently see him at the airport and that she was longing  to see him. As shed been unable to go on 
the original  flight Mr L paid for a new flight and a few other  bits and bobs.  As mentioned at the outset, 
some of these  payments were made from Mr Ls account with Bank A.
On 22 January 2019, Mr L sent an initial payment of £1,501.00 to this woman  via a money transfer 
service provider,  using his BoI credit card for the flight. This payment was flagged by BoI and a text 
message was sent to Mr L, who replied  to say it was genuine.  BoI have told us the text message sent 
to Mr L included the specifics of the transaction and asked him to reply MINE  or FLAG. On receiving 
his response to say it was genuine, the flag was removed, and the payment approved.
Mr L then sent a further payment of £1,805 on 24 January 2019, again via a money transfer service  
provider using  his credit  card. This was because hed been told the flight cost had gone up and that 
she needed  money to book the hotel stay.  This payment  was also flagged  by BoI and a message was 
sent to Mr L to ask if hed made  the payment.  Mr L replied  again to say the payment was genuine. As 
with the initial payment,  on receiving Mr Ls reply BoI removed the flag and the payment  was 
approved.
Ref: DRN50900153Mr L subsequently sent a further three payments of £451 on 26 January 2019, £705 on 28 January  
2019 and £550 on 29 January 2019   also via the money transfer service provider using his credit 
card, after he was told more  money was needed for the flight, hotel booking and to pay for some 
extras at the hotel. The total payments Mr L made to the fraudster via the money  transfer service  
provider using  his BoI credit card was £5,012. 
Mr L and the woman were  due to meet at a London airport on 30 January  2019 and shed told him 
that on her return shed  pay him back the money shed borrowed. Mr L says he didnt think  anything of 
this at the time. 
Mr L realised hed been  the victim of a scam when  the woman hed been speaking to didnt meet  him 
at the airport.
Mr L got in touch with BoI on 31 January  2019  to report the scam, however,  it appears the call got cut 
off and, so Mr L raised the scam with BoI on 1 February  2019 when he called  back.
BoI on investigating the claim  held Mr L liable as hed knowingly authorised  the payments. Mr L 
complained to BoI about  its decision. In their response to his complaint,  BoI reiterated  that Mr L had 
made the transactions and that hed entered his 3D secure One Time Passcode  (OTP) which were 
sent to his mobile number to verify and successfully complete the transactions. 
Remaining unhappy Mr L brought his complaint to our service. One of our investigators  looked into 
things and sent their initial thoughts  to BoI. She initially  felt BoI ought to have had cause for concern 
and should have done more.  She felt the payments  Mr L made  using his credit card via a money  
transfer service  provider were unusual  and out of character given his previous account usage and, 
while she did take into account that it isnt unusual for a credit card to be used to make larger  than 
usual payments, she felt at the point Mr L made  the second higher payment this ought to have 
triggered the bank to ask more questions. Our investigator said had it done so she thinks the scam 
would have unravelled quickly.
BoI disagreed with our investigators initial view of the complaint. In its response it said:
Mr L authorised  the payments  reiterating  that he did so by accessing  the internet
(via money transfer service  provider), entering his card details, amount of the
payment and the OTP that was sent to his number to verify the transactions.
It further added that by the terms of use of 3D secure a customer  is responsible for
all purchases made  using  their 3D secure password.
It said the initial and second payments of £1,501 and £1,805 flagged  on its system
and a message was sent to Mr L. He replied  on both occasions to say the payments
were genuine and so the flags were removed, and the payments approved. BoI have
commented that it doesnt think there is anything in industry practice which  would
indicate the bank should have done more in this instance.
It also says Mr L put himself in a financially  unsafe position by sending payments  to a
third party he had not met before and who hed not been speaking to for very long.
BoI also disagreed with the investigators  assumption that had the bank made  further
contact with Mr L by phone once itd blocked the second payment that he then would
not have authorised the later ones. It added that the suggestion the bank needs to
telephone and have  a conversation with every customer who makes an out of character 
transaction on a credit card is entirely unreasonable.
While  it doesnt think it would be fair to have  expected the bank to have asked
questions at the time of the flagged  payments, BoI further say that even had it done so, Mr L 
could have possibly  told it that the payments were  to his partner/girlfriend. Which would  not 
have seemed suspicious or unreasonable. 
Our investigator when reconsidering the information, issued a follow up view on the complaint. She 
explained to Mr L her view had changed and that she was not asking BoI to reimburse the money  
hed lost as part of this scam. She explained that while  the payments made  were  high compared  to 
his usual activity, when looking at the frequency of the payments (every  other day), and that they 
Ref: DRN50900154werent for obscenely large amounts which  took him over his credit card limit of £4,500,  she was 
persuaded the banks contact when the first two payments flagged by message  was sufficient in the 
circumstances. When considering this point, she thought about  the payments  alongside the fact it is 
not unusual for credit  cards to be used  to make larger than usual  payments.
Our investigator also added that on reflection  had BoI gone further than the messages sent and called 
Mr L to question  the payments, she was no longer of the opinion that the scam wouldve  begun  to 
unravel quickly.
Because Mr L disagreed  with our investigators  opinion, the complaint has been passed to me to 
reach a decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Having  done so, Im currently thinking  of coming to a different 
outcome to the one reached by our investigator which is more in line with her initial thoughts  on the 
complaint. I will now explain  my reasons why.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank is expected to process  payments and 
withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the Payment Services 
Regulations and the terms and conditions  of the customers account.
But Ive also taken into account  the law, regulators rules and guidance,  relevant  codes of practice  and 
what I consider  to have been good industry practice at the time.  And, with that in mind, I consider  BoI 
should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism,
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that
might indicate  that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years,
which banks are generally more  familiar with than the average customer. And is
something recognised  by the British Standards Institutes (BSIs) October 2017
Protecting Customers from Financial harm  as a result of fraud  or financial  abuse 
Code of Practice
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used,  have taken
additional steps,  or make  additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some
cases declined to make  a payment altogether, to help protect  customers  from the
possibility of financial harm from fraud.
In this case, Ive thought  about the payments  Mr L made, and whether BoI ought fairly and reasonably 
to have done  more when he made  five payments via a money transfer service provider using his 
credit card to the fraudster.
Did BoI act fairly and reasonably in this case?
As Ive explained, as a matter of good practice BoI should have been on the lookout for unusual and 
out of character transactions,  at the time Mr L fell victim to this scam.
I accept these  were authorised payments even though Mr L was the victim of a sophisticated scam - 
where he was duped by a woman,  hed met through  a dating website and who he believed he was 
going to meet. So, although  Mr L did not intend  the money to go to the fraudster, under  the Payment  
Services Regulations 2017, Mr L is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
Ref: DRN50900155Ive thought carefully about  what  BoI has said in response to our investigators initial view of the 
complaint and the reference  to the fact larger  transactions are more likely to be made  on a credit card.  
BoI agrees that the nature  of credit  cards is for this very purpose. It says the first two payments Mr L 
made for £1,501 and £1,805 were  flagged and that he confirmed these were  made  by him, so there is 
no reason for the bank to have considered the further transactions were still uncharacteristic or 
unusual.
While I accept, along  with our investigator and BoI that it is not unusual for credit cards to be used to 
make one-off larger payments, when  looking  at Mr Ls credit  cards statements  prior to the scam 
payments and, the fact the payments were all made to a money transfer service  provider   which is 
used to transfer money abroad  - Im persuaded these payments were  out of character  and unusual 
compared to Mr Ls typical spending on the account and therefore ought to have alerted BoI that Mr L 
mightve been  at risk of financial harm. I will explain why.
As our investigator initially said, when reviewing Mr Ls credit card statements from January 2018 to 
the date the payments were  sent to the fraudster via the money transfer service provider,  I can see 
Mr L generally didnt make transactions on his credit card above £500, and none  of the payments he 
made were international payments.
Im also mindful  that BoI itself flagged  the first two payments Mr L made  which suggests it also 
recognised the payments  as unusual and out of character for Mr L. While Im not currently minded to 
say that I think BoI ought to have done any more than send Mr L a text message after hed attempted 
the make the first payment  - given whats been previously  said around it not being  unusual for a credit 
card to be used for one-off  larger payments  I am, however, persuaded  BoI should have done more 
when Mr L attempted to make the second payment to the money  transfer service  provider.
This is because by this point  Mr L was:
making a second payment to a money transfer service provider within  a two-day
period
making a payment of a larger amount than the first payment and both payments  were
higher in comparison  to other payments on the credit  card in the previous year
making a second payment which  needed additional authorisation within a two-day
period
For the reasons  I have  mentioned above,  I think BoI ought fairly and reasonably to have done more 
than send Mr L a text message when  Mr L attempted  to make the second payment  the purpose of 
which it seems to me was simply to check it was him making the payments.  In this particular case, BoI 
ought fairly and reasonably  to have called  Mr L and asked him some questions to challenge  the 
purpose of the payment before it was executed.
BoI has said that had it done this, its possible Mr L would have  said he was sending  money to his 
girlfriend/partner. This is of course possible, but even if I consider that he had, I dont think, on the 
face of it, this response shouldve reassured BoI that he wasnt at risk of financial harm.  BoI ought 
fairly and reasonably to have  asked further questions to challenge the purpose of the payment and 
ought to have  explored  the possibility that Mr L might be providing a cover  story. BoI ought to have 
asked what the money was for  particularly as it was being sent to a money transfer service  provider  
rather than directly to her personal  account - and what the previous payment to the money  transfer 
service provider  two days earlier had been for. Had it done so, I think  it is more likely  than not Mr L 
would have been honest and said he was sending money so his girlfriend/  partner could book a flight 
and hotel, and that the payment two days previously had also been for a flight  for her. I say this with 
some certainty as Im satisfied Mr L wasnt given a cover story by the scammer.
In response to Mr Ls likely explanation, as well as the particular circumstances  of this transaction, I 
would have expected BoI to ask some follow up questions to ensure Mr L wasnt at risk of falling 
victim to a romance scam. I say this because - Im satisfied BoI ought to have been aware of the 
prevalence of romance scams and their particular  features at the time (which  often including the need 
to send money to someone abroad  for flights etc).
Ref: DRN50900156For example, BoI couldve  asked Mr L how long hed been in a relationship with his girlfriend/partner 
and whether hed met her in person. To support its explanation BoI couldve provided Mr L with 
information about romance  scams   including information on what these types of scams looked  and 
felt like in the context of the payments he was asking to make.
Had BoI done  this I dont think  Mr L wouldve proceeded with the payment or would have  then gone 
on to make the subsequent payments. I think its more likely than not Mr L wouldve understood the 
risks associated with making the payments once hed been alerted  to these  types of scams.
I have also considered whether Mr L was blameworthy  in some  way and therefore  whether  he should  
bear some responsibility  for his loss. While with the benefit of hindsight Mr L has commented that it 
seems ludicrous now that he believed her, at the time of the scam Im persuaded he was genuinely  
under the belief that he was in some form of a relationship  with the women  hed been in daily contact 
with and who he planned  to meet. All things considered, I am satisfied he was simply  the unwitting  
and blameless victim of a cruel romance  scam.
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part.
I require  Bank of Ireland  (UK) Plc to do the following:
Reimburse Mr L from the second  payment  in total £3,511; plus
Refund any fees and charges associated with those  payments if applicable
Ref: DRN5090015