K821x#15complaint
Mrs R complains that Provident Personal Credit  Limited (trading as Satsuma) lent her money  
that she couldnt afford to repay.
Mrs R wants Satsuma to refund the interest and repay  what  she owes.
background
Mrs R took out nine instalment loans with Satsuma  between  August 2014 and April 2017. 
Mrs R says that she didnt  have any disposable  income left to afford  the loan repayments. 
The adjudicator recommended that Mrs Rs complaint about loan five be upheld.  She asked 
Satsuma to refund the charges and interest  that Mrs R had paid on loan five. The adjudicator 
also recommended  that Satsuma remove  any negative information about  loan five from     
Mrs Rs credit file. 
Satsuma didnt agree with the adjudicators recommendation  so the complaint has come  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  lending - including  all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Satsuma needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mrs R 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. 
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think  less thorough checks  
might be reasonable  and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that 
Satsuma should  fairly  and reasonably  have  done more to establish that any lending  was 
sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a customers  income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult  to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number  and frequency of loans,  and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer  has been  given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing  
may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ref: DRN58031882I think that its important for me to start by saying that Satsuma was required to establish 
whether Mrs R could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether  the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the FCAs Consumer  Credit Source Book defines sustainable as 
being without  undue  difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make 
repayments on time, as well as without  having to borrow to meet the repayments. 
So it follows  that a lender  should realise, or it ought  fairly and reasonably  to realise,  that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mrs Rs complaint.
Satsuma has given  us evidence that it asked  Mrs R for details of her net monthly income,  
housing costs, credit commitments  and other outgoings. Satsuma also carried  out a credit check 
and included  any undeclared credit  commitments  that it could see together  with a further buffer.
There was a break in lending  between  loan four and five. So Ive considered  two separate  
chains of lending.
Given the amount  that Mrs R was expected to repay  each month  against  her declared monthly 
income of between £1,500 and £1,800, Im satisfied that Satsumas checks  before  loans  one 
to four and six and seven were adequate. Based on what Satsuma knew  about Mrs R, I dont 
think that it was unreasonable of Satsuma to agree  to lend to her on these occasions.
Although I agree with the adjudicator that Satsuma should have been doing  more before 
agreeing loans eight and nine, I cant say that with better checks, the two loans wouldve 
appeared unaffordable.
loan five
The adjudicator recommended that Mrs Rs complaint about loan five be upheld  as she 
thought that Satsuma had gathered information about Mrs R which  showed  she was having 
problems managing her money. This is because after making  her monthly  repayment,  Mrs R 
was left with under £75 for any emergencies  or unforeseen expenses.
Although it appeared that Mrs R had enough  disposable income to be able to afford the 
repayments, I dont  think that this meant  she could afford them  in a sustainable way. If Mrs R 
had any unexpected expenses  even  relatively minor one  shed have been left with little 
to no money.
I appreciate that Satsuma  says that Mrs R declared her disposable income to be £380 and 
that it added  safeguards. But the safeguards reflected any undisclosed credit commitments  
that Satsuma found in the credit search that it carried out. These credit commitments needed 
to be added to Mrs Rs other declared outgoings thereby reducing her disposable  income. 
Satsuma didnt add any further safeguards to Mrs R other expenditure. This means that it 
still seems fair to conclude that Mrs R wasnt left with enough money  to say that she could 
sustainably afford to repay the loan  that is without borrowing elsewhere.
Ref: DRN58031883to put things right,  Satsuma should:
refund all interest  and charges that Mrs R paid on loan five;
 
add simple  interest  at a rate of 8% per annum to each of these amounts from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement*; 
write off any unpaid interest and charges on loan five; 
if it chooses  to, apply the refund against any outstanding balance on loans  eight and 
nine before  paying the remaining balance (if there  is any) to Mrs R**; and
remove any negative  information about  loan five from Mrs Rs credit  file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Satsuma  to take off tax from this interest. Satsuma  must  
give Mrs R a certificate showing  how much  tax its taken off if she asks for one. If Satsuma  
intends to apply the refund to reduce  any outstanding  principal balance,  it must do so after 
deducting tax.
**If after carrying out the above steps there is still an outstanding balance,  I remind  Satsuma 
of its obligation  to treat Mrs R reasonably  and sympathetically if she puts forward any 
repayment proposals.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. In full and final settlement, Provident 
Personal Credit Limited (trading as Satsuma)  should  take the steps outlined above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 December  2019.
Gemma Bowen
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5803188