K821x#15complaint
Mr S complains that Cofunds  Limited  caused  delays when  he tried to make an ISA transfer. 
He feels the delays led him to incur a financial loss. (His wife, Mrs S, has made a related 
complaint thats  been dealt with separately).
background
Mr S instigated the transfer  in April 2018  via a broker.  Despite repeatedly  chasing  the 
various parties the process remained unfinished  in July 2018,  so he cancelled the request 
and subsequently moved his money to a different provider.
Mr S complained to Cofunds, which accepted that it had failed to communicate with him 
effectively during the course of the process. It offered him £150  for the trouble and upset  this 
had caused. It also noted, as a separate issue, that it had failed to set up a direct debit for 
his account, so it offered to waive three months  platform charges. 
Mr S wasnt  satisfied with this response and referred the matter to this service. Our 
investigator initially found Cofunds  offer to be fair. But Mr S argued that hed also incurred a 
financial loss due to the delay in him being able to re-invest the money.  
The investigator acknowledged this point but concluded that it was difficult to be certain 
precisely what Mr S wouldve done,  and when, and also that other parties  the broker,  Mr S 
existing provider  had been  involved,  so it was difficult to apportion blame. The investigator 
suggested that as a compromise Mr S be compensated  with an additional £150, based 
broadly upon the return the money had been achieving  prior to the transfer.
Neither party accepted this. Cofunds  didnt agree to the extra  payment as it felt its offer was 
already sufficient, particularly as it felt responsibility for the delays lay in part with the other 
businesses involved in the transfer.  Mr S was strongly of the view that Cofunds was solely  
responsible and he offered figures based on how hed subsequently invested with a different 
provider in order to support  his view that a higher amount of compensation was warranted. 
As no agreement could be reached, the matters been referred to me to review.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive come to the same 
conclusions as the investigator and for broadly the same reasons. 
Cofunds has accepted that its handling of the transfer was not as it shouldve  been. It agrees 
that it shouldve  pro-actively contacted Mr S or his broker  when  there appeared to be an 
issue with the process.  So, as its accepted  that a mistake was made,  I need  only to address  
the matter of what represents fair compensation for that mistake. 
Often in situations  like these, where theres been a delay in making  a transfer that in turn 
leads to a delay in making  an investment, its a reasonably straightforward matter  to 
determine the position that the complainant  wouldve  been  in but for the delay. But in this 
case, its not so easy. 
Ref: DRN59887352We have an indication of what  Mr S would otherwise have done  in terms of investing,  as he 
did re-invest when he eventually transferred to a different provider. But determining  precisely  
when that might have  happened,  particularly as there were  other  parties involved who may 
have been responsible for at least some  delay, is very difficult  in this case.
As such,  I think the compromise put forward by the investigator is a fair one. I note Cofunds 
concerns that it wasnt solely responsible for the delays. But the additional  £150  suggested  
by the investigator  is based upon the rate of return the money  was earning before the 
transfer. And importantly  its not the whole  of that amount, but a proportion  which  goes 
some way towards addressing the issue of potentially shared responsibility.
I appreciate that neither party will feel this is a wholly satisfactory  outcome to the complaint. 
But the Financial  Ombudsman Service is an informal dispute resolution service  and I decide 
complaints by reference to what is, in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the case,  which  Im satisfied Ive done here.
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  my final decision is that I uphold the complaint and direct Cofunds  
Limited to pay Mr S a total of £300, to include any payments already made.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 October  2019.
James Harris  
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5988735