K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that the car he brought with finance  from Clydesdale  Financial Services  
Limited (Trading as Barclays  Partner Finance (BPF)) wasnt  of satisfactory  quality at the 
point of sale. He wants to reject the car, or get his repairs paid for.
background
Mr M brought a second hand car by means of a conditional sale agreement with BPF in 
October 2015. The car had covered 83,800  miles at the point of sale and cost £16,650. In 
February 2016, the vehicle experienced problems with the gearbox.  He says the gearbox 
assembly has needed fixing on two separate occasions in 2016 and 2018. He believes the 
faults are linked and that they show the vehicle wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of 
sale. 
BPF did not agree to meet the cost of repair due to the length  of time hed had the vehicle 
and the length of time since the last repair.
The investigator did not uphold the complaint.  He noted that In February 2016, the car had 
gearbox problems  and two solenoids were  replaced  as well as the transmission oil. There 
was also work done on the gasket and filter. This work was done  as a gesture of goodwill 
and completed at no cost to Mr M. between February 2016  and April 2018, there are no 
reported faults with the gearbox  and Mr M covered around 13,250 miles. In his view the first 
problem was resolved at no cost to Mr M. He didnt  think the first and second faults were 
connected as they were  nearly two years  apart.  He concluded that the second fault was not 
present at the point of sale as it happened  two and a half years after he brought  the car.
Mr M was unhappy with this view.  He felt that when the dealer changed the solenoids  in the 
initial repair,  it should have changed the wiring loom as well. He noted  that it was the dealer 
who did the first repair, not the finance company and the repair  was done  under warranty  
and was not repaired as a goodwill gesture. The investigator did not feel this changed 
anything and he maintained his view.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015  covers  conditional  sale agreements. Under  a conditional 
sale agreement,  there  are implied conditions that the goods supplied will be of satisfactory 
quality. In Mr Ms case, the car he acquired was used  so there would be different 
expectations compared to a new car. But the car still should have been of satisfactory  quality 
 given the price  paid and its age and mileage  at the point of supply.  
Problems occurred shortly after he brought the car and these problems were rectified by the 
dealership under warranty. Mr M drove  the car for over two and a half years,  travelling over 
13,000 miles without any further  problems. I agree with the investigator,  that any problems 
present at the point of sale were rectified under warranty.  Further as there were  no problems 
for two and a half years. I find that the two problems with the car are not connected. If the 
first repair had failed it would have done so far earlier on and Mr M would not have been 
able to drive over 13,000 miles.  I find that although in the same area, the faults  are not 
connected due to the length of time that has elapsed  between  the faults arising. I find that 
Ref: DRN56378332the 2018 fault was not present when Mr M brought the car in 2015 and BPF is not liable to 
fund repairs or accept a rejection of the car.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 June  2019.
Clare Hockney
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN5637833