K822xcomplaint
Mr G is unhappy with Right  Choice  Insurance Brokers Ltd as he thought  theyd arranged  car 
insurance for him, but later found out he was uninsured.  
background 
Last December,  Mr G got a car insurance quote from Right Choice.  He wanted to go ahead 
with the quote,  and thought hed paid online. But in January, he was pulled over by the 
police for having  no insurance. Mr Gs car was seized so he complained to Right  Choice.
Right Choice looked into Mr Gs concerns but didnt agree theyd done anything wrong. They  
said that insurance couldnt be solely arranged  online, and that a phone  call was needed to 
activate a policy. But there was no evidence this was done or that documents  had been 
generated. 
Mr G remained  unhappy so asked  for our help. One of our investigators looked into what  had 
happened but she agreed with Right Choice. She said it was explained that insurance 
wouldnt be in place  until there was a phone  call to arrange it  but there wasnt any 
evidence of this happening. She did point to two attempted phone calls Mr G made to 
Right Choice a few days later,  but neither had resulted in any substantive conversation  with 
Mr G as he was just on hold. She also couldnt see Mr G had paid for the insurance. 
Right Choice offered £50 compensation for failing to call Mr G, and our investigator said this 
was a reasonable offer. Mr G disagreed so his case was passed to me to consider. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I dont think that 
Right Choice acted  unreasonably. Ill explain why.
Right Choice have  shown  us one of the screens  Mr G would have seen online when getting  
his quote  within the payment section,  Mr G was able to choose  to pay monthly  or annually.  
On that screen,  it said:
Your payment will be pre-authorised.  A pre-authorised payment is a temporary 
reservation of funds in your account  which has not yet been processed.  We are 
unable to remove this reservation, it will expire  after a period of time set by your 
bank. There is no cover in force until you received  a call from us to arrange your 
policy and process  your payment.
I think this made it clear that Right Choice wouldnt set up the policy  without a call and that 
any money taken was temporarily held. 
Mr G says he did receive a call from Right  Choice  that same  day. But Right Choice  disagree  
and say they have no evidence of this. Whatever did happen, I dont  think  it was reasonable 
for Mr G to assume  his policy was in force for two reasons  firstly because he didnt pay the 
premium(s) and secondly  because he didnt receive  any documentation  about a policy.  
Ref: DRN53412432Mr G says the initial premium  £216.46   was taken from his account and wasnt returned.  
So he thought he was insured. But Mr G sent us a copy of his bank  account  statement and 
there is no mention  of any sum of money  being  paid to Right Choice. Recognising this, Mr G 
sent us photographs of documents  produced by his bank to show  the transaction   while  
these are quite difficult to read, they do reference a payment to Right Choice. 
However, as these documents do not correspond with his statement, it is likely Mr G has just 
provided us with evidence the sum was pre-authorised,  but never debited, and later 
released. This also corresponds with what Right  Choices guidance  said (as quoted above) 
and with an internal  screen shot they showed  us of their systems   which  recorded  Mr Gs 
payment status  as pre-authorised.
Given this, I am satisfied that although  Mr G entered his payment details, his initial premium 
payment wasnt taken and his policy  was not set up.
Mr G didnt receive any policy documentation  and Right Choice havent been able to share  
anything substantive that occurred after the payment was pre-authorised. I think Mr G ought  
to have expected some form of confirmation  whether by email or post  and the absence 
of this, along with the absence of a debit on his bank account should have led him to 
question whether the policy had been set up. Mr G tried calling Right  Choice a few days  later 
too, so perhaps  this was something  he intended  querying, but didnt  see through, at the time.   
Also, as our investigator pointed out, on the day Mr G tried to arrange a policy almost £250 
was deposited  into his bank account  this took his balance from either nil or negative  to 
positive. After a few days, his balance was depleted  following cash withdrawals and other 
purchases. So I dont think  its unreasonable to say Mr G ought to have realised hed not 
been charged for insurance  as had he have paid the premium at the time, the withdrawals 
and purchases that followed wouldnt have been possible, or would  only have been possible 
with an overdraft. So again, I think this is something  Mr G ought  to have noticed. 
So considering all that I have seen, I think it was clear the online part of the process wasnt 
enough to set a policy  up and that the absence  of payment and documentation ought  to 
have made  Mr G query things at the time.
I do recognise Right Choice fell short though, as they arent able to show  us that they called 
Mr G to set the policy up. But they have offered £50 compensation for this process mistake 
and I think it is sufficient  to recognise the administrative  shortcomings. 
I appreciate that the consequences  for Mr G are greater than the sum offered, but the sum is 
not supposed to meet those consequences  as I am not making any further award against 
Right Choice  the absence of insurance  was something Mr G ought to have been  aware  of, 
so I dont think its fair to hold Right Choice responsible for the consequences of that. 
I am very sorry  to hear about  the trouble and distress Mr G has experienced in not having 
car insurance, but I dont think that this is Right Choices fault and instead I think their offer of 
£50 compensation  is enough to recognise the mistake they made. 
Ref: DRN53412433my final decision
My final decision is that Right Choice Insurance Brokers Ltd should settle this complaint  as 
they have proposed to do, by paying Mr G £50 compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 September  2019.  
Aimee Stanton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5341243