K821x#15Complaint
Miss C says that RCI Financial Services Limited  (RCIFS) acted unfairly  by terminating 
her hire purchase agreement following her missing payments.
Background
In October 2015 Miss C acquired a new car via a four year hire purchase agreement  with 
RCIFS. Under the agreement Miss C was to make monthly payments of around  £280 and 
at the end of the four years make a final lump  sum payment  to then own the car.
During the agreement  there have been  occasions when Miss C missed payments and this 
led to default notices  being sent to her in 2016 and 2017. But Miss C made  up these 
missed payments and the agreement continued.
In January 2018 Miss Cs account again fell into arrears and she offered  to make two 
payments to bring it up to date. Unfortunately she didnt keep to this agreement and a 
default notice  was sent in April 2018. When the default period expired RCIFS instructed 
agents to collect the car, but Miss C rang RCIFS before this happened.  She explained that 
shed been caused financial difficulties due to a family member being  unwell.  She offered to 
make additional  monthly  payments of £50 to catch-up on the outstanding  amount. But 
RCIFS declined this offer as was considered  too low. So it was agreed  she would pay £82 
per month instead, starting in May 2018.
However this payment  wasnt  received  in July 2018 and another default notice was sent 
with an expiry date in August 2018. RCIFSs records show  it made numerous attempts to 
reach and speak with Miss C by both phone and letter, but couldnt  make contact. Miss C 
paid £300 by standing order but this wasnt sufficient to cover the amount owed according 
to the default notice.  . So RCIFS terminated the agreement at the end of August 2018.
At the beginning of September  2018  Miss C contacted RCIFS and explained that shed 
been unwell  and unable to work.  She said that due to her health conditions shed been  
unable to contact  RCIFS any earlier. She provided  some proof of her health problems. 
Miss C asked RCIFS if she could now bring  her account up to date but it declined  due to 
her financial  instability. It asked her to sign a voluntary surrender form for the car to be 
collected.
Miss C complained to this service as she said she felt she was being punished for being 
unwell and for the fact shed  missed  payments in the past. She said the earlier missed  
payments were unconnected to her current health problems. She said she would like to 
keep the car on a new repayment plan.
Our investigator recommended Miss Cs complaint should be partially upheld. She said the 
main reason  the payments  had been  missed  was due to Miss Cs ill-health which  had 
resulted in her being in pain and unable to work from June to September 2018.  Miss C 
explained that shed been unable  to open letters, had slept  a great deal during the day, 
and hadnt been in the right state  of mind to cope with things.  She also said shed broken 
her mobile phone and her landline handset had developed a fault, making it very difficult  to 
make contact with RCIFS.
Ref: DRN53672542The investigator said that when a customer is experiencing financial difficulties and has 
communicated this to a business then we would expect  the business  to listen and discuss 
what help was appropriate in a positive  way. RCIFS had done  this in the past when Miss C 
had missed payments  but this time she hadnt  made any contact.  So RCIFS wasnt aware  
of her change in circumstances and it wasnt  in a position to propose any further  help to 
her.
The investigator said that, although she sympathised with Miss Cs position,  she didnt think  
Miss C had done  enough to mitigate her circumstances. Miss C was aware that she needed  
to make  payments under  the financial agreement; shed known about the default notice; 
and that shed agreed to make additional payments.  It had still been  Miss Cs responsibility 
to tell RCIFS what was going  on.
The investigator said she didnt think RCIFS had done anything  wrong  in terminating the 
hire purchase agreement.  This had been  in line with the agreements terms and conditions 
which both parties had accepted by entering into the hire purchase contract so she thought  
RCIFS could fairly  and reasonably rely on them. However, she didnt think the 
consequences of a voluntary surrender would be fair on Miss C in these circumstances. 
She said instead that following the process  of a voluntary termination, with a suitable 
repayment plan for the balance, would be and fair reasonable. This would mean RCIFS 
would regain its asset (the car) and receive 50% of the value of the finance  agreement.  
And Miss C wouldnt then be left with an unaffordable outstanding balance (outstanding 
cost of the finance  agreement less the value of the car achieved at auction).
RCIFS disagreed with our investigators  opinion. It said the agreement had already been 
terminated and the outstanding balance of the agreement was currently unknown as the 
car hadnt yet been sold. It said it hadnt done anything  wrong  in terminating the 
agreement, which had been  acknowledged  by the investigator.
Miss C says that the car has since developed a problem with its engine  and now requires 
a costly repair. She says that RCIFS should take account of the fact the car is faulty  and 
therefore unfit for purpose when setting its value and the amount she would owe under the 
agreement. Miss C says it would  be fair for RCIFS to now reduce  the value of the car to its 
scrap value.
As the parties  were  unable to agree  the complaint was passed to me. I issued a provisional 
decision along the following lines.
It wasnt disputed that Miss C had been unwell and unable to work and that this had resulted 
in her missing payments  for the car under her hire purchase agreement. It was also not 
disputed that Miss C hadnt made contact with RCIFS on the first occasion  and explained  
her situation.  I appreciated that Miss C felt too unwell to do so, but she knew she was 
missing payments and that there  was a default  against the car. I think  it was reasonable to 
expect that Miss C wouldve known that she needed  to take action and if she didnt that 
there would be consequences.
So although  Im sorry Miss C has been  unwell, I couldnt criticise RCIFS for the action it 
took in terminating the agreement.  It was unaware  of her circumstances. However, while  I 
appreciated RCIFS hadnt act unreasonably it had said that had it known  then it wouldve 
looked  to take a completely different path with a view to assist  her in continuing  with the
Ref: DRN53672543finance Agreement. And I thought that now that it was aware  it would be fair to look at what 
would be the fairest outcome in the circumstances for Miss C.
I accepted that it wasnt possible to reinstate the original agreement as it had now been 
terminated. The issue was whether  Miss C should be responsible for the full amount  
outstanding on the credit agreement, or whether that amount should be limited to 50% as 
per the position  if the agreement had been  voluntarily terminated.  I disagreed that to treat 
the agreement  as voluntarily terminated  meant  the agreement had to be revived first. It 
was only necessary to limit Miss Cs liability to having to pay 50% of the agreement  (or 
£11,854.18, as set out on the agreement).
Miss C had raised the current  condition of the car. She said there was a misfiring  problem  
and that since December  2018 it couldnt be driven.  She said she had been advised  it now 
required a new engine  and that the cost for these repairs was around  £9,000.  Miss C said 
that RCIFS should deduct the cost of repairs from any amount she might still owe under 
the agreement.
Id seen that our investigator told Miss C that this was a separate  matter  and if she wished  
to complain about the quality of the car she would need to make a new complaint. Miss C 
said she disagreed  and that the two complaints were interlinked.  She raised the Consumer 
Rights Act 2015  (The  Act).
Im afraid I didnt agree  with Miss C. I thought that any complaint that the car wasnt  of 
satisfactory quality at the point of sale had to be dealt  with separately and it wasnt 
something I could deal with as part of this complaint. It needed to first of all be referred to 
RCIFS for its consideration  and response, before  we could look at it.
Id seen that Miss C said she was told by the garage  that the manufacturer  wouldve been 
contacted in respect of covering the cost of the needed repair,  but this wasnt  possible  due 
to missing information about the cars services. And this might be an important point in 
making a complaint about the condition of the car to RCIFS. Not all faults that arise  with a 
car during the life of a finance agreement will be the responsibility of the credit company; for 
instance if faults arise  due to wear  and tear or poor maintenance.
Miss C said she now wanted to buy the car. However, to do so she would need to settle the 
full outstanding cost of the agreement less any rebate for early repayment.  This figure would 
be for RCIFS to provide. But I didnt think in the circumstances  that it would be reasonable 
or fair for me to require  RCIFS to provide Miss C with a new credit agreement  for this car. 
RCIFS didnt think her financial circumstances  were stable at present and the information I 
had seen suggested RCIFS had reasonable grounds for coming to this conclusion.
If Miss C didnt buy the car she would need to return it as the financial agreement was now 
ended. And I thought  the fairest solution to bringing  this to a conclusion  was to ask RCIFS 
to take the car back at no cost to Miss C and limit her total liability  to 50% of the credit 
agreement (£11,854.18) as set out in the voluntary termination clause. RCIFS should then 
set an appropriate  payment plan for any outstanding  amount still owed.
RCIFS said it was concerned about  the current condition of the car and the effect this may 
have on its re-sale value.  RCIFS said if Miss C agreed to repair  the car before it was 
collected and sold then it would agree to her liability  being limited to 50% of the credit 
agreement. However,  the car must be repaired satisfactorily and within  a reasonable 
timescale.
Ref: DRN53672544RCIFS also says that its fair that I look at Miss Cs current circumstances in deciding 
whether her liability should be limited to 50% of the credit  agreement.  
RCFIS did offer to sell the car to Miss C for £10,400  and said in these circumstances it 
would waive any additional amount  due from her. However, Miss C would be required to 
pay that amount  as a lump sum and no payment plan could be offered to her.
Miss C has said she wasnt aware  of the default and that she had been too sick to deal with 
things. She said she would be happy  to purchase the car for £10,400 but would need  a 
payment plan in place  to do so. She said her situation had changed and she would be able 
to meet  a suitable plan.
Miss C has also said if the car is to be collected  she would like the opportunity  to repair  the 
car before its collected. And in those circumstances shes  agreed to pay the up to 50% of 
the credit  agreement. 
My findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Miss C has been unwell and Im sorry she has had such  a difficult time. Im glad 
that things are now improving. However, looking at the evidence  I cant reasonably say she 
wasnt aware that she was missing  payments  and there would be consequences  for that. 
Id seen that Miss C had contacted RCFIS after the default notice was sent in April 2018  and 
made an offer to pay which  meant  the car wasnt taken away  at that point. But Miss C didnt 
then keep to this agreement and also didnt  contact RCFIS. So I think  its reasonable to find 
that Miss C wouldve been aware  that RCFIS wouldve  taken action about her account when 
she didnt pay as shed  agreed.  Ive also seen that RCFIS made several efforts  to contact 
her by email,  letter and calls before the default  was then registered in August.
RCFIS says that it hasnt seen any evidence of Miss Cs ill health as she didnt make 
contact. It has now queried her health  conditions and their impact  on her ability to work.  
However, in all its dealings over this matter  RCFIS has given the impression it didnt take 
issue with what Miss C said about her health.  It originally said that had it known  Miss Cs 
position it wouldve  treated her account differently and offered her assistance.  I dont  think 
RCFIS can fairly retract that statement now as the position regarding the evidence of Miss 
Cs health hasnt  changed. So I think its fair that account is taken of Miss Cs personal and 
financial position. And as keeping the car is no longer an option for Miss C then limiting what  
she has to pay under the agreement is an appropriate measure to take to help her.
Ive seen that RCFIS did make an offer to sell Miss C the car for a price that she was 
agreeable with but unfortunately she wasnt in a position to take this up as she couldnt raise  
the required lump  sum. But I dont  think RCFIS has acted  unreasonably in not offering her a 
payment plan to purchase the car. This would be a new financial agreement and RCFIS is 
able to offer what terms it feels are appropriate. I dont think  I can reasonably  interfere with 
that business decision as in the circumstances I dont think  it was unfair. RCFIS had to 
consider whether a further financial agreement  was affordable for Miss C. However  this does 
mean that Miss C wont have the car which I think will have a significant impact in particular 
as she used it for work. 
Ref: DRN53672545RCFIS says that normally  when an agreement is voluntarily terminated  the car wouldnt  be 
accepted back  unless it was in a fully working  condition.  RCFIS proposed  that Miss C paid 
for the vehicle to be repaired  after which it can be sold at auction. Miss C has agreed  to this 
and arranged for the repairs to be undertaken. I understand the car is now fixed  and is still at 
the garage awaiting collection.
RCFIS says the car must have been  repaired satisfactorily and if not then it will reserve  the 
right to invoice Miss C for any necessary work  required  to the car. That is a matter for RCFIS 
to decide upon should it arise though I note the agreement is no longer in existence.
As Ive set out Im not dealing with condition of the car because Ive no evidence about  what 
was wrong or the cause of the problem. And although Miss C has said that she didnt think 
the car was of satisfactory  condition she has now agreed to have the car fixed  before its 
collected. However this wouldnt  prevent Miss C from being  able to pursue a complaint about  
the quality of the car if she wished to do so. 
My provisional view was that Miss Cs liability is limited to the 50% figure which  is 
£11,854.18. Ive seen  that Miss C has paid to date £9,136.64 meaning her maximum 
remaining liability will be £2,717.45.
As Miss C isnt in a position  to buy the car then I think  the fairest solution is for RCIFS to now 
collect the car from the garage...  I would expect RCFIS to set an appropriate  payment plan 
for Miss C to then clear this amount., 
My final decision  
For the reasons  set out, to resolve Miss Cs complaint Im asking RCI Financial  Services  
Limited to do the following:
 Collect the car from the garage  at no cost to Miss C
 Limit her liability under  the agreement to £11,854.18 meaning she will not be liable 
to repay  more than a further £2,717.45.
 Set an appropriate repayment  plan for the £2717.45.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 December  2019.
Jocelyn Griffith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5367254