K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains Sainsburys Bank Plc (Sainsburys) have unfairly rejected his Section 75 
claim. He asks for the decision to be reversed  and compensation.
background
Mr C booked his car in for a service with a local garage.  The service was booked in advance 
and Mr C paid with his Sainsburys credit card. 
Mr C was dissatisfied with the service  he received.  On arrival, he said the garage couldnt 
find the paperwork but they did carry out the service  whilst Mr C waited in the customer 
waiting room. Mr C was expecting a wait time of around an hour but instead had to wait 3 
hours and 20 minutes for the service the be completed. Mr C felt this was excessive and did 
not think the garage had carried out the service with reasonable care and skill, within a 
reasonable time and at a reasonable price.
Mr C had paid in advance  for the service. He felt the service wasnt  as he expected  and as 
hed also had to wait for over 3 hours, he offered £50 and asked for the balance to be 
refunded. As he paid on his Sainsburys credit card, he raised a Section 75 claim.
Sainsburys say the Section  75 claim was rejected as they found  no evidence of 
misrepresentation or breach of contract. It said the service had been carried out in full and it 
didnt consider the wait time to be excessive for a service. It also said the retailer had 
supplied and fitted brake pads at a discounted price as they had been  missed off the original 
invoice. But it acknowledged it could have offered Mr C a more timely response to his 
complaint and offered £50 by way of any apology.
Our investigator looked into things for Mr C. She concluded Mr C had received the service 
he had asked for, there didnt seem to be any issues with the quality of the work  and she 
couldnt see any evidence  the supplier had to complete the work  in a certain amount of time.  
So she didnt think Sainsburys had acted unfairly in declining Mr Cs Section  75 claim and 
didnt ask it to do anything further.
Mr C disagreed. He asked for an ombudsman review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im in agreement with 
our investigators view. Ill explain why.
Under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974, Mr C has a like claim against  
Sainsburys as he does  against the supplier  for breach of contract and/or misrepresentation. 
For the purposes of section 75, a breach of contract  is where a supplier  fails to do what the 
contract says it must, either expressly  or impliedly.  For example, there  is a breach of 
contract where goods, which  have been  paid for, are not supplied,  or where the goods are 
not up to standard. A misrepresentation is where the supplier makes an untrue statement of 
fact that causes the consumer to go ahead with the contract.
Ref: DRN51459092The way in which this service approaches section 75 is to look at what  happened and 
assess whether there are grounds for a successful claim  under section 75. In considering a 
complaint about  a financial service  provider (in this case, Sainsburys), Im not determining 
the outcome of a claim that a party might have under  section 75. In deciding  whats a fair 
and reasonable way to resolve  Mr Cs complaint Ive taken section 75 into account. But this 
doesnt mean Im obliged  to reach  the same outcome  as, for example, a court might reach if 
Mr C pursued  a claim for breach of contract.
Mr C booked and paid for a service  at his local garage. He paid in advance. Ive looked at 
the confirmation of the service. It shows Mr C booked the service for 11 August 2018. It 
included the purchase of two tyres,  wheel  balancing and an air conditioning clean.
The confirmation requests Mr C call the Centre to confirm and exact  appointment time.  It 
then goes onto say:  Please note waiting  times  may vary.
From what  Ive seen, the full service was carried out and Mr C hasnt had issue  with the work 
itself. I have noted he felt the tyre pressure  was a little high and required some deflation  but I 
dont find that commensurate with the service not being carried  out with reasonable skill and 
care taking into account the service as a whole.
As the order  confirmation  clearly says wait times may vary I also havent found the supplier 
to have failed  to meet a given timeframe  to complete the service. I appreciate Mr C may feel 
the wait was longer than he anticipated but I dont find just over 3 hours for a service  to be 
unduly excessive.
Im not persuaded there is sufficient evidence of either a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation and so I dont agree Sainsburys have unfairly declined Mr Cs Section 75 
claim and I wont  be asking  them to do anything further.
Ref: DRN51459093my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 November  2019.
Wendy Steele
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5145909