K820x#14The complaint  
Ms R complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) have rejected a claim she made to 
them under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (section  75).
The details of this complaint are well known  to both parties so I wont  repeat  them  again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When considering  a complaint about a financial  services provider,  Im not determining the 
outcome of a claim that a party might have under section  75. I take section 75 into account 
when I think about  whats a fair way to resolve the complaint but I dont have  to reach the 
same view as, for example, a court might reach if Ms R made a claim through  them for 
breach of contract or misrepresentation.
When something goes  wrong  and the payment was made, in part or whole, with a credit 
card, as is the case here,  it might  be possible  to recover the money paid through a section 
75 claim. This section  of the Consumer Credit  Act (1974) says that in certain  circumstances, 
the borrower under a credit  agreement has a like right to claim against  the credit  provider as 
against the supplier  if there's  either a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier.
Im not persuaded that the quality of the photographs represents  a breach of contract 
because I dont  think the photographs can be said to be of unsatisfactory quality. I 
understand that what represents good  quality is subjective here but, in the main,  I 
think the photographs are well focussed,  well lit and suitably  varied;
I think, on balance,  its likely  that Ms R didnt  receive the beauty treatments that were 
advertised in the literature i.e. mini facial etc... 
Ive therefore  considered whether  the remedy the supplier provided could be 
considered reasonable and I think it could. The supplier offered a reshoot in which a 
further 128 images were  provided and the supplier also refunded the £100  deposit 
that had been paid.  Given that Ms R paid £500 in total for the service I think the 
redress provided was reasonable and I dont think Barclays  were therefore  unfair 
when rejecting her section 75 claim;
Im not persuaded the deposit was always refundable  as Ms R suggests. The total 
package shown on the invoice was £900. Ms Rs friend paid £400 and so did Ms R. 
The balance was the deposit  that was paid. 
For these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Ref: DRN51387712My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Barclays  Bank UK PLC.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 October  2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5138771