K821x#15complaint
Mr M complains that Fairstone Financial Management Limited  gave him unsuitable advice to 
buy a fixed-term annuity with his pension funds.
background
Mr M met a Fairstone  adviser in September 2012  to discuss options to help him access tax-
free cash  from his pension funds.  Mr M had three pension funds, each with different 
providers. One of these was Mr Ms Group  Personal  Pension (GPP), which  his employer 
contributed to. Another of Mr Ms pensions provided  a guaranteed minimum pension  when 
he turned  60.
At this time, Fairstones adviser  completed  a fact find, which recorded his circumstances as: 
56 years  old 
married
employed earning £36,000 a year
had three pension plans with a total value of around £71,200
intended to retire at age 65
On the fact find dated 27 September 2012,  the adviser wrote that Mr M wants  to access  his 
PCLS [tax-free cash]. I have advised him this is not wise as the pension is to pay him an 
income in retirement.
On the same  day, Mr M signed a fixed  term annuity transfer information form. This form 
authorised the providers  of Mr Ms three pensions to transfer  money to the fixed-term annuity  
provider. 
In an undated  letter addressed to Mr M, Fairstones adviser wrote:
At our meeting and in earlier  conversations  we discussed only your wish to withdraw 
the maximum tax free sum from your pensions with [your  three pension  providers].
I explained that we would  not recommend this because your pension fund is 
designed to grow to provide you with an income when you retire  from work.
However, you made it clear that you had made your mind up that this is what  you 
wanted to do and asked me to advise you of the most suitable way to achieve this.
Fairstones adviser said the most suitable  way to withdraw the maximum  tax-free sum was to 
purchase a fixed-term annuity. The main benefits  of this option is that it allowed Mr M to 
access his tax-free  cash, it provided  a guaranteed maturity value and Mr M could defer  
making a decision  about buying  an annuity  for five years. The adviser identified the following 
risks:
an annuity, once  purchased, cant  be changed or cashed  in
fixed-term  annuities  may involve higher charges than alternative products
interest and annuity rates may change by the end of the fixed-term annuity,  meaning 
further re-investment may not necessarily provide a higher income. 
Ref: DRN58899012On 25 October 2012, Fairstone obtained  a quote for the fixed-term annuity  and arranged for 
his pensions to be transferred.  Mr M then took a lump sum from his pension funds and the 
fixed-term annuity was set up. 
After the fixed-term annuity  ended on 1 November 2017, Mr M transferred the maturity  value 
to another pension  provider. Mr M complained to Fairstone about  the advice he was given in 
2012. He said:
he had no pressing need  to take tax-free cash;
he did not receive Fairstones suitability letter explaining why it recommended  a 
fixed-term annuity;
Fairstone didnt  properly assess his attitude to risk;
one of his pension plans would have  given him a guaranteed  minimum pension 
income  when he turned 60, which he didnt get because he cashed in the plan 
before he turned  60; and
both he and his employer were still contributing to his GPP.  He lost his employers 
contributions when he cashed  in his pension to buy a fixed-term annuity.
Mr M said he would have  been better off if he had remained invested in his personal 
pensions, which would  have been subject to investment growth. He asked Fairstone to put 
him in the position he would have been if it he had not taken its advice.
Fairstone replied, saying:
 Mr M wanted  to access tax-free  cash to help pay for his daughters wedding.
 It wasnt a requirement that Mr M signed  the suitability letter to show he received it; it 
maintained it sent him the letter, although  it was undated. Regardless, this had no 
bearing on the suitability of the advice given.
 Mr M was aware he would lose his guaranteed  benefits he was entitled  to at 60 by 
taking his benefits early; and
 Mr M could have  re-joined his employers group personal pension scheme, so 
Fairstone wasnt responsible for the loss of his employers contributions.
Fairstone said it advised Mr M against  taking tax-free cash  but he disregarded its advice.  It 
said Mr M put the cart before the horse  by seeking  to influence the advice process by 
ignoring [Fairstones]  initial advice . It went on to say In hindsight  perhaps,  it could be 
argued that [Fairstones  adviser] should have  possibly  refused to advise you as your 
objectives were set against his better  judgement however your desire was apparent to him 
and he wished to assist you achieve your primary objective, notwithstanding  your personal 
and professional friendship.
Mr M referred his complaint to us. One of our adjudicators looked  into the complaint and 
upheld it. He thought Fairstone had not kept proper records of the advice given to Mr M, and 
noted the dispute about whether Fairstones adviser sent Mr M the undated letter  recording 
the reasons for its recommendations. Our adjudicator didnt think Mr M had any urgent need 
for tax-free  cash and the advice to transfer his pensions into a fixed-term annuity was 
unsuitable.
Our adjudicator recommended  Fairstone calculate  whether Mr M had suffered a loss as a 
result of its advice, taking into account the tax-free  cash Mr M had taken.  If there was a loss, 
he recommended  Fairstone pay this to Mr M, allowing for adjustments depending  on Mr M 
taxable income in retirement. Our adjudicator  noted Mr M would  have been  able to re-join  his 
Ref: DRN58899013employers group pension after transferring from his GPP, so he didnt recommend any 
compensation for this aspect of Mr Ms complaint.  In addition, he recommended Fairstone 
pay Mr M £250 to recognise the inconvenience it caused. 
Fairstone disagreed with our adjudicators  recommendation, so this has come to me for a 
decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I have decided  to uphold 
this complaint, and for broadly the same  reasons  as our adjudicator.
The regulator has established rules which apply to firms carrying out regulated business. 
There are principles which  set out a general statement of the fundamental obligations of 
firms and there are more detailed rules  that firms have  to comply with. One of these is COBS  
2.1.1; the clients  best interests rule. This says that a firm must act honestly, fairly and 
professionally in accordance with the best interests of its client. COBS 9.2 requires a firm to 
gather information  about its client to enable  it to give advice suitable  a for the clients  
circumstances and objectives.
There is no dispute that Fairstone gave advice to Mr M. That advice was not to access his 
tax-free cash before he retired.  I agree  that was suitable advice for Mr M. The question is 
whether Fairstone should have processed  the transfer against its own advice.
Fairstone was obliged  to ensure it understood Mr Ms investment objectives before making a 
recommendation. The regulator clarified  that a request or preference by the client for a 
particular solution   for example accessing cash from a pension  is not an objective. You 
must ascertain the clients actual investment objectives so that you can advise on a suitable 
course of action to meet them.  I cant conclude that Fairstone achieved a valid investment 
objective for Mr M purely  because it recommended and arranged  a fixed-term  annuity so that 
he could gain access to his tax-free  cash. Fairstone had an obligation to understand Mr Ms 
investment objectives  and advise on a suitable  course of action to achieve them.  
There is no rule to prevent Fairstones  adviser  from transacting business against its advice if 
a client insists. But I dont  think Mr M could accurately be described as an insistent client.  I 
dont think he was made aware  of the benefits he was giving up and, if he had been, I dont 
think he would have  transferred his pensions  to access  his tax-free cash.  
I cannot be sure, from the evidence available, that Mr M was insistent that he needed  to 
access his tax-free  cash, and that need was so pressing that it was worth  giving up the 
guaranteed pension he would have had at 60. I dont think  giving up such a valuable benefit, 
whilst Mr M was still working  and not intending to retire until he was 65, was a suitable 
recommendation.
If Mr M was indeed  an insistent client, good  practice would have been to ensure  the advice 
was carefully documented with Mr M acknowledging he was going against  the advice 
Fairstone gave him and explaining his reasons why. Ive seen no documentation  to show  
Mr M acknowledged he was aware  he was acting against Fairstones advice.
Mr M disagrees that he insisted on accessing  his tax-free cash.  He says he wasnt  made 
aware that Fairstone  advised him not to access his tax-free cash and didnt receive its 
Ref: DRN58899014suitability letter. Whilst it was not a requirement that Mr M sign the suitability  letter, the 
signature box on the letter suggests it was a standard practice for the adviser  to ask the 
client to sign to confirm  receipt. The letter is undated  and unsigned,  which I think supports 
Mr Ms testimony that he did not receive  the suitability letter. I dont  think theres enough  
evidence for me to safely conclude that Mr M received the suitability letter before Fairstone  
started the process  of transferring his pension plans.
In any event, the explanation given in the letter as to why Mr M shouldnt access his tax-free 
cash was very brief.  I dont think the suitability letter explained in enough detail the likely 
impact of accessing his tax-free cash or the valuable benefits Mr M was giving up. Further,  
I note the fact find says the adviser  recommended Mr M refrain  from accessing his tax-free 
cash, but I have  nothing  to show that Mr M saw the fact find, or any other  warning of the 
consequences of accessing his tax-free cash early.
Taking into account all the evidence available,  I am not satisfied Fairstone has demonstrated 
the advice to buy an annuity  was suitable or that it took all of the necessary steps to make 
Mr M aware  of what he might lose out on in buying  the annuity in 2012. I dont think  Mr M 
would have bought the fixed-term annuity if Fairstone  had explained  clearly  why he should 
not have transferred his pensions in order to access  his tax-free  cash. I agree with our 
adjudicators recommendation about how to put things right. Fairstone should:
calculate what the value of each  of Mr Ms three personal pensions  would have been  
had he remained invested until 1 November 2017. The calculation  should assume 
Mr M took no tax-free cash and made no further contributions  from the date of the 
transfers;
compare this value  to the actual  maturity value of Mr Ms fixed-term  annuity plan on 
1 November 2017, plus the tax-free  cash Mr M had already taken;
if Mr M would have  been better off remaining invested in his three  personal  pensions, 
Fairstone should pay Mr M the difference. Interest at an average rate from the three  
pensions should be added from 2 November 2017 until the date of settlement;
if Fairstone calculate that Mr M would  have been  better off remaining invested  in his 
personal pensions,  the compensation should  be paid into Mr Ms current pension  
plan, taking into account charges and any available tax relief;
compensation should not be paid into Mr Ms plan if it would conflict with any existing  
protection or allowance. If Fairstone cannot pay compensation  directly into Mr Ms 
pension plan, it should pay the compensation to Mr M directly. Fairstone can deduct  
tax at Mr Ms marginal rate, taking into account  his right to tax-free cash, if 
necessary. 
Fairstone should give Mr M a clear explanation of how it has reached  its calculation, 
along with a tax deduction certificate, if he asks for one.
Fairstone should  calculate the compensation payable  within  28 days  of my decision.  Interest  
at 8% simple per annum should  be added to any compensation  due if it is not paid within 
28 days of the calculations being completed, from the date the calculations were completed  
until the date of settlement.
Finally, I agree with our adjudicator that Mr M has been caused trouble and upset by 
Fairstones advice. I think Fairstone should  pay Mr M £250  to recognise fairly the impact  this 
has had on him.
Ref: DRN58899015I have not recommended  Fairstone compensate Mr M for the loss of his employers 
contributions because I have not been provided with sufficient evidence  to say Mr M was 
unable to re-join his employers pension scheme.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, I uphold this complaint. Fairstone Financial  Management 
Limited should put things right by doing  what I have set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 February  2019.
Vicki Blackwood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5889901