K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain  that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS)  mis-sold them a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr and Mrs B took out a mortgage with RBS in 2000. At the same time they were sold a PPI 
policy which  wouldve helped cover their mortgage  repayments for up to 12 months at a time 
if either or both of them  were unable to work. 
Mr and Mrs B say that they were led to believe the PPI was compulsory. They  say they 
werent told enough about the cover. And Mr B  says he wasnt eligible  for the cover.
The adjudicator didnt think the complaint should  be upheld.  Mr and Mrs B disagree, so their 
case has been passed to me to make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website  and Ive taken 
this into account  when deciding this case.  Having done so, Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Bs 
complaint. Ill explain  why. 
Mr and Mrs B say they were led to believe they had to have the PPI to get the mortgage.  
RBS say that the PPI was optional and buying  it wouldnt have  made a difference  to its 
lending decision.  
RBS has provided a copy of the mortgage  application form Mr and Mrs B completed  in 2000. 
Theres no mention of PPI in this application.  If it had been a compulsory product on which 
the lending relied I think  it wouldve been  part of the application form. Mr and Mrs B also 
completed a separate direct debit mandate  for the premiums. If it had been part of the 
mortgage requirements I think it would have been collected as part of the mortgage  
payments. 
When RBS spoke with Mr and Mrs B as part of their complaint investigation Mr and Mrs B 
couldnt provide  any recollections from the time of sale. This is understandable given nearly 
19 years  has passed since then. But it does mean I have to take a balanced view of their 
assertion that they recall being led to believe they had to take the policy.  
On the limited information I do have, I dont think its likely RBS departed from its usual  sales 
practices and incorrectly  told Mr and Mrs B they had to buy the PPI. On balance, I think Mr 
and Mrs B bought  the policy knowing they had a choice  about it.
RBS didnt give Mr and Mrs B a personal  recommendation  to buy the policy,  so it didnt have 
to take reasonable steps to make sure it was right for them.  But it did need  to make sure Mr 
and Mrs B had enough information about the policy to make their minds  up about it. 
Ref: DRN54223112Mr and Mrs B have  said they didnt get enough information. They say Mr B wasnt eligible for 
the policy because  he wasnt  living and working in the UK which was one of the eligibility 
requirements. 
The eligibility criteria for the policy included:
To qualify you must,  on the start datebe in work in the UK and living in the UK.
Start date was defined as:
The date when  your loan account was opened or the date your application for mortgage 
Loanguard is acceptedwhichever is the later.
Mr B has provided evidence that he was working  in Canada for his UK company from April to 
June in 2000, although I dont have the precise  dates. I can see that it was a relatively 
regular occurrence  for Mr B to work on projects abroad for his UK employer for a couple  of 
weeks or months at a time.
The mortgage started on 7 April 2000. I dont  know whether Mr B was overseas  at this point, 
but I dont think  it matters as I dont  think this meant  that Mr B was ineligible for the cover.  I 
think Mr B was living in the UK, as hed bought a house with his partner here and was 
working for a British  employer. His usual place of employment was in the UK and he was 
paid in the UK. I dont think this term wouldve meant that he was ineligible  for the cover 
because of extended business trips out of the UK. So Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Bs 
complaint on this basis. 
Its possible that RBS didnt give Mr and Mrs B all the information they ideally shouldve been 
given, so its possible they didnt understand all of the detail. Mr and Mrs B say they had 
good enough sick pay and redundancy pay not to need the cover.  But  I think  theyd have  
understood enough to know the policy was intended to cover  their mortgage repayments  if 
either of them  wasnt  working. So, it was up to them to decide if their existing means were 
sufficient to not need the policy.
The cost of the policy was comparable to other  similar policies on the market  at the same 
time. It was flexible because it could  be cancelled at any time without penalty. And I havent 
seen anything to suggest it was unaffordable  for Mr and Mrs B.
I dont think more  or better  information  wouldve changed Mr and Mrs Bs decision about 
buying the cover. So I dont think Mr and Mrs B lost out because of anything RBS may 
potentially have done wrong.
my final decision
Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Bs complaint so it follows that The Royal Bank  of Scotland  Plc 
doesnt have to pay any compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  27 April 2019.
Sally Allbeury
ombudsman
Ref: DRN54223113
Ref: DRN5422311