K820x#14complaint
In 1997, Ms G took out a credit card with HSBC  UK Bank plc (HSBC). At the same time, 
HSBC sold her a payment  protection insurance  (PPI) policy. Ms G thinks that HSBC mis-
sold this policy to her and believes it should  refund her all the premiums she paid for it, plus 
interest. 
background
One of our adjudicators has already looked into this case. The adjudicator didnt think that 
HSBC had mis-sold the policy  to Ms G. Ms G disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to 
review her case, so it has come to me to make a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
what to do in Ms Gs case.  Ive looked into everything that Ms G and HSBC have sent us or 
told us and Ive decided not to uphold it. I explain why below.
Ms G has told us that she applied for the credit  card and took the policy  during a meeting at 
one of HSBCs branches and that HSBC didnt tell her PP was optional. Shes said that it led 
her to believe that her application  for credit would be rejected if (she)  did not take out the 
insurance. 
Ms G has explained that she believed PPI was simply a standard  features that came with 
the credit  card  part of the cost of having  the card. In different correspondence she also 
told us that shortly after applying for the credit  card she became unemployed but didnt claim 
on the policy because  she didnt know she had it. I fully accept that Ms G is doing  her best to 
remember what happened  when  HSBC sold her PPI, but these  remarks  slightly  contradict 
each other  about  the way HSBC may have described PPI to her.
There are very few records remaining from when HSBC sold PPI to Ms G. Neither HSBC nor 
Ms G have been able to find a copy of her application form, which isnt surprising after all the 
time that has passed. Ms G has sent us copies of application forms she used for other  types 
of credit with other lenders where  she didnt take PPI, and has argued  that these show that 
when given a choice she declined PPI. However, HSBC has maintained that it explained that 
PPI was optional  and Ms G could  have applied for the credit card without  it, and I dont think  
the other application  forms  apply directly to this case. 
There isnt any really  strong evidence either way, but with the limited information available  to 
me, Im not convinced  that HSBC  denied Ms G the choice to apply for the credit  card with or 
without PPI or told her she wouldnt get the card without  taking  PPI. I think  its more  likely 
that HSBC let Ms G know that PPI was optional and that she chose to take it.
 
Ms G has also told us that HSBC recommended PPI to her and advised  her take it, and I 
accept that it may well have done so. This meant  that it had to check the policy  was right for 
her and tell her about it fairly and clearly so she could decide  if she wanted it. Obviously, I 
wasnt present at the meeting and there  are no written  records of what HSBC said to Ms G 
or what questions it asked her. So I have considered the policys  likely features and Ms Gs 
circumstance in 1997 to see if it was reasonable fro HSBC to recommend PPI to her. 
Ref: DRN56704392From what  Ms G has told us about her financial situation when she applied for the card, if 
she had lost her income from work she would have had relatively few savings or other 
resources to make repayments to her card. She may have had some sick pay if she was off 
work ill and may have  had been  entitled  to some redundancy pay if she lost her job. But the 
policy would have paid out over and above  these entitlements and could have  lasted for 
much longer.  So Ms G seems to have had a potential need for the cover  the policy offered. 
Ms G seems  to have been eligible for the policy and not to have been caught  by its main 
limitations and exclusions.  She also seems to have  been able to afford it. So I think it was 
reasonable for HSBC to recommend PPI to Ms G alongside her new credit card.
Ms G has told us that HSBC didnt  tell her about the policys  exclusions either before or after 
she bought it. I accept that HSBC may not have explained these features of the policy  as 
clearly as it should have  done, but as they dont seem to have  affected  her, I dont think  she 
would have declined  PPI even if HSBC had explained  things  thoroughly. Similarly, as Im 
satisfied that Ms G was eligible for the policy and could afford the premiums  I dont think  
clearer information about the policy would  have stopped her from buying it. So I dont think  
that HSBC mis-sold the policy to Ms G. 
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  set out above, I dont think HSBC UK Bank Plc mis-sold PPI to Ms G. 
I am not going  to tell it to give her any money  back.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Ms G to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 February  2019.
Steve Townsley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5670439