K820x#14complaint
Mr R says Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold him a payment protection  
insurance (PPI)  policy.
background and summary to complaint
Mr R bought the PPI at a bank branch in 2003  when he took out a mortgage. The PPI was 
part of a packaged plan. Mr Rs policy provided  life cover as well as accident, sickness and 
unemployment cover, subject to its exclusions and limitations. 
For a successful disability  or unemployment claim,  the policy offered to pay Mr Rs monthly 
mortgage payment  plus 25% - initially a benefit  of £207 costing around £12.50 a month. The 
life cover would, subject to its terms, pay a lump sum on death to help clear  the mortgage.
Mr R has told us he was employed at the time of sale as an inventory control manager and 
had been there six months. From what hes told us, he was entitled to no more  than statutory  
pay for sickness and, aside from savings of around  £13,000, didnt have any other  means 
with which  to pay his mortgage if he couldnt work.  Mr R has also told he had a health  
condition diagnosed over ten years before the sale. 
Halifax has sent us evidence to show that this mortgage account closed in 2005.  Mr Rs 
representative has made lengthy  and substantial representations on his behalf. I will not 
restate them all here,  but I have  read and considered them  all carefully.  In summary, Mr Rs 
representative says:
Halifax failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on handling 
PPI complaints under DISP App 3, it should be presumed Mr R wouldnt have taken  the 
PPI and the complaint should  be upheld. Mr Rs representatives believe there  to be no 
evidence to rebut that presumption;
The PPI excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress, which are some  of the most 
common reasons people are off work.  This significantly reduced the value of cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a successful 
claim meant  the PPI was of inherently  poor value  as shown by the low claims ratio.  The 
common law duty of utmost  good  faith means Halifax should have told Mr R about the 
poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Halifax  should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mr R and the impact  they 
would have had on his chances of making a claim;
The PPI only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is generally 
someones biggest ever long-term  transaction  cover would stop at the time it would be 
most needed; and
The information Mr R received was misleading. These policies were promoted as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Ref: DRN50240432Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and had a chance to 
give their responses to the adjudicators  opinion.  Mr R disagreed  with the adjudicators  
opinion for several  reasons. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been  
passed to me for a decision. 
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Rs. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Rs complaint.
This sale took place  in 2003 before the sale of general insurance products like this became 
regulated by the FSA in January 2005.  So the FSAs and the FCAs overarching principles 
for businesses and insurance  conduct rules (ICOB and ICOBS) are not applicable to this 
complaint; nor is the FCAs Perimeter Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2005. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at the time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance 
Code for private  customers   the GISC Code. 
This sale was made during a period  of industry  self-regulation by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC).  It published the GISC Code, which  set out minimum standards  of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling  insurance, including  PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
Halifax, selling insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for all 
intermediaries (Including Employees of Insurance Companies)  other  than Registered 
Insurance Brokers   The ABI Code.  
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
Ref: DRN50240433The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct Marketing/ 
Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
While not all intermediaries  who sold PPI at the time were a member of the ABI or GISC, I 
consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Halifax at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take these codes into account 
when deciding, what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Mr Rs 
case.
There was also the Mortgage Code which was a voluntary code followed by subscribing 
lenders and mortgage intermediaries. While predominantly about  mortgage related matters, 
it also included some insurance related commitments. 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Halifax was required to take into account the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were  
guidance when  considering Mr Rs complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If Halifax gave advice,  whether it advised  Mr R with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the PPI was appropriate or suitable  for him, given his needs and 
circumstances. 
-Whether Halifax gave Mr R sufficient, appropriate and timely information  to enable  him to 
make an informed choice  about whether to take the PPI, including drawing  to his 
attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions 
of the PPI and significant limitations  and exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr R, I must  
then go on to consider  whether  and to what extent Mr R suffered loss or damage  and 
what I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr R and 
Halifax, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Rs complaint. Ive set out my reasoning  below. 
did Mr R know  he had a choice?
Halifax had to make it clear the PPI was optional. The PPI started with the mortgage but very 
little documentation  from the sale is available now and Halifax  cant say exactly  when Mr R 
Ref: DRN50240434applied for the PPI. We have a form he signed  as part of his mortgage  application,  around  
two months before the mortgage and policy started. This has a line on it with the instruction 
(delete as applicable) where Mr R could indicate I am or / am not applying for a policy. 
But no selection was made on that form to take or not take PPI.
We dont have any of the other paperwork for the sale, but Mr R and Halifax  agree the sale 
took place in a branch. From what we know of the branch paperwork used by Halifax at the 
time to sell policies like this, I think it was normally made clear  the PPI was optional. I note 
that, although available as part of the packaged  product, critical illness  cover  wasnt included  
on Mr Rs policy.  From what I know of these  policies,  each of the unemployment,  disability, 
life and critical illness elements could be requested or turned down separately.
Mr R says he had no interest  in PPI and it was just added as part of his package with the 
mortgage. I give his recollections some  weight. But they are from well over a decade after 
the sale. With that and all Ive said above in mind, on balance  what  Mr R has said is not 
enough to make me think he wasnt made  aware  the PPI was optional  - or that it was added 
to his mortgage package without his agreement.  Taking everything into account, I think its 
more likely Mr R knew the PPI was optional and agreed to take it without undue pressure  
but I can understand why he might not remember this now.
did Halifax provide advice?
Halifax says it gave  advice during  this sale. Mr R says it didnt. But if Halifax did give advice, 
Halifax had to do more.  With this in mind,  I think its fair to proceed on the basis that Halifax 
gave advice. This means it had to advise Mr R with reasonable care and skill, in particular 
whether the PPI was appropriate  or suitable given his needs and circumstances.
the advice
I dont know what steps Halifax took to establish  whether the PPI was a suitable  
recommendation for Mr R. There is no record of what the adviser discussed in relation to the 
PPI. This is unsurprising in respect of a sale during a meeting. The adviser had some limited  
information about Mr Rs financial circumstances, but I dont think it did enough to ensure the 
PPI was suitable and establish Mr R had a need  for the cover. For example, there is nothing 
to suggest Halifax  asked Mr R about his work sick pay or redundancy entitlement. 
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded Halifax did all it should have done 
to determine whether  the PPI was suitable  for Mr R given his circumstances.  So Im not 
persuaded Halifax advised with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded Halifax did all it should have done to make sure the PPI was 
suitable for Mr R, I do think its more likely than not that the PPI was ultimately suitable for 
him. In reaching that conclusion Ive taken  into consideration:
-Mr R had a need for the PPI. He wasnt entitled  to redundancy pay and only to statutory 
sick pay, so its likely hed suffer a significant  fall in income if he couldnt  work. The PPI 
benefit wouldve  helped  him manage the consequences. He had savings hed chosen  to 
keep and not use to reduce the mortgage  at the start. By helping with mortgage related 
costs and so protecting his home, the PPI benefit  wouldve  helped Mr R keep  his savings 
intact or free to meet  other liabilities at what couldve been a difficult  time if he were 
unemployed or too sick to work.
Ref: DRN50240435-Mr R met the eligibility criteria  for the PPI and although he says he was financially 
stretched at the time,  Ive seen  nothing else to suggest the monthly cost of the PPI 
wasnt affordable.
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the PPI unsuitable  for Mr R. There  was 
nothing about  his employment  or occupation  which wouldve made it difficult for him to 
claim. Regarding  pre-existing medical  conditions, he has told us of a condition he had, 
but the PPI didnt  exclude existing conditions if, as was the case here, the application for 
cover was made at the same time or within three  months  of the mortgage application.
-The PPI would only pay benefits for a maximum of 24 months for each claim and for 
disability would only pay if Mr R were unable  to do his or any similar job, and also unable 
to do any work  his experience, education  or training reasonably qualified  him to do. But it 
still provided valuable  cover in Mr Rs circumstances given his minimal work  benefits, the 
loss of income he could suffer as a result if he were  unable  to work, the fact the PPI 
protected the mortgage payments on his home and the potential consequences if Mr R 
were to have become  unable to make repayments on loans  secured  against his house.
the information
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Halifax gave Mr R sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the PPI to enable him to understand what Halifax  
was recommending to him and make an informed  decision about whether  to follow  that 
advice and take the PPI.
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr R was given a broad description of what the PPI 
was intended  to cover (that is that the PPI would protect his payments if Mr R were unable  to 
work through  accident, sickness or unemployment) and of the approximate  costs. I have 
reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely Mr R would have taken the PPI without 
any sense of what the PPI was for and of how much the premium might be. But the evidence  
from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether Halifax gave sufficient information about  the 
actual monthly benefit, the actual cost or about  the exclusions or limitations before Mr R 
agreed to take the PPI.
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the PPI was a suitable recommendation for Mr R, Im not persuaded Halifax did 
enough to present information about the PPI it was recommending in a way that was fair and 
reasonable to Mr R. Im not persuaded Halifax gave Mr R all the information  he needed 
about the PPI to make an informed decision about whether to follow the recommendation 
and take it.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr Rs representative has raised a number 
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr Rs. Ive considered  
these carefully and summarised them  as:
Ref: DRN50240436-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have explained 
the low claims  ratio  what Mr Rs representative  considers  to be poor value  and the 
fact that much of the premium went to the business  rather  than the insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just told 
Mr R about the limitations and exclusions,  it should have gone further and explained  the 
significance of them to him. 
Im not persuaded by Mr Rs representatives  views on this. The duty of utmost good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find this extended to the insurer having to disclose the claims 
ratio information or explaining the significance of the limitations and exclusions  in the way 
Mr R has suggested. And, taking into account  the law, industry codes and standards  of good 
industry practice applicable  to this complaint, I dont think its fair and reasonable to conclude 
that Halifax ought to have  done either. 
what effect did Halifaxs  shortcomings  have  on Mr R? To what extent  did Mr R suffer  
loss or damage as a result?
Ive found Halifax  didnt do all it should have done when it sold this PPI to Mr R. So I have 
gone on to consider whether it would  be fair and reasonable to conclude  Mr R suffered loss 
and damage as a result.  To answer  this, I must  decide whether or not Mr R would have still 
taken the PPI, had Halifax  done  things properly. 
While Im not persuaded Halifax took the steps  it should have done to establish whether  the 
PPI it recommended was suitable for Mr R, I have found that the PPI was ultimately  suitable  
for him.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr R has suffered loss or 
damage in this case primarily depends  on whether, if Halifax  had explained things properly, 
Mr R would have acted  differently or whether he would have taken the PPI in any event.
Mr R says he wouldnt have taken it and believes  I should  presume  this to be the case  given 
the significant failings identified above.  Ive considered the representations of both sides and 
the evidence relating  to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take insurance  requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take the PPI, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in return  
and the potential consequences  they will suffer if they do not have insurance,  should  the 
risks come to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests Mr R had some interest in taking payment protection 
insurance. By this I mean when Halifax offered the PPI or advised him there  was a suitable 
insurance he could  buy that would protect  his mortgage payments if he were unable to work 
because of accident, sickness or unemployment,  he concluded he wanted  that insurance.  
But he made that decision based on incomplete  information, meaning what  he thought he 
was getting is not exactly  what he got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr Rs circumstances at the time 
of the sale that the PPI was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him.
Ref: DRN50240437Although I consider it more likely than not Mr R knew he would have to pay something for 
the PPI, it doesnt  appear Halifax told him the exact  premium at the point he applied  for the 
PPI. Having said that, I dont think it likely Mr R wouldve taken the PPI without some idea of 
the approximate  cost. If when Mr R started  paying it the policy  cost had been  significantly at 
odds with his expectations at the point of sale, its also possible he mightve raised this with 
Halifax or reconsidered his decision. Instead  he paid for it while this mortgage account ran.
Overall, Im not persuaded Mr R would have found  the cost unacceptable if he had been  
given the exact figure during the meeting in which he agreed  to the PPI.
In addition, Im not persuaded  Halifax made clear exactly  what Mr R would  get back in return 
in the event he made a successful claim. But I think its unlikely Mr Rs expectations about 
what the PPI would pay in the event of a claim (an amount sufficient to meet his mortgage  
payment) was significantly  different to what  the PPI actually did  if anything, the PPI would 
actually pay more in the event of a claim than Mr R is likely to have expected, as the benefit 
was more than (125% of) the mortgage  payment.  
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr R thought he had bought and 
what he actually bought were the following:
The PPI contained  limitations on claims relating to back and mental  health  conditions, 
placing more onerous evidential requirements  to support a claim on those  grounds;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim, Mr R be unable  to do his 
own or any similar job and be unable to do any paid work  his experience, education or 
training reasonably qualified him to do; and
The PPI protected  payments for up to 24 months, rather  than the remaining term of the 
mortgage. 
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations or exclusions above might  well have caused 
Mr R pause for thought   and may well have  caused  him to conclude the PPI wasnt  as good  
as he thought and he might  have decided not to proceed. The limitations  on the cover,  when 
coupled with the other shortcomings in this sale,  might have dissuaded some consumers in 
slightly different circumstances from Mr R from taking the PPI.
But the evidence  about Mr Rs circumstances at the time of sale shows  the PPI wasnt 
fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. Mr R was eligible for its benefits  and it provided  
cover that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proven valuable  to him should  the 
insured risks have  become a reality. I also havent  seen any evidence to suggest Mr R 
wouldve been caught by any of the significant exclusions  he was employed, and although 
he had an existing health issue a claim arising  from this would not have been excluded. So, I 
think he still had some good reasons to take the PPI.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were  more onerous than Mr R might 
reasonably have expected. But its unlikely he would have expected to be able to make a 
disability claim without  having to provide some evidence to support that claim.  And while this 
limitation might have dissuaded  some consumers in slightly different circumstances to Mr R 
from taking the PPI, Mr R, in his circumstances,  still had some good  reasons to take it.
If Mr R had known he could only claim for disability if he were not only unable  to do his own 
or any similar job but also unable to do any paid work his experience,  education or training 
Ref: DRN50240438reasonably qualified him to do, it might  have played into his thinking about what  to do.  And I 
accept it may have given  him pause  for thought  although given his circumstances  and the 
significant loss of income hed suffer if he wasnt working, on balance  I think  he would still 
have been interested in taking the cover.
Halifax may not have  told Mr R that any claim he made would be limited  to a 24 month 
period. This may have  differed from what he expected and might have hoped  for. But he 
wasnt entitled redundancy pay or to sick pay beyond statutory pay. In those circumstances, 
I consider it likely he wouldve still thought PPI that covered up to 24 monthly mortgage 
payments would be of benefit to him and help him manage the consequences if he couldnt  
work in the circumstances covered  by the PPI. The PPI allowed for multiple claims to be 
made and it could help reduce Mr Rs outgoings at a difficult  and uncertain time, helping  to 
ensure his home was not placed at risk.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr R would still have taken the PPI. The PPI was suitable  for him, was sufficiently 
close to what its likely  he thought he was getting and provided benefits that would help him 
manage the consequences  if he were  made  redundant, or unable to work through  accident  
or sickness. In the circumstances  I consider  it more  likely than not Mr R would  have taken 
the PPI in any event  notwithstanding the limitations  on cover.
Mr Rs representatives say the rules  about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken PPI, unless there is evidence to outweigh  the presumption. 
They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr R would  not have bought the PPI he bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr Rs 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr R 
found himself in as a result of the sale was the same  position he would have been in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr R believes  the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including his own comments that he would not have taken 
the PPI. I am not persuaded by these  arguments.  
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr R in the position he would have been in if he had not 
bought the PPI. 
Ref: DRN50240439That is because,  while I accept it is possible he would not have taken the PPI, I am satisfied 
that, of the two possibilities,  its more likely  than not Mr R would still have taken the PPI had 
he been given  clear, fair and not misleading information about  the PPI he was buying. So Im 
not persuaded it would  be fair and reasonable, in those circumstances, to conclude Halifax  
should pay Mr R compensation, as that would put him in a better position than he would 
have been in if everything had happened as it should have  done.  
Im also aware that Mr R thinks Halifax misrepresented the terms of the PPI in how it 
described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
Halifaxs statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why Halifax  
failed to act fairly and reasonably was not because of what  it did or didnt say in the 
information it provided  but because the overall  information Halifax gave Mr R, in the way it 
did, was insufficient  to meet the standards I consider  it fair and reasonable to expect it to 
have met in 2003 when providing information about  an insurance policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mr Rs representative  says a court might take if it were 
to find Halifax negligently misrepresented the contract to Mr R and about the remedy  a court 
might award if it were  to find that Halifax had been  in breach of its duty of utmost good faith. 
But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what  is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out, I dont think  it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mr R in a better position  than if everything had happened  as it should 
have done. 
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 November 2020.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5024043