K821x#15complaint
Mr S complains PSA Finance UK Limited (PSA)  have unfairly charged him for an end of lease 
insurance payment,  which he feels was optional and damages that are fair wear and tear.
background
Mr S took out a hire purchase agreement to acquire a brand  new vehicle in February 2015. 
The total cost of the vehicle was £16,916.71 to be repaid with an initial payment of £300.41, 
followed by 36 monthly payments  of £256.58 and a final payment of £7,636.00.
Mr S requested to hand back his vehicle at the end of the agreement but then encountered a 
number of different  issues. These included being charged the final payment in error and a 
number of difficulties  in attempting to return the vehicle to the appointed collection agent. 
The vehicle was eventually  collected  in July 2018.  Mr S was then sent chase letters for 
outstanding amounts, even though he disputed some of the charges. PSA then passed his 
account to a debt collection agency.
Mr S complained to PSA. It acknowledged  it had incorrectly charged a final payment in a 
separate complaint, but it didnt uphold Mr Ss complaint  about  the financial  shortfall  
insurance or the damage charges.
An adjudicator looked into things for Mr S. He looked at the insurance payment due at the end 
of the agreement and the charge  for damages. He concluded that the insurance  payment was 
not optional unlike the final payment for the vehicle.  He said this was because the insurance 
payment was effectively  a loan given at the beginning of the agreement and the final payment 
was the last part of the insurance due and not an optional part of the agreement. 
On considering the damage charges, he found insufficient evidence for some of the charges 
and looked at evidence provided by Mr S to show he had returned the service book and the key.  
The charges  PSA raised are for;
Missing service history  (400.00 ) 
Front Alloy  Wheel Left (£65.00 )
Front Door Mirror  Housing Left (£40.00 )
Front Alloy  Wheel Right (£65.00 ) 
Remote Key (£100.00 )
Full Valet (£50.00 )
Front Door Mirror  housing Right (£40.00 )
He concluded  Mr S should pay the damage  to both alloy wheels and the valet  charge but felt 
the other damages  fell within fair wear and tear and PSA should waive them.  He agreed 
PSA had acted unfairly and caused Mr S trouble and upset and asked PSA to pay £100 in 
recognition of this.  
PSA disagreed. It said although the key and service history had been returned  it should  have 
been returned at the point of collection and as such is chargeable. It also maintains the damage 
charges are payable but offered a 25% reduction reducing the charges from £760 to £540.
Mr S didnt agree with PSAs  offer either  and so both parties requested  an ombudsman review.
Ref: DRN59136222my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive considered all the information from 
both parties afresh.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think  I need  to comment on it in order  to reach 
what I think is the right outcome. 
Firstly, Ive considered Mr Ss claim that he understood the financial shortfall insurance 
payment due at the end of the agreement to be optional. He says the wording in the 
contract is similar to the optional final payment  wording,  which means  it suggests the 
final payment for the financial shortfall  insurance is optional.
Ive looked  carefully  at the wording  of the hire purchase  agreement  and I agree  with the 
adjudicators  view that the layout  of the total costs  for the insurance  and the total costs  of 
the vehicle  finance  are of a similar  fashion.  But, there  is a difference  in the terms  of the 
agreement.  There  is an option  to retain  or return  the vehicle  at the end of the term.  If 
returned  the final payment  is waived.  The financial  shortfall  insurance  is a different  
product  and is, in essence,  a loan provided  to cover  the premium,  which  becomes  due at 
the beginning  of the agreement.  As such,  Im satisfied  the final payment  made  at the end 
of the agreement  is due and payable.
Secondly,  Ive looked  at the damage  charges  raised  by PSA.  They  are:
Missing service history  (400.00 ) 
Front Alloy  Wheel Left (£65.00 )
Front Door Mirror  Housing Left (£40.00 )
Front Alloy  Wheel Right (£65.00 ) 
Remote Key (£100.00 )
Full Valet (£50.00 )
Front Door Mirror  housing Right (£40.00 )
The total damage  charges  amount  to £760.00.
When looking into the complaint regarding  charges Ive considered the British Vehicle 
Rental and Leasing Association  (BVRLA) fair wear  and tear guide. This is an industry wide 
guideline of what is considered fair wear and tear over the term of a finance agreement. 
Ive looked at the inspection report provided by the collection agent and the photographic 
evidence to reach my decision.
Both front door mirror housings have been scuffed. The BVRLA  fair wear and tear 
guide  says the following about abrasions;
"Scratches and abrasions up to 25mm are acceptable,  relative to the vehicles age 
and mileage,  and provided the primer or bare metal is not showing."
Ref: DRN59136223I dont  agree  the photographic  evidence  indicates  the marks,  which  appear  to be 
surface  markings,  are outside  of fair wear  and tear and as such  I dont  think  these  
are chargeable.
Ive looked carefully  at the images of the alloy wheels and both show damage.  The BVRLA 
fair wear and tear guide  says;
"Scuffs totalling  up to 50mm on the total circumference of the wheel trim and on alloy  
wheels are acceptable.  Any damage to the wheel  spokes and the hub of the alloy is 
not acceptable."
The image  of the left front wheel shows well over 50mm of damage to the alloy. 
The image  of the right front wheel  shows damage  to over 50mm  of damage to the 
alloy  wheel.  
Im satisfied both charges  are due and payable.
The image regarding  the dirty condition of the vehicle isnt very clear but as Mr S hasnt 
raised this as a particular  issue either  at collection or after Im persuaded this is chargeable.
With regard to the service  book  and key. I dont find it fair and reasonable that PSA 
should be able to charge  Mr S £500 for the failure to provide them at the point of 
collection after acknowledging they have been returned as so Im going to direct  them  
to remove both charges.
I can see Mr S has found this a frustrating  experience and Im persuaded PSA could 
have handled  things better. It has caused trouble  and upset and Im persuaded £100 is 
a fair and reasonable award in recognition of this. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  I uphold  this complaint in part and tell PSA Finance UK 
Limited to:
reduce the invoice  they have raised for refurbishment of the car. The final bill should 
be £180.00 which is for damage to both alloy wheels and the valet.
It should also pay Mr S £100.00 for the trouble and upset this matter has caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 April 2020.
Wendy Steele
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5913622