K820x#14complaint
Mrs and Mr T complain  about Covea Insurance plcs decision to reduce the amount paid on 
their car insurance claim.
background
Mrs T has a car insurance policy  provided  by Covea. Mr T is a named driver on the policy. 
The policy has been renewed every year since  2016.
In early 2019, Mrs and Mr T made a claim after their car was damaged in an incident. After it 
completed its checks, Covea agreed to cover the claim  but made a significant  deduction  
from the amount  it said it would pay. It said Mrs and Mr T hadnt  declared a previous claim.  
And if they had done, their premiums  would have been higher.
Mrs and Mr T disputed  this. They  said the previous claim  which  hadnt been  declared was 
after an incident which wasnt  their fault.  And that theyd been told the claim would be paid in 
full if they proved this. They complained to Covea. After reviewing the complaint Covea 
agreed to settle  the claim in full in accordance  with its terms and conditions. And it said itd 
pay £200 compensation.
Mrs and Mr T werent happy with this outcome. They  brought their complaint to this service. 
Our investigator thought Covea should pay an additional £600 compensation to recognise 
that Mrs and Mr T had been without  a car for a long time.
Covea disagreed with the investigators view.  It said the £200  compensation it had already 
agreed to pay was suitable in the circumstances. It asked  for an ombudsmans decision.
my provisional decision
In my provisional decision,  I said:
As Mrs and Mr T are consumers I need  to take into account The Consumer Insurance  
(Disclosure and Representation)  Act 2012 (CIDRA). This puts an obligation on consumers  to 
take reasonable care not to misrepresent when they enter into a consumer insurance  
contract. This is defined as a contract mainly for purposes unrelated  to their business.  The 
act also says if the consumer fails to meet this obligation the insurer has a remedy against 
the consumer  if it can show  that without the misrepresentation it would not have entered  into 
the contract  at all, or would  have done  so only on different terms. This is what the Act 
describes as a Qualifying  Misrepresentation. 
Covea relied on CIDRA  when it initially  reduced its settlement to Mrs and Mr T. It said an 
incident in 2017 hadnt been disclosed,  and if it had been the premium  wouldve been 
higher. It said the premium wouldve been around 40% more than Mrs and Mr T had paid, so 
deducted a proportionate  amount from the settlement figure. The undisclosed claim was for 
an incident involving  Mr T driving a different vehicle, insured  with a different company.
While Mrs Ts policy was renewed  in 2017  and 2018,  these  are two separate contracts.  Both 
renewals took effect after Mr Ts incident  in 2017. Mrs T had told Coveas agent she wanted 
to renew the policy in 2017 before the incident. But she was sent policy documents  which 
gave a start date after the incident, and asked her to contact Coveas agent if anything  was 
incorrect.
Ref: DRN51480442Im satisfied the questions  asked  on both the 2017 and 2018 renewals were clear  enough as 
to mean  Mrs T should have told Coveas agent  about the incident  involving Mr T. Both 
documents ask for details of any previous claims, accidents or incidents  anyone named on 
the policy has been involved in within the previous  five years. Theres  no doubt this question  
applied to Mr T. So Im satisfied Mrs T should have disclosed this to Coveas agent before 
renewing either policy. When Mrs T called Coveas  agent to renew the policy after receiving 
the documents in 2018, she was asked whether her circumstances had changed from what 
was on the documents. She said no. While she answered this question  correctly, as her 
circumstances hadnt changed, Im satisfied that the information contained in the renewal 
documentation meant she should have  disclosed  Mr Ts incident and claim.   
So Im satisfied Mrs T should have disclosed this incident.  Im satisfied this means  she made 
qualifying misrepresentations to Covea  in both 2017 and 2018. Covea accepts the 
misrepresentation was made carelessly. Where  a qualifying misrepresentation is made 
carelessly, an insurer can act as they would have if it hadnt been made.
What that meant in this situation was that Covea looked at what  it would have charged for 
the policies if it had been told about  the incident  involving Mr T. Covea can make  a 
proportionate settlement  based on what it would have charged  Mrs T if the information had 
been disclosed. I can see this is what it did here when  it first offered to settle  the claim. Mrs 
and Mr T also say they were told Covea  would pay the claim in full if they could show  the 
undisclosed claim involving Mr T was a non-fault claim. But Ive listened to a phone call 
between Covea and Mr T about the settlement of the claim. He was told that if he could 
provide evidence of the 2017 claim being assessed  as a non-fault  claim, Covea would look 
at what difference  this would have made. There was no suggestion  that the claim would be 
settled in full if this was provided. Mr T sent evidence to this effect and Covea  did offer a 
slightly increased settlement. 
I know Mrs and Mr T think Covea should have known about Mr Ts previous incident as the 
third party who was at fault for that incident was insured by Covea. But I dont think  this is 
the case. The obligation is on Mrs and Mr T to declare relevant information they know about.  
They didnt have  to tell Covea about something  it should reasonably  be expected  to know.  
So for example,  if Mrs T had told Covea to see its records for details of a previous claim she 
or Mr T had made, she wouldnt have  to provide all the details of that claim. That isnt the 
case here. And I dont  think  its reasonable to expect Covea  to check its systems for possible 
claims made  by its customers on different policies and relating to different vehicles.
Covea changed  their position  after Mrs and Mr T complained.  Its now offered to settle the 
claim in full, less the policy excess. And its offered to pay compensation. But I dont think  it 
was wrong to initially reduce the settlement on a proportionate basis. Im satisfied it had the 
grounds to do this. So I dont think it would be fair for me to say it should now pay additional 
compensation in these  circumstances.
the response to my provisional  decision
Both Mrs and Mr T and Covea responded to my provisional decision. Covea said it agreed  
with what Id said and had nothing further  to add. Mrs and Mr T said they agreed with what  
had been said but wanted to confirm the amount Covea should pay in settlement of their 
claim.
Ref: DRN51480443my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As nothing  new has been  put to me to change the evidence or position  of either Mrs and 
Mr T or Covea, Im satisfied theres no reason for me to alter my findings.  As Ive previously 
outlined, Im persuaded Covea was entitled  to reduce the settlement offered to Mrs and Mr T 
as a qualifying  misrepresentation had been  made when the policy  was renewed. 
Mrs and Mr T have  queried, however, how much Covea should pay in settlement of the 
claim. Ive said it would have been entitled  to make  a reduced  settlement. But it has offered 
to settle the claim  in full in accordance with the policy terms and conditions. This amount has 
been calculated  as £6700. It also offered £200  compensation..  Mrs and Mr T should  contact 
Covea directly if they wish to accept this offer.
my final decision
Its my final decision not to uphold the complaint. I dont  require  Covea Insurance  plc to do 
any more to settle the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  17 February  2020
Ben Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5148044