K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs E complain  about the outcome of a recent review on their whole of life policy 
sold by Scottish Widows  Limited (the insurer). 
Theyre unhappy about potential decrease in the sum assured.  
background
In 1992, Mr and Mrs E were advised  to take out a joint life, second death unit-linked 
reviewable whole of life policy by a third party business. There  is a complaint against  that 
business which I am also considering as part of a separate complaint.  
Mr and Mrs Es objective was to help pay towards  any Inheritance Tax (IHT) liability  that 
might arise  on their death so theyve maintained the policy for the last 26/27 years. 
In December 2018, the insurer wrote  to Mr and Mrs E to say that it had made a mistake  in 
the administration of their policy.  They were given  the option to either  maintain the premium 
and reduce cover by 50%,  or pay a higher premium (increased by 100%) to maintain the 
sum assured. 
Mr and Mrs E were  unhappy and complained to the insurer.  In a Final  Response Letter, 
dated December  2018, it said:
Historically  it hadnt completed the contractual reviews which resulted in it writing  to 
Mr and Mrs E demanding higher  payment. 
All the reviews for this policy were  affected by a systematic error which meant that 
the policy was reviewed on the wrong  basis.
The policy was set up on a standard  basis policy, which means the plan was meant  
to be sustainable  for life, provided  the assumed  investment  return  was achieved.  
The policy was mistakenly reviewed as if it was a maximum cover policy  which is 
assumed to be suitable only for the next few reviews with inevitable  premium 
increases or reduction in cover.
This meant  the policy  was reviewed on the basis of whether it was suitable for the 
next few policy reviews rather than the rest of the policyholders  life. So the policy  
passed its reviews when it shouldnt have. Consequently the policy  went  off track and 
£42.45 a month was insufficient  to meet  the cost of life cover. 
So, moving forward it has done  the following:
oCarried out a historical review  of the policy, allowing  for actual  investment  
returns.
oAdded £2,627 worth  of units to the policy to uplift the fund value.
oCalculated a new higher premium of £99.82 that Mr and Mrs E can pay if they 
wish to maintain the sum assured. Its a lower amount  than what they 
wouldve paid if the policy  had been  reviewed  correctly.   Alternatively they can 
chose to reduce  the sum assured  from £100,000 to £45,000 and maintain  the 
premium.
oIt offered  them £150 compensation for trouble and upset caused.   
The current value is £19,721,  still not guaranteed and based on the last available  bid 
price. 
One of our investigators  considered the complaint but didnt think  it should be upheld. In 
summary, he said:
Ref: DRN55666862Its not our role to punish a business  where  it has done something wrong. Thats the 
role of the industry regulator  the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA).  
Where a business has made a mistake its our role to try and put the consumer(s) 
back in the position  they wouldve  been in but for the error. 
We sometimes also award compensation for trouble and upset caused but awards  
are generally modest. In this case the £150  offered is fair and reasonable. 
The insurer has taken steps to right the wrong  and place Mr and Mrs E in the position 
they wouldve  been in but for the error.  So in this instance  its put in over £2,600 worth 
of units to bring the fund value in line with what  it shouldve  been. 
As no agreement has been reached the matter  has been passed to me for review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusions for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint.  
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what  Mr and Mr E say, I think the 
insurer has dealt with the complaint fairly  and reasonably. 
Im mindful Mr and Mrs E maintain that they werent told about the reviewable nature of the 
policy. The issue is being dealt  with by me as a separate complaint against the seller of the 
policy.  
The insurer  accepts that it made  an error by failing to conduct the correct policy reviews. So 
to put Mr and Mrs E in the position they wouldve been in (but for the error), or as close  to 
the position as possible, it paid in over £2,600  worth  of units to bolster the fund value   as if 
the policy had been reviewed correctly  and the sum assured maintained.  Its likely that if the 
policy had been  reviewed correctly these are sums  that Mr and Mrs E wouldve paid over the 
years.  
It has also recalculated the premiums,  although  it is higher than what Mr and Mrs E were  
paying, its lower than what they wouldve  paid had the policy been reviewed correctly. 
Whether or not they appreciate this, it seems  theyve  benefitted  from the new calculations.
I note the insurer  has also said that when Mr and Mrs E reach  75 years of age, the premium 
and the level of cover will not change as a result of any future  reviews.
        
As I mentioned above, the insurer has accepted responsibility for failing to review the policy 
correctly from the outset of this complaint.  I note it wrote to Mr and Mrs E soon after it found 
out, without delay. 
It accepts that the news of having  to pay higher premiums or reduce their level of cover  
would have come  as shock and surprise to them. So by way of an apology  and 
compensation for the trouble and upset  caused it offered £150, which I think  is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. 
Ref: DRN55666863Im mindful of the points Mr and Mrs E make, but I dont think it would be fair or reasonable 
to direct the insurer to maintain the original level of cover,  at the premium that they were  
paying from the outset.  
Mr and Mrs E should note that this policy is a reviewable whole of life policy and was always  
subject to reviews, so the current level of cover isnt guaranteed, and it will remain subject to 
reviews until they reach the age of 75. 
Moving forward, its a matter for them whether  or not they maintain  their level of cover by 
paying a higher premium or reduce the level of cover and keep paying the same premium  
until the next review.   
Despite how they feel about their policy,  a reviewable whole of life policy does  offer flexibility  
in the sense that Mr and Mrs E are able to reduce the sum assured to maintain an affordable  
level of premium. Or indeed choose  to pay a higher premium to maintain the sum assured. 
I appreciate Mr and Mrs Es concerns with the situation and recognise they will be 
disappointed Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator. But having  given the 
matter careful consideration, I dont feel able to conclude that this complaint should  be 
upheld. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mr E to 
accept or reject my decision  before  22 November  2019.
Dara Islam
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5566686