K820x#14complaint
Mrs C complains that Vanquis Bank Limited (Vanquis) wont compensate her for what  she 
says were fraudulent  withdrawals of money made  using her credit card. She says that as 
she hadnt received  a statement for a couple of months she wasnt  aware of the fraud until 
her card was later declined.  
background
Mrs C holds a credit card with Vanquis. On 3 February 2018 she contacted  Vanquis as she 
said her card had been declined  and shed been made aware  that shed gone over her credit 
limit on the card. She wasnt sure how that could have happened  but hadnt  received a 
statement for two months. She said she wanted  a new card sent to her as she was 
concerned someone  else was using her card.
The card was stopped and a new one ordered and Mrs C spoke with Vanquiss security 
department to raise  an issue  about  disputed transactions to the value  of £790. The 
transactions in dispute were all cash machine withdrawals and had all been made over a 
period of about a week shortly before Mrs C contacted Vanquis.   
Mrs C had confirmed she still had the card in her possession and said she hadnt disclosed 
her PIN to anybody or written it down  anywhere. There were  payments that Mrs C didnt 
dispute  at retailers  during the time when the cash machine withdrawals were made. 
Vanquis noted that the transactions had been  made  using the chip in the card and that the 
PIN used  was inserted correctly each time, so it thought the card used was the genuine one 
(not a copy or clone). Vanquis also said that a number  of purchase transactions  which Mrs 
C hadnt disputed   were made within a few minutes of the disputed  cash  withdrawals, so it 
couldnt agree that somebody  else used  the card for the withdrawals and returned  it to Mrs C 
straight away.  
Mrs C remained  unhappy so she brought her complaint to us. She also said that because  of 
the interest that had accrued on the card she was having difficulties repaying it. She said 
shed contacted Vanquis and asked it accept a lower monthly repayment and to freeze the 
interest on the account. Our investigator  thought however that it was likely  that Mrs C made 
the withdrawals herself.  
Mrs C disagreed. She said she hadnt withdrawn the money and if Vanquis  had alerted her 
to what was happening she could have confirmed that. She said it was as though there 
were two cards. As no resolution could  be found  the case has been passed  to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, however, Ive reached 
the same  overall  conclusions as the investigator  did, and for similar reasons. 
Mrs C has confirmed that the card has been  in her possession at all times, that there wasnt  
an additional  card holder  and that she hadnt made  anyone else aware  of her PIN or written 
it down. So I dont think were looking at theft or loss of the card here. And Mrs C has 
confirmed she hadnt previously requested a new PIN number to be sent to her  until after 
Ref: DRN54475852the transactions had been discovered.  Vanquiss records show that the genuine chip from 
the card was recorded as being  used  in the transactions and that the PIN was entered 
correctly  first time  on each occasion. 
Whilst its relatively simple to produce  a copy of the magnetic stripe on a card,  copying  the 
chip embedded in the card is a different matter  entirely. Im satisfied therefore that the chip 
was read when the cash machine withdrawals  were made. It follows that the genuine card 
was used to make them. Mrs C has said it was as if there were two cards  being used, but in 
fact the pattern of use is equally consistent  with there being  only one. 
It follows too that either Mrs C made the cash  machine withdrawals herself or that someone 
else managed  to take her card, use it and then return it to her without  her noticing  on 
several occasions. That is, I think, unlikely. And Mrs C is clear  that nobody else knew  her 
PIN or had access to her card.    
I would add that the PIN isnt kept in unencrypted form on the card, so its unlikely that 
someone using  Mrs Cs card without her authority could have guessed  it. I believe the most 
likely explanation for what happened  here is that Mrs C made the withdrawals herself.      
Mrs C has said that the withdrawals were out of character, and I agree. It doesnt follow 
however that Vanquis should  have  alerted  her to them. Since  Ive found  on balance  that 
she made them, I dont  believe  I can fairly  say that Vanquis ought to have taken steps to 
stop or further  verify  them. Nor would it be fair to require Vanquis  to refund them.  
my final decision
For the reasons  that Ive given I dont  require Vanquis Bank Limited to do anything further to 
resolve Mrs Cs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 November 2019.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5447585