K822xcomplaint
Mr W complains that a new car he acquired  with the assistance of finance  from Close  
Brothers Limited is not of satisfactory quality.
background
Mr W entered into an agreement with Close Brothers to finance the purchase of a used car 
on 22 March 2019 for £6,345. A few days after Mr W took possession of the car it displayed 
a fault message and there were  issues with changing gears.  It seems  this occurred on 31 
March 2019. Mr W took the car to the supplying dealership and on 8 April 2019 he was told 
that the fault was with the ABS system  sending incorrect messages to the transmission.  
On the 12 April 2019 Mr W said he wanted  to reject the car in an email to the dealership. 
The dealership replied the same  day to say that the car had now been  repaired by 
reconditioning a valve. Mr W was told that the car was driving beautifully and the dealership 
would not agree to a rejection of the car. There was an exchange of emails  about a possible 
replacement that Mr W was prepared  to consider. However, the car was returned to Mr W 
and the dealership stated that because it was repaired  no exchange could now be 
considered.
 
A few days  later Mr W contacted  the dealership to state that the gearbox had failed again 
and the same faults were presenting. The dealership collected the car and did a road test 
and the fault could not be found.
Mr W complained  to Close Brothers  and an independent inspection by ACE was arranged. 
Although no fault was found on inspection the ACE report noted that the fault may be 
intermittent. Mr W has provided further  video evidence and a diagnostic  report from an 
independent garage to confirm that the fault persists.
Our adjudicator considered Mr Ws complaint and thought it should  be upheld. He thought  
that the car was not of satisfactory quality  and Mr W was entitled to reject the car and have 
the return of all money paid under the agreement with the exception of two monthly 
repayments to reflect  the mileage covered. Close Brothers didnt agree and said that there 
wasnt enough evidence  that the faults persisted or that they were the same faults as 
originally presented. It said that the evidence provided by Mr W didnt show  the faults with 
the car and asked  for an ombudsman to review the complaint. 
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I have reached the same 
conclusions as the adjudicator for the same reasons.
At the outset, I would like to apologise to Mr W for the time taken for his complaint to reach  
me. I can see that this complaint has had a significant effect on Mr W and he has been 
unable to properly  use the car that he has been paying for.
Mr W has referred to the Consumer Rights Act 2015  (CRA) and his rejection  of the car which  
was not accepted by the supplying  dealership. Close  Brothers says that the car should not 
be rejected because it has been repaired, it does not accept the evidence  provided by Mr W 
that the faults persist. 
Ref: DRN56855022I dont apply the law directly in the same way that a court  would approach matters but I do 
take it into account when deciding what is fair and reasonable. The CRA provides 30 days to 
reject the car if it is not of satisfactory quality. After 30 days the business is allowed one 
opportunity to repair the car.
 
I note that the fault first presented before the 8 April so well within the 30 days. Mr W was 
clear in his email to the supplying dealership of 12 April that he wanted to reject  the car. He 
expressed his doubt that the proposed repair would fix the issue  and said he had been  in 
touch with Close Brothers to confirm  that this was his preferred resolution. The dealership 
refused to accept a rejection. It told Mr W he could have a replacement  car and then 
returned the car to him and said it was now satisfactorily repaired.
Mr W said the fault recurred soon after the car was returned. He sent a text message to the 
supplying dealership to explain this had happened. Mr W has provided a diagnostic report 
from a garage confirming the fault code was present  and a video  showing  the car has a 
transmission fault displayed on the dashboard and reverse  gear is not engaging.
The ACE report states that although  no fault was found during inspection this is possibly an 
intermittent fault.  The  responsibility is on Close Brothers as the supplier of the car to show 
that the car was of satisfactory quality when Mr W bought it. Even  though the car had 
travelled over 120,000 miles I would not expect  a car costing £6,345 to develop  a fault of this 
nature which  prevented  Mr W driving it after such a short time. I consider that the car was 
not of satisfactory  quality  at the point  of sale. 
I have also seen an invoice dated 7 March  2019 which  shows the car had a recondition and 
refit of the clutch before Mr W even bought it.
Mr W returned the car for repairs to be carried out only to have the fault recur as soon as he 
picked up the car. I consider that the attempted repair of the car was unsuccessful  and it is 
not reasonable for any further attempts at repair and so Mr W was entitled to reject  the car. I 
do not agree  with Close Brothers based on the evidence I have seen that the car has been 
satisfactorily repaired. I have no reason to doubt what  Mr W says about the fault. The ACE 
report confirms that it is likely  to be intermittent and so it isnt surprising that it wasnt found  
when the dealership collected the car or at the time of the inspection by ACE.
The dealership and Close Brothers  have  had an opportunity to find out what is causing  the 
fault and repair it. I think  that Mr W is entitled to reject  the car.  
I think it was reasonable  of Mr W to allow the dealership to source a like for like replacement 
but this offer was withdrawn by the dealership. In these circumstances I consider that Mr W 
is entitled to reject the car and unwind the agreement.
Ref: DRN56855023my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. To put things right Close Brothers  Limited 
should do the following:
End the agreement with nothing further  to pay;
Collect the car at no cost to Mr W.
Refund all monthly payments save two to reflect the period that Mr W has been  
without a car;
Refund the deposit paid by Mr W together  with 8% simple interest from the date paid 
to the date of settlement;
Refund any insurance cancellation costs  on receipt of evidence;
Remove any adverse  information about the agreement from Mr Ws credit  file; and
Pay Mr W £150 to reflect the trouble  and upset caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 September  2020.
Emma Boothroyd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5685502