K821x#15complaint
Mr T has complained about three logbook loans which  were  provided to him by 
Carcashpoint Limited (Carcashpoint). He says the loans  were unaffordable and hes 
struggling to pay them  back. Hes also said that he wasnt aware just how much interest hed 
have to pay and that Carcashpoint failed to treat him positively and sympathetically when he 
experienced payment difficulties.
background
Mr T was provided with an initial logbook loan of £2,000 in August 2016. The loan had a 36 
month term. Mr T was then given a further  two logbook loans over the following six months. 
All three loans ran concurrently.  Mr Ts borrowing history is as follows:  
Loan Amount Date taken Total Cost Repayment Term Cumulative repayment
1 £2,000 August 2016 £7,040.16 £195.56 36 months £195.56
2 £1,030 September 2016 £3,625.92 £100.72 36 months £296.28
3 £750 February 2017 £3,180.24 £88.34 36 months £384.62
Our investigator looked at Mr Ts complaint and concluded Mr T shouldnt have been 
provided with any of his loans.  She also thought that Carcashpoint  had failed to treat Mr T 
positively and sympathetically when he ran into difficulty repaying his loans. So our 
investigator upheld  Mr Ts complaint and said that Carcashpoint should put things right.  
Carcashpoint disagreed  and asked for an ombudsmans decision. As a result,  the complaint 
has been passed to me for a final decision.
In reaching my decision, I have taken into account the relevant law and regulations; relevant 
regulators rules,  guidance and standards; relevant codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
the legal and regulatory framework
Carcashpoint provided Mr T with these loans when it was authorised  by the Financial 
Conduct Authority.  This meant that it was subject to the FCA rules and regulations.
the FCA Principles  for Business (PRIN)
The FCAs Principles for Business  set out the overarching requirements which all authorised  
firms are required to comply with.
PRIN 1.1.1G, says
The Principles apply  in whole or in part to every firm.
The Principles themselves are set out in PRIN 2.1.1R. And the most relevant principle here 
is PRIN 2.1.1 R (6) which says:
A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
the Consumer  Credit sourcebook (CONC)
Ref: DRN53658762This sets out the rules  and guidance which apply to logbook loan providers like Carcashpoint  
when providing  loans. CONC 5 sets out a firms obligations in relation to responsible lending. 
Its clear there is a high degree of alignment between  the OFTs Irresponsible Lending 
Guidance (ILG) and the rules set out in CONC 5. As is evident from the following extracts,  
the FCAs CONC rules specifically note and refer back to sections of the OFTs ILG on many  
occasions.
Section 5.2.1R(2) of CONC  sets out what a lender needs to do before agreeing  to give a 
borrower a loan. It says a firm must consider:
(a)the potential  for the commitments  under the regulated credit agreement  to 
adversely impact the customers  financial situation, taking into account  the 
information of which the firm is aware at the time the regulated credit agreement  
is to be made; and
[Note: paragraph 4.1 of ILG]
(b)the ability of the customer to make repayments as they fall due over the life of the 
regulated credit  agreement, or for such an agreement which is an open-end 
agreement, to make repayments  within a reasonable period.
[Note: paragraph 4.3 of ILG]
CONC also includes guidance  about  proportionality  of assessments. CONC 5.2.4G(2) says:
A firm should consider  what  is appropriate  in any particular circumstances dependent  on, for 
example, the type and amount of credit  being  sought and the potential  risks to the customer.  
The risk of credit not being sustainable directly  relates to the amount of credit  granted and 
the total charge for credit relative to the customers financial  situation.
[Note: paragraph 4.11 and part of 4.16 of ILG]
CONC 5.3 contains further guidance  on what a lender should bear in mind  when thinking 
about affordability. 
CONC 5.3.1G(1) says:
In making the creditworthiness assessment  or the assessment required by CONC 5.2.2R 
(1), a firm should take into account more  than assessing the customers ability  to repay the 
credit.
[Note: paragraph 4.2 of ILG]
CONC 5.3.1G(2) then says:
The creditworthiness assessment and the assessment required by CONC 5.2.2R (1) should 
include the firm taking  reasonable  steps to assess the customers  ability to meet repayments 
under a regulated credit  agreement in a sustainable  manner without the customer  incurring 
financial difficulties or experiencing significant  adverse  consequences.
Ref: DRN53658763[Note: paragraph 4.1 (box) and 4.2 of ILG]
CONC 5.3.1G(6) goes  on to say:
 
For the purposes of CONC  sustainable means  the repayments under  the regulated credit 
agreement can be made by the customer :
(a)without undue difficulties, in particular:
(i) the customer should be able to make repayments  on time, while meeting other 
reasonable commitments;  and
(ii) without having to borrow  to meet the repayments ;
(b)over the life of the agreement, or for such an agreement which  is an open-end 
agreement, within a reasonable  period; and
(c)  out of income and savings without having  to realise security  or assets; and
unsustainable has the opposite meaning.
[Note: paragraph 4.3 and 4.4 of ILG]
In respect of the need to double-check information disclosed by applicants,  CONC 5.3.1G(4) 
has a reference  to paragraphs  4.13,  4.14, and 4.15 of ILG and states:
(a) it is not generally sufficient for a firm to rely solely for its assessment of the  
customers income and expenditure on a statement of those matters  made  by the 
customer.
And CONC 5.3.7R says that:
A firm must not accept an application for credit under  a regulated  credit  agreement where 
the firm knows or ought reasonably to suspect  that the customer  has not been  truthful  in 
completing the application in relation to information supplied by the customer  relevant to the 
creditworthiness assessment or the assessment required  by CONC 5.2.2R (1).
[Note: paragraph 4.31 of ILG]
Section 140 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974
Mr Ts loans  were provided after Section 140 of the Consumer Credit  Act came into force  on 
6 April 2007. Section  140A sets out circumstances where the court may determine that the 
relationship between a creditor and a debtor is unfair to the debtor. 
Section 140A says:
140A Unfair  relationships between creditors and debtors
(1)The court may make an order under section 140B in connection with a credit 
agreement if it determines that the relationship  between the creditor and the 
debtor arising  out of the agreement (or the agreement taken with any related 
agreement) is unfair to the debtor because of one or more of the following-
Ref: DRN53658764(a)any of the terms of the agreement or of any related agreement;
(b)the way in which the creditor  has exercised or enforced  any of his rights 
under the agreement  or any related agreement;
(c)any other thing done (or not done) by, or on behalf  of, the creditor (either 
before or after the making of the agreement or any related  agreement).
(2)In deciding whether  to make a determination  under this section the court  shall 
have regard to all matters  it thinks relevant (including matters  relating to the 
creditor and matters  relating to the debtor).
(3)For the purposes of this section the court shall (except to the extent that it is not 
appropriate to do so) treat anything done (or not done) by, or on behalf of, or in 
relation to, an associate or a former associate of the creditor as if done (or not 
done) by, or on behalf of, or in relation to, the creditor.
(4)A determination may be made  under this section  in relation to a relationship 
notwithstanding that the relationship may have ended.
(5)An order  under section 140B shall not be made in connection with a credit  
agreement which is an exempt agreement [for the purposes of Chapter 14A of 
Part 2 of the Regulated  Activities Order by virtue of article  60C(2) of that Order  
(regulated mortgage contracts and regulated home purchase  plans)]
Section 140B sets out the types  of order the court could make should it determine  that the 
relationship between the creditor  and debtor is unfair to the debtor. Section 140B says:
140B Powers of court in relation to unfair relationships
(1)An order  under this section in connection  with a credit agreement may do one or 
more of the following
(a)require the creditor, or any associate or former associate of his, to repay 
(in whole  or in part) any sum paid by the debtor  or by a surety  by virtue of 
the agreement  or any related agreement (whether paid to the creditor,  the 
associate or the former associate  or to any other  person);]
(b)require the creditor, or any associate or former associate of his, to do or 
not to do (or to cease  doing) anything specified  in the order  in connection  
with the agreement or any related  agreement;
(c)reduce or discharge any sum payable by the debtor or by a surety  by 
virtue of the agreement or any related agreement;
(d)direct  the return to a surety of any property provided by him for the 
purposes of a security;
(e)otherwise set aside  (in whole or in part) any duty imposed on the debtor 
or on a surety  by virtue  of the agreement or any related agreement;
(f)alter the terms of the agreement or of any related agreement;
Ref: DRN53658765(g)direct  accounts to be taken, or (in Scotland) an accounting to be made, 
between any persons.
other relevant publications  
CONC set out the regulatory framework that authorised lenders have to adhere to. But the 
rules and guidance represent  a minimum standard for firms. And Im also required to take 
into account any other guidance, standards,  relevant  codes of practice,  and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice.
the FCAs Portfolio  Strategy Letter to firms providing  high cost lending products
On 6 March 2019,  The FCA wrote  a Dear CEO letter to the Chief Executive Officer  of all the 
firms it allocated to its High Cost Lenders  portfolio. The letter set out the FCAs view of the 
key risks that High Cost Lenders pose to consumers  and the markets they operate  in. On 
page two of this letter,  the FCA sets out its view of the key causes of harm. It says:
To assess how firms  in the High Cost Lenders portfolio could cause harm, we analysed  
their strategies and business models.  We considered a wide range of information and data, 
including firms regulatory histories, the number  and nature of complaints, and findings from 
the HCCR. We also carried out diagnostic work on guarantor lenders, which involved issuing 
a data request  to firms  in October 2018.
Following our analysis, we see two key ways that consumers may be harmed across  the 
High Cost Lenders  portfolio:
oa high volume of relending, which may be symptomatic  of unsustainable lending  
patterns
ofirms affordability  checks  may be insufficient,  leading to loans that customers  
may not be able to afford.
We also see an additional potential harm from guarantor  lending:
othe proportion  of loan repayments  that guarantors make has risen considerably, 
which could indicate that affordability  on the part of the borrowers  is falling
On page three of the letter, in the section entitled Complaints it says:
We expect firms  to fulfil all relevant  obligations, including  analysing the root causes of 
complaints and taking  into account  the Financial  Ombudsman  Services relevant decisions. 
We gave further detail about what we expect from firms complaint-handling procedures in 
the Dear CEO letter we issued to HCSTC firms in October 2018. This is equally relevant to 
all firms in the portfolio.
the FCAs Dear CEO letter on affordability  of High-Cost Short-Term Credit (HCSTC)  loans
On 15 October 2018, the FCA wrote a Dear CEO  letter  to the Chief  Executive Officer of all 
HCSTC providers. The letter was about  the issues surrounding the increase  in complaints 
about unaffordable lending.
The third paragraph  of this letter said:
Ref: DRN53658766We note that the Ombudsman has recently  published four examples of determinations of 
individual complaints about payday loans to illustrate its approach to the issues  raised in 
those complaints (see: https://www.financial-ombudsman.org.uk/publications/technical.htm ). 
If relevant,  firms  should take these examples of determinations into account  as part of 
establishing their own effective procedures for complaints handling (see DISP  1.3.1R).
Paragraph eight of the letter went on to say:
We would highlight  in particular the risks in relation to repeat borrowing. These were flagged 
in our price cap proposals in CP14/10, in July 2014,  in which we said that we were 
concerned that repeat  borrowing could indicate  a pattern of dependency  on HCSTC that is 
harmful to the borrower. We noted  that rigorous  affordability assessments  were key to 
avoiding harm in this area, and firms  should ensure they are making responsible 
assessments of the sustainability of borrowing.
my findings
I have read and considered all the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, 
in order to decide what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the 
case.
Taking into account the relevant rules,  guidance,  good industry  practice and law, I think 
there are three overarching questions I need to consider in order  to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  These questions  are:
Did Carcashpoint,  each time it lent, complete reasonable  and proportionate checks  to 
satisfy itself that Mr T would be able to repay  his loan in a sustainable way?
oIf so, did it make  a fair lending decision?
oIf not, would  those checks have shown that Mr T wouldve been able to do so?
Bearing in mind the circumstances,  at the time of each application, was there a point 
where Carcashpoint ought reasonably to have realised it was increasing Mr Ts 
indebtedness in a way that was unsustainable or otherwise harmful  and so shouldnt 
have provided  further loans?
Did Carcashpoint  act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
If I determine that Carcashpoint didnt act fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr T and 
that he has lost out as a result, I will then go on to consider what is fair compensation.
Did Carcashpoint,  each  time it lent, complete reasonable  and proportionate checks  to satisfy 
itself that Mr T would be able to repay  his loan in a sustainable way?
Regulations in place when Carcashpoint lent to Mr T required it to carry out a reasonable 
assessment of whether Mr T could afford to repay his loans in a sustainable  manner. This is 
sometimes referred to as an affordability  assessment  or affordability check.
The affordability checks shouldve been borrower-focused  so Carcashpoint had to think 
about whether  repaying the loan sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse  
consequences for Mr T. In other words, it wasnt enough for Carcashpoint to think only about 
Ref: DRN53658767the likelihood that it would  get its money back  without  considering  the impact of repayment 
on Mr T himself. The loans being secured on Mr Ts car didnt alter, lessen or dilute this 
obligation.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application. 
In general, what constitutes  a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon  a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the borrower 
(e.g. their financial history, current situation  and outlook, and any indications of vulnerability 
or financial difficulty) and the amount  / type / cost of credit they are seeking. Even for the 
same customer, a proportionate  check could look different for different loan applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have  
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet  a 
higher repayment  from a particular  level of income); 
the longer  the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit  is likely 
to be greater and the customer is required to make  payments for an extended period); 
and 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing  may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed  a proportionate check 
should be for a given  loan application  including  (but not limited to) any indications of 
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive thought 
about all the relevant factors in this case.
Were Carcashpoints checks  reasonable and proportionate?
For loan one, Carcashpoint  appears  to have gone through an income and expenditure 
questionnaire with Mr T. And he was asked to provide his payslip to verify  the monthly 
income he declared. Carcashpoint says the income and expenditure information showed that 
Mr T had a monthly disposable income of £648  which meant that it could easily afford the 
monthly payments  of £124.50. Its my understanding that Carcashpoint also had sight  of     
Mr Ts bank  statements, although its unclear as to why it asked for these given it doesnt 
appear to have applied much  scrutiny to them. 
Ive carefully thought  about what Carcashpoint did. And Im mindful that CONC makes it 
clear that the extent  to which a lenders checks are proportionate will depend  on the type of 
credit, the associated  cost and the risks to the borrower bearing  in mind their financial 
situation. 
So bearing all of this in mind, in my view, a less detailed affordability assessment, without 
the need for verification, is far more likely to be fair, reasonable and proportionate in 
circumstances where  the amount to be repaid is relatively small, the consumers financial 
situation is stable  and they will be indebted for a relatively short period. 
Ref: DRN53658768But, in circumstances  where a customers finances  may be less stable (for example where  
they are having  trouble accessing  mainstream  credit), they are expected  to make repayment 
for a more  extended  period of time and there  is the potential for the borrower losing their car 
if they run into difficulty making payments, I think its far more likely that any affordability  
assessment would need to be more detailed and contain a greater degree  of verification, in 
order for it to be fair, reasonable  and proportionate. 
In this case, I can see that the bank statements Mr T provided  showed a number of returned  
direct debit payments.  And I think that this was an indication that Mr T might have been  
struggling financially. So given the circumstances in this case, where Mr T was provided  with 
expensive high-interest loans there  was the possibility of him losing his car and the 
information Carcashpoint  obtained  indicated that Mr T might  have  been  struggling financially,  
I wouldve  expected  Carcashpoint  to have verified that Mr T did actually have £648 in 
monthly disposable income available before lending to him. 
Carcashpoint might  have  thought that it didnt need  to do this and that a light touch check  
was proportionate because Mr Ts car provided security. But I dont think  that this was 
enough to constitute a borrower focused  assessment. And I dont see how this considers the 
impact of the repayments on Mr T. 
As Carcashpoint failed  to verify Mr Ts actual monthly expenditure for loan one and the 
subsequent ones even though he kept coming  back for further expensive loans, after hed 
missed payments on his existing loans, I dont think the checks  it carried out before providing 
any of these loans  were fair, reasonable or proportionate.
Would proportionate checks on Mr Ts loans have indicated to Carcashpoint  that he would  
have been unable to repay his loans in a sustainable manner?
Ive already explained that I think a proportionate check  for the earlier loans wouldve 
involved actually verifying Mr Ts normal monthly  outgoings and regular financial 
commitments. And as the lending  continued,  I wouldve expected  Carcashpoint to have 
found out more about  why Mr T kept having  to come  back  for further loans  despite  what was 
being declared indicating he had no need for such expensive borrowing.
As Carcashpoint didnt  carry  out proportionate  checks for these loans, I cant say for sure 
what proportionate checks would most  likely have shown. So I need to decide  whether it is 
more likely than not that fair, reasonable and proportionate affordability checks  wouldve told 
Carcashpoint that it was unfair to offer these  loans to Mr T.
To help us understand for ourselves what Carcashpoint  would more likely than not have 
discovered if it had completed  reasonable and proportionate checks  on Mr Ts loans, we 
asked Mr T to provide  us with his bank statements. 
Having carefully considered the information, I think that a detailed review  of Mr Ts financial 
circumstances before loan one would  have shown that his usual  monthly income was lower  
than what hed received in the month before  the loan was provided. In my view, fair 
reasonable and proportionate checks would also have more likely than not also have  shown 
that Mr T was struggling to make ends meet and that hed already defaulted to a number of 
his existing creditors. And as Ive already  explained, he was regularly paying returned direct  
debit fees because he didnt have enough funds to meet his existing payments. 
Ref: DRN53658769Bearing all of this in mind, Im satisfied that reasonable and proportionate checks  would 
more likely than not have demonstrated that Mr T would not have been  able to make the 
loan repayments  to loan one without  undue difficulty or the need to borrow further. And, in 
these circumstances,  I find that reasonable and proportionate checks  would  more  likely than 
not have alerted Carcashpoint  to the fact that Mr T wouldnt be able to sustainably make the 
repayments to loan one. 
Bearing in mind the circumstances,  at the time of each application, was there a point where 
Carcashpoint ought reasonably to have  realised it was increasing Mr Ts indebtedness in a 
way that was unsustainable or otherwise harmful and so shouldnt have provided further 
loans?
For the sake of completeness, I think that its also helpful for me to explain that even though  
I did do so, I dont think that it was necessary for me to have recreated affordability checks 
for loans  two and three. I say this because in addition to assessing  the affordability  of each 
individual loan provided to Mr T by Carcashpoint,  I also think  its fair and reasonable to look 
at the overall pattern of lending. 
Im mindful here that the relevant rules  and guidance  as summarised  in the earlier part of 
this decision make it clear that a lender  shouldnt  continue lending  where  the loans are 
unsustainable or otherwise harmful and/or its apparent that the customer  may be 
experiencing financial difficulties. And I think by loan two, Carcashpoint  ought  fairly and 
reasonably to have  realised that Mr Ts loans had become unsustainable or otherwise 
harmful. 
The factors  that lead me to conclude  that Carcashpoint ought to have realised  the loans from 
loan two were unsustainable or otherwise harmful are:
the missed payments on loans one and two. Indeed the statement of account  
provided shows that Mr T wasnt even able to make his first payment for loan one on 
time;
the defaults on Mr Ts credit file; 
the increasing number  of returned  direct  debit fees on Mr Ts account;
the total amount  of Mr Ts income that was due to go to Carcashpoints loans.
All of the above were clear  indicators  of Mr T being  in a difficult financial position. 
Carcashpoint says that Mr T that our investigators  assessment  was unduly harsh because it 
took comfort from the fact that Mr Ts wife was employed and contributed to the household 
budget. But I think Mr Ts missed payments and his need to borrow  further so quickly  were in 
themselves indications that he was having  issues making his payments and that he may 
have been experiencing  financial difficulty. So I disagree that our investigator was unduly  
harsh and, in my view,  she was merely conveying the facts  as she saw them.
Equally bearing  in mind Carcashpoints obligation  to monitor Mr Ts repayment record and 
offer assistance should it appear  that he mightve  been  experiencing financial difficulties,  I 
think that Carcashpoint shouldve  offered assistance  and/or a product that would allow  him 
to sustainably repay what he owed. But instead of doing this, Carcashpoint instead kept 
lending. 
Ref: DRN536587610Carcashpoint kept lending  to Mr T until he was left in a position where hed been provided 
with £3,780 but was required to repay £13,846.32  at a time he was clearly struggling. In 
these circumstances,  I cant  see how Carcashpoint could possibly argue that it was treating 
Mr T positively and sympathetically or exercising forbearance. And I certainly dont think  that 
Carcashpoint was treating Mr T fairly and reasonably. 
So I think that Carcashpoint  ought  fairly  and reasonably to have realised  that the loans from 
loans two onwards  were  unsustainable or otherwise  harmful for Mr T and were  unfairly  and 
excessively increasing  his overall indebtedness.  And so it shouldnt have provided these 
loans to Mr T.   
Did Mr T lose out as a result of Carcashpoints shortcomings in relation to these loans?
I think that Mr T did suffer adverse consequences as a result of Carcashpoint  unfairly giving 
him these  loans. I think this is the case for two key reasons.
Firstly, these loans had the effect  of unfairly prolonging Mr Ts indebtedness  to Carcashpoint  
by allowing him to take expensive credit over an extended period of time. These  loans were  
very expensive. Ive already spoken  about  the impact this had on his finances. And I think  
that the overall cost of these loans  unfairly  prolonged what  was an adverse and precarious 
financial position for Mr T.
Secondly, the number of these high-cost loans is likely  to have had implications  for Mr Ts 
ability to access mainstream credit. The greater the presence of these loans on Mr Ts credit 
file  especially  where they were taken so quickly - the less likely Mr T was able to 
rehabilitate his finances and regain access to mainstream credit.  This is especially the case 
when bearing  in mind  his other affordability issues.
In my view, Carcashpoint  giving Mr T this many  loans (which it shouldnt  have done) over 
such extended terms at an interest rate normally reserved for short- term borrowing, placed  
him in a position  where he was unfairly  trapped into taking further loans from Carcashpoint  
as no-one else, other than similar providers, would lend to him. 
I think that, in these circumstances, Mr T had little choice other than to keep turning to 
Carcashpoint and other similar providers for further loans, because he had little other real 
choice bearing  in mind  everything that had gone on previously. And, in my view,  
Carcashpoint took advantage of the situation.
So overall and having carefully thought  about everything provided and whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this case,  I think that Mr T lost out because  Carcashpoint  
unfairly gave him these  loans, which it ought  to have realised  were  unsustainable, harmful 
and unaffordable for him. 
Did Carcashpoint  act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr T in some other way?
Having carefully thought  about everything  provided and bearing in mind  Mr Ts reasons for 
complaining, I think there is a further issue for me to consider when deciding  whether 
Carcashpoint acted unfairly or unreasonably  to Mr T in some other way. This is in relation to 
whether Carcashpoint  treated Mr T positively and sympathetically once he notified it of his 
financial difficulty.
Ref: DRN536587611Our investigator highlighted two areas  where she thought that Carcahspoint  had treated      
Mr T unfairly. Firstly  in relation  to the method it used to contact Mr T about the arrears on his 
account and secondly in relation to setting up an affordable payment plan.
The information Ive seen suggests  that Carcashpoint made  unreasonably  large  demands for 
payment on more than one occasion, in order to cease enforcement of the Bill of Sale. And 
as our investigator pointed out, Carcashpoint making such  unreasonable demands  for 
payments  in circumstances  where  it ought  fairly  and reasonably  to have realised  that it 
should have been exercising forbearance  when it had security  over Mr Ts car meant that it 
was bound to cause him additional distress and inconvenience.  
Equally insisting on only discussing the outstanding arrears over the telephone   instead of 
any reasonable written  means  was always likely to increase Mr Ts distress. I say all of this 
while also mindful of the fact that Mr T had a medical condition  too.
So having  carefully thought about  everything, I also think that Carcashpoint acted unfairly 
and unreasonably towards  Mr T in some other way. And I think that it needs to put things 
right in relation  to this too.    
conclusions
Overall and having carefully thought  about the three overarching questions, set out on page 
six of this decision, I find that:
Carcashpoint didnt complete reasonable and proportionate checks on Mr T to satisfy 
itself that he was able to repay  his logbook  loans in a sustainable way;
reasonable and proportionate checks would more  likely than not have shown 
Carcashpoint that Mr T would not have been able to repay these  loans in a 
sustainable way; 
in any event,  the overall  pattern of lending ought  fairly and reasonably  to have alerted 
Carcashpoint to the fact that the loans from loans two onwards were unsustainable or 
otherwise harmful for Mr T and that they were unfairly and excessively increasing  his 
overall indebtedness;
 
Mr T lost out as a result of having  been provided with these loans;  
Carcashpoint also acted unfairly and unreasonably towards Mr T in some other way.
These findings lead me to conclude that Carcashpoint unfairly and unreasonably provided 
Mr T with all of these  loans and that he lost out as a result. So Carcashpoint needs to put 
things right for Mr T.
fair compensation  what  Carcashpoint needs  to do to put things right for Mr T
Ive thought about what amounts to fair compensation  in this case. Where I find that a 
business has done something  wrong, Id normally expect that business   in so far as is 
reasonably practicable   to put the consumer in the position they would be in now if that 
wrong hadnt taken  place.  In essence,  in this case, this would mean Carcashpoint putting     
Mr T in the position hed now be in if he hadnt been given these loans.
Ref: DRN536587612But when it comes to complaints about  irresponsible lending this isnt straightforward.  Mr T 
was given the loans in question and he used the funds.  So, in these  circumstances, I cant 
undo whats already been  done.  And its simply not possible to put Mr T back  in the position 
he would  be in if he hadnt been  given  these loans in the first place.
As this is the case, I have to think  about some other way of putting things right in a fair and 
reasonable way bearing in mind all the circumstances of the case. And Id like to explain  the 
reasons why I think that it would be fair and reasonable for Carcashpoint to put things right in 
the following  way.
interest and charges on the loans Mr T shouldnt have  been given
As Ive explained throughout  this decision, Carcashpoint  continually lending to Mr T left him 
in a position where he wasnt able to settle his debts. This was because Mr T kept having to 
find additional funds  to pay the (increasing)  interest  and charges on his Carcashpoint loans. 
And then he had to borrow again from Carcashpoint as making the payments was 
preventing him from meeting his other  commitments, which meant he incurred more  interest  
and charges when  he did this. 
I think that the fairest way to ensure  that Mr T is refunded any interest  and charges that he 
may have  paid is to add the total amount  of money he received as a result of being provided 
with all of his loans  together.  Carcashpoint should  then deduct  any payments Mr T made  
from this amount. 
Carcashpoint should  treat any payments made after the payments Mr T made reached the 
total amount of the money  he received, if there  were  any, as overpayments. And to start 
with, I think that Carcashpoint should  refund any such  overpayments as they will represent 
the interest Mr T unfairly paid as a result of being given his loans.
Im also mindful that Mr T lost the use of the funds he used to pay the interest  and charges, 
I now think that Carcashpoint  needs  to refund to him. As Mr T lost the use of these funds, 
I think that he should be compensated for this. We normally  ask a business  to pay 8% 
simple interest where a consumer hasnt had the use of funds because  its actions resulted in 
something having gone wrong. 
Bearing in mind my conclusions in the paragraph above, I see no reason to depart from our 
usual approach here and I think that awarding  8% per year simple interest, on the interest 
and charges that were paid, is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this case.
So Carcashpoint  should pay Mr T 8% per year simple interest  on the interest  and charges he 
paid from the date those charges were paid,  if they were, to the date it settles  Mr Ts 
complaint.
Mr Ts credit file
Generally speaking, Id expect  a lender to remove any adverse information recorded on a 
consumers credit file as a result  of the interest  and charges  on the loans they shouldnt  have 
been given. After all its the interest and charges that the consumer  is being  refunded  and 
the expectation is they will have repaid, or they should repay what  they owe.
Ref: DRN536587613But Im upholding  Mr Ts complaint about loans two and three because (as well as them 
being individually unaffordable) I think that what had happened by this stage  ought  fairly and 
reasonably to have  led Carcashpoint to realise that it was increasing Mr Ts indebtedness in 
a way that was unsustainable or harmful in some other way. I explained  that there were two 
main adverse consequences  of Carcashpoint having given Mr T so many loans. Firstly  it 
caused him to pay an excessive amount  of interest. And Ive already explained how Mr T 
should be compensated for this.
I also explained that the number of loans is likely to have had implications for Mr Ts ability  to 
access mainstream credit. The greater  the presence of these  loans on Mr Ts credit  file the 
less likely Mr T was able to rehabilitate his finances and regain access to mainstream  credit. 
And I think my direction in relation to Mr Ts credit  file needs to reflect  this.
So while I recognise  the importance  of preserving an accurate picture of Mr Ts credit history 
and creditworthiness  so that a lender can make  an informed decision on whether lend to 
him, I think that the mere presence of this many loans, of this type, on Mr Ts credit file, in 
itself, constitutes adverse  information. And I think that this many  high-cost loans appearing 
on Mr Ts credit file is likely to continue unfairly  adversely  affecting  Mr T going forwards. 
In these circumstances, I think that its fair and reasonable for Carcashpoint  to remove all 
reference to loans three to five from Mr Ts credit  file, as the number of loans in itself is 
adverse information.  
the Bill of Sale
As Carcashpoint only has a Bill of Sale on Mr Ts vehicle because it unfairly and 
unreasonably provided  him with these loans,  it should also remove  the Bill of Sale and any 
other charge it might have over Mr Ts vehicle. 
compensation for the distress  and inconvenience  Carcashpoint acting unfairly and 
unreasonably towards  Mr T caused   
As well as unwinding any wrongdoing caused  by the irresponsibly lent loans, I also have the 
power to make an award to reflect the emotional  and practical impact Carcashpoints  actions 
have had.
Our website  contains  detailed  examples of distress and inconvenience  awards  we might 
make and the reasons why might  make them. These  are set out in different categories and 
levels  to show the range of awards  we make.
Ive carefully considered  whether Carcashpoint should make an additional payment to Mr T 
with reference  to these distress  and inconvenience  awards and categories.
As Ive mentioned,  the sheer number of missed  payments on Mr Ts loans ought fairly  and 
reasonably have led Carcashpoint to realise  that Mr T was experiencing financial difficulty. 
And even  though Carcashpoint might  not have been aware of Mr Ts condition when it lent to 
him, it nonetheless exacerbated  it at a time when it ought to have been exercising 
forbearance.  
As this is the case, Mr T wouldve suffered the stress  of being asked to pay a considerable 
amount of money  which my investigation  has concluded he had no means of repaying  in 
order not to lose his car, at a time where  he was already suffering mentally. And I cant  see 
Ref: DRN536587614that Carcashpoint did anything  to mitigate  the potential risks of causing Mr T additional 
stress when  chasing  him for payment.
Having considered all of this in the round, I think that Carcashpoints  actions while chasing 
payment on these loans  caused Mr T a substantial amount of distress,  inconvenience, 
anxiety and suffering.
Our website  sets out a compensation range of between £500  and £2000 where a consumer 
has suffered substantial distress and inconvenience.  As I dont think that Carcashpoint was 
aware, or that it ought to have been  aware, of Mr Ts condition when it lent to him, I think  an 
award at the lower  end of this scale is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this 
case. 
So having  carefully considered everything, given the particular circumstances of Mr Ts 
complaint, Im awarding Mr T £500 for the distress and inconvenience that Carcashpoints 
actions in acting  unfairly  and unreasonably towards  her caused.
All of this means  that I think it would be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of        
Mr Ts complaint for Carcashpoint  to put things right by:
adding up the total amount of money  Mr T received as a result of having  been given 
these loans. The payments Mr T made (to his loans) should be deducted  from this 
amount. Any payments  made, if any, after the total amount repaid exceeds  the 
amount of money Mr T was given should be treated  as overpayments and refunded 
to him; 
adding interest at 8% per year simple on any overpayments,  if there were any, from 
the date they were  paid by Mr T to the date of settlement;
removing the Bill of Sale on Mr Ts vehicle
removing any adverse information recorded on Mr Ts credit file as a result  of loan 
one;
removing all reference to loans two and three from Mr Ts credit file;
paying Mr T a sum £500 to reflect the distress and inconvenience  it acting unfairly  
and/or unreasonably  towards Mr T caused  him. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Carcashpoint to take off tax from this interest.  
Carcashpoint must give Mr T a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if he asks for 
one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im upholding  Mr Ts complaint about Carcashpoint  Limited 
and telling it to pay Mr T compensation as Ive set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 31 August 2019. 
Ref: DRN536587615 
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5365876