K820x#14complaint
Mr T and Mrs S complain that esure  Insurance Limited declined their home insurance claim 
for damage  to their garage  and that it mis-sold them their policy.  
background
Mr T and Mrs S took bought their esure home insurance policy online in June 2013.  In 
September 2018 they contacted esure  to report cracking on the interior and exterior walls of 
their integral  garage  conversion. They told esure theyd  had the garage converted into a 
study for their children about  three years previously. esure appointed a loss adjuster to 
validate the claim and it attended to inspect the damage in October 2018. 
At the start of November  2018 the loss adjuster  wrote to Mr T and Mrs S to tell them their 
claim had been  declined. It said itd been  unable to detect any evidence of subsidence  
damage to the buildings and, in its opinion, it thought the damage was the result of thermal 
movement because the cracks were mostly vertical and of equal  width. The loss adjuster 
said such cracking wasnt associated with subsidence. It went  onto say that the damage,  as 
reported, wasnt covered  by Mr T and Mrs Ss policy because it hadnt  been caused by any 
of the insured events covered by the policy.  
Mr T and Mrs S were unhappy with the decision esure had made about their claim so they 
made a complaint. In addition to complaining about esures decision to decline their claim, 
they also complained that their policy had been  mis-sold. They  said theyd asked on several 
occasions over the years  if their property was covered for anything that happened to it and 
had been reassured that it was. 
esure looked into their complaint but didnt think itd incorrectly declined the claim. It said 
their policy didnt cover them for every  eventuality that might  befall their home. It said the 
policy also included some exclusions from cover  which were fully set out in the policy  
booklet. These included loss or damage that was caused by wear and tear, faulty  
workmanship or anything  happening gradually. It said the house  wasnt  suffering from 
subsidence and there was no other policy peril against which a claim could be made. 
esure went on to say that the policy included cover  for accidental  damage,  but for that cover 
to apply the damage needed to be the result of a single,  unexpected event  which  it hadnt.  
And, it said,  there were  exclusions  that applied to that cover too (amongst  which were 
damage caused by faulty workmanship and damage caused by weather or atmospheric 
conditions). 
esure said Mr T and Mrs Ss policy had been set up online and at each subsequent renewal 
theyd been asked to check that the cover  theyd selected was suitable  for their needs. It 
also said itd provided  them  with clear information about the cover  the policy provided and 
the exclusions that applied. 
Unhappy with the outcome of esures  investigation,  Mr T and Mrs S complained  to this 
service. They said their house was well maintained and that the garage  conversion was 
relatively new. Our investigator  looked into their complaint but didnt  recommend  it was 
upheld. Mr T and Mrs S disagreed with our investigators findings. They said the policy 
documents theyd  been sent never mentioned they needed to check  the exclusions. They 
said esure had a responsibility  at renewal to explain to its customers  about the policy. So 
they said, esure had mis-sold it. 
Ref: DRN54295942The complaint was passed  to me for a decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Although  I appreciate it will come as a 
disappointment to Mr T and Mrs S, I dont think their complaint  should  be upheld.  Ill explain 
why. 
the claim
Having reviewed all the available evidence  including  the photographs and videos Mr T and 
Mrs S sent our investigator  I agree that the damage suffered by the house  doesnt appear 
to have been caused by subsidence. Thats a good thing, as subsidence claims can be 
lengthy and complex.  But for the damage  to be covered  by the policy  it needs to have been 
caused by one of the insured events  such as flood, theft,  escape  of water, storm, 
accidental damage  etc.  listed in the policy terms. And, unfortunately for Mr T and Mrs S, I 
dont think that it has. 
Not all damage a home sustains is covered  by a standard home insurance policy. Only 
damage caused by the events (or, perils) listed in the policy (such as those Ive mentioned  
above) are usually covered. If it can be shown that the damage is the result of one of the 
insured events listed then the insurer must  pay the claim, unless it is able to rely on one of 
the policy exclusions that can defeat it. 
Here, esure sent a loss adjuster to inspect the damage. His is the only expert opinion 
available as to what may have  caused the damage so Im unable  to reasonably ignore what  
was reported.  In the loss adjusters view the damage wasnt  caused by subsidence. That 
being the case, for the claim  to be covered, it needs to be shown that one of the other events 
listed it the policy caused the damage.  Unfortunately  for Mr T and Mrs S, theres no evidence  
that the damage was caused  by any of the other events in the policy. 
I appreciate that Mr T says they themselves didnt cause the damage.  Whilst I completely 
accept that to be the case, the fact they didnt  doesnt automatically mean the damage 
mustve been caused accidentally  as he has suggested. For the damage to be accepted 
under the accidental damage peril it must be shown it happened  as a result  of a single, 
unexpected event (for example, impact) but there  is no evidence  that this is how it 
happened. 
esure has said that the claim isnt covered by any of the events  listed  in the policy and, for 
the reasons Ive given, I think that was a reasonable decision for it to have  reached.  I dont 
think it has treated Mr T and Mrs S unfairly by declining their claim on the grounds that the 
damage wasnt caused by any of the events listed in the policy.  Whilst I can see esure has 
also referred in its final response  to the exclusions listed in the policy document (including 
damage thats caused by wear and tear or poor workmanship)  it seems to me that it declined 
the claim because the damage wasnt caused by any of the events covered by the policy.  It 
appears to me that it mentions the exclusions as a footnote so as to strengthen  its decision 
rather than them being the main reason the claim has been declined. Indeed the loss 
adjuster didnt mention them as a reason for declining the claim.
Ref: DRN54295943mis-sale
Mr T and Mrs S say that their policy mustve been  mis-sold because theyd asked on 
numerous occasions if their property was covered for everything  and had been  reassured 
that it was. They also said theyd not been  made  aware that the policy included exclusions.  
Mr T and Mrs S took out their policy on-line. That means they received no advice from esure 
as to the policys suitability for their needs.  I can see from the renewal letter esure sent that it 
stated that itd made no recommendations about  the choice of cover. So, it was Mr T and 
Mrs Ss own responsibility to make sure the cover  they selected  met their requirements. 
Mr T and Mrs S have said they took full cover from esure and that there  was no other cover 
available for them to take. Having seen their policy schedule I agree that the cover they 
chose  including additional accidental damage cover for buildings  and contents along with a 
number of optional  extras  is indeed comprehensive. Despite  their cover being so 
comprehensive, it doesnt meant  that the policy covers all damage that might  befall their 
home. What exactly is covered is clearly set out in the policy terms.
Mr T and Mrs S have also said they were  unaware  their policy  included  any exclusions. 
These can be found in the policy booklet which sets out the terms and conditions  of cover.  
All insurance  policies  include  exclusions  in other  words, circumstances in which claims will 
not be covered   and those included in esures policy are typical  to most available  on the 
market. Im satisfied that Mr T and Mrs S received a copy of the policy  terms when they first 
took the policy out because the letter esure sent them  when they first took their policy  out in 
2013 said: 
For customers who purchased their policy via our website, your policy booklet was made 
available to you at the time you bought your policy. A copy is available  at [website address]. 
The policy booklet  must be read as it explains the cover the insurance gives  you, as well as 
the exclusions that apply.
The policy booklet  was available by using the link to esures website contained in the letter 
so Im satisfied Mr T and Mrs S wouldve been  able to access it. 
At the end of the renewal  calls Ive listened  to Mr T requests  that his renewal  documents are 
sent to him by post. Mr T says those documents never mentioned that he should check the 
exclusions on esures website and it was difficult to remember what  hed been  told when he 
first took the policy out. On balance, I think esure made Mr T and Mrs S aware when they 
took their policy  out of the extent of their cover and the need for them to check their 
documents so they were satisfied with what theyd selected. I agree with Mr T and Mrs S that 
the renewal documents didnt remind them to check the exclusions on esures website, but I 
dont think theyve been disadvantaged by the omission. 
I say that because theres no evidence that Mr T and Mrs S wouldve taken cover elsewhere 
if they had been reminded to check the exclusions. And, as Ive mentioned, the exclusions in 
esures policy are fairly typical  across  most  home insurance policies such  that even if they 
had checked the exclusions, or had taken cover elsewhere, as a result  of being reminded to 
do so I still dont think theirs was a claim that wouldve been covered. 
Mr T and Mrs S have said that they were told during their renewal calls that they were 
covered for everything. Ive listened to the available call recordings and am unable to agree 
that any such reassurance was given or statement made. 
Ref: DRN54295944Whilst I sympathise with Mr T and Mrs S about the damage their study has sustained, and 
the cost theyve incurred in getting  it repaired, Im unable to uphold  their complaint because  I 
dont think esure unfairly declined their claim or that it mis-sold  them  their policy.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  24 May 2020.
Claire Woollerson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5429594