K820x#14complaint
Mrs M says Santander UK Plc mis-sold her a payment protection  insurance  (PPI)  policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Mrs M bought the policy at a meeting in 1999 at the same time as taking a mortgage. From 
her mortgage application,  she was employed  at the time as a management  accountant and 
had been there more  than four years. In what she told us when she brought her complaint to 
us, Mrs M recalled  being employed somewhere else and for less than six months. But I think  
the mortgage records are more likely  to reflect  the situation at the time,  because they were 
made at the time - Mrs Ms recollections  were set out for us almost  20 years  later.  
In what she told us when  she brought us her complaint, Mrs M referred to having  insurance 
in case she couldnt  work  long term. She didnt say how much  it would  pay exactly and didnt 
recall who it was with but she did refer to a benefit  worth more than six but less than twelve  
months pay. More  recently she has confirmed she was employed  full time and had never 
been off sick. From  all shes told us, I think it likely Mrs M was at least  entitled  to statutory 
pay for sickness and redundancy. Also, from what she has told us, at the time of the sale 
Mrs M was in good health and hadnt had any health  issues.
The PPI policy provided cover for Mrs M for accident, sickness  and unemployment  subject  
to its exclusions and limitations. For a successful claim, it offered  to pay £320  a month to 
help Mrs M with mortgage related costs. The policy cost £19.13  a month at the time. 
Santander has sent us evidence to show the mortgage account the policy  was taken  with 
closed in 2004, replaced by an account which itself closed in 2007. Mrs Ms representative 
has made lengthy and substantial  representations on her behalf. Ill not restate  them all here, 
but I have read and considered them all carefully. In summary, Mrs Ms representative says:
Santander failed  to meet the sales standards which applied at the time.  In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on handling 
PPI complaints under DISP App 3, it should be presumed Mrs M wouldnt have taken the 
policy and the complaint  should  be upheld. Mrs Ms representatives believe there  to be 
no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a successful 
claim meant  the policy was of inherently poor value  as shown by the low claims ratio. 
The common law duty of utmost  good faith means  Santander  should  have told Mrs M 
about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Santander should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mrs M and the impact they 
would have had on her chances of making a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is generally 
someones biggest ever long-term  transaction  cover would stop at the time it would be 
most needed; and
Ref: DRN54874672The information Mrs M received was misleading. These policies were promoted as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and had a chance to 
give their responses to the adjudicators  opinion.  Mrs M disagreed  with the adjudicators 
opinion for several  reasons. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been  
passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs Ms. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ms complaint.
This sale took place  in 1999 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2007. This means the unfair  relationship provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. (These also dont apply to mortgages arranged  after mortgage lending  became 
regulated in October 2004 that are FCA regulated mortgages).
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at the time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct Marketing/ 
Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
Ref: DRN54874673I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Santander at the time. So Im satisfied I should take the ABI Code and 
these other  publications into account when deciding what is, in my opinion,  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of Mrs Ms case.
There was also the Mortgage Code which was a voluntary code followed by subscribing 
lenders and mortgage intermediaries. While predominantly about  mortgage related matters, 
it also included some insurance related commitments. 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   the Office of the Banking Ombudsman  in this 
case  might have been expected to reach in relation to an equivalent complaint. I note that 
under the Banking Ombudsmans  terms of reference the Ombudsman was required to 
decide complaints  by reference to what was, in his opinion, fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances  and that the Ombudsman was required  to observe any applicable rule of 
law or relevant judicial  authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Santander was required to take into account the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were 
guidance when  considering Mrs Ms complaint.  
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If Santander gave  advice, whether it advised Mrs M with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for her, given her needs and 
circumstances. 
-Whether Santander gave Mrs M sufficient,  appropriate and timely  information to enable  
her to make an informed choice about  whether to take the policy, including drawing to 
her attention and highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading way  the main 
provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and exclusions.  
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mrs M, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mrs M suffered loss or damage  
and what I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mrs M and 
Santander, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ms complaint. Ive set out my reasoning  below. 
did Mrs M know she had a choice?
Ref: DRN54874674Santander had to make it clear the PPI was optional.  Santander  has been able to provide 
very little paperwork from the sale  and I dont have anything from the time to show how a 
choice was given.  But this isnt too surprising given how long has passed since the sale.  
Mrs M has said she had no interest in PPI and has said it was just included  with her 
mortgage package. While  I give Mrs Ms recollections some  weight,  I wouldnt expect her to 
have recalled the PPI sale vividly when she set out her recollections  for us  which  was 
almost 20 years after the sale. With that in mind, her recollections arent, on balance,  
enough on their own to make me think Santander  didnt give her a choice about  the PPI  
and Ive nothing  else to make me think this. 
For example, I have a letter sent by Santander to Mrs M at the start with the policy  schedule.  
This refers to the PPI policy as having its own cost and to payment for it being taken by a 
direct debit which would appear on Mrs Ms bank  statements with its own direct debit 
reference. It also says Mrs M could cancel cover  if she wished - and would receive  a refund 
of any premiums collected if cancellation  was within 14 days.  None of this is in my view 
supportive of the idea that the PPI was just included  as part of Mrs Ms mortgage package   
or that Mrs M wasnt given  a choice about  the cover. Also,  Ive nothing  to make  me think 
Santander wouldnt normally  have given customers like Mrs M a choice about the PPI.
With everything Ive said above  in mind, what I have doesnt  persuade  me Santander  didnt 
give Mrs M a choice  about taking the PPI. Also, Ive nothing to suggest Santander pressured 
her into it. So, taking  everything into account, I think its more likely Mrs M knew  the PPI was 
optional and agreed to take it without undue pressure. But given the time that has passed,  it 
would be understandable  if she didnt  recall all the details of sale now.
did Santander provide advice?
Santander says it gave advice during this sale. Mrs M hasnt said advice wasnt  given. With 
all this in mind, Im persuaded its fair to proceed on the basis that Santander gave advice. 
This means  Santander  had to advise Mrs M with reasonable  care and skill, in particular 
whether the policy  was appropriate or suitable  given her needs and circumstances.
the advice
I dont know what steps Santander took to establish whether the policy  was a suitable 
recommendation for Mrs M. Theres little paperwork from the time and no record of exactly 
what Santander discussed about the PPI. This is unsurprising for a sale many years ago at a 
meeting. Santander  had some information  about  Mrs Ms financial circumstances from the 
mortgage application, but theres no specific evidence to show  that Santander  took sufficient 
steps to establish whether Mrs M would have  been caught by the significant  exclusions and 
limitations which might have meant the policy didnt fully meet  her needs. 
For example, there is nothing to suggest Santander  considered whether Mrs M had any 
health conditions  or had been treated or advised  about any in the previous  year.  Overall, on 
the balance of probabilities, Im not persuaded Santander did all it should have done  to 
determine whether  the policy was suitable  for Mrs M given her circumstances. So Im not 
persuaded Santander advised with reasonable care and skill.
Ref: DRN54874675While Im not persuaded Santander did all it should  have done  to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mrs M, I do think its more likely than not the policy  was ultimately  suitable  for 
her. In reaching  that conclusion  Ive taken into consideration:
-Mrs M had a need for the cover. Allowing for the work sickness and redundancy benefits 
she mightve been entitled to, it still seems likely Mrs M wouldve suffered a fall in income 
if accident, sickness or unemployment stopped  her working for an extended period. So in 
those situations  the policy benefit  couldve helped Mrs M manage the consequences - 
and help ensure  she was able to cover her mortgage costs at a time when her finances  
mightve been under strain. I say this bearing  in mind also that Mrs M has said she was 
financially stretched  at the time.  Also, what Ive seen  doesnt make me think  that any 
insurance Mrs M already had was likely to be enough to make  up all her lost income if 
she wasnt working  and Ive nothing to suggest  that the PPI benefit couldnt  have been 
paid out alongside and on top of any other insurances Mrs M had. 
-Although she says she was financially stretched at the time, Ive seen nothing else to 
suggest the monthly cost of the PPI wasnt affordable for Mrs M  and Mrs M met the 
eligibility criteria  for the policy.
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mrs M. From what I 
have, there was nothing  about  Mrs Ms employment or occupation  which wouldve made 
it difficult for her to claim. And she hasnt  told us of having had any existing  health  issues 
that couldve affected her ability  to claim.  Also, there were no additional  restrictions  on 
cover for mental health or back  problems.
-While  it would only pay benefits  for a maximum of 12 months  for each  claim,  and to claim 
for disability Mrs M had to be unable  to do her own or any job she was (given  her 
experience, education  or training) reasonably able to do, the policy  still provided  valuable 
cover given  Mrs Ms circumstances,  the loss of income she could suffer if she couldnt 
work, fact the PPI helped protect  the mortgage  payments relating to Mrs Ms home  and 
the potential consequences  should  she be unable to make the payments on loans 
secured against  her house.
the information
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Santander  gave Mrs M sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable her to understand what  
Santander was recommending to her and make  an informed decision about whether to 
follow that advice  and take the policy.
Im satisfied its more likely than not Mrs M was given  a broad description of what the policy  
was intended  to cover (that is, the policy would protect her payments if she were unable  to 
work through  accident, sickness or unemployment) and of the approximate  costs. I have 
reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely Mrs M would have taken the policy  
without any sense of what the policy was for and of how much the premium might be.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Santander  gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost or about  the exclusions or 
limitations before Mrs M agreed to take the policy. 
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mrs M, Im not persuaded Santander 
Ref: DRN54874676did enough to present  information about  the policy it was recommending in a way that was 
fair and reasonable to her. Im not persuaded Santander gave Mrs M all the information  she 
needed about the policy to make an informed decision  about  whether to follow the 
recommendation and take it.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mrs Ms representative has raised a number 
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mrs Ms. Ive considered  
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have explained 
the low claims  ratio  what Mrs Ms representative  considers to be poor value  and the 
fact much of the premium went to the business rather than the insurer.  
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just told 
Mrs M about  the limitations and exclusions,  it should  have  gone  further  and explained 
the significance  of them to her. 
Im not persuaded by Mrs Ms representatives views  on this. The duty of utmost  good  faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find this extended to the insurer having to disclose the claims 
ratio information or explaining the significance of the limitations and exclusions  in the way 
Mrs M has suggested. And, taking into account the law, industry codes and standards  of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude Santander  ought to have  done either. 
what effect did Santanders shortcomings  have on Mrs M? To what extent  did she 
suffer loss or damage  as a result?
Ive found Santander didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy to Mrs M. So I 
have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mrs M 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not she 
would have still taken  the policy, had Santander  done things properly. 
While Im not persuaded Santander took the steps  it should have done to establish  whether 
the policy it recommended was suitable  for Mrs M, I have found the policy was ultimately 
suitable for her. In those  circumstances it seems to me that whether or not Mrs M has 
suffered loss or damage in this case primarily depends on whether, if Santander had 
explained things  properly, Mrs M would have acted  differently or whether she would  have 
taken the policy in any event.
Mrs M says she wouldnt have  taken it and believes I should presume this to be the case  
given the significant failings identified  above.  Ive considered  the representations of both 
sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take insurance  requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
Ref: DRN54874677weigh up the advice to take the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests Mrs M had some interest in taking payment protection 
insurance. By this I mean when Santander advised  her there  was a suitable product  she 
could buy that would  protect  her mortgage  payments  if she were unable  to work because  of 
accident, sickness or unemployment, she concluded she wanted that product. But she made  
that decision based on incomplete information, meaning what  she thought she was getting is 
not exactly what she got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mrs Ms circumstances at the 
time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her.
Although I consider it more likely than not Mrs M knew  she would have to pay something for 
the policy, it doesnt appear  Santander  told her the exact premium at the point she applied 
for it or made clear exactly what Mrs M would get back in return  if she made a successful 
claim. Having said that, I think it unlikely  Mrs M would have taken the policy  without some 
idea of the approximate cost. Also, before she started to pay for the policy,  a schedule  was 
sent to Mrs M showing the monthly cost and monthly benefit. If these had been significantly 
at odds with her expectations  at the point  of sale, its possible Mrs M might have raised that 
with Santander  at the time or reconsidered  her decision.
Overall, Im not persuaded Mrs M would  have found  the cost unacceptable  if she had been 
given the exact figure during the meeting in which she agreed  to the policy. In addition, Im 
not persuaded that its likely Mrs Ms expectations about what  the policy would pay out were 
significantly different to what the policy  actually did. 
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mrs M thought  she had bought  and 
what she actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to any health  issue  Mrs M had at the policy  start or 
which she had received advice or treatment for in the year before the start;  
The policy limited, and in some situations  excluded, unemployment  cover  if Mrs M wasnt  
a permanent employee;
To be eligible  for a disability claim,  Mrs M had to be unable to do her own job or any job 
she was reasonably able to do, given her experience, education or training; and
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, rather  than the remaining term of the 
mortgage.  
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations or exclusions above might  well have caused 
Mrs M pause  for thought  and may well have caused her to conclude the policy wasnt as 
good as she thought and she might have decided not to proceed. The limitations on the 
cover, when  coupled  with the other shortcomings in this sale, might  have  dissuaded some  
consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mrs M from taking the policy.  
But, the evidence  about Mrs Ms circumstances at the time of sale shows the policy  wasnt  
fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. Mrs M was eligible for its benefits  and it provided 
cover that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proven valuable  to her should  the 
insured risks have  become a reality. I also havent  seen any evidence to suggest Mrs M 
wouldve been caught by any of the significant exclusions  she didnt have any existing 
Ref: DRN54874678health issues and was in permanent employment. So, I think she still had some good 
reasons to take the policy.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Mrs M would have 
expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some  evidence to 
support that claim.
If Mrs M had known  she could only claim for disability if she were not only unable  to do her 
own job but also unable  to do any job that, given  her experience,  education or training, she 
was reasonably able to do, it might have  played  into her thinking  about what  to do. And I 
accept it may have given  her pause  for thought  although, given her circumstances,  on 
balance I think Mrs M would  have still been  interested in taking the cover.
Santander may not have told Mrs M any claim she made would be limited to 12 months. This 
may have  differed from what  she expected  and mightve hoped  for  but Ive seen nothing  to 
make me think Mrs Ms sick pay or redundancy entitlement  was likely as much  as 12 months  
of her full pay, even  allowing for any insurance  she mightve had. In those circumstances, I 
consider it likely Mrs M wouldve  still thought  a policy that paid up to 12 monthly benefit 
payments would help her manage the consequences should  she be unable to work in the 
circumstances covered by the policy. The policy allowed for multiple claims to be made, 
could help reduce her outgoings at a difficult and uncertain time and help ensure her home  
was not placed at risk.
Having considered all the evidence and arguments in this case,  I consider  it more likely than 
not Mrs M would still have taken the policy. It was suitable for her, sufficiently close to what 
its likely  she thought  she was getting  and provided  benefits that would  help her manage the 
consequences if she were  made  redundant, or unable to work through accident  or sickness.  
In the circumstances, I consider it more likely than not Mrs M would have  taken the policy in 
any event notwithstanding  the limitations on cover.
Mrs Ms representatives say the rules about  how to handle PPI complaints (DISP  App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken PPI, unless there is evidence to outweigh  the presumption. 
They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances. That guidance  is for 
firms, but it is a relevant  consideration so I take it into account  along with many  other  things 
when I decide  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable.  Considering the purpose of the 
guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended  to be at odds with the approach  I have taken. 
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mrs M would  not have  bought  the PPI she bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mrs Ms 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  she found  
herself in as a result  of the sale was the same  position she wouldve been in had the breach 
or significant failings  not occurred. 
Ref: DRN54874679Mrs M believes the presumption may only be rebutted  when the flaws in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including her own comments  that she would not have taken 
the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments.  
Even if Im ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which I 
dont consider I am), Im only doing  so because I do not consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mrs M in the position she wouldve been in if she had not 
bought the policy. That is because, while I accept its possible  she wouldnt have taken the 
PPI, Im satisfied, of the two possibilities, its more likely than not she would still have taken 
the PPI had she been given clear, fair and not misleading information about  the policy she 
was buying. So Im not persuaded  it would be fair and reasonable, in those  circumstances, 
to conclude Santander should pay Mrs M compensation, as that would put her in a better  
position than she would  have been  in if everything  had happened  as it should have done. 
Im also aware Mrs M thinks Santander misrepresented  the terms of the policy in how it 
described the PPI. While I accept theres a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
Santanders statements  misrepresented  the contract, in my opinion  the reason  why 
Santander failed  to act fairly and reasonably was not because  of what it did or didnt say in 
the information it provided  but because the overall information Santander gave Mrs M, in 
the way it did, was insufficient  to meet the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to 
expect it to have  met in 1999 when providing information about  an insurance policy. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mrs Ms representative says a court might take if it 
were to find Santander negligently misrepresented the contract to Mrs M and about  the 
remedy a court might award if it were to find Santander had been  in breach of its duty of 
utmost good  faith. But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about  what is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out, I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mrs M in a better position than if everything had 
happened as it should have done. 
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2021.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5487467