K822xcomplaint
Mr B complains about errors he says Hornbuckle Mitchell  (for which  Embark Services 
Limited takes responsibility) made in administering his pension.  He says that it did not 
correctly claim  tax relief in 2010  to enable the transfer of funds out of the SIPP and has 
taken money from the SIPP to pay its fees when it was instructed to request this from his 
employer. Mr B says it has made  additional mistakes regarding  tax relief  on his employee  
contributions and in respect of investments made within the pension. He requests that it 
refunds all the fees taken from the pension,  correct the tax relief  and compensate for the 
lack of investment  growth.  
background 
As Embark Services Limited  (ESL) now takes  responsibility for Hornbuckle Mitchell I will 
refer to ESL throughout in respect  of the actions that were  taken.
ESL said that it acknowledged  there was originally an intention that fees were to be 
requested from Mr Bs employer. However it said that the terms and conditions for the 
pension allowed it to deduct such fees from the pension if necessary.  It said that it had 
attempted to contact  Mr Bs employer for the payment  of fees but it had not received a 
response. Therefore it had deducted these from the pension. However, it said it did deduct 
fees from the pension cash account  without sufficient notification  and so offered £100 for any 
inconvenience caused. 
It did not uphold  the complaint in respect  of investment in Cofunds  being stopped. It said that 
there was no standing instruction to invest cash in Cofunds. In terms of an intended transfer 
in 2010 it said it had provided  the necessary forms to Mr Bs financial adviser in 2010  but 
had no record of receiving  completed  forms. So it did not uphold  that point of complaint. 
Mr B referred his complaint to this service. An investigator at this service then considered  the 
complaint but did not believe it should  be upheld. ESL then queried whether some  elements 
of the complaint had been made too late  outside the applicable  time limits.  The investigator 
thought they had and informed Mr B of this. Mr B did not accept  those findings  and therefore 
the complaint  was referred to an ombudsman.  The ombudsman decided  that we could 
consider events that had occurred after 23 November 2011   but only to the extent that they 
related to the issues about poor administration. We could not consider issues  made in the 
complaint that related to the period before that.
The investigator then returned to his consideration of the merits of the complaint. He 
considered the relevant complaint issues that had occurred  after 23 November 2011. He 
noted that a new issue  had been  raised  about  the sale of a particular fund  but confirmed 
this was  a new complaint  which would have to be made separately to ESL. He then noted 
that ESL had agreed to waive about  £1,400  of fees that would have been normally charged 
to the pension and offered a further  £1,000 in settlement of the complaint. 
He thought that it was not reasonable to hold ESL liable for the lack of investment growth 
due to uninvested money as Mr B had instructed those ongoing investments to be cancelled  
in 2010.  And ESL was entitled  to take fees from the pension  account because they were not 
met by his employer. 
Mr B did not accept  the investigators assessment. In summary  he:
Ref: DRN58738022Said the greatest part of the complaint was that about the mistakes,  errors and 
incorrect assumptions by ESL over the years. 
Said ESLs final response should not be considered as such  because it was not 
comprehensive. 
Said the claim for compensation does not only include fees taken from Mr Bs SIPP 
and loss of investment  growth  but also new tax refunds that should  have been  
claimed by ESL, £1.35 interest and the potential loss on an M&G fund. 
Set out the issues with the M&G fund and its sale/transfer.
Set out some recent ESL administration issues including  the correspondence 
address it was using,  communications relating to the M&G fund and the amount  
transferred to Mr Bs new pension  provider. 
Provided a new breakdown of the redress claimed.
  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly I should confirm  that I will not be considering complaint issues which pertain to the 
period before 23 November 2011  although some of the factual background will be relevant 
to issues post that date.  I also will not consider  the issues raised  about  the M&G fund and 
the recent transfer  of the pension as those are new issues that have been made since  the 
original complaint. Those issues can be raised with ESL separately if Mr B wishes.  
I should clarify that the fact that Mr B believes that ESLs final response to his complaint was 
lacking somewhat in content, does not mean  it is not qualify as a final response to his 
complaint. If Mr B did not agree with ESLs findings  then he could refer his complaint to this 
service  which he did. The fact that ESL also stated that it would not correspond  with Mr B 
further about his complaint did not prevent  him from corresponding with it in any way. 
Notwithstanding that I believe it did correspond with his representative  after it issued its final 
response, I have not seen that it refused to deal with him at all in respect of the 
administration of his pension. 
In terms of the complaint itself, having considered  the submissions  and evidence,  my view is 
that at times ESL has not provided an adequate level of service to Mr B. However  its offer is 
in my view a fair resolution. 
I do not agree that because ESLs service has, at times, been lacking, that all or the majority 
of the fees due for administering the pension should be waived or (alternatively) deemed 
invested. Fees for administering the pension were due, be they paid by Mr Bs employer or 
from his pension and ESLs service was not of a nature  that would lead to a finding that all 
fees should be waived. The evidence would show that at certain points  Mr Bs employer was 
informed that such  fees were outstanding.  
For example there is an email of 19 May 2016 from ESL to Mr Bs employer which  sets out 
that fees from April 2014  and April 2015 are outstanding. It says that payment can be made 
either by selling assets within the scheme  or a payment can be made to the scheme bank 
Ref: DRN58738023account. And there is a letter dated 13 March  2018 from ESL to Mr B which  sets out that 
there were outstanding  fees from 2014, 2016  and 2017. It said these had not been paid 
because there was insufficient money  in the scheme  cash  account and they had not been  
settled in any other way. 
It seems  to me that, even if the exact amount of fee or certain fees were disputed, Mr Bs 
employer did have  the opportunity to pay money to Mr Bs pension  to satisfy  or materially  
satisfy such fees. 
In any event, Mr Bs employer can compensate Mr B for any fees it believes it should have 
paid. 
I understand the concern  about ESL not collecting fees from Mr Bs employer, rather 
charging them to the pension. But ESL says it sent a letter to its clients in 2011 which 
advised of changes to the terms and conditions. It has provided a sample  of that letter. 
Amongst other changes set out in the letter  was notification  that it may sell investments in 
certain circumstances  without reference to the client.  It also set out that the client will be 
responsible for payment  of any reasonable costs and charges for ESL performing its duties 
under the terms  and conditions. 
I note that the terms and conditions applicable in 2011 set out how charges will be applied  at 
section 18. It is set out that:
All charges and other sums due from your individual  fund or from you personally under this 
agreement must be paid out of funds held in the designated account in respect  of your 
individual fund.  You are responsible for ensuring  that there are sufficient funds available  in 
good time to pay charges or any other  sums due under these terms and conditions.
If there is not enough money in the designated account in respect of your individual fund to 
meet charges or other amounts as they fall due, we may cover the shortfall  by arranging the 
sale of investments held within your Individual fund without further reference to you. If there 
is more than one type of investment in your Individual fund, we will normally  follow the 
process set out in section 19.1.
Section 19 sets out:
Where there are insufficient  cleared  funds  in the designated account to meet  payments that 
are due to or from your individual fund, we will carry out the following procedure:
19.1.1 we will ask you to provide additional  contributions (where appropriate)  or instructions  
to sell assets (or a combination of both)  to provide sufficient  funds.  The instructions to sell 
assets must  specify the assets we should  sell, and the order  in which we should  sell them;
19.1.2 if we do not receive additional  contributions and/or instructions to sell assets  that 
would together  provide sufficient cleared funds within one month  (or such  longer period as 
we allow) of our request, we will arrange for assets to be sold in the following order:
(a) any cash held on deposit  with another bank or licensed deposit taker;
(b) any assets held through  a DFM (last appointed DFM contacted  first);
(c) stocks and shares, on a last-in, first-out  basis;
(d) investment trusts/unit trusts/OEICs on a last-in, first-out basis;
(e) trustee investment  policies/bonds  on a last-in, first-out basis;
(f) any other  asset (excluding commercial  property) not included above on a last-in, firstout
Ref: DRN58738024basis; then
(g) commercial  property  on a last-in, first-out basis.
I have not seen any formal agreement dating back to 2011 that fees would only be collected 
by ESL from Mr Bs employer. 
There is an email of 7 March 2006  from what I understand to be Mr Bs financial adviser at 
the time,  which ESL was not directly  addressed to but it was copied into. This says that:
It was agreed with the clients' employer that all fees attributable  to these two SIPPs  would 
be settled directly by their employer.
Please raise  the invoice and address them for the attention of: (employers address).
Whilst the intention  was for Mr Bs employer to pay fees and that might have been the 
understanding between Mr B, his employer and his financial adviser, I have not seen  that 
anything was formally agreed with ESL.  I do not believe it was prevented from charging  fees 
to the pension if they were not paid on time.  
Be that as it may, after considering all the evidence, I can see that ESL did not always 
provide the service that would reasonably be expected and Mr B is due some compensation 
for that. ESL has waived fee amounts of over £1,400 since  2011. And agreed to pay a 
further sum of £1,000 in settlement of the complaint. This, in total, is actually quite close  to 
the sum Mr B has now claimed, notwithstanding that this did not included  a claim for distress 
and Mr Bs employers time.  Given what I have  said about the fact that fees were due, 
notwithstanding any agreement for the employer to pay them  direct, I believe that the sum 
waived/offered is a fair resolution in the circumstances and compensates  Mr B for any 
distress and inconvenience he has suffered. It is a significant amount and compensates 
Mr B for a significant amount of the fees that should  been paid and the inconvenience  he will 
have suffered. 
 
my final decision
The sum ESL has waived and offered in resolution  of this complaint is fair in the 
circumstances and I make no further  award. Mr B can contact ESL direct if he wishes to 
accept its additional  payment of £1,000.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 February  2021.
David Bird
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5873802