K820x#14complaint
The estate  of Mrs S complains that Lloyds Bank  Plc wouldnt provide an up-to-date  
statement or account balance in the branch without two signatures.
background
This complaint is brought by the three executors of Mrs Ss estate but, for ease  of reading, 
Ill only refer to Mr S in this decision, as all the submissions have been made by him.
The executors hold two accounts with Lloyds. During a visit to one of Lloyds branches, Mr S 
requested a balance or up-to-date print-out of transactions for the accounts. He says the 
branch advisor  took a specimen of his signature for uploading on to the banks records 
without advising what he was doing.  The same member of staff then told Mr S he couldnt  
give him the account balances or print-outs  because two signatures are required for that. 
Mr S says thats not correct. He says two signatures  are only needed for withdrawals from 
the accounts. 
Mr S says the member  of staff ordered a statement to be sent to him in the post. A statement 
did arrive, but it wasnt  the up-to-date one which Mr S wanted  only another copy  of one he 
already had.
Mr S says he contacted  Lloyds by phone and was told they would send him the information 
he wanted. But all that arrived  in the post was another copy  of the same document  he 
already had. When Mr S called Lloyds again,  he says the advisor he spoke to wouldnt 
discuss the account with him as he couldnt identify him. Mr S asks why this was the case, 
when the person he spoke to previously had successfully identified  him. Mr S says he asked 
again for the print-out to be sent to him as well as a copy of the account mandate. But he 
says he didnt hear any more from Lloyds.
Mr S complained to Lloyds. They said their usual method for identifying  customers in the 
branch is by chip and pin, but they hadnt been  able to identify Mr S in this way because  that 
facility wasnt available  on the executors accounts at the time of his visit. They  said this 
could have been down to a system  error at the time.  But they said thats why Mr S was 
asked to provide  a copy of his signature  in order to identify him. And Lloyds  said that the 
signing instructions  on the accounts  require two signatures for any transaction,  which is why 
they couldnt provide the balance  or print-out to Mr S at his sole request in the branch.
Mr S wasnt  happy with Lloyds response, so he brought his complaint to this service. When 
our investigator looked into it, he thought Lloyds had acted fairly and didnt ask them to do 
anything. But Mr S didnt agree and asked  for his complaint  to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman. He says Lloyds had lost the record of his signature  several  years  ago and 
thats why a specimen of his signature  was taken in the branch, without any explanation.  
And he says its not right that two signatures are needed to obtain  an account balance,  
which he says isnt a transaction  on the account. Mr S wants Lloyds to provide a copy  of the 
account mandate to confirm the position.  
He says he wasted  hours  of his time trying  to get the information he needed from Lloyds. He 
says they should compensate him for this, as well as the stress  and aggravation hes 
experienced. And he says Lloyds should  be responsible for any additional  probate fees 
which arise from the delay he says they caused.
Ref: DRN56477892my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
From the information available  to me, Im satisfied that Lloyds held a specimen signature  for 
Mr S on both accounts at the time he visited  the branch. So I dont find that his signature 
was requested that day as a means  of obtaining it for the account records. I realise there has 
been some  confusion over whether the signature  records had been lost and that, at one 
time, Mr S was asked  to provide identification  again. But Im satisfied that Lloyds have held a 
copy of Mr Ss signature on the executors accounts  since they were opened.
Lloyds say that they werent able to identify Mr S during  his branch visit using chip and pin. 
Mr S has queried this, saying hed successfully been identified in that way at the counter 
earlier in his visit. But I understand that the chip and pin facility  had been  used to identify 
Mr S on his own personal account,  not the executors accounts. Lloyds have explained that 
Mr S needed  to be identified separately in relation to the executors accounts, in order to 
address his query about those. Theyve clarified  that, when the member of staff came to do 
this, he wasnt able to use chip and pin because that facility  isnt available on those 
accounts. So they say that, as an alternative  means  of identifying Mr S, a sample of his 
signature was taken. I think thats  a reasonable explanation. And Im satisfied thats  why 
Mr S was asked to provide his signature in the branch, to compare with the one held on 
record.
Lloyds say that, having identified Mr S in this way, the member  of staff checked  the signature  
rules for the accounts. He told Mr S he couldnt provide a balance  or print-out because two 
signatures are needed for that. Having seen the signature rules for the accounts, Im 
satisfied thats  correct. Mr S says the requirement for two signatures only relates to 
withdrawals and wouldnt apply to a balance or statement request. But the signature  rules 
dont limit the requirement for two signatures  in any way. 
The terms and conditions  of the accounts contain  the following provision:
Unless  you have provided otherwise in Section 3, Signing Restrictions, of the Authority,  
each signatory named in Section 2 of the Authority has individual  authority without  any 
restriction to authorise any transaction or other  business with the Bank, and to operate  all 
your accounts
So the question  is whether the executors have provided otherwise  here  that is, have they 
instructed Lloyds to deviate from the default  position that each  of them  has individual 
authority in relation to the accounts. I find that they have, for the reasons below.
Lloyds say that they no longer have  a copy of the original Authority or account mandates,  
due to the amount of time which has passed since the accounts were  opened. But they have 
provided the electronic record of the signature rules  and screen shots of notes made on the 
accounts at the time they were opened.  The notes were made by a member of staff who had 
seen the original paperwork from the executors. They record that two out of the three 
executors are required to sign.  So I find that this overrides the default position  in the terms 
and conditions that each signatory has individual authority. 
The instructions dont limit this requirement to a particular  type of transaction,  such as 
withdrawals. So Im satisfied they apply to any transaction or other business with Lloyds  and 
Ref: DRN56477893operation of the accounts. I realise  Mr S feels strongly about this issue. And he says that 
individual executors have been  able to pay money into the accounts.  I dont have  any further 
information about payments in. And Mr S hasnt complained about any specific  payment or 
payments into the accounts as part of this complaint. But the information available  to me 
indicates that the accounts have a general  requirement for two signatures which isnt limited  
to any particular type of transaction.  So I cant conclude that Lloyds  should  have provided a 
balance or statement to Mr S in the branch on the basis of his authority alone. And I dont  
think they acted  unfairly  by declining to do so, so Im not going to ask them  to do anything  
here.
As to the fact that the document sent to Mr S in the post afterwards was the same  one he 
already had, I dont  have  any more details about that. But, noting the dates of the statements 
Ive seen, I find it likely that the statement which was sent to Mr S again was the most recent  
statement available at the time.
Mr S is also unhappy that he couldnt  speak to Lloyds over the phone about the accounts 
because the agent wasnt able to identify him. I realise it was very frustrating  for Mr S, 
particularly as hed previously been  able to discuss the accounts over the phone. I dont 
have the details of why exactly Mr S couldnt be identified. But its right that Lloyds should  
have security measures in place to protect  customers accounts. And if the agent wasnt  able 
to successfully identify  Mr S on that occasion,  it wouldnt have been  appropriate  for them  to 
go on and discuss the accounts with him. So, from the information  available to me, I cant 
fairly conclude that Lloyds  did anything  wrong in this respect.
my final decision
For the reasons  above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask the estate of the 
late Mrs S to accept or reject my decision before 22 July 2020.
Katy Kidd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5647789