K820x#14complaint
Miss S1 has complained that the interest  rate charged by NRAM Limited on an equity  
release mortgage  taken  out by her late sister,  Miss S2, was too high. She has brought  the 
complaint as Executor  of Miss S2s estate  and is asking  NRAM  to pay what  she says is 
overcharged interest into the estate.
background
In September  2003 Miss S2 took out an equity release  mortgage  with NRAM, borrowing 
£47,250 at a fixed interest rate of 6.95%. She borrowed  a further £5,400  from NRAM in 
January 2007,  at a fixed rate of 6.29%. The mortgage was transferred to another business in 
2012.
I am sorry  to note Miss S2 has passed  away. Miss S1 is Executor of her estate. She has 
complained about the interest  charged  on the equity  release mortgage and further advance.  
Miss S1 has explained  that, before Miss S2 died she had asked if there could be any 
reduction in the interest rate on the loan.  Miss S2 was told that this wasnt possible, because 
the contract  provided  for the fixed rate of interest.  But Miss S1 recently  spoke to a solicitor 
who suggested she contacts us to find out if any rebate of interest  is due to the estate.
An investigator looked at the complaint. He didnt think it should be upheld. He was satisfied 
that the interest rate had been charged in line with the contract. He found  no evidence  that 
NRAM had, as Miss S1 suggested,  falsified statements.  And he was satisfied that the 
amount charged  to redeem the mortgage  appeared to be correct.
Miss S1 didnt accept  his findings and asked for an ombudsman to review the case, so it 
now falls to me to make  a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusion as the investigator, for largely the same reasons.
Miss S1 says that the interest rates of 6.95% for the first advance in September  2003 and 
6.29% for the further advance in January 2007 are high, compared with what  she says is the 
current average for the industry. I dont  know if Miss S1 means the equity  release  market or 
the mortgage market generally  the two markets are quite different and the products offered 
to each sector of customers  are priced  differently.  
Generally, equity release mortgages  are priced  at a higher rate of interest than standard  
residential mortgages. NRAM is under no obligation to alter the interest rate to mirror 
fluctuations in variable rate mortgages   because the contract is for a fixed rate of interest. 
This particular mortgage is at fixed rates  of 6.95% (2003 advance)  and 6.29% (2007  
advance) for the life of the mortgage. 
The product  is structured to reflect the fact that NRAM has lent money over a long term with 
no return on its funds until the mortgage ends  which could be in 25 or 30 years from the 
date it was taken  out. The implications of this on the overall amount owed are explained 
clearly in the documents.
Ref: DRN54886762So when the contract is entered  into, NRAM advances the funds in the knowledge that it will 
receive no interest or capital for many years. And the borrowers know  they have the use of 
the money without  needing to make any repayment,  with this eventually  coming  out of the 
equity in their home upon their deaths or when  they leave the property  to go into nursing 
care.
Online data shows that the average mortgage  interest rate in September  2003  was 5.58% 
and in January  2007 it was 5.48%.  In the circumstances the interest  rates of 6.95% and 
6.29% for this product  are not unreasonable or unfair in my opinion,  given the nature of the 
product and prevailing interest rates at the time.
I appreciate that compound interest  over the years since  the mortgage  and further advance  
were taken out has increased  the amount the estate has had to pay to redeem the 
mortgage. But Im unable to find NRAM did anything wrong in structuring its product in this 
way.
Ive also looked  at the available  statements  for the account. Im satisfied there  has been no 
falsification of figures  by NRAM.
As stated above, the product was transferred to another  company in 2012. I note Miss S1 is 
unhappy about the redemption figure.  But thats something shell need to take up with the 
business which owned the loan at the time of redemption.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S1, on behalf 
of the estate of the late Miss S2, to accept  or reject  my decision  before 2 September  2019.
Jan OLeary
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5488676