K821x#15complaint
Mrs A, whos  represented by her husband,  complains Metro  Bank PLC refused to open  an 
account for her. Mrs A thinks  this is illegal  and that she is entitled  to a bank account.  
background
Mrs A wanted to open an account with Metro  Bank.  She says she went to her local branch  
with her husband, to apply for an account  and was told that she couldnt have an account  
because she couldnt speak English. Mrs A says she complained  about  this in the branch at 
the time as she thought Metros decision wasnt legal.
Metro Bank  investigated  Mrs As complaint  but didnt uphold  it. It said that its terms and 
conditions state  it can only open  accounts  for customers who can communicate  in English. 
And that the terms  cant be interpreted to mean that having a translator was sufficient.
 
Metro Bank  said it was sorry if Mrs A felt that the wording in the terms and conditions  werent 
clear and has passed this feedback to its Head Office.  And it added  that it could open  an 
account for Mrs A once  it was satisfied she understood the terms and conditions,  usage, 
checks, searches,  and everything else involved in account opening, and IS able to 
communicate her understanding to us in English . Unhappy with the reply Mrs A complained 
to us with the help of her husband. 
One of our investigators  looked into Mrs As complaint. Having done so, she felt that      
Metro Bank  had acted  unfairly. While acknowledging the account terms and conditions, she 
thought Metro Bank could have done  more to assist Mrs A in opening an account  given  the 
law and good industry practice.  And so she recommended Metro Bank pay Mrs A £500  
compensation for the distress  and inconvenience  shed been  caused. Mrs A accepted  this 
recommendation.
But Metro  Bank said it had done  nothing  wrong  because its terms and conditions are clear  in 
that it requires  any account holders to be able to read and understand English. And it 
queried why the investigator had acknowledged this but went on to say the application of the 
terms and conditions caused distress and inconvenience to Mrs A. It explained that 
part of the reason it doesnt offer accounts to non-English speaking customers  is that it 
believes this would be putting the customer  as well as the bank  at an unreasonable  level 
of risk. It acknowledged that it could arrange  for the terms  and conditions  to be translated 
into other languages, to ensure that non-English  speaking customers understand the 
agreement they are signing up to. But it said this wouldnt guarantee that it would  be able to 
speak to the customer in their own language,  should it need to make an important,  time-
bound call once the account was open. 
Metro Bank  also suggested  that its not for the this service to comment on who Metro  Bank  
declines to open  accounts for or to judge if it has acted lawfully.
As Metro Bank didnt  accept the investigators recommendation, this case  has come  to me to 
issue a final decision.  
Ref: DRN51543552my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not our role to say whether a business has acted  unlawfully or not  thats  a matter for 
the Courts. But our role is to decide whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. In 
order to decide  that, however, I have to take a number of things  into account including  
relevant law and what  I consider to have been good  industry practice at the time. That 
means taking into account,  for example, the fact that, as a matter  of contract law,          
Metro Bank  has the right to choose  who it contracts  with (subject to legal restrictions such  as 
the Equality Act). 
Metro Bank  has explained  its position  to us as summarised above.  But Mrs A has told us 
that getting an account in the UK is very important to her as she lives and works 
permanently in the UK. Having an account  would mean shed be able to pay bills via direct 
debit and use the account for everyday living expenses. As things stand she has to use her 
husbands account to pay for transactions and obtain cash.  Mrs A has told us that she took 
the banks decision  personally and felt Metro Bank was picking on her because  of her 
minimal knowledge of the English language.  So Ive thought carefully about what  Mrs A has 
said and any relevant laws which may apply here. 
The Equality  Act says that people with protected characteristics mustnt  be discriminated 
against. The protected characteristics include race which includes a group of people  
defined by their race,  colour and nationality  (including citizenship) ethnic or national origins.
In light of the above, had Mrs A brought a claim of discrimination against Metro  Bank,  I think 
its unlikely that a Court would decide  Metro Bank had directly  discriminated against her. 
Metro Bank  declined to open an account because Mrs A couldnt speak English not because 
of her race. But I do think its likely  that a Court  would decide that a requirement  that a 
customer has to speak  English is likely to put people from particular ethnic backgrounds, 
with particular nationalities or races, at a particular disadvantage when compared to others 
who dont come from those groups. In other words, I think it is likely that a Court would 
decide that this was indirect discrimination unless Metro Bank  could show that it was a 
proportionate means  of achieving a legitimate aim. 
Metro Bank  has told us that it needs  to regularly  make important time-bound calls to its 
customers  for example,  if a fraud was attempted on an account. So it doesnt offer 
accounts to non-English speaking customers because it believes it would be putting those 
customers  as well as the bank  at an unreasonable level of risk. And I accept  that a Court  
would likely  decide  this could be a legitimate aim of its terms. But the means have to be 
proportionate. And I think its unlikely a Court would say preventing customers  who cant  
speak English or fluent English from opening an account is proportionate. I think its likely a 
Court would say offering  a basic account or an account with assistance is a proportionate 
response to the risk of fraud rather than precluding Mrs A altogether. 
Ref: DRN51543553But even if I think its likely a Court would  say Metro Bank has indirectly  discriminated 
against Mrs A, that doesnt automatically  mean I have to uphold  Mrs As complaint.  I have  to 
decide what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances taking relevant law, amongst other 
things, into account.  One of the other things I have to take into account is what  I consider to 
be good industry practice. 
So Ive thought about that too. Im aware that many financial service providers offer 
translation support  or translation  services and it seems to me to be good industry practice  to 
consider whether that would help here.  But theres  no evidence  that Metro  Bank  did this in     
Mrs As case.
Overall I dont think Metro Bank  acted  fairly  in this case when it refused to open  an account 
for Mrs A. This clearly was upsetting for her to the extent that it has held her back from 
applying for an account  elsewhere. So in the circumstances, I agree with our adjudicator that 
it would  be appropriate  to award  Mrs A some compensation for her distress and 
inconvenience. The adjudicator awarded  £500 and I feel that fully reflects the distress and 
inconvenience caused to Mrs A. 
my final decision 
My final decision is that I require Metro Bank PLC to pay Mrs A £500 for the distress  and 
inconvenience it caused her. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 November 2019.
Sandra Greene
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5154355