K820x#14Complaint
Mr B complains that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (VFS) refused to cover the 
costs of repairs to his car.
Background
In October  2017 Mr B acquired  a second hand car costing £ £18,666  funded by a hire 
purchase agreement  with VFS and a deposit  of £2,000. It was some three years old and had 
done 39,000 miles.  After acquiring  the car Mr B says he noticed  the brakes werent as 
effective as he expected and he reported this to the dealer. It said the brakes were 
satisfactory.
In July 2018 Mr B complained to VFS and in August  the brakes were tested by the dealer 
during a routine service.  It said a roller  test showed  the brakes met the MOT  requirements.  
VFS rejected his complaint and a few days later Mr B bought new brake discs which he 
fitted. Shortly after he took the old discs  to another dealer and asked if they would have 
replaced them. They said they would. 
Mr B brought his complaint to this service where  it was considered  by one of our 
adjudicators who didnt recommend it be upheld. She said that in the time he had the car he 
had done some 11,000 miles before replacing  the brakes. She didnt  believe she could say 
the car wasnt roadworthy in October 2017. The fact the discs were shown to be worn to the 
point of needing to be replaced a year after acquisition didnt mean  they werent satisfactory 
at the point of sale. She said further wear  and tear would have occurred.
Mr B didnt agree and aske that the case be considered by an ombudsman.  He has not 
supplied any further evidence in support of his complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators  rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what  I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.  
The finance  agreement, that is the hire purchase  agreement, in this case is a regulated  
consumer credit agreement. As such this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. 
VFS is also the supplier  of the goods  under this type of agreement, and responsible  for a 
complaint about  their quality.
The relevant  law says that under a contract to supply goods,  there  is an implied  term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory .
The relevant  law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person  would consider satisfactory taking into account  any description of 
the goods, price  and all other relevant circumstances. So it seems likely that in a case  
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might  
include things like the age and the mileage  at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
Ref: DRN56420722Under the relevant law the quality of the goods  includes their general state and condition and 
other things  like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects  of the quality of the goods.
I have looked  at the online MOT record for the car and see that there  was an advisory notice 
for the rear brakes in October 2017.  This means they were roadworthy  and the car passed  
the test, but they were worn.  The car had done 39,344 miles at that point and by the time the 
discs were replaced they had done somewhere in the region of 50,000 miles. I dont believe 
it is unusual for discs to have to be replaced  after such  a mileage. 
Discs wear down over time and it is to be expected they will have to be replaced.  If they had 
worn to the point of not passing  the MOT then I would be able to uphold this complaint, but 
as they were not I fear I cannot. 
In the circumstances I cannot safely  conclude the car was unfit for purpose  when  it was 
acquired by Mr B. Also I presume he would have had chance to look at the 2017 MOT which  
was carried out two days before he bought the car. As such  he could have chosen not to 
proceed with the purchase or asked that the discs be replaced.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or reject my decision before 
1 March 2020.
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN5642072