K820x#14complaint
Mr N complains that MBNA Limited is holding him liable  for a number of payments  made  on 
his credit card account, even though  he says he didnt make them or allow anyone else to do 
so. 
background
In or about September 2017 Mr N opened a credit  card account with MBNA and, shortly 
afterwards, made a £2,000 balance transfer  from a different provider. Over a three-  to four-
week period after that, the new account  was used  to make a number of online and telephone 
purchases, totalling around £9,000, from different suppliers. Mr N says those purchases 
were made without his knowledge or authority. 
MBNA looked into the purchases. It examined  its own records,  spoke to Mr N and contacted 
some of the retailers involved. Having done  so, it said it thought that Mr N was involved in 
the purchases. It noted:
All the orders  were  placed in Mr Ns name and used his address.
Two of the suppliers had delivered  goods to the same address  not Mr Ns billing 
address, but to a small industrial unit. Mr N has links to the unit next door.
A third supplier sent goods to a different address again. That address  was linked to 
someone who shares  Mr Ns surname (which is not particularly common). 
Because MBNA would  not refund the payments, Mr N complained  to this service, where one 
of our investigators considered what had happened. She concluded however that it was 
more likely than not that Mr N either made  the purchases himself or allowed someone  else 
to do so. Mr N didnt  accept her findings and asked that an ombudsman  review the case.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both MBNA and our investigator  considered at some length how someone  could have  got 
hold of Mr Ns credit card. Mr Ns account  of where  he kept the card has been inconsistent in 
some ways. Given however that hed only had it for a very short time and hadnt used it 
before the disputed  transactions  started, thats  not wholly surprising.  I note too that Mr N has 
said that he suffers from memory loss and that English is not his first language.  
Its important too that whoever made the payments and ordered the goods didnt need the 
physical card at all. They would have needed the card details  the 16-digit number, expiry 
date, CVV number  and billing address   and possibly some further information about  Mr N. 
Generally there are more opportunities to obtain card details than there are to obtain an 
actual card. That said, the opportunities to do so where the card has never  been  used are 
limited. Mr N hadnt, for example, given the card to anyone who could have copied the 
details or given the details to anyone in the usual course of business   for example, when 
making a remote purchase.    
I note as well that Mr N said hed been  out of the country at the time of the disputed  
transactions. Hes provided evidence  that he wasnt in the UK some  weeks  later, but not 
Ref: DRN54728392when the purchases  were  being  made. But the purchases were made online and by phone, 
so could have  been made from almost anywhere.  Mr Ns whereabouts at the time doesnt, in 
my view, help very much in deciding whether he was involved.  
I do believe its significant, however, that one of the addresses provided by the suppliers, 
whilst different from the billing address, does appear to be linked to Mr N.  Another appears 
to be linked to someone  with the same name; as Ive said,  its not a common  name and this 
is unlikely in my view to be a coincidence.  I think it likely too that all the transactions  were 
made by the same  person  or group of people. Its unlikely, for example, that Mr N made  or 
authorised some but that an unknown fraudster  made others.
I cannot say with certainty that Mr N made the purchases himself. I do take the view 
however that he probably knows rather more about them than he has told MBNA or this 
service. In the circumstances, I dont  think it would be fair to require MBNA to refund the 
card payments. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont require MBNA to do anything further to resolve Mr Ns 
complaint. Under  the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to 
accept or reject my decision  before  21 September 2019.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5472839