K820x#14complaint
Mr G says HSBC  UK Bank Plc mis-sold him a mortgage payment protection  insurance 
(MPPI) policy. 
background
The policy,  which  started in 1994, covered Mr Gs mortgage payments if he became  too ill to 
work or became unemployed.
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld. Mr G disagreed,  so the 
complaint was passed to me to review afresh.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of MPPI on our website. And Ive taken this into account in 
deciding Mr Gs case.
As our adjudicator explained, we dont  have all of the information  from the time of the sale in 
this case. That isnt surprising given the sale took place so long ago. That said,  Ive still 
reached a conclusion taking into account  the available evidence, knowledge and experience 
of these types of sales and whats  fair to both parties.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why. 
As theres  little paperwork from the time of the sale, I cant  say for sure that Mr G was told he 
had the option of refusing  MPPI, or that he agreed for it to be added. Equally, theres nothing 
to show the MPPI wasnt presented to him as optional or that he didnt choose to go ahead 
with it. As such, I dont  have enough evidence  to uphold the complaint on this basis.
Its unclear as to whether HSBC recommended MPPI to Mr G. If it did, HSBC  needed to take 
steps to ensure its advice was right for him. I cant be sure it took those steps, although I 
think the MPPI was right for him in any case. For example, although I dont have a copy of 
the applicable policy terms, it seems he would have  been eligible for the cover.  And Ive 
seen nothing to suggest the monthly  premium   at around £26  was unaffordable  for him.
MPPI policies generally include  restrictions on the cover, such as for claims for pre-existing 
medical conditions.  But I cant see that Mr G would have been affected by them.  
Mr G says, if he fell ill, hed have  received some sick pay from his employer but he hasnt 
said how much  or for how long. He also said he could have relied on his parents  for help. 
But the MPPI benefits would have paid out on top of any sick pay, and for up to 12 months 
per claim. Hed have been covered  for unemployment too. Unlike help from his parents, the 
PPI benefits were guaranteed. 
Given Mr G had arranged a mortgage  an important, long-term, financial commitment that 
was secured against his home   I think the cover  provided him with worthwhile  security.  
It was also for HSBC to give Mr G enough  information about the MPPI so he could make an 
informed choice about whether to go ahead with it. I dont know  exactly what information 
Ref: DRN58413992Mr G got during the sale. But, for the same reasons I think  MPPI was right for him, I dont 
think better information about  it would have put him off buying it.
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 April 2019.
Nimish Patel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5841399