K820x#14Complaint
Ms M complains that Bank of Scotland  plc (BOS) incorrectly  calculated the amount of 
arrears on her mortgage account,  and took a higher  payment than she agreed to clear the 
arrears.
Background
In May 2018, Ms M complained to BOS as she felt shed been incorrectly charged on her 
mortgage account and was due a refund. She said the Department for Work and Pensions 
(DWP) had made payments to the account,  shed made her expected direct debit payments 
but shed also made  additional card payments. She paid around £5,600 and thought the 
outstanding arrears were  only around  £4,100, so she wanted the difference  returned to her. 
BOS didnt uphold  the complaint. They said Ms M had been making payments on top of the 
DWP amount but these hadnt been enough to cover  her monthly contractual repayment. 
BOS explained  that as there had been a monthly shortfall in the amount they shouldve been 
receiving and the outstanding arrears amount of around £5,600  had been calculated  
correctly. 
Ms M didnt agree. She felt BOS were chasing  her for money she didnt owe,  so she asked 
this service to look into her complaint.
Our investigator didnt  think the complaint should be upheld. She acknowledged BOS had 
made several errors  and taken additional payments  previously, but she said these had been 
refunded to Ms M at various  agreed times. She also said there  had been  some occasions 
where the full monthly repayment hadnt been  paid to BOS. So she thought the outstanding  
arrears amount was correct. 
Ms M accepted the approximate £5,600 arrears amount  was correct. But she explained she 
hadnt authorised  BOS  to take this amount  in January 2018 - only the £4,100  she thought  
she owed. She said BOS had caused her to be financially  disadvantaged and she wanted  
the extra payment  refunded. 
The investigator reconsidered the complaint and didnt think  this should be upheld. She felt it 
was likely Ms M had authorised the payment for the full amount which  had allowed her to 
benefit from a lower rate. Ms M didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to review  her 
complaint. So the case  has been  passed to me to decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold it for broadly the same  reasons  as the investigator.  
I can see BOS  has made a number of mistakes when taking payments from Ms M over the 
last few years. We dont  offer an auditing service. But Ive reviewed BOS explanation, and 
the evidence available  for all the mortgage accounts and it seems likely  the amount it says 
Ms M is in arrears  is correct. And it seems  Ms M now accepts that as well. So Ive gone on 
to consider whether she authorised for the full amount to be taken when she paid her 
arrears.
Ref: DRN59466532They key dispute  here seems  to be what was discussed on the call between BOS and Ms M 
in January 2018 when the arrears  balance was cleared. I recognise Ms Ms frustration that 
the call in question  isnt available, but BOS doesnt have to keep call records  indefinitely. 
Ms M said she only authorised a payment of approximately £4,100 towards  the arrears but 
Im not persuaded thats the case.  Ms M has said she felt the call handler was joking when 
he told her what  the outstanding  arrears  balance was  but this seems  very unlikely to me. I 
think its more likely  that the member of staff wouldve given her the true amount, rather  than 
make a joke, and as Ive explained, Im satisfied the amount she paid was the correct 
amount.
Ive also seen that Ms M had a call with BOS the following day to discuss going  onto a new 
rate, but she didnt  mention the incorrect amount had been taken the following day. The 
change to a new rate wouldnt  have  been  possible had she not paid the full amount of 
arrears. So this also makes me think that even if she was provided  with an incorrect amount, 
she wouldve paid the correct amount as she wanted a new rate.
  
I recognise this has been a difficult time for Ms M, and Id like to reassure her that Ive 
carefully read all the information shes provided.  I understand  why Ms M feels  strongly  about  
what happened and I realise this wont be the outcome she was hoping for, but based on the 
specific points Ive considered, I dont think  BOS  have done anything  wrong.  So I wont  be 
asking them to do anything more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 October  2019.
Jenny Lomax
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5946653