K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that Uncle Buck  Finance LLP did not carry out the correct affordability 
checks before approving  his loans.
background
Mr H had two instalment loans from Uncle Buck between October 2017 and January 2018  
as follows:
Loan Date Amount Term Due Repayment Repaid
1 24 Oct 2017 £100 3m 26 Jan 2018 £51.70 On time
2 26 Jan 2018 £500 6m 26 Jul 2018 £166.46 Outstanding
Mr H says he suffers from mental health issues and the loans caused him to get heavily into 
debt. He says he made  Uncle Buck aware  of his condition several  times,  but they didnt 
record it and did nothing  to assist him.
Uncle Buck  says it carried out a credit check for both loans and verified  the income Mr H 
declared. It says it also asked Mr H about his expenditure and confirmed both loans were 
affordable based  on this information. Uncle Buck added that Mr H contacted  it on 21 
February 2018 to request the removal of the continuous payment authority as he had 
entered into a debt management plan. It says it was then notified  of Mr Hs Individual 
Voluntary Arrangement  (IVA)  on 17 July 2018.
Our adjudicator did not recommend the complaint should be upheld. He was satisfied that 
Uncle Buck  did enough  checks before it approved both the loans and that there  were  no 
indications that it needed to carry out further checks.  He found both loans to be affordable  
based on the information Uncle Buck had. Our adjudicator also acknowledged Mr Hs mental 
health condition,  but found  no evidence that Uncle Buck  had been  aware  of the issue before 
it approved the loan applications.
Mr H responded to say, in summary, that Uncle Buck was aware of his mental  health issues.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Uncle Buck  was required to lend responsibly. It should have made checks to make sure Mr 
H could afford to repay the loans before it lent to him. Those checks needed  to be 
proportionate to things such as the amount Mr H was borrowing, and his lending  history.  But 
there was no set list of checks Uncle Buck had to do.
Loan 1
When Mr H applied for his first loan with Uncle Buck, he told it his income  was £1,400.  Uncle 
Buck also checked  his credit file. I can see that Mr Hs credit file would have shown three 
defaults, but, as the latest of those was more than six months  earlier, Im satisfied this would 
not have indicated to Uncle Buck that it needed to carry out further checks. So, as the 
scheduled repayments were a small  proportion of Mr Hs income, I cant  conclude  Uncle  
Buck was wrong  to approve the loan.
Ref: DRN58120222Loan 2
As this loan was taken  out on the same day Mr H repaid loan 1, and it was for more money 
over a longer  period,  I consider a proportionate  check should have included  asking  Mr H 
about his regular expenditure. I can see it did this and Mr H said he spent £650 per month. 
As this left Mr H with £750 of disposable  income, I find the £166.46 repayments would have 
been affordable  to him.
I acknowledge that Mr H says Uncle Buck didnt take his mental  health  into account, but I 
need to be sure it was aware of his condition  before  it made  the lending  decisions.
Uncle Buck  has sent all correspondence it received from Mr H in relation to the loans, 
including emails and online  chat.  I cant see any evidence that Mr H told Uncle Buck  about  
his condition and Uncle Buck says it has no record of any incoming  calls from him. So Im 
not persuaded that Uncle Buck knew about  Mr Hs mental health.
So, much as I sympathise  with the financial difficulties Mr H currently  has, I cant conclude 
Uncle Buck  did anything wrong  when it agreed to lend him money.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 May 2019. 
Amanda Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5812022