K820x#14complaint
Mr Ks complained about the service he received from IGO4  Limited  after he contacted it as 
the administrator  of his insurance policy. 
background
Mr K bought a policy which provided him with a telematics box in his car, also known as a 
black box. This box monitored Mr Ks driving  behaviour but also offered a theft tracking  
service. 
Mr K contacted IGO4  after his car was stolen. He said IGO4 told the police it couldnt track 
his car because either his account  was in arrears or the tracker  wasnt working. Mr K said his 
account wasnt in arrears. He said a couple of days later IGO4  told him it had tracked his car 
but due to the delay the car had already moved on. Mr K said it took another  couple  of 
weeks for his car to be recovered by the police. He said the delay cost him around  £1,000.
IGO4 said Mr K phoned on 11 August 2017 to report his car had been stolen. It said Mr K 
said the police had told him its theft tracking service couldnt track the car either because the 
box had been  damaged  or because the account was in arrears. IGO4 said it told Mr K that 
as there  were no arrears  he should get the police to call the theft tracking service and if he 
had any further  problems to call its customer services team. 
IGO4 said the police called the same day and it provided the information they asked for. It 
said he phoned on 22 August 2017 to say his car had been  recovered. 
Mr K complained to IGO4  about  the delays and said hed had to hire a car as he was without 
his. IGO4 said it would pay him £25 as a gesture of goodwill to cover  the cost of hiring a car 
for one day. It also said its theft tracking service didnt guarantee that it would be able to 
track a car if it was stolen.
Mr K didnt think this was enough  and brought his complaint to us. He said hed had to take 
out additional insurance for the hire car which meant  £25 wasnt enough to cover it. He also 
said the black box had been advertised  as a tracking device. He said IGO4 had told him the 
box couldnt record due to his account being  in arrears or not working. But IGO4  said it 
hadnt given him that information  and he hadnt called until the following day. 
Mr K provided a copy of his phone bill that showed a call to IGO4s number on 10 August. 
IGO4 said it searched its system  using this information and found that hed called  and been  
on hold but the call wasnt answered. 
Mr K also provided a copy of the police report. The police  report showed that a tracking  
company had told the police the box couldnt  be tracked. However this tracking company 
(who Ill refer to as N) had a different name  to that used by IGO4. IGO4 said N wasnt 
anything to do with the tracking service it used and Mr K might have called the wrong 
number. Mr K said hed called the number on IGO4s  website.
I called the number on Mr Ks phone bill and spoke  to a call handler at N. I asked if N was 
part of IGO4s tracking service. N said it would  give me the number for its main  tracking  
service, whose number  is the same  as that given  by IGO4s website. 
Ref: DRN52452962I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 20 February  2019  where  I explained why 
IGO4 needed  to compensate Mr K further.  In that decision  I said:  
IG04 says its theft tracking service doesnt guarantee it will be able to recover the car and
says it isnt liable for any associated  costs. I accept that but Ive also considered whether
IG04s actions  caused  Mr K a financial loss.
reporting the theft
Mr K said he called the number on IG04s  website and his phone bill proves it was IG04s 
tracking service he spoke to. Ive listened  to a call between Mr K and IG04 on                        
I I August  2017. In that call Mr K said hed reported his car stolen  to the tracking  service  and 
that company  took his details and said theyd liaise with the police. He said the police told 
him the tracking  service told him his car couldnt  be tracked. However  the police report said
N - and not IG04s  tracking service  - told them the box couldnt  be tracked as it was either  
not working or the account  was in arrears.
Ive called the number on Mr Ks phone bill and got through to N as well. So it seems  likely it 
was N he spoke to and not IG04s  tracking service. Although its unclear how he ended  up 
speaking to N instead of IG04s tracking service.
I appreciate Mr K called  IG04 as well as his phone  records show an eight minute call. But
Im more persuaded  by the screenshots  IG04s  provided and I think  its likely his call didnt 
connect to an operator and he was on hold for that time. This is supported  by his phone  
records showing different  call records to N and IG04.
If I thought the tracking service or N was acting as IG04s agent I could hold IG04 
responsible for its actions.  But its unclear  whether N has any link to IG04 and whether Mr K 
was put through to it after calling the number on IG04s website. Im persuaded that its most 
likely he would have called a number on its website and there seems to be some link 
between IG04s  tracking  service and N even if IG04  isnt aware of it. However whether or not 
I think its most likely  Mr K called IG04,  I dont think it matters to the outcome of my decision.
Thats because I dont  have enough  to persuade me its most likely Mr Ks car would have 
been found sooner if IG04 had provided  information  to the police before it did. Ive heard 
from phone  calls that IG04 gave the police the last recorded position of the car on
11 August 2017.  Im not able to see from the police report  why the car wasnt found, so even 
though IG04 provided the latest information,  it wasnt recovered. I cant  see that the police  
called IG04 again until 21 August to ask for an updated location. So I dont think I can 
reasonably conclude it was IG04s fault it wasnt found sooner. Because the police werent 
able to locate  the car straight away even  with information from IG04, it follows  that Im not 
going to ask it to compensate Mr K for any financial losses that he suffered as a result of his 
car being stolen.
I understand IG04s paid for one days hire car but Mr K doesnt think  thats enough. He said 
he also had to take out extra insurance  as he wasnt able to afford the large  deposit  hed 
have needed as an alternative. But as I dont think IG04 is responsible for his car not being 
found sooner,  Im not going to ask IG04  to pay any more towards that.
While I dont think IG04 is responsible for Mr Ks car being found  sooner, I dont think  he 
received the service he should have expected when trying to report his car stolen and using 
the tracking service.  He was on hold to IG04 for around eight minutes on 10 August 2017 
Ref: DRN52452963trying to access the tracking  service and then had to then find a different number to call the 
tracking service as he couldnt get through.
When he spoke to IG04 the next day the call handler did her best to help Mr K and call the 
tracking service but she couldnt find a number for them that worked. She confirmed to Mr K 
that a journey had been recorded and told Mr K to ask the police to go back to the theft 
tracking service to search  for the journey. IG04 then provided the police with the cars last 
known location.
Overall Im persuaded  that Mr K faced a number of barriers  to accessing the tracking service 
as he was on hold for a while and even IG04s  call handler wasnt  able to find a working 
phone number for the tracking service. Im satisfied this caused  Mr K distress  and 
inconvenience at a time he was already frustrated due to the theft of his car. For that reason
I think it would be fair and reasonable for IG04 to pay Mr K £100 to compensate for his 
distress and inconvenience. I appreciate this is less than he was hoping for but Im satisfied 
its in line with other types of awards our service makes for cases  of similar seriousness.
belongings in the car
I understand Mr K thinks his belongings would have been recovered if IG04 had provided 
information sooner,  but Im not persuaded of this. I think its likely his belongings would have 
been taken from the car almost immediately. So Im not going  to ask IG04 to compensate 
him for that. I understand Mr K is also able to make a claim for these on his insurance policy 
if he wishes.
misleading advertising of the tracking  service  when selling the policy
Mr K bought his policy online in a non-advised sale. In line with industry guidelines  IG04 has 
a responsibility to provide information  thats clear, fair and not misleading.
IG04 said it cant be held responsible if the car cant be tracked  as there  are a number of 
factors that can affect whether the car is found such as if the tracker  was removed. But in 
this case the tracker wasnt removed as it was eventually  used  to track the car.
I understand Mr K thinks the IG04s  advertising of the policy is misleading as it says "if you 
have a black box installed we can track  your car if its stolen". While I accept this doesnt go 
into further detail  and say there might be reasons why it cant be tracked, the tracking 
information did locate  the car in this case. So Im not persuaded that the sales information is 
misleading.
Overall, I dont  think its most likely IG04 is responsible  for Mr Ks car not being  found 
sooner. But I do think  it caused him distress and inconvenience when he needed to contact 
the tracking service.  Unless  I receive further  information to change  my mind its likely Ill 
require IG04 to pay Mr K £100.
Both Mr K and IGO4  accepted my provisional  decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN52452964As both Mr K and IGO4 accepted my provisional decision I see no reason to depart from my 
findings.
my final decision
My final decision is that I partly uphold this complaint and require IGO4 Limited to pay Mr K 
another £100 compensation  for his distress and inconvenience. 
IGO4 should pay this within 28 days of us telling  it Mr Ks accepted my decision. If it pays 
later than this it should add interest  to that amount at 8% simple  per year from the date of my 
decision to the date it makes payment1.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 April 2019.
Sarann Taylor
ombudsman
 
1 If IGO4 considers that its required by HM Revenue  & Customs to take off income tax from that 
interest, it should tell Mr K how much its taken off. It should also give Mr K a certificate showing this if 
he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate. 
Ref: DRN5245296