K820x#14complaint
G, a limited company,  complains that Paymentsense Limited misrepresented  and mis-sold  
payment card hire and processing agreements and had not obtained Gs authorisation.
background
A representative of Paymentsense met with G to discuss the terms of the agreements  to hire 
a card terminal and provide payment  processing.  Paymentsense says G then signed the 
agreements electronically.  The director of G disagrees, and says that there was insufficient  
time to read the agreements and that these did not reflect what  she had been told. The 
terminal was returned after a short period of limited use and she does not think G should  be 
liable for any termination  costs.
The adjudicator did not recommend that the complaint be upheld. She said that:
-Paymentsenses process is to send  documents electronically for signature using a 
recognised software package.
-The audit  it has provided shows that these were  sent to Gs email address on 12 
March 2018 at 17:12:13 and returned signed at 17:14:11 that day. 
-G had the potential opportunity to read the documents before signing. It was fairly 
bound by the agreements whether it had read them or not.
-The terms of the agreements set out the terminal hire period was 36 months,  not the 
12 months that G thought. There had been a cash back offer for the first 12 months. 
There had been no facility documented for it accept card holder not present (CNP) 
transactions.
-There had been some issues with using the equipment and Paymentsense had 
shown it had tried to contact G about  these. And it had set out what  was required 
from G for an application to add the facility to take CNP payments. It had also 
recommended G access the online system to allow it to view the detailed  information 
about the payment processing  costs  that was not shown on invoices.
-In its final response it said it disputed telling G when it sold the agreements that the 
costs would be 50 per cent less than from its existing provider. But it had offered to 
make some reduction  to the monthly  charges.
G did not agree. It said that the documents  were not sent to it to review:  only the ones which  
had been signed electronically  without permission on Gs behalf. Although Paymentsense 
had phoned about the issues with the terminal it had not left a contact number. And the 
terminal was not fit for purpose as it could not accept CNP payments. The online system did 
not give it all the information it needed about  payments. Paymentsense  had only offered to 
reduce the monthly fee by a small amount. G did not think  it should pay anything to exit the 
agreement.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
A key issue  G raises is about  the way the documents were signed.  It denies signing them  at 
all and thinks that the representative signed on its behalf. Its position is that it expected  to 
have time to review the documents. And when it finally did that these did not reflect what 
was agreed. Paymentsense, having received feedback from the sales representative, does 
Ref: DRN59158662not accept there were  any irregularities here. And it says that it has properly executed 
documents which are binding.
I cant know what was said in the meeting G had with the representative.  And there are 
clearly disputes about that. Paymentsense  has provided an audit trail relating to the 
signature for the document.  It was sent to Gs email address,  signed  there  and returned.  G 
denies any knowledge of this suggesting that the representative somehow signed  the 
document without  its authority. I am not persuaded that this is the most likely explanation  of 
what happened. Thats because I would need to think that G let the representative have 
access to its email account to do so. And the software system used appears set up to avoid 
such issues with the use of electronic signatures. If G does  not accept my findings then it is 
free to pursue this matter  in court subject to any relevant  time limits.
Given that I find that G signed  this in the standard way I think  it is bound by it. I dont see any 
reason why it could  not have taken the time to read the agreement.  I of course  fully accept 
that it could not have  done so in the period of just under two minutes before the recorded 
signing. But Im afraid that I find, on balance,  that this was its choice.
The agreements are detailed and I accept that G did not for example realise  that it could not 
take CNP  payments. Or that the level of detail it received on invoices would  be less. In my 
view there  is a reasonable limit to what Paymentsense can tell G is not rather  than is 
included in the agreement. And if there were important features G had an opportunity to 
ensure that these  were covered in the agreement.  Taking the specific  point about CNP 
payments Ive seen  a subsequent record of the attempted contact by Paymentsense with G 
about this. And it set out clearly what  would  be needed to add this to the account.
Paymentsense had offered  to reduce some fees as a gesture of goodwill: accepting  in the 
final response that the processing costs in particular were more  than G expected.  For the 
reasons Ive given  I dont  have a basis to find it made a mistake or should  waive  any other  
costs including  the termination fee.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 February  2019.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5915866