K820x#14complaint
Mr S is unhappy with the service he received from DSG Retail  Limited when he purchased a 
PC in store.
background
Mr S made a purchase from DSG  Retail Limited  for £706.98. This was bought on a finance 
agreement with a separate  business. 
Mr S later found the computer to be faulty  and went back into store. He was offered an 
exchange. The new finance agreement was for cost £778.98 and a new finance agreement  
was set up. This occurred in October  2017 and there  was a special offer that if the balance  
was paid off by 19 April 2018 no interest would be added.  
On receiving the second credit agreement, Mr S assuming the first had finished  cancelled 
his direct debit for the first agreement.
Mr S sent a cheque for £706.98  on 16 April 2018,  for the amount he owed for the agreement. 
However, Mr S then received a late repayment  fee on his account.  Mr S raised his concerns 
in store  and sent a letter to them on 18 June 2018.
However DSG say they didnt receive  this letter until 25 July 2018. It was then that DSG 
realised that it hadnt cancelled  the first agreement  when it ought to have done so. It 
contacted the finance  provider who then rectified  its records so that only one agreement 
existed. It told DSG that because of the error Mr S had incurred £78 in interest. And on 31 
July 2018 DSG emailed  Mr S offering £80 for the interest and an additional £30 for the poor 
service hed received.
The finance  provider also said it would  waive any interest incurred due to the issues with the 
duplication of the agreements, if Mr S paid the outstanding balance  which  I understand he did.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and it was established that DSG was responsible 
for some parts and the finance provider the others  (which was considered in a separate 
case). Mr S accepted that the credit agreement  had now been put right and hed been 
compensated for the interest  that otherwise wouldnt have been  incurred.  However, Mr S 
says he incurred costs  in making his complaint that should be covered by DSG.
Mr S felt he should be compensated an additional  £405.75.  This was worked out by his 
accountants. £200 of this was for recognition of the poor service hed received. The rest was 
for costs incurred in making the complaint listed as photocopying, printing costs, travel, 
postage, stationary and telephone  calls.
Our investigator considered this but didnt agree that it was fair that DSG cover  these  costs.  
She said that Mr S couldve communicated  with DSG in other ways that wouldnt have 
incurred such costs.
Mr S disagreed and therefore the case was referred for a decision.
Ref: DRN50300692my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The outstanding issue that hasnt been resolved is whether or not DSG is responsible for the 
costs that Mr S incurred  in making his complaints. And Mr S believes an additional £200 
should be awarded to him for the trouble and upset this has caused him.
DSG did make an error. And our approach  at this service when a business has made an 
error is to put the consumer as much  as possible in the position they wouldve been in had 
the error  not occurred. 
Mr S raised the issue in store  in June and sent a letter after this dated  18 June to DSG.  
However, it seems it took some time for Mr Ss letter to make  it to the right area of the 
organisation to deal with the issue. Once  it was received, it was dealt with quickly. And Mr S 
received confirmation  of the action taken  on 31 July.
The direct impact of its mistake was that Mr S had two finance agreements  rather than one. 
And because Mr S was unaware of this, he incurred interest with the finance  provider. DSG 
paid Mr S money to cover this interest which I believed was waived by the finance  provider 
in any event. So DSG had attempted to put Mr S back in the position  he wouldve been in 
had its error  not occurred.  It also gave Mr S £30 for the inconvenience it had caused.
But Mr S said hes incurred considerable costs  in making his complaint and hes provided 
evidence of this verified  by his accountant. These  costs are spread across correspondence  
with both DSG and the finance  provider.  Its only since the complaint has been with us that 
its become clear to Mr S how the error occurred and how DSG  and the finance provider 
worked together. As the original error was made by DSG, Mr S says he holds it accountable 
for the situation  and any costs he incurred in corresponding with the finance provider.
But what  I need to decide is whether these costs reasonably had to be incurred to make the 
complaint. Generally speaking, costs in making a complaint  wont  be awarded as standard.  If 
costs were to be awarded then every single case potentially would require a monetary 
payment by the business. And it would be very difficult to say whats fair in terms of what the 
consumer spent in making the complaint. 
Perhaps most importantly,  costs  generally dont need to be incurred in making a complaint. 
Most businesses can be contacted in a variety of ways, some of which  incur  no direct cost at 
all. So to justify  an award for costs in making  the complaint, Id need to be satisfied that 
these costs were reasonably needed. Or that in incurring the costs, specialist information or 
knowledge was provided which added to the understanding of the issue  that otherwise 
wouldnt have been discovered.
I can see that Mr S spent a lot of time and energy in making his complaint. And I dont doubt 
the expenses  information that hes provided. But that isnt enough  for me to say these costs  
should be met by DSG. Much of the costs Mr S has claimed for relate to letters  sent. Mr S 
sent these letters by recorded delivery  and hes said that he also spent nearly £50 on 
printing costs in making his complaints. However,  it was his choice to use recorded delivery 
and to incur these costs.  DSG couldve been  reached by email and phone  or standard 
delivery. So it wouldnt be fair to hold it responsible  for these costs.
Ref: DRN50300693Another large part of these costs  was travel to the store.  I can understand why Mr S 
wouldve wanted to speak to someone face to face but again I cant reasonably say this cost 
needed to be incurred to make a complaint. Mr S couldve telephoned or emailed to make  
the complaint   which I can see he did do as well. But I dont think it would be fair or 
reasonable to hold DSG responsibility  for the costs he incurred in travelling to the store.
Mr S sent a number of letters  to both parties  but once he made his dissatisfaction clear,  
DSG began investigating the complaint. In dealing with his complaint there was some delay 
before the complaint was looked at by the correct person.  But the given time for a final 
response to a complaint to be issued is within 8 weeks  and this was broadly met by DSG. 
And had Mr S only contacted it once making his dissatisfaction clear, I think  the complaint  
wouldve been resolved in the same sort of timescale. So the additional correspondence and 
costs incurred were not essential to resolving the complaint.
So I think overall the award that DSG made  of £110  is fair and reasonable. £80 of this was to 
cover interest which it seems was waived in any event by the finance provider. And despite 
communication lapses  in providing a response, the error was put right within a reasonable 
timescale and Mr S was offered fair compensation within two months.
I appreciate Mr S will be disappointed with my decision but I dont think  there are any 
reasonable grounds for me to conclude that DSG  should  meet  the costs that he incurred in 
making his complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above I do not uphold Mr S complaint and make  no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 March  2020.
Simon Hollingshead
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5030069