K820x#14complaint
Mr P has complained about the amount Hastings Insurance  Services  Limited charged him 
after he cancelled his motor insurance  policy.
background
Mr P wanted  to cancel  his motor insurance  policy. He believed  hed told Hastings he wanted  
to cancel it from 17 October 2018.  Hastings said it was cancelled  from 23 October 2018. It 
said that after applying  its charges, although Mr P payed a £45 cancellation fee, he still owed 
it around £106. 
Mr P didn't  believe he owed anything so he brought his complaint  to us. One of our team  
managers looked into Mr Ps complaint. She said that Hastings hadn't done  anything wrong. 
But she thought  that Hastings should  accept Mr Ps evidence that hed sent an email on 
17 October asking to cancel the policy from 20 October 2018. So she said that Hastings 
should bring forward the cancellation date to 20 October  2018.
Neither Mr P nor Hastings  agreed with our team manager so the complaint's been passed to 
me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with our team 
managers conclusions.
Hastings is an insurance broker. That means  it arranges and administers  policies but it 
doesn't actually  provide the cover or apply a charge for the time on risk. That is done by the 
insurer which is a separate business. But Hastings collects the premiums on behalf of the 
insurer.
It seems  Mr P might  have  misunderstood the manner in which he paid for his policy.  
Insurance policies  of the sort that Mr P had are generally charged on an annual basis.  That 
is insurers and brokers will charge  a consumer at the outset for the full costs  of the policy  for 
the year. Brokers  like Hastings may arrange for the consumer to pay that total yearly  sum in 
instalments. That is the consumer  repays the amounts they owe, most often on a monthly 
basis, by direct debit. But they are still repaying their full premium for the year.  Their  policy  
doesn't renew  each  time they pay a monthly instalment and each payment isn't necessarily 
equal to one months worth of premium. But instead each instalment is paying off a portion of 
the full annual charge. And that charge will be made up of both the insurance cover and any 
broker fees.
When a consumer cancels a policy its usual for the insurers to charge for the time on risk. 
That is the insurer will calculate how many  days it's provided the insurance  cover for and 
charge the consumer for each day of that cover. And where  a broker  is collecting those 
funds for it, the insurer will generally  ask the broker to collect  any sums  owed.
Similarly, on cancellation its usual  for a broker  like Hastings to make sure that the 
policyholder has paid it all its charges. This will include charges for things  like arranging the 
policy, fees for any amendments to it and a cancellation charge. And it will add that amount 
to any cost for the time on cover  the insurer has asked it to collect.  If the consumer has 
Ref: DRN55057922already paid more  than the sum owed they will get a refund. If that amount  is less than the 
consumer owes then the broker will charge that balance  to the consumer.
In this case Hastings  initially  calculated that when  adding together everything Mr P owed and 
deducting everything hed paid, he still owed  it £106.  But after hed complained to us it 
looked again at its calculation and said the time on risk had been incorrect  and the correct  
figure that Mr P owed  should have been  £93.87. But Mr P didn't think it was fair that he 
should have to pay anything more than the £45 cancellation fee hed already paid.
As I've said above, it seems that Mr P might  have misunderstood how charges are applied  
for time on cover. He said his policy was due to renew on 21 October 2018 and hed asked 
Hastings to cancel  it before  then. But Mr Ps policy wasn't due to renew on 21 October. 
This was simply the date that his next instalment for his insurance cover and fees was due 
from. And as he still had a balance  to pay that meant he was still required to make payment, 
even if his policy cancelled before  that date.
In this case Mr Ps shown us an email  he says he sent to Hastings on 17 October  2018.  It 
says:
Im writing because I wuold  [sic] like cancel my car policy
So don't renew  after the 20 of octber [sic]
In other  words it appears  that Mr P asked Hastings to cancel his policy  from 
20 October 2018. Hastings has no record of receiving that email. It says that Mr P might 
have sent it to an incorrect address. And its told us that even if it had received the email it 
would only accept a cancellation request over the phone. But Mr Ps policy  doesn't say he 
would need to phone it in order to cancel the policy. So I don't think  its fair that Hastings 
should say it would  only cancel a policy from the date of a phone  call. And Mr Ps told us that 
he scrapped the car on 19 October  2018.  And until that date it would have been  a legal 
requirement that he kept his car insured. Hastings has suggested that Mr P should provide 
evidence that hes scrapped the car. But I understand he's no longer living  in the UK. So I 
don't think  its reasonable to expect him to provide that evidence  now.
So, given Mr Ps shown  us evidence of a request to cancel the policy  from 20 October  2018,  
even if Hastings can't find that request, I think its fair that it accepts that as the date Mr P 
requested the policy cancelled.
But I must caution Mr P that - by my calculations - that will only reduce the amount he owes 
by a sum equal  to three days of cover, which I calculate to be around  £6.16. The fact that 
this brings the closure date prior to the date he was due to pay a premium instalment doesn't  
mean that he won't have any more to pay. And I've looked at the other charges that Hastings 
has applied  and Im satisfied its applied those fairly. So I think its reasonable that Hastings 
advises the insurer  to recalculates the amount Mr P owes for his time on cover, based on a 
closure date of 20 October 2018.  .
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I partly uphold this complaint.  Unless it has already done  so, I 
require Hastings Insurance  Services  Limited  to advise its insurer  to recalculate the sums 
Mr P owes  based on a cancellation  date of 20 October 2018. It may then continue to recover  
the balance owing from Mr P.
Ref: DRN55057923Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 August 2019.
Joe Scott
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN5505792