K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains that National Westminster Bank Plc have  not given him the refund he says 
he is entitled to receive  from it.
background
Mr A used his credit  card supplied by NatWest to pay for a package  holiday. However, 
during this holiday, some of his family members became  ill which he attributes  to the food at 
the hotel. From his perspective,  the room he was provided with was not up to the standard 
that it should have been. In particular, the safe was broken and the heating didnt work. As a 
result he had to ask to be moved to another room,  which he was.
Further, Mr A paid for a sea view room hed paid a premium for this. But when he was 
moved he told us he wasnt moved to another sea view room.  In the end, fearing for the 
health of his family members who are vulnerable, he cut short  his family holiday and came 
home. He complained to NatWest.
NatWest looked  at whether it could get Mr As money back for him under a process  known 
as chargeback. It explained  it would need to follow the chargeback  rules. In the 
circumstances, it said Mr A had no proper grounds  to get his money back, under the 
chargeback rules. 
NatWest then looked at whether Mr A should be able to make a claim against  it because 
hed used his NatWest credit card to pay for the holiday. And because he was claiming the 
terms of the holiday  contract had been breached and he thought it was responsible for this. 
NatWest didnt agree though that it had any responsibility here. Rather it suggested that the 
way the contract  had been set up meant it wasnt responsible for anything that had gone 
wrong. In any event, NatWest didnt  agree  there had been  any breach of contract. 
Dissatisfied with this response Mr A came to our service.
Our investigator looked into Mr As complaint. She didnt recommend upholding it. She 
agreed it is unlikely  that the chargeback would have succeeded. She thought NatWest could 
have been held responsible if there  had been  a breach of contract. But she wasnt satisfied 
in the circumstances that there had been.
NatWest accepted our investigators recommendation, Mr A did not. In summary, he 
repeated his earlier stance. He also suggested he had provided  a lot of information and 
NatWest hadnt  so he could not understand why his complaint had been rejected.
Mr A asked that an ombudsman review  his complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail  than the parties, 
and in my own words. Im not going  to respond  to every single point made by all the parties  
involved. No discourtesy is intended  by this. Instead,  Ive focussed on what  I think are the 
key issues here. 
Ref: DRN57079902Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal  nature  of our service  as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres  something Ive not mentioned,  it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every  individual  argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome.
Where there is a dispute about what happened, I have based my decision on the balance  of 
probabilities. In other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light 
of the information I have  available  to me.
chargeback
The chargeback process  allows credit  card users to ask for a transaction  to be reversed if 
there's a problem  with goods or services paid for. There's no automatic right to a 
chargeback, nor is chargeback a guaranteed  method of getting a refund. The process is 
limited to specific criteria.    
The chargeback process  is governed by the rules of an international organisation which  
facilitates payments between different banks in the same and different countries. Its 
regulations seek  to maintain a balance between merchants supplying goods and services,  
customers of these  merchants, and the banks  acting for each of them.
Accordingly, in the case of the purchase and supply of services,  the regulations only permit a 
chargeback to the extent that there is a valid chargeback  reason.  This is not something  
NatWest can influence  or change.
I have thought about the chargeback rules and about what  Mr A has told us about  his 
complaint. The holiday was provided  and Mr A hasnt been able to demonstrate he did not 
get what he paid for. In the circumstances, I think it unlikely that any chargeback would have 
succeeded. It follows, I have no proper grounds for saying NatWest ought fairly  and 
reasonably to have  done  more here for Mr A.
section 75
However, I see that Mr As  focus  in more  on whether NatWest ought to have given him a 
refund based  on the rights  he believes he has under section  75 of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974. Ive taken a look at this part of Mr As complaint too. But I have to tell him I dont agree 
NatWest have made a mistake here either, in refusing him a refund.
I think its important to set out my role here. In considering a complaint about a financial 
services provider, Im not determining the outcome of a claim that a party  might  have under 
section 75. Rather,  in deciding whats a fair way to resolve Mr As complaint,  I have  to take 
into account relevant  law. Relevant law here includes  section 75 that is why Ive taken it into 
account. But that doesnt mean Im obliged  to reach  the same outcome as, for example,  a 
court might reach if Mr A pursued  a claim for breach of contract  or misrepresentation.
The general effect of section  75 is that if Mr A has a claim  for misrepresentation or breach of 
contract against the supplier he can also bring that claim  against NatWest provided certain 
conditions are met.
One of those conditions is there must  be a relevant debtor-creditor-supplier  relationship  in 
place. Initially, NatWest  said there wasnt one. It now seems to accept  that it was mistaken  
on this point. However, if it is still disputing this point, I find that there is a valid debtor-
Ref: DRN57079903creditor-supplier relationship here.  We have already explained  this point in great detail 
earlier in our process. Since that is the case, I do not see theres  much  to be gained  in 
repeating this all again  in equal detail. In short, Mr A used his credit card to purchase a 
package holiday and under these circumstances  under relevant law, a valid debtor-creditor-
supplier relationship comes into being  for the purposes of section 75. On that basis  I think it 
fair and reasonable to look at the details of what most likely happened here.
Mr A tells us about the vulnerable individuals in his family who were on holiday with him and 
how they fell sick. I can well understand this was distressing for Mr A. But in the 
circumstances, I cant  make  the connection he makes between the meals  provided by the 
hotel and the sickness of his family members. He has not been entirely consistent about who 
ate what when.  The information he has sent us about paying  for medical services is in a 
foreign language. And it does not appear from what he tells us that this information shows 
what most likely  caused the sickness. Instead  it just shows he paid for medical attention.  
This is not enough  for me to say it is more  likely  than not that the food the hotel supplied 
caused the sickness. 
I accept that Mr A was unhappy with his room.  But he was provided with a new one at the 
point when he complained. I realise  his point is that the room  was not a like for like room. 
Very late on in his complaint  he provided photos to support what  he said. This was one of his 
complaint points from the beginning  so it is unclear why he did not provide these to us 
sooner. This has had an impact on the weight I have been able to place on these photos.  I 
cant tell where these photos  were taken from. Further the photos he provided, earlier in his 
complaint, which  he said were taken from the room he moved to, show  the sea was visible  
from it. This might not have met Mr As expectation of what  a sea view room might be but 
that is not enough for me to say he didnt get a sea view room. 
Further, Mr A seems  to have made the choice to return home due to his worries.  That was 
his choice to make. But for all the reasons Ive set out above  I dont  agree  that on balance 
that he didnt get what  hed paid for. It follows I cant say that he cut short his holiday 
because it was reasonable to do so because his contract  was breached.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 April 2020.
Joyce Gordon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5707990