K820x#14complaint
Mr As complaint is about the way Advantage  Insurance Company Limited  has investigated 
and settled a claim  on his motor insurance  policy.
The details of this complaint are well-known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator  for these reasons:
Mr A is unhappy that hes been held liable for the accident and Advantage has 
settled it as a fault claim. Its not our role to decide  whos  at fault for an accident. But 
we can look into whether Advantage has conducted a reasonable investigation  into a 
claim, when making its own decision on liability.
Under the terms of the policy Advantage is entitled to defend  and settle a claim as it 
sees fit. It also doesnt need  Mr As approval  of any decision  to admit liability,  settle  a 
claim or make a payment to a third party. 
Mr A says Advantage didnt contact all the witnesses to the accident. But it contacted  
an independent witness and took account  of the evidence obtained which  partially 
corroborated some  of what Mr A said. The witness who wasnt  contacted was 
involved in the accident and therefore  wasnt independent. So, I think it was 
reasonable for Advantage to decide not to contact this other witness. And I dont 
think its failure to do so had any material impact  on the investigation or outcome of 
this claim.
Overall I think  Advantage has investigated matters reasonably. It considered the 
vehicles damage,  what each party and an independent witness said. But the simple 
fact is Mr A collided  with the rear of the third partys  stationary  vehicle.  Advantage 
decided it didnt  think it could  successfully prove  Mr A wasnt to blame. It decided to 
settle the third partys  claim in full.
Mr A may disagree with Advantages interpretation of the evidence  and decision to 
settle the claim on a full liability  basis  but I dont think its failed to comply with the 
policy terms or exercised its discretion unfairly  or unreasonably when deciding to 
settle the case as its done. 
Mr A is also unhappy with the way Advantage has dealt with the claim and complaint 
and he wants compensation for this. But Ive seen nothing  to support Mr As 
allegations that there were unreasonable delays or the matter wasnt  recorded 
accurately. 
All consumers spend some time and experience some additional  inconvenience  in 
dealing with a claim and complaint. We wouldnt generally recommend theyre 
compensated for this and even though Mr A feels he had to prompt  Advantage  to 
Ref: DRN59274672advance the investigation at times, Im not persuaded that I can reasonably depart 
from this approach in this case.
I understand Mr As frustration. But taking everything into account, I dont think  I can 
fairly or reasonably require Advantage to reconsider  its liability  decision or pay him 
any compensation, as hed like.
For these reasons, I dont  uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Advantage Insurance  Company 
Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 June  2020.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5927467