K820x#14complaint
Mr M has complained HSBC UK Bank  plc wont pay for the costs  associated  with a breach of 
contract by the company that carried out their building survey.  Mr M has made this claim 
under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974  as he paid for the survey with his HSBC 
credit card.
background
Mr M is represented  in his complaint by his wife. For ease Ill generally refer to Mr M 
throughout this decision  as he paid for the survey.
In July 2015 Mr M instructed a company (Ill call D) to carry out a building survey on the 
house he and his wife were looking to purchase. On 23 July 2015 the building  survey  was 
carried out by a surveyor from S, in its capacity as Ds agent.
On 31 July 2015 a building survey  report was provided to Mr M. Mr M has told us on the 
strength of this report, they went ahead  and purchased the property paying  the asking price.
Shortly after moving into the property, Mr M complained to S about  issues  he had identified 
with the property and which had not been  picked  up in the building  survey  report.  
Following contact from Mr M, S sent round another one of its surveyors.  However, despite 
this surveyor attending the property, Mr M heard  nothing further from them.
On 25 July 2016 Mr M instructed (via his solicitor)  an expert report  on his purchased 
property to support  a claim  he was considering bringing against  S for professional 
negligence. In 2016 and 2017 Mr M (and his solicitor) were in communication with S (and its 
solicitor) in respect of a claim for negligence.  These communications didnt result  in any 
payment being  made by S (or its agents). No court action resulted.
In August  2018  Mr M made  a claim against  HSBC under section 75 for a breach of contract 
by S. He believed this breach had led to him paying for additional works to his property 
which hadnt been identified by the initial survey.
In August  2018  HSBC turned down Mr Ms claim under section  75. They didnt think there 
had been a breach of contract  and/or misrepresentation by S. Mr M then raised  a complaint 
with HSBC.
HSBC didnt change  the outcome of their review into Mr Ms complaint.  Still dissatisfied, 
Mr M brought his complaint to the ombudsman service.
Mr Ms complaint was considered by one of our investigators. She requested  further 
evidence from HSBC  about what had led them to declining  Mr Ms claim under section 75. 
HSBC kept us waiting for more than six months  whilst they consulted  internally as well as 
with Ss solicitors. The latter shared documentation  which robustly defended their client from 
Mr Ms accusations  of professional negligence. This appeared to be HSBCs position.
Our investigator initially confirmed there was a valid D-C-S relationship  for Mr M to have 
been able to make a section 75 claim against HSBC. She went on to say why she felt there 
had been no breach  of contract or misrepresentation by S. She specifically commented on 
Ref: DRN58962832the following  aspects  of the property  as these had been identified by Mr M in his detailed 
description of what he felt had been wrong with Ss original survey:
Mr M didnt  agree with the investigators view.  He pointed out inconsistencies  between  his 
expert report and Ss initial survey. This included the following points: 
The survey undertook to notify  him of existing or potential problems and remedial 
works. If there appears to be a problem  a specialist  report may be recommended .
No remedial works in respect of the chimney  stacks were recommended  by S. Yet 
his appointed expert, from the same vantage point as the surveyor,  was able to 
identify that remedial work  to the chimney  stacks were required.
S made no comment on the property roofing. S said that the terracotta copings 
appear to be generally satisfactory with only slight surface  weathering . However,  
his appointed expert said; front right hand  coping is significantly defective and needs 
attention.
The investigator was wrong to conclude that the gable wall on the right of the 
property could only be examined by going  into the neighbouring  property. His 
appointed expert demonstrated, that the gable  wall on the right of the property could 
be seen from both inside the property and from the public road outside. Furthermore, 
his appointed expert said that the gable  wall on the right of the property needed to be 
repointed in its entirety. 
The surveyor said that there are sections of the right hand  side of the property which 
we have not seen entirely. This suggests that S was able to see some of the gable  
wall on the right of the property.  So, given  this, and given what  his appointed expert 
says, S could and should have concluded  that repointing was required to the gable 
wall on the right of the property,  at least to the areas  it was able to see.
Every single window  on the right of the property needed  repair  or replacing. Yet no 
reference to these windows was made by S.
Any broken  glass is likely to have been broken at the time of Ss survey.
Despite there being clear evidence of damp problems,  S failed to recommend the 
undertaking of any remedial  work, or even the appointment of a damp specialist to 
investigate further.
There was clearly  a damp  issue at the time the conservatory was built because a 
vent was placed  into the skirting  board. Furthermore, an issue with the conservatory 
(whether damp, condensation or something  else) has been admitted since the survey 
was undertaken  by Ss solicitor.  Theres  no evidence the conservatory  was ever 
rebuilt.
S failed  to reference poor plasterwork that was showing signs of damp when they 
moved in and which it transpired was put up by the previous owners  to block a 
chimney.
S failed  to reference damp in a cupboard  in its building survey report, which  his 
appointed expert concluded was extremely damp.
S failed  to reference damp to the side of the gym window in its building survey report.
S, in its building survey report, makes reference  to a damp proof course  and that 
there might be a guarantee in respect of the same. Yet after he moved in Mr M found 
that it was unlikely that approval would ever be granted for the installation  of a damp 
proof course. Surely S should  have pointed out the latter in its building  survey  report  
and noted at the same time that any guarantee issued in respect of any damp proof  
course would  be worthless.
Ref: DRN58962833S failed  to reference a wall in the cloakroom  in its building survey report which  
needed replacing. This wall needed replacing  due to damp,  mineral salts and 
condensation. 
As well as damp, mineral salts and condensation  being  a problem in the cloakroom, 
penetrating damp was a problem also because of the crude mortar that had been 
placed between  and over the external brickwork  instead of lime mortar.  S, in its 
building survey report, states severe  weathering  to brickwork although again this will 
require no attention. Mortar pointing is generally satisfactory. However,  his 
appointed expert says that the whole building should have been pointed  in lime 
mortar yet when it was surveyed by S it had been entirely pointed  in mortar.
There are 28 windows  in the property (not including the front of the conservatory) yet 
S only commented on 7 of these. Furthermore, work in respect of many  of these 
windows was required and one of these windows is unacceptable for the type of 
building purchased.
S failed  to reference in the building  survey report all the work that was required to the 
four stable doors and frames, noting  work  to one door frame being required only.  S 
also failed to reference the rot present in the lintel above the door to what  was to 
become his wifes  office.
S should have  suggested asbestos  testing be undertaken, but it didnt.
The main water supply pipe is clearly visible where it enters  the property and clearly 
laid in lead and should not have been missed  by S. Yet S, in the building survey 
report, states plumbing was in modern piping where seen.
S makes very little reference  to the boundary walls in the building  survey report, yet 
extensive repair work was needed to a number of boundary walls.
The huge misalignment in the floors didnt  need  coverings to be removed to be 
noticed and would have been misaligned  at the time of the survey.
He hadnt  accepted  HSBCs offer of £1,073, the cost of the building survey.
He raised various legal precedents  which state  what should be covered under a 
building survey. 
The investigator considered Mr Ms response to her view but wasnt  persuaded to change  
her mind.
Mr M then made some further points:
Whether the investigator  had seen the 100 plus photographs, supposedly taken by S, 
which had never actually been  shared with him and his wife at the time of the survey.
Believed the investigator should  take note of the relevant RICS guidelines on building  
surveys before coming to her view.  
Wanted to understand the grounds for our investigators disagreement with the other 
expert report.
Mr M provided additional arguments  to show why he believed  D failed to follow relevant 
contract and e-commerce regulations.
It was agreed that an ombudsman should  now consider Mr Ms complaint.
I completed a provisional decision on 23 July 2021.  I didnt  uphold  Mr Ms complaint as I 
believed there  wasnt  enough evidence to show what impact  any breach of contract  would 
have had on him.
Ref: DRN58962834HSBC continued  to believe they had no liability  to Mr M and accepted this outcome. Mr M 
felt otherwise and his wife provided  us with a 37-page submission.
The main  points from this included:
A continued belief  the law wasnt  being  applied and I was not considering negligence 
damages which needed to be applied;
Unclear why I ignored Mr Bs recommendations about the relevant monetary discount 
which should be applied;
Detailed information about relevant law on professional negligence and RICS 
guidance from 2018 on professional liability insurance;
Providing definitive  proof  that Mr and Mrs M would have been willing to walk away 
from the prospective house purchase;
Confirmation that S valued the property at £700,000; 
The impact of the financial crash on the value of the property  between  2008 and 
2015; and
Personal details  about Mrs Ms background and expertise.
I now have all I need to complete  my final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im intending to reach the same outcome  as I did in my provisional  decision. 
Ill explain  why and where appropriate refer to the most  recent letter from Mr and Mrs M. But 
generally my final decision remains similar to my provisional decision and in the main  Ive 
repeated the same  arguments.
Where there is a dispute about what happened, I have based my decision on the balance  of 
probabilities. In other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light 
of the evidence.
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance  and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time. I know 
Mr M disputes that Ive done this but I disagree  with him and believe I have met my 
obligations as an ombudsman by taking these  into account.  
Im aware despite the length of the background here that Ive still summarised  this complaint 
in far less detail than Mr Ms submissions, specifically the latest dated 28 July 2021. Im not 
going to respond  to every single point made by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is 
intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed  on what I think are the key issues here and drive  the 
outcome of this complaint. 
This simply  reflects  the informal nature of our service as a free alternative  to the courts. 
Mrs M has also noted this in their most recent submission. If theres  something  Ive not 
mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on 
every individual argument to be able to reach  what I think is the right outcome.
Ref: DRN58962835Mr M has provided us with detailed submissions  about what  happened and why he believes 
S failed  to conduct  the survey to the required professional standard. This led to increased 
costs on the property Mr and Mrs M planned to buy. Ive also seen the initial  report  in dispute  
dated 31 July 2015 (as well as Ss terms of engagement) as well as the later report  by an 
expert which Mr M commissioned.  Mr M has provided photographs of the issues  that arose  
on their property as well as numerous quotations  for works conducted. 
Im also aware of the detail contained in our investigators view of 6 November 2020. This 
covers some  of what happened which Im not intending to repeat. Specifically this responds  
to Mr Ms major areas of complaint: what he doesnt  believe  was highlighted to him and why 
our investigator believed these didnt amount to a breach of contract. 
Mr M responded to this view and further comments by our investigator in detail. Ive 
reviewed these along with all the other detailed information on the file.
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974  allows a customer to submit a claim for breach 
of contract  or misrepresentation by a supplier to their credit provider. This applies when 
customers use certain types of credit  to buy goods  or services.  In this case Mr M used his 
HSBC credit card to make a payment of £1,073 to D for a buildings survey. 
Its worth  clarifying Im not deciding HSBCs liability under section 75 of the Consumer Credit  
Act. We consider the relevant law and that includes section 75. But we decide  cases by 
considering what  is fair and reasonable, as statute requires us to do. What Im deciding is 
whether HSBC did enough in considering  Mr Ms complaint. And if they didnt, what  else 
should they now do. I stress this point  as Mr M believes I am considering  a claim for 
professional negligence which isnt the case. A court would be the rightful place  for 
consideration of those  issues.
One of the conditions to be met under a section 75 claim is whether there is a link between  
the debtor  (Mr M), creditor  (HSBC) and supplier  (S). Theres  no dispute S provided  the 
buildings survey at the centre of this dispute.  Mr M paid £1,073 to D. This could impact any 
section 75 claim but all parties accept that S was acting as an agent of D so Im satisfied 
theres no break in the d-c-s chain.
If there was a misrepresentation or breach of contract in the supply of the goods that 
resulted in detriment  then its fair to ask HSBC to put things right. Its worth stating that my 
role is not to penalise businesses  for a breach of contract on its own. Im concentrating on 
the impact of that breach  rather than the fact a breach may have occurred. My role is 
different from the courts.
what type of survey was conducted?
To help me assess the relevant standard for the building survey  that Mr M purchased,  Ive 
consulted the Royal Institution of Chartered  Surveyors (RICS) website. This provides 
information on RICS home survey standards and best practice. These  have been  
considerably updated.  Those currently on the website came into effect  on 1 March  2021. 
This is considerably later than the survey Mr M purchased. Luckily Mr M provided a copy of 
RICS 2015 standards to us. I have considered these.
However I can also rely on the subsequent  expert report  prepared in August 2016  on the 
relevant standards. The author of this report (who  Ill call Mr B) stated the instruction to S 
was to carry out a full building survey, which I interpret to be a level 3 survey in accordance 
Ref: DRN58962836with the guidance notes  of the RICS. Having reviewed the RICS  guidance  note I also 
thought Mr M purchased  a level 3 survey. 
The RICS guidance note states:
This level of service  consists  of a detailed visual inspection of the building, its services  and 
the grounds that is more extensive  than survey level two. Concealed areas normally  opened 
or used  by the occupiers  are inspected if it is safe to do so (typical examples include roof 
spaces and underfloor  areas).  Although  the services are not tested, they are observed  in 
normal operation   in other words, they are switched on and/or operated where appropriate.
The report  objectively describes the form of construction and materials used for different 
parts of the property. It describes the condition and provides an assessment of the relative 
importance of the defects/problems. Additionally,  it should:
 describe the identifiable risk of potential or hidden  defects in areas not inspected
 propose the most  probable cause(s) of the defects  based on the inspection
 outline  the likely scope of any appropriate remedial work and explain the likely 
consequences of nonrepair
 make general recommendations in respect of the priority and likely timescale for necessary 
work
 identify  and describe  the legal implications of ownership in detail; and
 give an indication of likely costs (this aspect would  normally form part of the level three 
service, but some surveyors may choose  to omit it. The terms and conditions  must make this 
choice clear).
Where a surveyor feels unable to reach the necessary conclusions with reasonable 
confidence, they should refer the matter for further investigations. However, at survey level 
three such referrals should be the exception rather than the rule. A survey level three report 
should aim to provide the client with all the information they need  to make a purchase 
decision.
I can see Ss solicitors denied a full structural survey was carried out. In fact S confirmed to 
Mr and Mrs M in their letter  of July 2015 with the terms  of engagement that theyd be 
carrying out a Mortgage Valuation and Building  Survey. The terms of engagement state the 
surveyor will report upon:
 a. the main  aspects  of the Property including assessing the site/location,  the design, 
structural framework,  fabric and services;
b. the grounds, boundaries and environmental aspects considered to affect the property;
c. any requirements for further  investigation  arising from the inspection.
There appears to be a difference between what the RICS guidance says about  level three 
surveys and what they should  include  as opposed to the terms of engagement  for Ss 
survey. However what S was undertaking to provide  does meet  Mr Ms mortgage providers 
description of a building survey. This was the third and most  expensive option available  to 
Mr and Mrs M.
Overall I think  that the survey as commissioned through D was a level three  survey.
was there  a breach of contract?
Ref: DRN58962837Unlike our investigator Im not going to go through  a detailed review of the different  aspects  
of the property where Mr M says the survey conducted failed to identify  issues  with the 
property that subsequently required work.
I have noted the points  our investigator  made, as well as Mr Ms robust responses.  Ive also 
noted where Ss survey differs from the conclusions  Mr B reached in his report.
Im also aware that prior to bringing  a case to our service, Mr M had instructed solicitors to 
sue S for professional negligence and recovery of their costs. I dont know  why this didnt 
proceed or why Mr M felt a section 75 may provide him with a better  option  for resolution. 
Mrs M has told us that they were  advised by solicitors that their claim against S would 
potentially be successful.  Mr and Mrs M, however,  believed making a claim under section 75 
was a cost-free way of proceeding. Its not, however, risk free as our role differs from that of 
the courts.
Mr M has specifically  highlighted legal  cases that he felt our investigator may not have 
known or taken account of. As I mentioned  at the beginning  of my decision I take account  of 
the law and remain satisfied Ive done so here.
In an exchange  of letters with Mr Ms solicitors,  Ss solicitors maintain Mr M was continually  
advised to obtain further advice. For example where  the gable wall was concerned   which  
seems to be far and away the most expensive cost (almost £7,000)  S was clear  that he 
was unable to view its condition so Mr M couldnt rely on Ss conclusion.  
And this is a general  thread  that runs through  Ss survey as highlighted below. There are a 
number of areas where S states that further work needs  to be done.
Like Mr B I can see the report is reasonably comprehensive in description and general  
comment together with history but in many  respects is quite generic.
Specifically there are numerous descriptions  which state different aspects of the property 
generally remains satisfactory  or that S saw nothing which we would consider significant. 
I can see why Mr M may believe this isnt useful  enough for a level 3 survey where the 
purchasers are looking  to be advised of any likely  future works needed.  Nowhere in the 
survey is there any prioritisation of potential works even though there are occasional  
mentions that certain parts will need attention  but no clear idea of any appropriate timespan 
for this. This particularly  applies  to the condition  of window frames  and stable doors;  issues  
with damp  as well as the condition at places where newer build abuts older  build.
High damp readings were  taken  in August 2016.  Theres no evidence  from the original  report  
that any damp readings were taken  based on the age of the property Mr and Mrs M were 
proposing to buy and the type of survey being purchased,  Id have expected  this to be the 
case. Its fair to say that the level of damp can worsen. So there is potential  that things had 
deteriorated in the intervening year. Ive made no investigation into the weather and changes 
in the water level that would have impacted the property in 2015-16.
Mr M has referred to the numerous photos  taken  by S during their original report. These  
obviously werent provided to him at the time the report was shared.  Ive not seen these  
either. I have  no powers to oblige S to provide  these  to me.
I see no reason why I cant rely on the independent expert report  prepared  in August 2016 
by Mr B. In assessing whether works or services have been  provided to a required standard, 
Ref: DRN58962838its normal for our service to rely on other independent experts. But this isnt the only 
measurement Im using.
Consumer regulations also dictate that if someone is buying services, like a survey, they 
have a right to expect  it to be performed  to a professional standard  in line with the value  
paid. 
To show that there was a clear breach  of contract   and that S didnt undertake the survey to 
the necessary  standard is a difficult aspect to prove. Mr M is aware  that the survey did 
mention a number  of issues that may need  attention but confirmed S was unable  to see or 
access everything that was present. Ive not seen Mr M took any further  advice, despite S 
recommending this for different  aspects of the property.
Having reviewed the terms of engagement  as well as RICS guidance, and Mr Bs survey; 
theres no doubt there are areas of difference between those and what  was delivered by S. 
Mr B was specifically requested to confirm  whether  a reasonable and competent surveyor 
instructed to carry out a full structural survey on a property  should have identified all or some  
of those areas  which require remedial work.
Mr Bs report  states: In my opinion a reasonable and competent  surveyor  instructed to carry 
out a full structural survey  on a property should  have identified  those areas  referred to, which 
require remedial work.
It is difficult for me to ignore an expert report which states there was a breach of contract. 
There is no other survey for me to consider so on balance Im satisfied that a breach may 
exist.
what is the impact of the breach?
Mr Bs report  makes  it clear that one of the purposes of the survey should  be to identify 
potential issues requiring attention. This gives any potential purchasers   as Mr and Mrs M 
were  the opportunity to renegotiate the purchase  price. This report believes the 
appropriate value  was £45,000 lower  than the price  Mr and Mrs M had agreed with the 
sellers (which was I believe the original  asking price).
I appreciate Mr M has suggested  that the works required to the property will have cost more 
than £50,000.  Ive also seen a provisional schedule of loss and damage that Mr and Mrs M 
prepared in April 2017 to assist in their legal case.  This includes  a detailed breakdown of the 
works carried out amounting to £36,274.04 (plus VAT)  as well as past and future  loss of 
earnings. Mr M has confirmed further works were needed to be carried out to windows in 
2019.  
Having considered the different aspects,  I believe the right thing to consider in terms of any 
consequential loss Mr M suffered from the breach of contract is how much money could  he 
have saved on the original purchase price if hed renegotiated this. Any works carried  out to 
the property subsequently  would  undoubtedly include some that may have been required but 
is also likely to include work  that adds overall  value to the property (betterment as Mr and 
Mrs M say in their most recent submission). So, for example the window work carried out in 
2019.
This raises a number  of factors  which include:
Ref: DRN58962839The state of the housing market  at the time;
Other properties that Mr and Mrs M may have been considering  to buy at the time 
and their price;
Mr and Mrs Ms emotional attachment to purchasing this property (and therefore their 
lack of willingness  to walk away from any unsuccessful renegotiation);
Mr Ms ability to negotiate any discount on the asking price and what  issues  based 
on the 2015 condition of the property  would  be the key aspects to be relied  upon;
Whether the prospective  sellers may have decided to sell the property to another  
interested party or in fact, taken the property off the market  entirely; and
The potential need for and cost of any further  reports to be carried out on specific  
aspects of the property  damp  and condensation issues, condition of chimney 
stacks and roof, flooring, windows, potential  asbestos. Mr B has stated that hed have 
recommended various specialist report and quotations to be obtained before any 
contracts were exchanged.
Its clear that there is a lack of evidence on some  of these aspects, despite Mr Ms most 
recent submission.  Mr M has said that a professionally-conducted survey pointing out the 
issues that needed attention would have allowed him and his wife to decide whether to 
continue to proceed with the purchase  or renegotiate  the price.  Hes said the original survey 
led him to pay the asking  price. Hes provided evidence that S valued  the property at 
£700,000 (£5,000 more than the asking price). Im not convinced  that the survey  is the sole 
driving factor in Mr Ms decision.
It remains entirely feasible that Mr M had no intention of renegotiating the property price and 
was prepared to buy the property anyway,  recognising that further  work may be required. 
Ive reviewed the breakdown of the costs that Mr M supplied  through  his solicitor  to S. There  
were two more substantial costs  for replacing  the lead water  pipe and for work to the gable 
wall  but all others were considerably lower. Its possible  that Mr M would not have been 
able to negotiate any discount to account  for those aspects.
I say this because  whats clear from the start is that Mr and Mrs M were buying an older  
property which had been built up over different periods. It was never going to need no 
additional works or renovation. Im aware  Mr B stated that the property was over-valued. 
However I think its fair to say the price  of any property placed on the market  isnt always the 
surveyed value of the property. Im also aware that Mr and Mrs M took no steps to explore 
issues where Ss view of the condition of the property was unclear.  In their most recent 
submission Mr and Mrs M stated  they were surprised so few issues had been highlighted as 
of concern but still took no further action.
To take one small example: Mr M has stated  S didnt highlight the condition of the windows 
which included some broken panes.  Mr B believed these breakages  would have been clear  
and should have been highlighted. I think in that case it would  have been  obvious for Mr M to 
also note these breakages. That could also have  highlighted  very early on that Ss report 
was incomplete and needed  confirmed  by further  reports. Ive seen nothing  to suggest Mr M 
instructed other reports to be carried out.
On the balance of the evidence Ive considered, I dont believe theres enough  evidence  to 
show the breach  of contract has had a material impact on Mr M. I think it remains most likely 
Mr M would have paid the same  amount  for the property he purchased.   
Ref: DRN589628310Mr M doesnt believe I should be making assumptions about  what happened.  I confirm that 
Ive reviewed all the evidence to come  to the conclusion I have. It remains  that Ive made this 
decision on the balance  of probabilities as I am required to do.
As I concluded Ss survey was judged not to do what it should  have, it is fair and reasonable 
that HSBC refund Mr M the cost of the survey. I know theyve already offered to do that. 
Mr M rejected that offer. I leave it to him to decide whether he now wishes to accept it.
Ive also looked  at the range of other  issues Mr M raised about S breaching consumer and e-
commerce regulations. Ive not reviewed these in detail as overall I dont think any of those 
aspects would have  led to Mr M doing  anything  materially different.
Im very aware that Mr M will be disappointed in this outcome. They can continue  to take 
legal action against S to provide a different route  to the resolution they require.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is not to uphold Mr Ms complaint against  HSBC 
UK Bank plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 September 2021.
Sandra Quinn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5896283