K821x#15complaint
Mr M says that Elevate Credit International Limited,  trading as Sunny, lent to him 
irresponsibly as he had defaults and was in a debt management plan.
background
Sunny approved one open ended  credit account, and 1 payday loan for Mr M
between January 2014 and January 2015.
Our adjudicator considered the complaint and thought that Sunny  shouldnt have continued 
to lend to Mr M from the 12 April 2014  as he was using the credit account to essentially 
make his contractual repayments and this should have alerted Sunny that further  borrowing  
wasnt sustainable. Our adjudicator recommended that Sunny  put things right for Mr M by 
refunding all interest and charges incurred on the open ended credit  account after 
12 April 2014. Our adjudicator noted that the payday  loan followed on from the flex credit  
account and given Mr Ms operation of that facility Sunny should not have given  him this loan 
either and recommended  the business refund  all interest and charges. 
Disappointingly, Sunny didnt reply to the adjudicators opinion so the complaint  has been 
passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  lending - including  all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Sunny needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Mr M could 
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure.
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think  less thorough checks  
might be reasonable  and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that Sunny 
should fairly and reasonably have done more to establish that any lending  was sustainable 
for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ref: DRN54807422There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think its important for me to start by saying that Sunny  was required to establish whether 
Mr M could  sustainably repay his loans   not just whether the loan payments were affordable 
on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook defines sustainable as being  
without undue difficulties  and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting  other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having  to borrow
to meet  the repayments.
So it follows  that a lender  should realise, or it ought  fairly and reasonably  to realise,  that a 
consumer wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ms complaint.
Sunny has told us about the checks it did before lending to Mr M. It asked Mr M for details of 
his income and normal expenditure. And Sunny carried out checks  on Mr Ms credit file.
I agree  with the adjudicator that it wasnt wrong  for Sunny to give Mr M the open ended  
credit facility on the basis of the information he gave  about  his income and outgoings. It was 
early in the lending relationship and so I think the checks were  enough for Sunny to agree to 
lend at the outset.
But this facility was a short term product and Mr M was advised  of this in his credit 
agreement. But Mr M used the facility to borrow on a number of occasions and his pattern of 
borrowing showed that he was borrowing to meet the repayments. This would indicate that 
the borrowing  was unsustainable. I agree with the adjudicator that by the 12 April 2014 
Sunny should  have  seen  that Mr M was showing signs of dependency on this credit and 
further borrowing  wasnt sustainable.
I think that Mr M lost out because Sunny continued to provide borrowing  from 12 April 2014 
onwards. This is because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Ms indebtedness by allowing him 
to take expensive credit intended  for short term use over an extended  period  of time.
the number  of advances, combined with the total length of time Mr M had been 
borrowing from Sunny  was likely to have had negative implications on his ability  to 
access mainstream credit. This kept Mr M in the market  for this high-cost borrowing.
So Im upholding  Mr Ms complaint about all loans provided after 12 April 2014.
putting things right  what Sunny needs  to do
refund  all interest and charges that Mr M paid after 12 April 2014;
Ref: DRN54807423add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum  to each  of these amounts from the 
date they were paid to the date of settlement*;
remove all adverse  entries after 12 April 2014 from Mr Ms credit  file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give
Mr M a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ms complaint in part and direct Elevate Credit
International Limited (trading as Sunny) to put things right as detailed above. Under the rules 
of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or reject  my 
decision before  11 November 2019.
Emma Boothroyd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5480742