K822xcomplaint
Mr Bs unhappy that National  Westminster  Bank  Plc used  its right of set off to pay off his 
overdraft from money in his savings  account.  He wants the money repaid.
background 
NatWest said in its final response that itd used its right of set off to pay off the outstanding 
balance on one of Mr Bs accounts with money  in another account. The balance left would 
be paid to him. It also said he would no longer be able to bank with it and should seek  
alternative banking  when he was in position to do so.
Our investigator felt this complaint  should  be upheld. He said:
Mr B was over his overdraft limit and NatWest had issued a final demand and default 
notice. Itd given  Mr B time to pay off what was owed but three repayment plans had 
been broken.  The debt was due and payable and its terms and conditions  allowed a 
right of set off. NatWest had applied this right of set off appropriately and it wasnt  
unreasonable for it to pay off the debt owed with money  held in another  account.
But it wouldve been good practice for NatWest to provide Mr B with information 
about its right of set off 14 days before  it intended to use it. And once exercised it 
shouldve notified him promptly. Although Mr Bs personal circumstances made this 
more difficult, theres nothing to show NatWest attempted to do so.
This has caused Mr B some trouble and upset and NatWest should pay him £100 
compensation for this.
Mr B doesnt  agree  and has asked for an ombudsman  review. In summary he remains  very 
unhappy and frustrated with what NatWest has done  given  his personal circumstances. He 
says he offered to pay off the debt over time.  And because of his personal circumstances he 
didnt have access to correspondence. He suggests  he had other relevant calls with 
NatWest and was told in 2016 he could  make a plan for repaying the overdraft. He says he 
kept in contact with the bank and was told at one point, possibly around the end of May 
2018, that he could be sent a cheque for his money.  He says NatWest  only turned funny in 
around November  2018.  
NatWest has agreed to pay Mr B £100 compensation. Its also confirmed  that without more 
specific information it cannot locate any other calls with Mr B. But as he was in its collections 
and recoveries department in May and June 2018 any interactions with him at that time 
wouldve been recorded on its debt manager  notes. Having looked at these theres  no note 
of any calls from Mr B in those two months.
Mr B remains unhappy and says NatWest  hasnt treated him fairly. At the relevant times he 
wasnt in control of his incoming mail.  NatWest has said it will refund the money which he 
feels is the correct outcome.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN55180662Some of the evidence in this case is incomplete,  inconclusive or contradictory. So, Ive made 
my decision  based  on what I think is more likely to have happened  than not. 
I agree  with the investigators conclusions for the same reasons.
NatWests terms  and conditions say that if Mr B has borrowed money from it, including  
through an overdraft,  and the money or repayments  are overdue it may take money from his 
account to repay some  or all of what is owed. This is called set off.
In this case Mr B owed money  to NatWest as he had an overdraft which  had been defaulted. 
He also hadnt  repaid  what was owed including through a number of previously  agreed  
repayment plans.
Mr B says he had phone contact with NatWest including in 2016  and around May 2018. Its 
not surprising  that NatWest  cannot trace some of the older calls Mr B says he made  given 
the time thats  now gone by. And NatWests investigations havent found any calls in May or 
June 2018 from Mr B or even any record of contact from him in its debt manager notes.
On the available evidence I therefore dont think, on balance, that I can reasonably conclude 
that any such calls were  made or that NatWest  agreed to allow  the overdraft situation to 
continue and to pay a cheque to Mr B for the money  he held in another  account, as he 
suggests.
I accept that Mr Bs personal  circumstances made it difficult for him to either pay off what 
was owed or even  deal and communicate  with NatWest. Even so I dont think Nat West 
acted wrongly or contrary to the terms and conditions by using its right of set off to pay off 
the overdraft debt with money from anther of Mr Bs accounts. 
But NatWest  couldve communicated with Mr B better about what  it was doing  and then did 
using its right of set off. I agree with the investigator  that this failure  wouldve  caused Mr B 
some distress and inconvenience and that an award  of £100 compensation for this is fair 
and reasonable.  And Im pleased  to note NatWest has agreed to pay this sum.
Overall I think  the investigators recommendations are a fair and reasonable resolution of 
this complaint. And although I recognise Mr Bs frustration and strength of feeling, I dont see 
any compelling reason  to change the proposed outcome in this case.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  To put things  right National Westminster Bank Plc should  pay Mr B 
£100 compensation.
NatWest must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which  we tell it Mr B 
accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest  on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
If NatWest considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income  tax 
from that interest, it should  tell Mr B how much  its taken  off. It should also give him a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN55180663Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 May 2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5518066