K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains about how U K Insurance Limited  (UKI) handled a claim made on his motor 
insurance policy and that it held him at fault.  He wants  it to reduce his premium  and reinstate  
his No Claims Discount  (NCD).
background
Mr M said UKI accepted  liability  on his behalf  for a car accident when he told them he wasnt  
at fault. He was also unhappy with UKI not keeping him updated on the progress of the claim 
and with its investigation. UKI agreed  that it hadnt  kept Mr M updated  and it offered him 
£150 compensation. 
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  should  be upheld.  He thought UKI had 
reasonably investigated the claim and determined liability. And he thought UKI should have 
told Mr M the outcome  sooner, but he thought its offer of £150 compensation for this was fair 
and reasonable.
Mr M replied that he thought UKI should  offer more. He asked for his complaint to be 
reviewed, so its come to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M said another driver  braked suddenly causing  Mr M to run into the back of his car. Mr M 
reported this to UKI and said he wasnt at fault.  But he found out three  months later at 
renewal that UKI had accepted liability for the accident.
The adjudicator has already explained  that it isnt our role to decide who was responsible  for 
causing the accident. This is the role of the courts. Instead, our role in complaints  of this 
nature is simply to investigate how the insurer made  the decision to settle the claim. Did it 
act fairly and reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy?
UKI is entitled under the terms  and conditions of its policy  with Mr M to take over, defend, or 
settle a claim as it sees fit. Mr M has to follow  its advice  in connection with the settlement of 
his claim,  whether he agrees  with the outcome or not. This is a common term in motor 
insurance policies and I dont find it unusual. Insurers are entitled to take a commercial 
decision about whether it is reasonable to contest a third party claim or better  to 
compromise.
That said,  we expect  an insurer  to reasonably  investigate a claim before making its decision 
on liability.
UKI agreed  that it hadnt  investigated the claim before settling it. It said that it considered the 
chances of successfully defending Mr M were poor as hed run into the back  of the other  car. 
But when Mr M complained, it investigated  the claim further. It found that there  were  no 
CCTV cameras to show what had happened. There was no evidence that the other  driver 
had stopped deliberately.  It thought the damage  the other driver claimed for was in keeping 
with the circumstances and fair and reasonable. 
Ref: DRN56832132So, although  UKIs initial investigation was poor,  I dont think this affected the outcome of the 
claim. UKI said Mr M had the duty to keep a safe stopping distance  between him and the car 
in front.  UKI considered the circumstances as Mr M described them, but it thought  a court  
would find against  Mr M. The further  investigation was reasonable and I think UKI has 
justified its decision to accept liability for Mr M, as its entitled to do under the policy  terms 
and conditions. 
UKI agreed  that its level of service had been  poor. It said it hadnt given expected  updates or 
returned Mr Ms call as agreed.  It said a claim handler had been abrupt. It said it had raised 
Mr Ms expectations that the claim could be settled 50/50 split liability. 
UKI offered Mr M £150 compensation for the trouble and upset these failings  caused  him. I 
think thats fair and reasonable  as its in keeping with what  Id require in similar 
circumstances. I dont  require UKI to do anything further. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 January 2020.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5683213