K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains that Nationwide  Building Society  was irresponsible  in providing him with 
three loans  between 2010 and 2011.
background
Mr R applied to Nationwide for a fixed term loan of £8,000 in November 2010 (loan 1). In 
June 2011 Nationwide agreed another loan of £10,000 (loan 2) followed by a further loan of 
£14,755.90 in August 2011 (loan 3). The last loan was approved on the basis £6,266.90 of it 
was used to repay the balance still outstanding on loan 1.
But Mr R says he had a gambling addiction at the time, which he feels would have been 
obvious from the way he was using  his account. He doesnt think  Nationwide  carried out 
proper checks before agreeing the applications  and that it was irresponsible  in approving the 
second and third loans. Hed now like Nationwide to refund  the interest on the second loan 
together with interest on £8,489 being the balance of loan 3 after loan 1 was repaid.
Nationwide said it had certain criteria that all applicants had to meet before an application 
could be considered. Mr R had done so and on the information provided, the loans  were  
affordable. It didnt agree the loans  were irresponsible.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold this complaint. She said all businesses had to carry out 
appropriate checks to make sure a loan was affordable before agreeing  to lend.  Nationwide 
wasnt able to say exactly what information  had been taken  into account in assessing Mr Rs 
application as this was commercially  sensitive  but in general  it would  look at their age, 
income, credit history, credit score  and the way in which they managed  their account. She 
felt these checks were reasonable and she could see each of the three applications  made by 
Mr R had been reviewed  and approved based  on the information hed provided.
Shed seen Mr R had made three  applications  within a few months but each application was 
considered on its merits and there wasnt anything in his credit  history at that time that would 
have indicated that the loans were unaffordable.  The records of the three  loans didnt show 
any missed payments or any other  signs Mr R was finding it difficult to keep up his 
repayments. And there was nothing adverse in his credit file for 2010 and 2011  that might  
have raised concerns about his ability to repay.  Shed taken into account  what Mr R had said 
about his gambling addiction  and his spending  but he hadnt told Nationwide about this at 
the time.  In the circumstances she didnt feel Nationwide  could reasonably have known 
about this in 2010 and 2011and that it was reasonable therefore  to make its decision on the 
information available.  On that basis, she couldnt agree the loans had been unaffordable.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I wont  be asking 
Nationwide to do anything  more to resolve this complaint as Ill now explain.
Ref: DRN58562572Ive seen Mr R made  his applications in 2010  and 2011. Under  the rules that say what  
complaints we can accept, we cant in general  consider  a complaint about an event that 
happened more  than six years ago or more than three years after the customer  realised 
there was a problem  if the business  didnt  agree.  In this case  however Nationwide has 
agreed to our considering this complaint so thats not an issue. However banks  dont have to 
keep their records indefinitely and in this case the because of the time thats  passed  theres  
limited information available on some points. Where  the information available  is incomplete 
or contradictory Ive made my decision on the balance of probabilities, in other words whats 
more likely than not to have happened.
Its clear Mr R feels Nationwide was irresponsible  to approve his second and third 
applications. He says it must have been obvious he was gambling and that he was having 
difficulties with his accounts.
In deciding whether  to approve a loan a bank is looking at the customers  overall  credit  
profile. That is whether  there is any adverse information that might suggest the loan is 
unsuitable or unaffordable.  In this case Ive seen Mr Rs bank statements for this period and 
I can see that he was managing his account within his agreed overdraft limit. In addition 
there was nothing on his credit file that would  have raised any concern at this time and by 
the time of the second and third loans, there was also his loan history  for loan 1 that showed 
hed met all his payments  as required.  
I accept what Mr R has said about  his gambling at this time. It was clearly  a difficult  time for 
him and Ive every sympathy with the situation he found himself in. If Mr R had told 
Nationwide about  his problems at the time then Id expect it to have reacted sympathetically 
and positively but as Mr R has said, he didnt tell Nationwide about this until recently and for 
that reason I think Nationwide  was reasonable in assessing the applications on the 
information it had and on that information  I cant agree it was irresponsible  in approving the 
loans.
Ive seen Mr R feels Nationwide didnt  do carry out the proper affordability checks. Theres  
no precise list of checks that need to be made and it depends  on the amount of the loan, its 
purpose and the circumstances of the lender But Ive seen the checks Nationwide made in 
Mr Rs case and the criteria it used and I consider  they were  proportionate and reasonable. 
As set out above there was nothing in Mr Rs credit file or his accounts  at this time to 
indicate he was in difficulty or that he wasnt able to make  the repayments.  And I note that 
Mr R has, in fact, maintained his payments and successfully repaid all his loans  which 
doesnt suggest the loans  werent affordable either at the time or in the interim.
I realise Mr R will be disappointed by my decision but having reviewed all of the information  
available, I cant agree the loans were unaffordable or that Nationwide was irresponsible to 
allow them. For that reason I wont be asking it to do anything more in relation to this 
complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Rs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 June  2019.
Ref: DRN58562573Cerys Jones
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5856257