K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a new Halifax-branded mortgage Mr M took out with Bank of 
Scotland plc when moving house.  He complains, in summary, that Halifax:
led him to think hed get back all, rather than only some, of his early  repayment charge 
(ERC) when he changed mortgages;
didnt ask him if he might need  to keep money  back for home improvements;
spoke insensitively about his health when  discussing critical illness  insurance;  and
was slow to call him back and deal with his complaint.
background
In what follows, I have  summarised events in rather  less detail than theyve been presented, 
using my own words to do so. No discourtesys  intended by that. Its a reflection  of the 
informal service  we provide, and if I dont mention something,  it wont  be because Ive 
ignored it. Itll be because  I didnt think it was material to the outcome of the complaint. 
This approach is consistent with what our enabling legislation requires of me. It allows  me to 
focus on the issues on which I consider a fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by 
matters which, although presented as material, are, in my opinion peripheral.  Ive also 
rounded the figures involved,  to reduce  the risk of identification when my decision is 
published.
Mr M was moving to a lower-priced property than the one he was selling. He was porting the 
rate deal from his existing  mortgage, but borrowing  less money; this meant hed pay an ERC 
but then receive  a part-refund proportionate  to the amount  of the new mortgage. He 
arranged this during a number of conversations with a Halifax  mortgage  advisor.  As part of 
that process,  there was a discussion about critical illness insurance, which  Mr M thought  was 
insensitive. Hed recently had a severe  health  scare,  and though it inappropriate to use this 
as a lever to sell insurance. 
After he moved, Mr M says he was disappointed by the amount of the ERC rebate he 
received; he thought hed get back all of it. Hed also by now come to realise the new house  
needed work doing on it but when he asked Halifax about borrowing more money, it told him 
hed have to wait six months. Mr M says the advisor  should have prompted him during the 
advice stage to consider  holding money  back in case he needed to make  improvements.
Halifax rejected the main  thrust  of the complaint, but it offered Mr M £150 compensation for 
handling the complaint  poorly;  in particular, for a manager not making a return  call that had 
been promised.  When Mr M brought his complaint to us, our investigator didnt recommend 
the complaint  be upheld.
Mr M asked  for his complaint to be reviewed; he was concerned  that weve not been  able to 
examine the content of an initial meeting that hed been told was recorded  but Halifax  now 
says wasnt.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments, including  the extensive exchange 
of emails between Mr M, the investigator  and his manager, to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
Ref: DRN58164902Before I address the specific merits, Ill start with some general observations. Were not the 
regulator of financial  businesses, and we dont  police  their internal processes or how they 
operate generally. Thats the job of the Financial Conduct Authority. We deal with individual  
disputes between  businesses and their customers. In doing  that, we dont replicate the work  
of the courts. 
Were impartial and we dont take either  sides instructions on how we investigate  a 
complaint. Being impartial and independent  means were not here to act in Mr Ms interests, 
as hes suggested,  or anyone  elses  for that matter. We conduct our investigations  and reach 
our conclusions without  interference from anyone else. But in doing so, we have to work 
within the rules of the ombudsman service, and the remit those rules give us.
Im required  to decide a complaint according to the available evidence. Where,  as is alleged 
here, that evidence is contradictory and/or incomplete, my remit is to decide whats most  
likely to have happened on the balance of probabilities. Thats the same test that the courts  
use in civil cases.  Its also for me to decide if the evidence we do have is enough for me to 
decide the case fairly. I know its a concern for Mr M, but Im satisfied this complaint can 
fairly be determined  based  on what we have.
As I said earlier,  if I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed  to 
consider it but because  I dont think I need to comment  on it in order  to reach what I think is 
the right outcome in the wider context. My remit is to take an overview and decide  whats  fair 
in the round. 
Ill begin with the ERC  rebate. The starting point here is that under the terms of the deal he 
already had, Mr M was liable to pay an ERC  if he paid the mortgage  off. The terms also 
allowed him to move  the deal over to another  mortgage (assuming Halifax  approved the 
application) if he wanted  to move house,  in which case  the ERC  would be refunded. If the 
new mortgage was for less than the existing  one, the refund would be pro-rata;  i.e. hed 
receive a partial  refund proportionate to the difference  between the old mortgage  repaid  and 
the new one taken out.
Mr M has said he was expecting  the refund to be in the region of £2,000. Theres  no mention 
of that figure in the recordings we do have,  but of course there  is always  a possibility it came 
up in the conversation for which we dont  have a recording. Thats  where I have to apply the 
aforementioned balance  of probabilities test, and when I do that, Im not persuaded Halifaxs 
would have said anything  to suggest  the ERC  refund  would be that much. Ill explain why.
The ERC from the existing mortgage  was payable if the mortgage was paid off the first two 
years. It was on a reducing scale; 3% of the amount repaid if in year one, and 2% if in year 
two. The amount of the existing mortgage at the outset was a little over £60,000,  so the 
maximum the ERC could  ever be, assuming no pro-rata rebate, was just over £1,800. The 
ERC that Mr M actually  paid was just over £1,430.  If Mr M was never  liable to pay an ERC 
as high as £2,000 in the first place, by definition, he could never receive that much  as a 
rebate. 
The amount  he did receive was £1,050;  thats 3% of his new mortgage, which  was £35,000. 
So Mr M has received the amount he was due. I appreciate he thought he was going to 
receive more, but for the reasons set out above, Im not persuaded its likely Halifax  misled  
him into thinking that.
Ref: DRN58164903Mortgage advisers have  a duty to provide information thats  accurate  and sufficiently 
comprehensive to allow a consumer to make  an informed decision. But theyre not obliged  to 
answer questions  that havent been  asked, or guess what  requirements a consumer might  
have that they havent mentioned. 
Mr M and the advisor discussed how much money  hed need  to fund the purchase and meet  
the associated  fees and charges; Id expect that as a matter of course. But I wouldnt  expect  
them to discuss the need for money  to fund improvements unless Mr M expressly said he 
might have a need for that. If hed raised  the subject, Id expect Halifaxs  advisor  to advise 
him with the necessary level of skill and care. But Mr M didnt mention funding home 
improvements, and the advisor wasnt at fault in not volunteering information or pre-empting 
a conversation about it.
That brings me, to Mr Ms dissatisfaction  with the way he was spoken to about his health  in 
connection with the potential need  for critical illness  protection. These  are difficult  matters  for 
us to decide, as theyre so subjective.  One persons bluntness is anothers rudeness;  one 
persons direct speaking  is anothers condescension  or insensitivity.  Its always a matter  of 
perception and I dont  believe  its my role to make  judgements on whether one persons 
perception of insensitive behaviour is more valid than anothers.
When youre as close to a difficult situation  as Mr M has been for so long here,  its a natural 
subjective reaction  to want to pursue every individual  issue  with vigour. But I have  a different 
remit. I have to be objective, and impartial, and sometimes that means  stepping  back  from 
the fine detail  and taking an overview. It also means  that Im not required to provide answers 
to every specific question that comes  up, if I dont consider  doing  so will affect the overall 
outcome.
I know Mr M feels very strongly about  his complaint; thats apparent  from the force and 
eloquence with which hes brought it. But with one exception,  which Ill deal with next, Halifax 
hasnt really done anything to breach its regulatory  obligations to Mr M, or more  generally 
treated him unfairly. 
The exception is the rather tardy  and sloppy way it dealt with his complaint when he first 
made it. However, Halifax has paid Mr M £150 compensation for that, and in all the 
circumstances, I think  thats a reasonable response. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes  this 
services consideration  of this complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further  
discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 December 2019.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5816490