K820x#14complaint
Mr V has complained that TSB Bank plc did not process his standing  order  properly.
background
Mr V has a bank account with TSB.  He also has a joint account with another bank, B. Mr V 
has a standing order set up to pay money  from his TSB account into the account  with B, and 
his mortgage payments  are then collected from this account. 
Mr Vs standing  order was collected  on 1 April 2019,  which  is the same day his mortgage 
payment was due. Mr V had said that the funds were not paid into his account with B for 
several days. And as a result  his mortgage payment failed, as did a number of direct  debits. 
Mr V also said this led to a charge on his account  with B and he spent significant time 
resolving this issue. 
Mr V complained to TSB, and then brought his complaint to this service.  Our investigator 
didnt uphold  Mr Vs complaint. During her investigation, it was found  that the standing  order  
had been paid into the account with B on 1 April 2019, rather  than several days later. And 
the investigator felt this was in line with the terms and conditions of Mr Vs TSB account. 
Mr V remained unhappy  and so his complaint has been referred to me for a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I have come  to the same 
conclusions as our investigator, largely  for the same reasons. 
TSBs Personal Banking terms  and conditions, which  apply to Mr Vs account, say for a 
standing order the payment  will be taken from the TSB account shortly after midnight on the 
relevant day, and will reach the bank it is sent to on the same day (if it is a working day).  
I can see that the standing order was taken  from Mr Vs account  just after midnight on 
1 April 2019. And that it was received into his account with B in the afternoon of that day. I 
appreciate that Mr V may have wanted  the money to reach his account  with B earlier in the 
day. But TSB met its responsibilities  under  the terms and conditions of Mr Vs account. So I 
dont consider TSB to have acted inappropriately.  
As I dont consider  TSB to have acted inappropriately, I am not minded to uphold this 
complaint. However  for the sake of completeness I should also point out that even though 
Mr V had expected  the money to reach  his account  with B earlier in the day, the timing of its 
arrival didnt  actually have  any impact  in the circumstances. 
The payment to Mr Vs mortgage account  was attempted after the funds from the standing 
order had been  received  into the account  with B. Unfortunately, despite  this, the balance of 
the account with B wasnt high enough for the mortgage payment to be successfully taken. 
And it wasnt until a direct  transfer of a further  £500 was made later in the day that the 
balance of this account was high enough  to meet the payments being taken from it. 
Ref: DRN55555332my final decision
Based on the points  above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 September 2019.
Sam Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5555533