K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2003. Mr B says Capital  One (Europe) plc mis-sold him PPI.
background
The background and circumstances leading  up to this complaint, which includes Mr Bs 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy  benefits,  limitations  and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed.  So I havent repeated all of this information here.
For the sake of completeness, Capital One has shown us evidence that Mr Bs credit card 
agreement ended in 2005.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.
Mr Bs representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise  any new or 
additional points  but repeated the same  complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations;  regulators  rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.  
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some  example  final decisions  that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Bs. I havent  set out that detailed  information 
here but Ive taken  into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mr Bs complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised  my reasons 
for this conclusion below:
I think Capital One made it clear  that Mr B didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose 
to take it out. I say this because Capital One has provided us with a copy  of Mr Bs postal 
credit card application.  Looking at this I can see Mr B ticked a box to take out PPI: 
Please enroll me in Capital Ones Payment Protection Scheme (see leaflet enclosed). 
The application doesnt say or imply that Mr B had to take out PPI  so if he didnt want  
the cover  he could have  ticked  the equally prominent No box.
So in light of the above, and because this was a postal sale with no interaction with 
Capital One during the application  process, Im satisfied Mr B chose to take out PPI and 
did so without undue pressure.
Ref: DRN58301222Capital One didnt recommend the PPI to Mr B - so it didnt have to check  that the PPI 
was right or suitable for him. But it did have to give Mr B enough clear and timely 
information so he could decide  for himself if it was right for him.
Its possible the information Capital One gave Mr B about  the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been  for example the credit card application  didnt  say anything about PPI 
and referred Mr B to a separate leaflet where he could  find out more. But Ive found that 
he chose to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover. The cover  wasnt  
fundamentally wrong for Mr B  for example  he was eligible for the cover, he wasnt  
affected by the significant exclusions on or limits  to the cover  and he didnt have any 
existing means at his disposal  of making  his card repayments if he wasnt  working.
The policy wasnt too dissimilar to what he reasonably thought  he was buying from the 
information he was likely  given. It also looks like it was affordable   so it seems like it 
would have been useful for him if something  went wrong. Because  of this I dont think  Mr 
B would have declined the cover had Capital One done anything  more.
While  the policy contained limitations on claims relating  to back and mental health 
conditions, in light of Mr Bs circumstances at the time of sale and despite  its limitations  
and exclusions,  the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. So I think  
Mr B would have thought he still had some good reasons to take the policy out.
Overall, I consider that Mr B would have  still taken out PPI. The policy was sufficiently close  
to what its likely he thought he was getting  and I think  the policy could provide a useful 
benefit in a difficult time, given his circumstances at the time. And in those circumstances, I 
think that he would have taken out the policy in any event.
Mr Bs representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint points, 
which it says apply  to all PPI complaints. These  general points include: a claim that the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service  is not correctly applying the regulators rules and guidance 
for handling PPI complaints; these policies  represented poor value because of the number of 
significant exclusions and limitations of cover  coupled with the low claims ratio; and the duty 
of utmost good  faith meant Capital One should  have disclosed the poor value and explained  
the significance  of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the chances of 
making a claim.
But Mr Bs representative  has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mr Bs individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr Bs particular case. 
But these  points dont  persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint   for the reasons Ive set out above I 
dont uphold this complaint. 
This means  Capital One doesnt have  to do anything to put things right.
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  Mr Bs complaint and I make no award.
Ref: DRN58301223Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 September 2021.
Paul Featherstone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5830122