K821x#15Complaint
Mr B says Elevate Credit International Limited  (trading as Sunny) irresponsibly lent to him.
Background
This complaint is about three high-cost  short term credit instalment loans that Sunny 
provided to Mr B between  August 2017 and October  2017. 
Our adjudicator upheld  Mr Bs complaint and thought that he shouldnt have been provided  
with any of these  instalment  loans. Sunny disagreed. So the complaint was passed to me.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all the key relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Sunny needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Mr B could 
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Sunny  should fairly and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided. Having 
looked at the overall pattern of Sunnys lending history with Mr B, I think that Sunny should 
reasonably have seen that Mr B was unlikely  to have been  able to make his payments in a 
sustainable manner  when it provided these  loans. 
I say this because  the information Sunny itself suggests it obtained indicated that Mr B had a 
number of outstanding short-term loans  with other  providers.  So I think that Sunny ought  to 
have been aware  that Mr B was more  likely  than not borrowing to repay existing lending and 
that any further loans were unsustainable.  Sunny continued lending  to Mr B even when this 
Ref: DRN50133532was repeated and in circumstances where it ought reasonably to have realised that any 
further loans were more  likely than not unsustainable for him. 
Mr B is being expected  to pay interest  and charges on loans that Sunny shouldnt  have 
provided him with. So I think that he lost out and Sunny should put things right.
Putting things  right  what  Sunny needs to do
remove all interest and charges added to Mr Bs loans from the outset   in other 
words Mr B shouldnt have to pay any more  than the amounts he was originally lent. 
The payments  Mr B made should  then be deducted  from the new starting balances. If 
the amount Mr B has paid to any of the individual loans  exceeds  the amount he was 
initially lent then any extra should  be treated as an overpayment and refunded to him;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any overpayments, if they were  any, from the 
date they were paid to the date of settlement;
Id remind Sunny of its obligation to treat Mr B with forbearance if he is experiencing 
financial difficulty, should outstanding balances remain once all adjustments have 
been made and it decides to collect on them.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Mr B a certificate  showing  how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mr Bs complaint. Elevate Credit  
International Limited should pay Mr B compensation  as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 May 2020.
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN5013353