K820x#14complaint
Ms P complains  about the way Liverpool  Victoria Insurance Company  Limited  dealt with the 
renewal of her motor insurance policy.
background
Ms Ps motor  insurance policy auto renewed with payment of the full premium. But when she 
wanted to amend it to pay by monthly  instalments, LV said it had to cancel the existing policy  
and set up a new one which increased  the premium by some £300. Ms P is unhappy about 
this and that LV didnt honour  the renewal price  when she wanted to change the payment to 
monthly instalments.
LV said in its final response that when Ms P contacted  it about  changing  the method of 
payment on her policy it had already renewed  the policy and taken a card payment of the full 
premium, as it had previously said it would. Even though this was a day before the cover 
started it couldnt then change the payment method to monthly instalments. The only option  
was to generate  a new quote. Unfortunately when doing this the premium  increased by 
about another £300, due to having  to generate a new quote  and as its rates  changed on a 
daily basis. It had however credited £50 to her payment plan.
Our investigator felt this complaint  shouldnt be upheld.  In summary she said:
The renewal invite said that cover ended on 30 January 2019 and as agreed the 
policy would be renewed and a card payment taken  on that date. 
After the policy  had renewed  Ms P contacted  LV asking for an amendment  to 
monthly payments.  But LV explained  that wasnt possible as the premium had 
already been taken  and the policy renewed.  But it explained a new quote with a 
monthly payment  plan could  be generated. This increased the premium.
Ms P says this is unfair. But we arent a regulator and cannot tell LV how to assess  
risk or what to charge for a policy. Rates can and do change  over time. And as the 
new quote was done after the original one it wouldve been based on different rates.  
So, she cannot say LV has made  an error nor done anything wrong.
Ms P remains unhappy and has asked for an ombudsman review. She thinks what  LV did 
was morally wrong, is inflexible and that its ridiculous that the rate changed so much when 
her circumstances hadnt changed.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Ms Ps frustration at what has happened  and the position she found herself in. 
But the simple  fact is LV took the full premium  and renewed her policy as it said it would  in 
the renewal invitation which it sent out some  weeks before the actual  renewal date. 
Unfortunately Ms P delayed contacting LV until the renewal date by which  time the full 
payment had been taken from her card and the policy had been renewed. As such  I cannot 
reasonably say LV has done  anything  wrong  in these respects.
Ref: DRN58999512As the investigator  has said we arent  a regulator. We cant  require a business to change  its 
practices and procedures. General issues about how the insurance industry works are a 
matter for the Financial  Conduct Authority.
Its also up to a business like LV to set its own criteria for assessing  risk and deciding  how it 
prices its products. These  are examples of it exercising its commercial discretion which isnt 
something we will interfere with. Its unfortunate, but entirely possible, that in the period 
between the two quotes being given LV changed  its risk criteria and pricings. Thats  a matter 
for it to decide. 
I recognise that Ms P is unhappy  with the new higher  premium  she was quoted.  But if she 
wasnt happy with it she was free to seek cheaper  cover elsewhere with another  provider if 
she wished to do so.
Overall, although I recognise  Ms Ps strength of feeling and frustration, I dont think  I can say 
LV has done anything  wrong. I note LV has credited her payment plan with £50 which seems 
fair. And I cannot reasonably require LV to do anything more  or differently. 
I dont see any compelling reason to change the proposed outcome in this case.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 May 2020.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5899951