K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that Curo  Transatlantic Limited  (trading  as Wage  Day Advance) gave him 
loans that he couldnt afford to pay back.
background
Mr S took out two instalment  loans with Wage Day Advance between  July 2017 and March  
2018.
Mr S says he was in a spiral of debt. He believes that if Wage  Day Advance  had carried  out 
proper checks,  it would have realised that he had other loans. He believes that it was 
irresponsible to lend to him in the circumstances.
Our adjudicator didnt  think Wage Day Advance had been wrong  to give Mr S the loans. He 
thought that the business was entitled to rely on what Mr S said about his finances and the 
repayments looked affordable on the figures he gave. 
Mr S didnt agree and replied to say in summary that if Wage Day Advance had done better 
checks it would have  seen the difficulty he was in and that he was borrowing from other 
short term lenders.  He provided details of all of his outgoings at the time to demonstrate  that 
the loans were unaffordable.  He said that all his borrowing and a default would have been 
visible on his credit file and the fact that he took out the second loan the same  day as the 
first was paid off showed he was reliant  on the loans.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I have taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice  at the time the loans were  offered.
I think the overarching  questions I need  to consider  in deciding  whats  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this complaint are:
Did Wage  Day Advance, each time it lent, complete  reasonable and proportionate 
checks to satisfy  itself that Mr S would be able to repay in a sustainable way?
oIf not, would  those checks have shown that Mr S would have been 
able to do so.
Taking into account the short-term purpose of the loans provided, did the overall 
pattern of lending  increase Mr Ss indebtedness in a way that was otherwise 
unsustainable or harmful?
Did Wage  Day Advance act unfairly  or unreasonably in some  other  way?
If I determine that Wage Day Advance did not act fairly and reasonably in its dealings with 
Mr S and that he has lost out as a result, I will go on to consider what is fair compensation.
Before lending money to a consumer a lender should take proportionate steps to understand 
whether the consumer will be able to repay what theyre borrowing in a sustainable manner 
without it adversely impacting on their financial situation. 
Ref: DRN57289712A lender should gather enough  information  for it to be able to make an informed decision on 
the lending. Although the guidance  and rules themselves didnt  set out compulsory  checks, 
they did list a number of things a lender could take into account  before agreeing  to lend. The 
key element was that any checks needed  to be proportionate and had to take into account a 
number of different  things,  including how much was being lent and when  the sum being  
borrowed was due to be repaid. 
When he applied for the first loan, Mr S told Wage Day Advance  his monthly take-home pay 
was £1500, and his regular monthly expenditure was around £420.  Wage  Day Advance  was 
entitled to rely on that information  in the absence of anything  to suggest it might  be 
unreliable. On the basis of the information  Mr S provided, Im satisfied that it would have 
looked as if hed be able to afford the highest instalment of £160  relatively  comfortably. And 
I dont think it was irresponsible of Wage Day Advance to make  the loans without carrying 
out further checks. It didnt have to do a credit check and on the basis of the amount being 
borrowed relative to Mr Ss declared income and expenses I dont think  it needed  to do any 
more.
Mr S repaid  the first loan in full and on time in March 2018.  Mr S applied  for his second  loan 
as soon as the first loan was paid off. Mr S gave the same figures for his income  and 
outgoings. So even  though loan two was for more than loan one, the repayments  of £250 
were still a relatively small proportion of Mr Ss declared monthly disposable income.  So it 
would have appeared to be affordable for Mr S. And Im not satisfied that there was anything  
which ought to have prompted  Wage Day Advance to ask to see Mr Ss bank statements, or 
wage slips to carry out further checks before agreeing to the loan. Mr S had repaid loan 1 
without apparent difficulty so there was no reason to suspect he was in difficulty.
I acknowledge that Mr S considers that Wage Day Advance should have carried out more 
checks. But the guidance in place at the time didnt require lenders to carry out specific 
checks. Even if Wage Day Advance had been aware of the default on Mr Ss credit  file this 
wouldnt in itself be a reason not to lend to him. I can see that the default was in August 
2016 and Mr S had been repaying  other credit cards  satisfactorily  before applying  for the first 
loan in July 2017.
 
I know that my decision will come  as a disappointment to Mr S, and I dont underestimate the 
difficulties that hes experienced and that the loans were unaffordable. But Im not convinced  
that it was irresponsible of Wage Day Advance  to lend to him the loans it gave him based on 
the information he gave and his borrowing history.  If Mr S had continued to borrow  
increasing amounts  then I would have expected further checks including looking at his bank 
statements and payslips  which would have  revealed  the financial difficulty. But I think for the 
first two loans he had it was proportionate for Wage Day Advance  to rely on what  Mr S said 
about his finances without  any further checks.
 
Ref: DRN57289713my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 March  2019.
Emma Boothroyd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5728971