K820x#14complaint
Mr V complains about U K Insurance Limiteds  (trading as Direct Line)  handling of a claim on 
his car insurance policy.
background
Mr V was involved  in a motoring incident on 1 February 2018. He complained to Direct  Line 
about its handling of the matter at the time,  and as that complaint couldnt be resolved he 
brought it to our service.
An ombudsman here looked at the service provided,  including  Direct Lines decision to hold
Mr V at fault for the incident and settle  the other drivers claim against  him. In short, the 
ombudsman didnt uphold  Mr Vs complaint as he felt the decision to hold Mr V liable and 
settle the claim had been fair.
Mr V more  recently discovered from another insurer that theres a record  on the Claims and
Underwriting Exchange  (CUE) for an incident  on the same day, but with a settlement of 
around £3,070   significantly  more  than the £100  he said the other driver had claimed from 
him.
Mr V felt that meant  Direct Line had dealt with two separate incidents. Hes also unhappy  
with the amount paid out and with the record created,  he says its inaccurate  and that its 
causing him detriment.  Mr Vs premiums have also risen since  the 1 February 2018 incident, 
and he believes his no claim  discount  has been  unfairly withheld.
Mr V says Direct Line didnt inform him of either  claim against him being settled. And that his 
current insurer told him that the Claims and Underwriting Exchange (CUE) record appeared 
in 2019, not in 2018.
An investigator here looked into Mr Vs concerns. He answered some of Mr Vs questions  
and explained  that he didnt think the existence  of the CUE  record  had caused any 
detriment. That was because it was simply a record of the same incident, of which Mr V was 
aware, and of which his new insurance  company says it was told.
Mr V didnt agree with the investigators conclusion and didnt feel all of his concerns had 
been addressed,  so the case has been  passed  to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision last month,  explaining as follows:
Id like to begin by explaining that Im limited in what I can consider  in relation to Mr Vs 
case, due to him having had a previous  and related  case  decided  by an ombudsman last 
year. On that one the ombudsman decided Direct  Line was entitled to settle the other  
drivers claim, following the incident  on 1 February 2018.
I understand Mr V didnt  accept or agree  with the ombudsmans decision,  but a decision was 
made and I cant make  a decision on the same issue. That means I wont be considering the 
concerns Mr V has raised  in relation to Direct Lines decision to settle the claim and that 
includes his concerns in relation to phone  calls about the incident.
Id also like to explain that while I appreciate  how strongly Mr V feels about his complaint  
were an informal dispute resolution service,  set up as a free alternative  to the courts. In 
Ref: DRN53985532deciding this complaint, Ive focused  on what I consider to be at the heart  of the matter  rather  
than answering  every  question posed. This isnt intended as a discourtesy to Mr V. Rather it 
reflects the informal nature of our service, the remit of the Financial Ombudsman Service  
and my role in deciding  this complaint.
Having reviewed Mr Vs numerous submissions, and having taken away the issues that 
relate to the decision to settle the other  drivers claim, I believe there  to be three areas for 
me to consider  which Ill do so in turn.
1.Mr Vs belief  that there may now be two separate incidents from 1 February 2018.  
Including Direct  Lines failure to inform him that it may have settled one claim for 
£100 and another for around £3,070. Mr V is particularly unhappy with the amount 
paid out for the greater of the two claims and he doesnt feel theres justification for it.
At this point I wish to make very clear that I believe Direct Line has only dealt with one 
incident from 1 February  2018. Mr V was involved in this and Direct  Lines decision to settle 
it in favour  of the other  driver was deemed  to be fair in the previous decision.
Where I believe confusion  has arisen is Direct Line not informing Mr V when  it had finalised 
the claim and not telling him how much it had paid to the other driver.
Mr V has explained that when the incident occurred the third party  asked him for £100 to 
settle the matter.  Mr V didnt pay the other driver because he didnt  consider  himself to be 
liable for anything.
The other driver then submitted a claim to Direct Line, as Mr Vs insurance  company.
Direct Line assessed  the claim and settled it in favour of the other driver, paying out a total of 
around £3,070.  That payment included sums for repairs  to the other drivers car, a hire car 
and for personal  injury.
I understand Mr Vs unhappiness at the sums  that were paid out. He doesnt  consider there  
to have been any damage caused  to the other  drivers  car, nor does he believe there was 
any injury to the other driver. But, with Direct Line having taken the decision to settle the 
other drivers  claim, it then had to go on to consider the costs.
An engineer  inspected the condition  of the other drivers car, and some old damage that 
wasnt linked  to the incident was found.  The engineer felt some damage could be traced to 
the 1 February  2018 incident,  and that the cost of repairing  that would be £891. So that was 
the amount agreed. I believe  it was reasonable of Direct Line to rely on the outcome of the 
engineers inspection when settling this aspect of the claim.
As is often the case with insurance claims involving damage to a car, there will be hire car 
costs incurred while the repairs are carried out. So in addition to the amount paid for repairs,
Direct Line paid around £779 for a hire car. Direct Line has an invoice for hire car costs,  so I 
think its reasonable for it to have included them in the overall claim settlement.
Finally, a payment  was made in relation  to personal injury caused  to the other  driver.  I 
appreciate Mr V doesnt believe  there  to have  been any injury,  but Direct Line spoke  to the 
other driver who described the pain he had felt following the incident. Based on those calls,
Direct Line offered the other driver £1,400  in settlement of that part of the claim.
Ref: DRN53985533I know Mr V will find this to be a significant  amount, particularly as he doesnt  believe there  
to have been any injury caused. But, under the policy terms and conditions,  Direct Line is 
entitled to take over and carry out the negotiation, defence or settlement of any claim. And it 
offered a settlement payment to the other  driver because it felt it wouldnt be successful in 
defending it in court, and to save the possibility of incurring additional medical  costs.
There doesnt need to be proof of hospitalisation for a personal  injury claim to be made, or 
for a settlement  to be agreed.
Sometimes insurance claims are settled informally, and without  the detailed  investigation  or 
court appearance I think Mr V wouldve liked in this instance. But its for Direct Line to 
assess the claim and decide  what amount to pay out. I think its unlikely it wouldve paid out 
more than it felt was necessary and, for the reasons explained, I think  it has assessed things 
fairly.
And even  if Direct Line had paid out a very small amount, I think Mr Vs subsequent 
premiums wouldve been affected. Direct Line ought to have  provided  Mr V with details once 
the claim had been finalised, although it did write to him in February  2018  to inform him that 
it had accepted liability. So Mr V knew early on in the process that there was a claim against 
him, and I cant see  in this case  that hes lost out by not knowing the amount.
Overall, whilst Direct Line didnt tell Mr V how much it had paid out for the claim I dont think 
hes lost out as a result.
2.Mr Vs concerns about the CUE record appearing in 2019 and about its accuracy.
CUE is a shared  database used by the insurance  industry to keep records  of claims.  A 
record is usually created when a claim  is made  and itll then be updated where  necessary  
often when a claim  has been settled and the outcome  and costs  are known.
Mr V says he was told by his current insurance company that the record showing costs  of 
around £3,070  only appeared at the beginning of 2019, as it hadnt  been there when  he took 
insurance with it the year before.
I note that Mr V took out cover with his new insurer to start on 9 February 2018. At that point 
the cost of the claim hadnt been  finalised so those details wouldnt have been on CUE then, 
even if the record  was. And Mr V has provided a letter from his new insurance company 
saying a mistake was made in not including  the claim when setting up the policy.  So I dont 
think this means Direct Line only added the CUE record in 2019.
In any event, and as explained earlier, I havent  seen anything  to make  me think  the claim 
settlement amount has had any adverse effect on Mr V.
In terms of the accuracy of the information,  Mr V says CUE doesnt show any court case that 
would justify Direct Lines actions  and it doesnt  show who made the claim, for what  and 
why. He also said he wasnt involved in an incident leading to personal injury.
But CUE records dont  show  all of those details and to my knowledge there hasnt  been  a 
court case  in relation to this incident,  so there wouldnt  be anything  to report on that. The 
record contains factual  information about Mr V, a brief description of the incident, the 
amounts paid out and what they were  for.
Ref: DRN53985534I dont consider any of it to be inaccurate and whilst I understand Mr Vs strength of feeling, 
around the costs  and the claim for personal  injury,  Im satisfied those details are a true 
reflection of the payments  made.
I also know Mr V is unhappy with how the incident  has been described,  but the description is 
only intended to be a very brief summary. Mr V rightly points out that the description  is
TURNING  / CROSSING PATHS  NON CROSS ROADS JUNCTI[ON]. Mr V has 
described in his own submissions that he was slowly and carefully edging out whilst exiting a 
driveway. He was doing so with the intention of turning when the incident happened, so I 
think its a fair description. And the junction wasnt a cross road, so I think thats  reasonable 
to say too.
3.Mr Vs concerns that his no claim discount  (NCD) has been affected by this matter.
I understand Mr V held nine years NCD with Direct Line before the incident happened.
Direct Line wrote to Mr V after he reported the incident to say his no claim  discount  would be 
affected, something which is covered in the policy terms  and conditions.
The way Mr Vs NCD worked with Direct Line was that after one claim the nine years would 
reduce to three, effective at the next renewal.
Direct Line says it didnt  send Mr V proof of NCD because  he cancelled his policy. I think  it 
shouldve sent it to him, but I dont think this means it was being  withheld from him, as I 
believe he couldve asked for it.
When Mr V took a policy with another insurer he started with no NCD, so it looks  like he told 
them thats what he thought he had. I think its likely he couldve  started  with three  so its 
possible he paid more  than he needed to. I dont  think  Direct Line is responsible  if thats the 
case though. Because  I think it was Mr V who told his new insurance company he had no 
NCD, and he couldve checked  if he was unsure. That means I dont think  Direct  Line needs  
to do anything more  than provide him with the proof it says its now sent.
However, Mr V may be able to pass this proof on to his current insurer and ask if theyll  
apply it retrospectively.
I do understand why Mr V is unhappy  about  all of this. He feels the other driver has, at best, 
grossly exaggerated their claim. And he feels Direct Line has settled  it and paid too much,  
without carrying out a suitable level of investigation.  But it can sometimes  be difficult to 
determine precisely how much should be paid, especially when  the two drivers dont agree 
on everything. Im satisfied Direct  Line gave adequate consideration to the evidence it had, 
before deciding how much to pay.
In this case, Direct Line had an engineer inspect the condition  of the other  drivers  car and, 
instead of simply agreeing  to cover everything; they reduced the settlement amount 
accordingly. It had an invoice for the hire car costs and spoke to the other driver several 
times about how he felt following the accident. I appreciate  Direct  Line couldve done more 
but I think what it did was enough.
And even  if it had paid a reduced settlement, Mr V still wouldve had a fault claim on his 
record. So, overall, I dont  think Direct  Line has treated Mr V unfairly. 
Ref: DRN53985535I said Id look at any more  comments and evidence Mr V and/or Direct  Line wished to 
provide me. 
Mr V sent a lengthy  reply to my provisional decision, disagreeing with much of what  Id said. 
Direct Line didnt say whether or not it agreed  with my provisional decision.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate the time Mr V has taken  in responding to me. And as I explained  in my 
provisional decision, I understand why hes so unhappy  about everything.  Ive taken  care to 
read Mr Vs response and its clear we dont  agree  on much.
But Im satisfied with the conclusion  I reached,  for the reasons set out in my provisional  
decision. That means I dont intend  to respond to every point Mr V has made, although Id 
like to address some  of them, because  there  may have been a few misunderstandings.
Mr V says he has the right to challenge  a claim against him and that evidence of Direct Line 
settling the claim is not evidence  of what took place on the road. Mr V also says he doesnt  
yet know what is being claimed for and that the incident on CUE is different from the one that 
occurred in 2018.
I believe Mr V has exercised his right to challenge  the claim through  his complaint to
Direct Line and further in bringing  the matter to our service. I agree  that Direct Lines 
settlement of the claim isnt a factual representation of what happened on the road. The CUE 
record shows payments were made in respect of Mr Vs policy, which  is true. I dont believe 
it is intended to be read as a detailed description  of what occurred between Mr V and the 
other driver.
I also believe Mr V knows  what  is being  claimed  for. I set out in my provisional decision the 
claims the other driver  had made, and the sums paid out by Direct Line. And Mr V is aware  
this all relates to an incident  that occurred on 1 February 2018, the one he reported to
Direct Line.  So, I dont believe Mr V is at a loss here. The CUE record confirms  that date and 
gives a reasonable,  albeit  brief, description  of what happened.
Mr V says my provisional decision  is solely concerned  with what  Direct Line should  and 
should not have done.
That is my remit  here, I am not making  a finding  in relation to what happened on
1 February 2018.  I considered whether or not Direct Line treated Mr V fairly when handling 
his claim,  and I felt it had  even though I understand  why he feels  otherwise.
Mr V believes Direct Line should not have assumed fault and liability  on his part during the 
phone call in which he reported it. But the speed at which a claim outcome is determined is 
not decisive here. Its whether or not the determination was reasonable. The ombudsman in 
2018 said it was, and I cannot  comment further.
Understandably, Mr V believed the reference  on the CUE record  to NCD Disallowed meant  
he had no NCD entitlement. He also said he still hadnt received the proof of NCD I said hed 
been sent by Direct Line.
Ref: DRN53985536I can appreciate why Mr V took NCD Disallowed to mean he had no entitlement. But thats 
the language used  on the CUE database and really  just means  the NCD will be affected  by 
the claim.  How the NCD is affected is set out in the insurance policy  terms and conditions, 
and the way Mr Vs worked meant that he still had an entitlement to three  years. Im pleased 
to see that Mr V has since confirmed hes received the proof.
Mr V says Direct Line has presented him with a variety of incidents. But as far as Im aware  
there was only one incident on 1 February  2018   the one Mr V reported  to Direct Line. It 
may have  been  described in slightly different ways, but I dont believe anyone has suggested 
Mr V was involved  in several  different incidents  on the same day.
Mr V believes the engineer report can be disregarded  because damage couldve happened  
in the period between the incident and the inspection.  I understand Mr Vs feeling  here but I 
dont think it means the report  can be disregarded. The report  was to establish what  damage 
couldve occurred in the incident  described  by Mr V and the other driver. That the report was 
able to rule out some  of the damage suggests to me it was suitably relied on.
Mr V believes the CUE record  to suggest the non-injury payment was all in respect  of the 
damage to the other drivers car. But I dont believe that to be the case  as it refers to 
including other  costs. I think its reasonable to consider  the hire car payment as other costs.
Mr V has suggested he and his passenger may have  suffered far worse injuries than the 
other driver and that Direct Line has shown a lack of empathy. Im not aware  of any such 
injuries and Id have expected Mr V to have raised  this earlier  if it was the case. So I think  
this is more of a general point hes making in relation to his overall dissatisfaction.  I think  its 
likely empathy wouldve  been shown if Mr V had informed Direct Line of injuries, to him or to 
his passenger.
I still believe the CUE record was added in 2018, when the matter first arose.  I note Mr Vs 
continued concerns  about  this and his belief  that it was added in 2019. But I dont think  it 
makes a difference to this case when it was added.  The important things are that Mr V knew  
there was an incident, that the record exists  now and that the record is, for reasons already 
explained, an accurate one  even if not in the way Mr V would  like.
Overall, I still believe  Direct Line took adequate  steps when determining how much to pay in 
settlement of the other  drivers claim. I still believe  the CUE record  to be accurate and, 
although he said he didnt  receive it initially, Mr V has now confirmed receipt his proof of 
NCD. So, while I agree  Mr V has been  affected by the fact a claim exists (as anyone  would),  
I dont think he has lost out as a result of the way it was handled or recorded.
Ref: DRN53985537my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, it is my final decision that I do not uphold  Mr Vs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 December  2019.
Will Weston
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5398553