K821x#15complaint
Ms C complains that UK Insurance Limited (UKI) declined a claim on her home insurance 
policy when her electronic  tablet  was stolen from her car.
background
Ms C had her electronic tablet device stolen from her car after it was broken into when it was 
parked on her driveway at home. Ms C made a claim for the item under her home insurance 
policy, held with UKI.
UKI declined  the claim as it said Ms C used the device  for business purposes. And this was 
specifically excluded under the terms of the policy.  UKI said, when questioned, Ms C 
admitted to using the device for work.  And the device had been purchased  by a business 
Ms C was employed by.
Ms C said she had been gifted the device from her partner who paid for the item using his 
business account. She said that although  she did occasionally use the device to check  her 
business banking  accounts, the device was primarily for her personal  use. So she made a 
complaint to UKI as she didnt agree with the reasons it declined her claim.
UKI questioned Ms C further in relation to the use of the device. Ms C added that the device 
was in the car, on the day of the theft, as she had used it at her daughters  business. She 
said she was helping  her daughter on a voluntary basis and didnt receive a wage for this. 
But UKI maintained  its position and declined the claim. 
Ms C remained unhappy,  so she brought her complaint  to our service. An investigator looked 
into this and thought the exclusion was applied unfairly, as Ms C provided evidence  the 
device was purchased through  personal  expenses. And because of this she thought  the 
device wasnt held for business purposes.  So she thought UKI should pay the claim in line 
with the policy terms.
UKI didnt  agree with the investigator as it thought Ms C had changed her story regarding  the 
use of the device, and it maintained the device was used for business purposes.  Because  
UKI didnt  agree with the investigators opinion, the matter has been passed to me for 
a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read the terms of Ms Cs home insurance policy, and Ive carefully  considered the 
section which refers  to excluded items. One of the exclusions  is:
Items held or used  for business purposes except  those  listed as business  equipment  in the 
definitions.
I can see from the definitions within the policy terms that tablet computers  are listed as 
excluded under the term business  equipment. So I have to consider if it was fair for UKI to 
decline the claim based on the device  being  held or used for business purposes.
Ref: DRN51730182Although business  purposes isnt defined within the policy  Ive considered  some  of the 
points raised during  UKIs investigation.  It said the policy  wording doesnt  distinguish 
between personal  and business use to allow cover for an item that is used for both, and - in 
this case - Ms C admitted to using the device occasionally for business purposes. However, 
UKI was willing to consider if Ms C had been  working on a voluntary basis the day the device 
was stolen. And it was willing to consider  whether the device was purchased through a 
business associated  with her. I think UKI wouldnt have considered these points if business 
use, irrespective  of frequency, was automatically excluded. So Ive gone  on to consider 
whether in Ms Cs particular circumstances it was fair for UKI to continue  to decline her 
claim, in light of these  submissions.
Ms C confirmed the device was purchased  through a business she is associated with. But 
she supplied  evidence  from the business  accountant that the item was purchased under 
private expenses as a personal item.  The business therefore didnt absorb the cost of the 
device and it didnt  claim the relevant tax relief.  I think this is quite compelling evidence  that 
the device was purchased for Ms Cs personal use, and not for use in her business capacity.
Additionally I have considered what the device  was used  for on the day it was stolen from 
Ms Cs car. Ms C said she had taken the device  to work on this specific day. Although she 
didnt elaborate on this initially, Ms C later said the work was on a voluntary basis  helping  out 
her daughter. As business is defined in the policy as any employment,  trade  or profession, 
UKI acknowledged this shouldnt  be treated as business  use. Particularly as Ms C supplied  
evidence from the business shed been  working  for, the day the device was stolen, which  
confirmed she was helping out on a voluntary basis, and that she had no financial interest in 
the business. This evidence persuades me Ms C didnt use the device on the day it was 
stolen for business  purposes.
So considering the facts  of this case,  I dont think the device was for business  use. 
Ive also considered the point made  by UKI that Ms C changed her story when informed of 
the policy exclusion. But having  seen  the evidence to support this, I dont think  Ms C 
changed her story. Ms C simply said she took the device into her business  for the day. When  
she was asked if she had taken it to work on it, Ms C replied yes, but again with no 
elaboration on the type or place of work she was taking it to. When Ms C was later 
questioned regarding the use of the device that day, she said it was to help out at her 
daughters business,  which she was doing  as a personal favour.  And has supplied  evidence 
to support this testimony. So I dont think Ms C had changed her testimony to such a degree 
that it should be disregarded.  I think she was honest with UKI about  the use of the device 
throughout. And maintained she occasionally  looked  at her business bank accounts  after 
she had informed UKI of what  she had used the device for that day.
So, for all the reasons  I have given, I dont think its fair for UKI to decline the claim  under  the 
exclusion of the device being  used  for business  purposes.
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given, I uphold this complaint and require UK Insurance Limited to 
reconsider Ms Cs claim on the basis that the exclusion clause cited  doesnt apply, and in 
accordance with the remaining policy terms. 
If the claim is valid and a cash benefit is payable, UK Insurance  Limited should add interest 
at 8% simple annual from the date of the claim to the date of payment.  If UK Insurance  
Ref: DRN51730183Limited deducts tax from the interest award,  then it should provide Ms C with a tax deduction  
certificate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 August 2019.
Stephen Westlake
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5173018