K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a monthly  premium payment protection  insurance  (PPI) policy  taken 
out in 2002. Mrs D says Bank of Scotland PLC (Halifax  at the time) mis-sold her the policy.
To keep  things simple,  Ill refer to Bank of Scotland as BoS throughout this decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ds case.
And having done that, Ive decided  the policy wasnt mis-sold.
BoS has provided us with a copy of Mrs Ds credit card application and credit  agreement that 
she signed at the time of sale. I can see that there  was a section on this document called 
Product Details, below  which there was reference to PPI. And in the box next to PPI there  is 
an X. The X is computer  generated like the rest of the information  about Mrs D  which is, 
in my view,  the likely result of a conversation between  her and BoS as both parties  seem  to 
agree that the sale took place in branch and theres nothing persuasive to suggest anything 
different. As Mrs D signed  for her credit card on this document  not far from where  PPI was 
referred to, Im satisfied  she agreed  to take the policy.
Mrs Ds representative did suggest, in response to our adjudicators assessment, that it 
wasnt made clear to Mrs D that the policy was optional. However, we havent  been told 
much about  what was said and/or done  at the time of sale to support that. And as the event 
in question did take place over 15 years  ago, this is something I have  to consider when 
weighing up whats likely to have happened. As a result, Im not persuaded Mrs D agreed to 
take PPI because she thought she had to given the evidence in front of me.
BoS says that it recommended  the policy to Mrs D  which means  it had to check  that the 
PPI was right for her.
Based on what Ive seen  of Mrs Ds circumstances  at the time,  I think that the policy was 
suitable for her. She doesnt appear to have been  affected by any of the exclusions to or 
limits on the cover that was available. And in light of what shes told us about her own means 
of keeping up with her repayments  in the event she found herself out of or unable to work, 
she seems to have had a need for the cover as her sick pay did fall away reasonably 
significantly after six months.
As well as making a suitable recommendation, BoS also had to give Mrs D clear information. 
So thats what Ive looked at next.
Its possible the information BoS gave  Mrs D about  the policy wasnt as clear as it should  
have been. But, for the same reasons I think the policy was a suitable recommendation to 
have made,  I dont think better information about the PPI would have put her off taking it out 
as it looks like it would have been useful if something went  wrong.
Ref: DRN52610082This means  BoS doesnt  need to refund everything Mrs D paid for the policy.  But BoS has 
offered to give her back some of the cost of the PPI. And in light of what Ive said above,
I dont think it needs to do anything more.
I understand BoS has already paid Mrs D the offer it made her.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 February  2019.
Morgan Rees
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5261008