K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs J say Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold them  a mortgage payment protection 
insurance (PPI)  policy.  Mr and Mrs J have also raised a concern about the level of 
undisclosed commission Lloyds received.
background
Mr and Mrs J took out a PPI policy with a mortgage in 2000. They paid a monthly amount of 
£90 for the policy. The policy covered Mr and Mrs J. The PPI covered them  for accident,  
sickness and unemployment for up to 12 months  per claim. In the event of a successful 
claim it would  have  covered Mr and Mrs Js monthly  mortgage repayments and the benefit 
was split 60/40% in Mr Js favour.
Mr and Mrs J say Lloyds mis-sold them PPI. Lloyds thought the PPI wasnt mis-sold.
Unhappy, Mr and Mrs J brought the complaint  to our service.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs J disagreed with the adjudicators  
opinion, so the complaint has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Js case. 
First, I would like to clarify that Mr and Mrs J took out some further borrowing in 2002 with 
Lloyds. Lloyds has provided evidence to show that PPI wasnt taken out alongside this 
borrowing. So to be clear, this decision only focuses on the sale of the PPI policy  in 2000.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Js complaint and Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs J say they were unaware PPI had been  added and if they had been aware, they 
wouldnt have taken  it out.
Lloyds has provided  a copy of Mr and Mrs Js original mortgage paperwork, which include, 
amongst other things,  the mortgage  application  form,  PPI application form and mortgage  
offer. 
Within the mortgage application form there  is a section for insurance.  And within this, there 
are various options about the different insurances  Lloyds provided.  There  is a section  about  
PPI. There is a yes or no option  whether to take PPI and yes has been  ticked.  
Following this, Mr and Mrs J also had to complete and sign a separate  PPI application form. 
Here the benefit  split of 60/40% in favour of Mr J was chosen. A direct  debit mandate  to pay 
for the policy was also completed by Mr J.
From looking  at the information provided,  I think Lloyds made it clear that Mr and Mrs J didnt 
have to take out the PPI and that they chose to take it out at the level they required.  
Ref: DRN50311642Lloyds says it recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs J. From the information Mr and Mrs J 
have given us about their circumstances,  it seems to have been right for them at the time. 
Taking a mortgage  is a large long-term financial commitment   and if repayments arent met 
there are serious consequences and borrowers  could  potentially stand to lose their home. 
I appreciate Mr and Mrs J had good stable jobs and received a good level of sick pay from 
their respective employers if they were unable to work. But the PPI paid out alongside  their 
sick pay. It would  have covered the mortgage  repayments for up to 12 months for each claim 
if either of them was unable to work because of an accident  or sickness.  It also provided up 
to 12 months per claim  if they lost their jobs. 
I note Mr and Mrs J said they had some savings and other investments that they could have 
used to meet their mortgage repayments  if they were unable to work.  But having  the PPI 
meant that they wouldnt have had to use their savings or investments. I also note that 
Mr and Mrs J didnt have any other insurance  policies in place that they could have relied on 
if they were unable to work for a lengthy period. 
Given the above and after careful  consideration, I cant fairly say that the advisers 
recommendation for PPI was unsuitable  or unreasonable  in Mr and Mrs Js circumstances.
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs J about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
should have been. But they chose to take it out - so it looks  like they wanted this type of 
cover. They  werent  affected by any of the main exclusions  or limitations  that may have 
prevented them from claiming under the policy. And it seems like it would have been useful 
for them if something went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable.  So I dont think better 
information about the PPI would have put them off taking out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs J have said - including what  they have said about 
their circumstances at the time and not needing the PPI. But, for the reasons  Ive given 
above, these points dont change my decision.
Which means Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs J.
But Lloyds will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs J because in 2017, 
following a Supreme Court judgment, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), issued some  
new rules about how businesses should  deal with complaints about PPI. 
The FCAs rules and guidance set out how firms,  that are lenders, should assess a 
complaint to establish whether failure  to disclose commission gave rise to an unfair 
relationship under section 140A of the Consumer  Credit Act 1974 (CCA). And also how 
businesses should  determine the appropriate  compensation  (if any) to offer to a consumer.
The FCA said that if a business got a high level of commission and profit  share from the PPI 
policy  more than 50% of the PPI premium   and it didnt tell the consumer, then that could 
create an unfair relationship between the parties.  So to put that right,  the FCA said that 
businesses should  pay back  the amount of commission  and profit share that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium. 
Lloyds, in light of the FCAs rules  and guidance, looked at Mr and Mrs Js PPI policy. Lloyds  
said that the level of commission  and profit share it received did create an unfair relationship. 
Ref: DRN50311643So to put things right it offered to refund the extra Mr and Mrs J paid each month  for the time 
the commission and profit share  it received was more than 50% of the cost of PPI. It also 
included 8% per year simple interest  to compensate Mr and Mrs J for any time they were out 
of pocket.  
Mr and Mrs J say because Lloyds have  acknowledged that there  was an unfair relationship 
it follows that the sale of PPI, that they say they didnt want or commit to, was also unfair.  So 
Mr and Mrs J think they should  get everything  back.  But in this case,  Lloyds has 
made Mr and Mrs J an offer of compensation in relation to the level of commission  it 
received that is in-line with the methods set out by the FCA.
So Lloyds has done what the rules it must follow tell it to do.  
Ive thought about whether theres anything about  Mr and Mrs Js particular complaint and 
circumstances that means Lloyds  should  do something different to put right the unfairness  
caused by not telling them about the amount of commission and profit  share it got. But I 
dont think there is. 
In this case I think the offer thats been made is a fair way to resolve this complaint. So I 
wont be telling Lloyds  to do anything more.  
what the business needs  to do
Lloyds has to pay back to Mr and Mrs J any commission and profit share  it got that was 
more than 50% of the PPI premium. Lloyds should also pay back to Mr and Mrs J any extra 
interest they paid because of that.
Lloyds should  pay back to Mr and Mrs J the extra they paid each  month because  the 
commission and profit share it got was more  than 50% of the cost of PPI. Lloyds should also 
pay Mr and Mrs J 8%* simple interest on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr and Mrs J can claim back  the tax if they 
dont pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank  PLC does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs J.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have  to pay back to Mr and Mrs J any commission  and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so it doesnt need to do anything further.  But if the compensation hasnt  been  paid, 
Lloyds Bank  PLC should arrange payment, ensuring the compensation is brought  up to date.
Ref: DRN50311644Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision  before  27 April 2019.
Matthew Horner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5031164