K821x#15complaint
Miss P says Bradford & Bingley Plc mis-sold her a payment protection  insurance (PPI) 
policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out at a meeting in 1993 at the same time as Miss 
P applied  for a mortgage. The policy gave her accident, sickness and unemployment cover.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. Bradford & Bingley  disagreed so the complaint was 
passed to me.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our general  approach to complaints about  the sale of PPI is on our website  and Ive followed
it here.
I have decided to uphold Miss Ps complaint. Ill explain why.
Bradford & Bingley  recommended the PPI to Miss P so it had to check  it was suitable for her. 
And it had to give her enough clear information so she could make an informed decision 
whether or not to buy it. I dont think its shown it did this.
I say this because  Miss P had a pre-existing medical condition  which  would not have been
covered by the policy, and it seems the society accepts this. So it was likely that Miss P 
would not have been able to claim on the policy when she needed to, and when she 
expected to be able to. I cant  see Bradford & Bingley made this exclusion clear  to Miss P 
during the sale.
It says the mortgage  application clearly asks if anyone connected with the policy has had a 
serious illness or are currently  suffering from a medical condition,  and the answer was no, so 
it sold the PPI in good faith. But Im not satisfied that the inclusion of this question  on the 
mortgage application form evidences that Bradford  & Bingley  met all of its obligations during 
the sale. It doesnt demonstrate that the society gave clear enough information on the policy  
exclusions or limitations. And from what its told us, and shown us, about how it sold the PPI 
to Miss P I cant  see it did. As Miss P would have been affected by the exclusion of pre-
existing medical conditions I think its most likely  she wouldnt have taken out the PPI if shed 
been better informed.
So I think Miss P has lost out because of the problems with this sale.
putting things right
Bradford & Bingley  should put Miss P in the position  shed  be in now if she hadnt taken out 
PPI. It should:
Pay Miss P the amount she paid each  month  for the PPI
Ref: DRN55163592Add simple interest to each payment from when she paid it until she gets it back. The
rate of interest is 15% a year until April 1993 and 8% a year from then on.
If Miss P made a successful claim under the PPI policy,  Bradford & Bingley can take 
off what she got for the claim from the amount  it owes  her.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Bradford & Bingley  to take off tax from this interest.  
Bradford & Bingley  must give Miss P a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she 
asks for one.
my final decision
My decision  is I uphold  Miss Ps complaint. Bradford & Bingley Plc must pay Miss P 
compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 November 2019.
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5516359