K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains that TTR PT Limited gave him the impression that the course he was 
signing up for and financing through it was a course and paid job.
background
Mr W saw an advert  for an events management course on a job advertisement website. He 
contacted TTR and following  discussions about  it signed up. In order  to finance the course  
Mr W took out a three year loan with TTR. Mr G acted as a guarantor  for this loan, so for that 
reason he is also joined  to this complaint.
Mr W believed  that he would be in training  for the first six weeks  and then after this he would 
start work with TTR and work different events, gaining the skills he needed for events 
management whilst also doing  a paid job. However he says when he came to register for the 
course he realised it was only training and that it didnt  include or guarantee any paid work. 
So he raised a complaint  with TTR.
TTR said it was made clear to Mr W that it was a training course  and not a job. It did 
acknowledge there was some confusion in the calls between Mr W and its advisor  and 
recognised that some  information shouldve been  clearer. However it didnt agree it had mis-
sold him the course or presented it as a job opportunity. Mr W brought  his complaint to our 
service, but our investigator  didnt uphold his complaint.  So he asked for it to be reviewed by 
an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Were able to investigate  Mr Ws complaint about  this course as he took out finance to fund 
it. Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015,  TTR has a duty to carry out the service  in a defined  
way and there would  be remedies available  to Mr W if it hasnt done this. So Ive reviewed 
what happened and whether or not I consider  TTR has carried  out its contract with Mr W in 
the way it should have.
Mr W has pointed  out that the course was listed on a job advertisement website, so this 
misled him. However on reading the advert  for the course I cant  agree it suggests its a paid 
role with a qualification included. I think the advert makes  it clear its an events management 
course and that from this youll  get a qualification, not a job. So while I appreciate  the 
website the course  was listed on may have caused some initial confusion, I dont  think the 
advertisement itself was misleading. Ive also reviewed the application Mr W completed and 
the course information he was given. This paperwork clearly sets out that this is a training 
course and doesnt  say its a job. So I dont consider this misled Mr W.
Ive then listened to Mr Ws calls with TTR to determine if the course  was misrepresented  to 
him over the phone.
Ref: DRN59791932I appreciate from listening  to the calls that Mr W is under the impression that he will be 
working whilst hes completing  the course. However I think  this all comes from his initial 
belief (on reading the advertisement) that the course  is a job, rather than him being told this. 
For example in his first call with TTR the advisor says a number of times that Mr W will work 
through or be working through elements of the course. This is in reference to him 
completing the learning and the qualification.  However as Mr W believes its a job, it seems 
he takes this as confirmation  hell be doing  paid work as he does  the course. And in this 
initial call there is also a larger discussion about the work Mr W could do with the 
qualification. At this point  it seems Mr W is under the impression this discussion is about 
paid work  that is part of the course, whereas  the advisor considers theyre  discussing  the 
kind of jobs he may be able to get with the qualification.
On listening to the calls I appreciate  that there are a number of occasions where Mr W and 
the advisor are talking  at cross-purposes.  But I cant agree that TTR say at any time the 
course guarantees paid work  or is a job where  you also receive  a qualification.  Its just very 
unfortunate that this misunderstanding  doesnt  come out during the early calls.
Mr W has said that TTR made  out that he would  be in work by the time he had to start 
paying and that he wouldnt have to pay anything while he wasnt working. On listening to his 
calls I appreciate Mr W asks if he can pay the money out of his wages and that he later 
brings this up with the career support  officer too. But as Ive set out above, this is 
unfortunately due to Mr Ws misunderstanding about the course,  rather than because TTR 
tells him this. Hes referring to the wages the job TTR provides him will pay; TTR is agreeing 
that Mr W can pay this money out of wages he (as a self-employed or employed person) 
generally earns. But as both parties  refer just to paying the course  from wages, neither party 
is aware they arent discussing the same thing.
The advisor does  set out that the course  starts several months before payments to enable  
Mr W to be earning.  But he doesnt  guarantee Mr W a job or say that if Mr W isnt earning at 
this time he wont have to pay. And again  this is in reference to him earning money through  a 
job that he secures himself after completing  the qualification  not earnings hell receive 
through work  TTR provides him.
Mr W does tell the career support officer that he thinks hes getting education and work. But 
the officer quickly responds to him and says There  isnt a job with this. So she is very clear  
when directly presented  with Mr Ws (mis)understanding. But unfortunately it seems Mr W 
took this to mean her role didnt relate  to the work he was getting through the course, rather  
than there  was no job included. 
I fully appreciate why Mr W is now unhappy, but at no point do TTR tell him what hes 
alleging. Instead  it seems he is under a misunderstanding he formed when he first read the 
course advert. And unfortunately the conversations he has with TTR dont result  in this 
misunderstanding coming to light, so it isnt apparent until Mr W goes to register. So while 
I do have empathy for the situation Mr W is now in, I cant  say that TTR misrepresented the 
course to him.
Ref: DRN59791933Ive considered Mr Ws point that as hes dyslexic  the course contact coming  via email will be 
a problem for him. In the initial call with TTR the advisor explains the course  and says to 
Mr W that its a bespoke e-learning programme, which  is how the majority of our training is 
going to be delivered.  He then goes on to explain  there will also be a tutor assigned to 
Mr W, but doesnt say this will be face-to-face.  And in a later call its also explained to him 
that the training is online. On that basis I think TTR made it clear  the majority of the course  
was going to be online and at this time Mr W doesnt mention his dyslexia. Hes in fact 
signed a Student contract which says hes declared  any additional learning needs he may 
have. So I cant say TTR needed  to do anymore for him. It was for Mr W to determine if the 
course was suitable  for him, knowing  how his dyslexia  affected him.
Considering the information available to me, I havent seen anything to suggest TTR hasnt 
carried out the service  it agreed with Mr W in the way it should. So I dont consider he has 
any remedies available  against TTR under  the Consumer Rights  Act (2015).
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr W and Mr Gs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  25 February  2019.
Amy Osborne
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5979193