complaint
Mr B complains that 1 Answer  Insurance  Services  Ltd (1 Answer) have not handled 
data that he has provided appropriately.  Specifically, he believes they have used  
information in relation  to spent convictions when obtaining quotes for his motor 
insurance. He is also unhappy with information  being sent to third parties and incorrect  
information being used which had led to higher premiums being quoted.
background
Mr B initially spoke  with 1 Answer on 27 April 2017  having requested  a quote for his 
van insurance online. After sharing all of the necessary information during this call, 
including details in relation to driving  convictions and policies which  might  have  been  
cancelled, voided  or refused, a policy was set up and incepted  the following day.
Upon renewal of the policy,  Mr B called  1 Answer on 21 April 2018 to discuss  the quote 
he had received. He explained in this call that he felt the premium being charged was 
drastic and when he used a price comparison website he found a far cheaper quote. In 
this call, 1
Answer discussed information in relation to Mr Bs motoring conviction  and asked  
whether he had included this in his alternative  quote.
1 Answer explained  in this call how they ask for information in relation to convictions  for 
11 years.  Mr B said they couldnt do this and they were breaking the law.  Following  this, 
Mr B made a complaint to 1 Answer.
In their final response dated 3 May 2018,  1 Answer addressed several issues. Aside from 
the premium Mr B was being charged, they also reviewed  concerns  regarding the 
handling of Mr Bs personal data and how they record information in relation to 
convictions on their systems.  They also looked into Mr Bs concerns regarding the format 
in which  they sent information  to him following a subject access  request.
In their response, 1 Answer explained  their reasons for handling and sharing data in the 
way that they do and how it is within their terms and conditions  to share  information  with 
third parties.
They also explained that they have removed  information in relation to spent convictions  
from their systems and have now changed their sales script to no longer  request 
information regarding  spent convictions.
1 Answer also confirmed  in their response  that the premium  being charged by the 
insurer upon renewal of Mr Bs policy was unaffected by any information held in relation 
to spent convictions.
Mr B remained unhappy so brought his complaint  to us on 5 July 2018.
In his complaint,  Mr B raised concerns regarding the amount he was charged for his 
premium in April 2017.  Mr B also claimed  that 1 Answer had falsified and shared  
information to other parties which may have led to higher premiums  or commissions being  
charged.
Our investigator reviewed  the complaint and did not find in favour  of Mr B. The 
investigator felt that 1 Answer handled the complaint appropriately  and were  right to 
share information with other parties in their dealings with Mr B.
Mr B was unhappy  with our investigators  assessment.  Alongside a general  feeling the 
investigator had failed to investigate the complaint fully, Mr B specifically expressed 
concerns that a quote he received from an insurer (D) at a cost of £906 was too high and 
Ref: DRN5083493that this was a direct consequence of 1 Answer adding  the spent conviction data to a 
third
party data system which was used  by D. He explained that he was able to get quotes at a 
far cheaper  rate using  an alternative insurer who did not have access  to this information.
Mr B also explained how the reference to the cancellation in his initial quotation call with 1
Answer in April 2017 had led to an increased  premium at this time and that he could 
have obtained  a far cheaper  policy had it not been used. Mr B also shared further  
information to show how 1 Answer chose to offer him a more  expensive quote than 
theyd otherwise obtained in a bid to receive more commission.
I issued my provisional  decision  in early  June 2019  explaining why I was intending 
to partially uphold Mr Bs complaint and recommend that 1 Answer  pay to him £150  
compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
Mr B responded to say the following,
... the broker should of advise me the cancellation  before inception would have no bearing  
on future insurance. had I been told this I could of gone mainstream  saving over £900,if  
they had not lied to the insurance company saying I had insurance  when I was banned 
from driving it would  have been visible on the insurance policy  and questioned.
1 Answer responded  to say they accepted  the findings.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having  done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusions as set out in my provisional  decision and for the same reasons, Ill explain 
why.
There have been  a significant number of issues  raised  both to 1 Answer and to the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service  since  Mr B first made 1 Answer  aware  of his wish to make a 
complaint. Whilst  I have reviewed all of these  issues,  for the purposes of this decision I 
have focused
on the key issues  he has raised and those  which are most  likely to have led to some form 
of detriment.
I will set out my findings under subheadings below in order  to keep the key issues  separate.
initial quotation and inception of policy  (April 2017)
Mr B was unhappy  with the information which  was relied upon  to obtain his quote  in April
2017. He believed that some  of the information which  was shared with insurers led to 
him having to pay an increased premium.
I have listened to the telephone conversation from 27 April 2017, in which Mr B was asked  
a series of questions to establish  the facts required for 1 Answer to obtain  cover for him.
In this call, Mr B was specifically asked the question have you ever had motor 
insurance refused,  cancelled or voided? to which he responded yes, about half an 
hour ago.
Mr B went on to discuss with 1 Answer that the policy hadnt yet started  and that it 
was cancelled because  he was unable to send a valid driving licence.
From this call, it appeared that 1 Answer were able to establish the circumstances around 
this cancellation  and that it was treated as a not taken up policy, however to establish 
Ref: DRN5083493whether Mr B suffered  a financial loss, I asked 1 Answer  to clarify  whether the premium  
was increased as a result  of the customer having  had a previously  cancelled  policy.
1 Answer were able to confirm that there was no loading on the policy incepted on 28 April
2017 in relation to a cancelled policy. In this response, 1 Answer  were able to confirm  
that Mr Bs DR30 conviction  was a rating  factor as at the time the policy  was incepted  the 
conviction had not been spent.
Based on this, I am not upholding this aspect of Mr Bs complaint.
information shared  with third party  data services
Mr B was also unhappy  with information  shared with a third party  which he feels has had 
an impact on the quotes he received.
In the new business  documents that were shared with Mr B on 27 April 2017, the terms 
and conditions say:
Some or all of the information you supply  to us in connection with your insurance 
proposal may be passed to insurance  and other companies for underwriting, claims and 
premium collection purposes. By agreeing  to these terms and conditions you agree to 
these uses of your information.
Based on these terms, I would expect 1 Answer to share information that they hold on you 
with other  parties.  This includes information  being  shared with third party data services 
that may be used by other insurers for the calculation of premiums.
In reviewing Mr Bs complaint, there was no evidence to suggest 1 Answer  had shared 
inaccurate information with any third party  data service. D providing  a quote to Mr B that 
was higher than other insurers were able to offer doesnt mean 1 Answer did something  
wrong.
Based on this I am not upholding this part of Mr Bs complaint.
falsifying of information shared with other insurers
Mr B shared information with us which shows an exchange of emails between  1 Answer 
and insurance  companies from 28 April 2017. These emails  followed the conversation which  Mr
B had with 1 Answer on 27 April 2017 when he was looking to obtain a quote for his 
van insurance.
Mr B felt that the emails  showed that 1 Answer was misleading insurance  companies.
While I understand why Mr B feels this way, the comments made  by 1 Answer  in their 
emails werent entirely inaccurate even if they werent relayed to the insurers verbatim. 
They were  based  on information that Mr B had given 1 Answer in the telephone call the 
previous day.
There were some concerns raised by Mr B regarding the cancelled policy being 
referenced in these  emails, however as noted  above this had no impact on the premium  
of his policy.
I do feel that the wording  used by 1 Answer were clumsy and lacked detail as it wasnt  
specifically what Mr B said in the telephone calls. But, I havent  seen  any evidence to 
suggest that these communications between 1 Answer and an insurer  had any 
detrimental impact on Mr B or the quotes  he was provided.
For these reasons I am not holding  this part of his complaint.
Ref: DRN50834931 Answer offering more expensive quotations  for additional commission
Mr B also shared  a screenshot  that he had obtained from 1 Answer.  This showed an 
internal note on the systems which stated the following;
we have  a cheaper rate with Haven - £500  as invited but because we can only do
15% fee we have replaced to AXA
Mr B was unhappy  because  this appeared to show that 1 Answer had chosen to offer a 
less competitive quote to their customer because of the commission  levels  on offer for 
them.
1 Answer confirmed they should not have done  this and their internal processes should  
ensure their staff offer quotations  based  on what is most appropriate for their customer, 
and not based on how much commission  1 Answer will receive.
On this occasion  their staff member offered Mr B a higher quotation  for these reasons. 
Whilst 1 Answer have  suggested that there was no financial loss to Mr B, as he didnt  
take
out the quote that was on offer at the higher price, it is possible that he may have chosen  
to take the lower priced quotation  had it been offered to him.
1 Answer offered an apology to Mr B and explained that feedback would be provided  to 
their member of staff.
I dont believe an apology  is enough to compensate  Mr B for the trouble and upset this 
caused by 1 Answers failure to follow their own process  and offer the most appropriate 
quotation to him. To put things right 1 Answer should compensate  Mr B £150  for 
breaking the trust he had placed in them as his broker.
Finally, turning to the point Mr B raises  that the broker  shouldve  told him that the 
cancellation would have no bearing  on future insurance. This hasnt been raised before 
and so 1 Answer  has not had the opportunity to investigate this. As such I cannot  comment  
on this point specifically.  But, in order to give Mr B as full a response as possible,  I can tell 
him that from my experience and generally speaking, we wouldnt expect a broker to give 
advice to a customer about whether  they should  or shouldnt declare something that 
happened with a previous  insurer where  the broker hadnt been involved in arranging that 
policy.
As I have said,  this is the general approach we would take in matters  like this. If, 
notwithstanding what Ive said,  Mr B wants this point  investigated  and answered  
specifically for his circumstances  then he would need to raise  this with 1 Answer and give 
them the chance to look into it.
Id also like to explain that our service  doesnt  have the power to punish a business  even 
if a complaint is upheld.  Rather, when considering a particular complaint, if we find a 
business has done something  wrong, we look at the impact thats had on the party making  
the complaint.  And if we thing theyve  have lost out, well ask the business to put them  back  
in the position they wouldve been  in had it not done  anything wrong. If we think there hasnt 
been a loss as a result of the mistake but there has been  inconvenience or upset we can 
make a modest compensation award.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above,  my final decision is that I uphold  Mr Bs complaint in part 
and require 1 Answer to pay to Mr B £150 for the trouble and upset caused.
Ref: DRN5083493Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 August 2019.
Amber Mortimer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5083493