K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that UK Insurance Limited  (UKI) have unfairly declined  his claim for legal 
expenses insurance.  
Where I refer to UKI, this includes their agents and claims handlers. 
background
On 13 September  2017 Mr S booked an international  business  class flight  with an airline. 
The outbound leg of the flight was scheduled for 16 October 2017.  Unfortunately  there was 
an issue with the aircraft which resulted in the flight  being cancelled. Mr S later got on 
another flight with the same airline. But this was on a different aircraft  which  he says has 
inferior facilities. 
Mr S was given a letter by the airline asking  that he contact them  to arrange compensation. 
He says despite his best efforts, he was unable to obtain compensation. Mr S took legal 
action outside  of his policy against  the airline. This resulted  in his case  being dismissed in 
court in July 2018. 
In September  2018 Mr S contacted UKI to make a claim. He still wanted  to take action 
against the airline. UKI went on to decline the claim.  They said Mr Ss legal expenses cover  
started on 9 October  2017. And they highlighted part of the policy  which said contracts that 
were entered into before  the start of the policy, are excluded  from cover.  
UKI went on to explain that even  if the contract  had been entered  into within  the period of 
insurance, there was another exclusion  which would  be applicable. Mr S had already taken 
legal action and so they say any further  action would  be appeal of his case  that was 
dismissed in July 2018. And such appeals are excluded if UKI didnt provide cover  for the 
original claim. 
Mr S complained to UKI. He says the contract started on 16 October 2017 (the date he was 
originally due to fly) and that payment for the ticket was just pre-booking.  UKI maintain the 
claim has correctly  been  declined and so Mr S brought his complaint  to our service.   
One of our investigators  looked into the complaint  and didnt think  it should be upheld.  As he 
still disagrees, Mr S has asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with our 
investigator and for essentially  the same reasons. I know this will be disappointing for Mr S, 
so Id like to explain why.
As our investigator pointed out, our service can only consider the actions of the insurer,  UKI 
in this case. Im not able to consider the merits of the underlying legal case or whether  or not 
Mr S has been treated  fairly by the airline.  
Mr Ss policy  says We dont cover  claims arising  from or relating to contracts you entered 
into before  your cover started. This is a common term in legal expenses  insurance and not 
one Id consider  inherently unfair.  No insurance policy  will provide cover  for every 
Ref: DRN54361292conceivable set of circumstances. The policy terms set out at the start what  they will and 
wont cover,  I think this is fair. 
UKI say Mr S entered into a contract  with the airline when he paid for his ticket which was on 
13 September 2017. Mr S says the purchase  date isnt the start of the contract. Instead, he 
believes the contract started on the scheduled flight date.  Im sorry to tell Mr S that I dont 
think UKI are being unreasonable in taking the date of payment as the start of the contract 
between him and the airline. Im not persuaded that just because the service Mr S had paid 
for wasnt being provided immediately, that he didnt  have a contract with the airline from that 
date. And because this was before  the start of the legal expenses cover, I think UKIs 
decision is fair. 
Mr S points out that the dispute started within the period of insurance, when the issues with 
the flight arose, so he doesnt think his claim being declined  is fair. I have sympathy  with 
Mr Ss position and I accept he didnt  know  of the dispute until he was within  the period of 
insurance. But I have  to balance this with whether it would be fair to ask UKI to consider a 
claim for something they have specifically excluded from the policy.  On balance, I dont think 
it would  be. 
I know Mr S feels UKI havent  given  consideration to the merits of his legal case. But the 
starting point of any claim is to establish whether or not it is something the policy covers. So 
I dont think UKI were wrong  to not look beyond this, once theyd established it wasnt a 
claim they would  cover.  
Beyond this UKI have highlighted another policy exclusion that they say would apply,  even if 
the contract  had been entered into within the period of insurance. There  are a variety of 
other terms and conditions in relation to the policy, such  as a claim having  reasonable 
prospects of success and being proportionate  to pursue. I wont be providing a commentary 
as to what might have happened in relation to the remaining  policy terms. Im satisfied UKI 
acted fairly  in declining the claim due to the date the contract was entered  into. So I dont 
think a hypothetical  consideration  of the remaining  terms would add any value. Although I 
dont think UKI were wrong  to point this out, as it provides  further reasoning for their 
decision. 
Mr S says that UKI have failed with regard to their responsibilities  around  treating customers  
fairly. I can understand  why Mr S is disappointed  that his claim isnt covered by his policy. 
But Ive not seen evidence to support that UKI have  failed in any of their regulatory 
obligations.  
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above, my final decision is that I dont  uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 March  2019.
Richard Annandale
Ref: DRN54361293ombudsman
Ref: DRN5436129