K820x#14complaint
Ms Ds complaint against The Mortgage Works (UK) Plc is about the length of her fixed rate 
mortgage.
background
Ms D applied for a mortgage through a broker in 2017. She applied for a two year fixed rate 
product with The Mortgage  Works. 
Ms D was initially  sent a mortgage offer in May 2017, which was valid for six months. 
In response to requests from her broker, Ms D was sent revised  offers in August and 
October 2017. Ms Ds house purchase  went  ahead  and the mortgage started towards  the 
end of 2017. 
Ms D complains that her fixed rate mortgage expired on 31 May 2019.  She says the 
mortgage was described as a two year fixed rate product,  but the rate has only been  fixed 
for 18 months. She thinks theres  been  an administrative error because  the three mortgage 
offers she received  in 2017 all showed the same expiry date for the fixed rate  
31 May 2019.
Our investigator looked into Ms Ds complaint. She said the mortgage offers Ms D was sent 
showed clearly the date the fixed rate expired. So she didnt think  The Mortgage Works had 
done anything  wrong.
Ms D disagrees and has asked for an ombudsman to make a final decision. She says the 
interest rate should have been  fixed for two years,  and shes paid fees for a product that 
doesnt do what it says.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms D says that, as her mortgage was a two year fixed rate product, the fixed rate shouldnt  
expire until two years  after the start date.
The Mortgage Works  say Ms Ds mortgage documents  clearly show  the expiry date of the 
fixed rate as 31 May 2019. Even though the mortgage was called a two year fixed  rate 
product, the rate was only valid until the expiry date on the documents,  regardless of when 
the mortgage started.
Ive looked at whether The Mortgage Works  have done anything wrong in telling Ms D that 
her fixed  rate ended  on 31 May 2019.  And having reviewed the evidence, I dont think they 
have. 
Some fixed rate products  fix the interest rate for an agreed length of time from the start of 
the mortgage  for example, for the first two or five years of the mortgage term. But other 
fixed rate products will have a fixed expiry date  for example,  a date approximately  two or 
five years in the future.  
Ms Ds mortgage product  was one with a fixed expiry date. The expiry  date was 
Ref: DRN5622864231 May 2019, which was about two years from Ms Ds initial  mortgage offer. 
That date therefore  remained  the same when  Ms D was sent revised  mortgage  offers  in 
August and October 2017. And I can see the expiry  date was clearly set out on both of those 
offers. 
So I dont  think The Mortgage Works  have done  anything wrong. It would have been for 
Ms Ds broker  to advise her if he thought an alternative product might be more 
advantageous, given the delay in completing her house purchase.
Id like to reassure Ms D that Ive looked carefully  at everything shes said, and I understand 
why she feels strongly  about  whats happened. I realise this wont  be the outcome Ms D was 
hoping for, but I cant see that The Mortgage Works  have  done anything wrong. I wont  
therefore be upholding this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold Ms Ds complaint 
against The Mortgage Works (UK) Plc.
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 July 2019.
Matthew Young
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5622864