K821x#15complaint
Miss D and Mr H are unhappy with NHBCs handling  of a claim they made under their 
building warranty policy.
background
I issued a provisional decision on Miss D and Mr Hs complaint in February 2020. I explained 
why I was upholding their complaint:
Miss D and Mr H bought  a new build  property which was covered  by an NHBC  Buildmark
policy. In 2016, Miss D and Mr H reported problems  with both the interior and exterior of their
property which the builder  was initially responsible  for under the builders warranty  section. But, 
in line with the NHBC guarantee section, NHBC took over responsibility for the claim
from the builder  when  they failed to get the work  done, despite  all parties being  satisfied  they
had been given  a reasonable opportunity to do so.
Miss D and Mr H said the claims investigator  and contractors instructed by NHBC were
incompetent. They were given mixed and conflicting messages about what  would be carried
out under the warranty, and when the repairs would be carried  out. They said both claims
were taking too long to resolve.
NHBC arranged for two resolution reports to be completed. In September 2016 the one for
the internal works was completed. NHBC accepted that remedial works needed to be
completed for 11 of the 13 faults identified. It didnt recommend any works  needed to be
carried out in terms of the sink in the ensuite bathroom which  appeared to be slightly
uneven, or to the boiler flue which was at an angle. Neither issue was considered to be a
defect as set out in the Technical requirements.
NHBC instructed  contractors to carry  out the works but Miss D and Mr H raised  concerns,
saying not all the repairs  had been carried out. They were also concerned  about the quality
of the workmanship.
In terms of the external  works, NHBC completed  an updated resolution report in February
2017. This report accepted there were two defects  with the exterior of the property. It said
there was a defect  with the kitchen bay window flashing and the lining of the window, and
there was internal and external cracking around the kitchen window which also constituted  a
defect. NHBC went on to offer a cash settlement in October 2017. Miss D and Mr H didnt
accept this, so NHBC  issued  an updated scope of works in December 2017. 
Unhappy with NHBCs overall handling of the claim, Miss D and Mr H raised a complaint.  NHBC  
issued its final response in December 2017.  It acknowledged  there  had been  delay in taking  over 
the obligations of the builder and that it was responsible for some of the delays, acknowledging
the service hadnt always been good  enough. It offered £500 in respect of this. However,
NHBC also said some of the delays  were down to their contractors being unable to access
the property, which Miss D and Mr H disagreed with.
Miss D and Mr H referred their complaint  to this service, where one of our investigators
looked into what  happened. He concluded the compensation NHBC  offered Miss D and Mr H
was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. And he agreed a cash  settlement looked to be
the most appropriate  way to resolve the complaint, given how unhappy  Miss D and Mr H
were with NHBCs contractors.
Our investigator said all issues set out in the December 2017 scope of works should be the
basis for a cash settlement.  However, he didnt  agree the rendering above the bay window
Ref: DRN50333632should be considered because it wasnt validated  in the initial resolution report. He
considered that the tiling in the ensuite bathroom should be inspected again and factored
into the cash  settlement if necessary. He considered Miss D and Mr Hs view the damage
could have been caused  by earlier poor workmanship  was something that needed
consideration.
Miss D and Mr H also sent us photographs of some damage to the skirting board in their
living room, and some  water damage to their ceilings.  They felt these issues  should  also be
considered as part of the cash  settlement. The investigator recommended  the skirting board
also be inspected.
NHBC accepted the investigators findings, recommending it inspect  any outstanding
damage that should be included in the scope of works. However, Miss D and Mr H thought
the compensation awarded didnt reflect the time and effort theyd spent trying to get these
issues put right.
As time moved on, Miss D and Mr H remained  concerned about the state  of their home.
NHBC agreed to send another  claims inspector out to carry out a further inspection to clarify
what works set out in the resolution reports were still outstanding.
This happened in late 2019,  and the outcome  of the inspection in relation to the external
cracking was different to the first inspection. It was now felt the pattern of cracking to the
rendered blockwork might be consistent with ground foundation movement. The
recommendation was that the property ought to be monitored for 12 months. Miss D and
Mr H were unhappy  with this, as they felt this ought to have been  identified and instructed
when the first inspection took place.
In terms of the internal works,  NHBC said some  of the works outlined in the first resolution
report had been carried out to an acceptable standard, as set out in the Technical
requirements. It accepted some of these works hadnt been carried out to an acceptable
standard. However, it also said some  ought not to have been included in the resolution
report in the first instance. NHBC still considered, given the strength of Miss D and Mr Hs
feelings about the contractors appointed in the past, a cash settlement  would be the best
way forward. It calculated  the cost it would  have to pay for the outstanding works and offered
Miss D and Mr H £1,275.40.
Miss D and Mr H werent satisfied the offer went far enough for them  to put things  right.  In
particular, Miss D says she was concerned because the new inspection didnt  reference the
water ingress from her ensuite which she says has got worse as a result of the time that has
passed.
As matters  havent been  resolved, theyve been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  The background to this complaint  is
extensive, and Ive considered everything  both sides  have said and provided, however  my
decision focuses on what I consider to be the most relevant issues.
Initially, I think it might be helpful  for me to clarify that NHBC produces a set of technical
requirements which builders should  follow when  building a property.  Theyre not necessarily
the same  as building regulations. The Buildmark Policy provides cover where it can be
shown the quality of the work amounts  to a breach of NHBCs own technical  requirements.
And, from what Ive seen,  NHBC has explained why some of the issues Miss D and Mr H
Ref: DRN50333633consider to be defects dont meet the definition  under the technical requirements.
Like our investigator, I can only look at NHBCs actions from February  2017, when it took
over responsibility for the claim.  And its clear  this matter has been unresolved for a long
period of time and Miss D and Mr H fundamentally  want their home to be at the standard
theyd expect.
the external claim
The cracking around the bay window didnt form part of the initial resolution  report,  as the
inspector didnt agree  that the cracking  amounted to a breach of the technical requirements.
However, when a further inspection  was carried out in late 2019, the response was different.
The recommendation was for a trial pit investigation,  and that the property  be monitored for
12 months to determine  if the cracking  is as a result  of ground foundation  movement.
Miss D and Mr H feel this should have  been identified  when the first inspection  took place.  If
this had happened,  they say theyd have a more definitive answer about the cause  of the
external cracking  by now. Theyre  concerned about the potential impact subsidence would
have on their property if they wanted to sell it.
However, I havent been presented with any evidence to show the outcome of the first
resolution report wasnt of an adequate  standard. Based on what Ive seen, Im not
persuaded its enough  to assume that because a different approach  has been  suggested
more recently that the findings in the initial reports were inadequate.
Where theres been the possibility of ground foundation movement, this service would
usually say its a reasonable  response  from a business to adopt a period  of monitoring of at
least 12 months. So, while I can understand why Miss D and Mr H would prefer  for a more
conclusive course of action  to be taken  at this time,  NHBC has responded  as Id expect
here. And Im not going to recommend it takes  any further action  beyond a period  of
monitoring. At the end of the period of monitoring NHBC  should  let Miss D and Mr H know of
the outcome, and then they will be able to move  on from there.
Miss D and Mr H have said theyre concerned about a potential reduction in the value  of their
home if subsidence  is found and the impact this might have on their home  insurance
premium. While I understand  their concerns, I dont consider its appropriate for me to make
an award for something that might not or hasnt yet happened.
If Miss D and Mr H continue to have these concerns at the end of the period  of monitoring,
theyll need to consider what their next steps  should be  and this might include making a
new complaint. But I cant consider a complaint about potential  loss in sale value or potential
increase in home insurance premiums  at this time,  as these issues didnt  form part of their
original complaint to NHBC.
the internal claim
The updated  resolution report made the finding that of the 13 defects originally  reported, six
still needed to be actioned.  Miss D and Mr H have been  in touch with this service to tell us
they were  especially concerned with the tiling in their ensuite bathroom. This appears to be
the only room  where theres any dispute about the outstanding works that need to be
resolved, so Ive focused  on this point.
Ive looked  back  at the original resolution report and the recommendations made  for the
ensuite bathroom. It made two findings for work  that needed to be carried out. Firstly, it said
Ref: DRN50333634there was an uneven surface  line of a tile in the shower cubicle.  Secondly it said there  was a
poor grouted finish at skirting board line on sink wall line. The report  recommended resetting
the uneven tile in the shower cubicle, apply  grout to improve surface line level and
smoothness, rub down and redecorate skirting board on sink unit wall line to give overall
cosmetic repairs.
The updated  resolution report made a finding  the tiling in the shower cubicle  didnt require
any remedial work to be carried out. It said the work  originally recommended to reset the tile
in order  to improve the appearance  of the line would  be a disproportionate action. Based on
the updated  resolution report, the problem with the tile doesnt appear to meet the definition
of a defect, therefore  I dont  think it needs to be included in the cash  settlement.  The
updated resolution report identified that repairs still needed to be carried out in respect  of the
poor grouting.
Miss D has expressed concern there has been damage to a tile in the ensuite, and this has
caused water  to leak into her hallway. Miss D and Mr H would like action  taken  to correct the
damage caused by this loose tile, and to be reimbursed for the costs shes incurred by
instructing her own contractor to carry  out repairs.
The updated  resolution report made a finding  that one of the tiles on an adjacent  wall was
loose and this was where there  has been water seepage down  into the landing  below.
I cant see this tile was identified as a defect in the original resolution report.
Miss D and Mr H feel any cash settlement for remedial works should include  what they say is
an obvious  fault with the adjacent tile. However, as it wasnt mentioned in the original
resolution report, I cant say that NHBC has acted wrongly in choosing not to include this in
the recently revised scope of works, or subsequent cash settlement.
NHBC has provided me with an updated resolution  report and scope of works  devised  from
this. They have  put a cash settlement to Miss D and Mr H based on what  it would cost them
to carry out the works.  In considering whether this amount  is fair, Ive referred back to the
Buildmark policy, which says:
How we calculate what we have to pay
If we have to pay for something, we will calculate the cost based on the amount it will
cost us to have the work done, but
1 we will not pay more  than a reasonable amount
Ive considered whether  its fair that NHBC makes a cash settlement in line with what  it
would cost it to put things  right. And, on reflection, I think this is a fair approach. I say this
because not only is it in line with what its required to do under  the policy, Im also mindful
Miss D and Mr H have made it clear they were not prepared to allow  any NHBC contractors
back in their home and wanted a cash settlement. I dont think it would  be fair to direct
NHBC to cash settle based  on a quote from Miss D and Mr Hs contractors when  it has no
control over the costs that might make  up any other quote, and it goes  beyond whats
required of it under the policy.
the works Miss D and Mr H have already carried out
Miss D and Mr H have told us theyve had some remedial  works carried out to rectify the
water damage caused to the hallway walls and ceilings, at a cost of £1,000. Theyve asked
this amount is refunded to them. Although the first resolution report refers to a tile out of
alignment, the updated report makes the finding that tile wasnt a defect. So, I dont  think  I
can safely say, based on the information  I currently  have, that this was the tile responsible
for the water leak.
Ref: DRN50333635And on that basis, I cant say the works  Miss D and Mr H carried out were necessary as a
result of a defect as identified in the first resolution  report.  It follows  Im not intending to
recommend NHBC reimburse any costs Miss D and Mr H have  incurred as a result of having
works done to their hallway.
Im only considering the defects identified  in the first resolution report. If they wished to do
so, Miss D and Mr H can explore whether  they want to make a new complaint  about this tile
and that they consider it to be a defect.
trouble and upset
I appreciate this matter  has been ongoing for a long time, and Miss D and Mr H feel strongly
theyve been badly  treated  by NHBC. I can see there have been some delays during  the
course of their claims. And, I think with claims of this nature,  a degree of upset and
inconvenience is often  inevitable. However,  NHBC has already acknowledged it has caused
delays and the level of service offered hasnt been at the standard Miss D and Mr H might
have expected and made an offer of £500 in respect of this in its final response letter of
December 2017.
I think its important  to clarify that Im only able to consider the service Miss D and Mr H
received up to the final response letter. And even  though Miss D and Mr H feel the service
theyve continued to experience has fallen  below  what they expected,  I this isnt something  I
can consider. If they wanted to consider this separately, theyd need to make a new
complaint to NHBC about the service  theyve received.
I accept theres  been  upset and frustration by the failure to complete some of the works
some works identified in the initial resolution report. But I dont think either side is solely
responsible for the delay.
However, I think there would have been some  additional  upset upon receiving the updated
resolution report and seeing  something  that had been identified as a defect  in the initial
report was no longer  classed as a defect. I think Miss D and Mr H should have been entitled
to trust that their initial  resolution report would be consistent in identifying the outstanding
defects. And on this basis, Im inclined to increase the award.
I said in order to resolve the complaint,  I intended to direct NHBC to make a cash settlement 
of £1,275.40 for the outstanding remedial works a trouble and upset payment of £600,  less 
any payments already  made.
NHBC said they thought  my final decision was inconsistent. Id said both I was only giving 
consideration of events  up to the final response  but was minded to increase the trouble an 
upset payment as a result of the findings  of the resolution report  from the end of 2019.
Miss D and Mr H said they were disappointed  by my provisional  decision, and made the 
following points:
theyd made their concerns clear on a number of occasions  about the possibility of 
ground movement, but these  were not investigated;
they tried to make a complaint to NHBC about the potential of subsidence occurring, 
but they refused to send someone out to monitor the property;
three separate contractors have looked at the tiling in the ensuite and said it would  all 
need to be removed to carry out the necessary repairs;
Ref: DRN50333636theyve spent £1,000 decorating their home, which they wouldnt have spent if the 
first resolution report had identified the possibility movement in their home.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive carefully considered  everything both sides have  said in response to my provisional  
decision. However, having  done  so, Ive not been  persuaded to reach  a different conclusion 
and Ill explain why. 
In respect of the claim relating to the exterior of the property, Ms D and Mr H remain  of the 
opinion the original report should have  identified the cracking was a defect. Ive again 
considered the information contained  in the resolution report  against  the technical  
requirements that apply  to their home.
The 2014  technical standards relating to render (Chapter 6.1 (d)  cracking and crazing) 
state render should be free from significant cracking and crazing. While this guidance 
doesnt specifically  define significant, I note the resolution report stated the cracking to the 
property was hairline in width. 
On balance, I remain of the view that had the cracking identified in January 2017  been 
considered significant, further action would have been taken  at the time. As Ive said,  its not 
enough to assume  that because monitoring of the property was implemented  following the 
2019 report, this should  have happened in 2017.  However, in making  the comment about the 
cracking being hairline in width, Im satisfied the claims inspector would have identified if 
the cracking was significant enough to be classed  as a defect at that time.  
Ill turn now to Miss D and Mr Hs points  about the tiling in the ensuite.  While I understand 
their view that theyve been  told by three  separate contractors the tiling isnt of an acceptable 
standard, Im inclined  to give more weight to the findings of the claims inspector. I say this 
because theyre the expert in understanding the technical requirements  and NHBCs 
obligations under  the warranty. 
The finding  of the most  recent  resolution report stated in the ensuite shower cubicle, the 
alignment of the tile referred to in the original report was not sufficient to be classified as a 
defect. The report also stated that a tile on the adjacent wall was loose and that was the 
cause of the water seepage. However, as this tile wasnt  mentioned in the original resolution 
report, Im unable to direct  NHBC to factor the remedial costs  for putting this right into its 
cash settlement. It remains for Miss D and Mr H to decide if they want  to pursue this with 
NHBC as a separate matter, if they havent  already done so.
I can only consider the complaint that was made and addressed  in the final response letter. 
And that means  in this instance, the issue I need  to decide is whether the cash settlement 
offered is a fair offer.  And, as both sides agreed a second resolution  report  needed to be 
carried out to accurately  calculate the cost of the outstanding works,  I remain  of the view this 
was an appropriate  course of action to take.
The outcome of that second report at the end of 2019 was one element of the works Miss D 
and Mr H thought  would  be included in the cash settlement wasnt correctly  classed  as a 
Ref: DRN50333637defect under policy. However, I remain of the view some compensation is due for the fact the 
first report  identified  a defect which Miss D and Mr H were later then told was not the case.  
As I said in my provisional decision,  I consider this caused additional upset. Miss D and Mr H 
should have been entitled to trust their initial resolution report  would identify the outstanding  
defects that needed putting  right. And the claims inspector has identified  their expectations 
were wrongly raised in respect of one defect from the initial  resolution report, and I think 
some additional  compensation should  be paid in respect of this.
I think its helpful for me to clarify I havent considered any of the wider issues that Miss D 
and Mr H have mentioned to this service during the course of our investigation. These are 
issues that have  occurred since the final response. The increase in compensation for the 
trouble and upset  experienced is in recognition  of the upset and frustration experienced as a 
result of the lack of consistency between the two internal resolution reports. 
my final decision
My final decision is up I uphold  Miss D and Mr Hs complaint and National House-Building 
Council should:
Pay £1,275.40  as a cash settlement for the outstanding works that need to be
completed in Miss D and Mr Hs home; and
Pay a total of £600 for the trouble  and upset experienced, less anything  already
paid. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss D and Mr H 
to accept or reject my decision before 27 March 2020.
Emma Hawkins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5033363