K820x#14complaint
Mrs D complains that Financial Insurance Company Limited ("FICL") mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance ("PPI") policy. 
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  attached to a store card that Mrs D took out in 2002. 
Its been agreed in this case  that FICL, as the insurer, should  take responsibility  for the 
complaint. To keep  things simple, Ill refer to FICL  as the seller  in my decision.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  should  be upheld.  Mrs D didnt agree 
saying, in summary, that:
Although it was a long time ago, she recalls the circumstances quite well. She had to 
use her husbands  back to lean on to sign the form because  the shop was so busy. And 
she had to complete it in a hurry. She only recalls filling in her name  and bank details 
and then signing the form.
She managed to make the monthly card payments  even when she was ill and couldnt 
work  so she didnt need the policy.
If she hadnt  cancelled  the policy in 2018  when she found out she had it, she might have 
had a better claim against the business.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Ds complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Ds complaint and Ill explain why.
I can see from the application form that there was a separate section headed Protecting 
your Account. Mrs D signed, separately  to the main agreement,  to confirm that she wanted  
PPI. Just above where she signed,  it said:
Account Cover (only sign this box if you require Account  Cover)
Yes I would like to protect my Account with Account Cover (subject to eligibility)
Please debit my Account  with the relevant monthly  premium until further  notice
Ive taken into account that Mrs D says the shop was busy and that she felt hurried. But, 
overall, I think it was reasonably clear  from the need to sign separately  that the PPI was 
optional. So, on balance, I think its most likely FICL  made Mrs D aware she had a choice 
about buying the policy and she chose to take it. 
FICL didnt  recommend the PPI to Mrs D so it didnt have to check if it was suitable for her. 
But it did have to make  sure Mrs D got the information she needed to decide if it was right for 
her.
Ref: DRN57799182Its possible the information FICL gave Mrs D about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But, based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, it doesnt look like she 
was affected by any of the exclusions or limits  on the PPI cover. It also looks like the PPI 
was affordable. So I dont think better information about the cost of the PPI would have  put 
her off taking  out the cover.
Ive taken into account that Mrs D wouldve received some sick pay from her employer if she 
couldnt work due to sickness or an accident and that she had some  savings.  But the PPI 
wouldve covered  her until she returned to work,  so couldve been a useful benefit  in addition 
to her existing arrangements. It also covered  her if she became unemployed.
Mrs D says she thinks shed have a better  claim against FICL if she hadnt cancelled the PPI 
in 2018. But this makes no difference to my conclusion. Ive looked at whether  the policy was 
mis-sold in 2002; whether the policy is still in place now, or not, has no bearing on my 
decision.
Overall I dont think Mrs D has lost out by anything  FICL might have done wrong.
Im sorry  to hear that Mrs D was unwell and had to take time off work, eventually  having to 
leave her job. Our adjudicator has told her it may be possible for her to make  a retrospective 
claim, although it may be difficult for her to provide all of the required evidence  as this 
happened some  years ago. The fact that she was ill and didnt make a claim at the time 
doesnt make a difference to my conclusion that I cant uphold  her complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 November  2019.
Elizabeth Dawes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5779918