K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs L are unhappy U K Insurance  Limited recorded a claim on Mrs Ls car insurance 
policy as a fault  claim  when she wasnt at fault.  
background
In my provisional decision of 20 December  2018  (a copy of which  Ive attached to this final 
decision), I explained why I intended to uphold Mr and Mrs Ls complaint.
Mr and Mrs L accepted  my provisional decision.  Mr L says hes recently been charged  a £25 
administration fee to have Mrs L reinstated as a named driver on his new car insurance  
policy. He asks that this is added to the £46.17 he was charged  in August 2018 to remove  
Mrs L from his insurance pending  the outcome of our investigations into this complaint.
UKI doesnt accept  my provisional decision.  It says:
It doesnt think the claim should  be recorded  as a no-fault claim since  it was having 
difficulties in getting settlement and never confirmed it had been successful. UKI 
doesnt think Mrs L shouldve assumed  this was a no-fault claim.
Mrs Ls no claims discount was never  affected so theres nothing  to reinstate.
Theres no refund due for 2016  because when it was added  mid-term the additional 
premium was overridden. It says for 2017 if the claim remains as a fire claim a refund 
of £58.24 is due to be refunded. If this changes to a no-fault claim it says a refund of 
£73.92 will be due (plus, in either case, 8% interest per annum from the renewal date 
to the settlement date).
If the decision remains  to change the claim to no-fault, it is happy to send a letter to 
confirm this.
The compensation of £300.00 is on the high side.  It says although it did not confirm it 
hadnt been successful in making  a recovery it never confirmed it had. It says           
Mr and Mrs L made an assumption without checking.
Mr and Mrs Ls complaint has now come to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For the reasons  I gave  in my provisional decision,  Ive decided to uphold Mr and Mrs Ls 
complaint.
In my provisional decision,  I said I didnt think UKI had done enough to show it acted  fairly  
and reasonably in deciding  to record Mrs Ls claim as a fault claim. And I said Id look at this 
point again if UKI gave  me any further  evidence it used to back up its decision.  UKI hasnt 
given me any new evidence  it has simply restated its previous  position. So Ive seen 
nothing to make me think I should alter my view that UKI hasnt done enough to show me it 
acted fairly  and reasonably in reaching its decision.
UKI says it doesnt think Mrs L shouldve  assumed  her claim was recorded  as a no-fault  
claim. I dont  think Mrs L did make an assumption. UKI wrote to Mrs L in 2015 to say her 
policy excess had been waived  but if the incident was subsequently found to be Mrs Ls 
Ref: DRN51329312fault it would  collect the excess.  So I think she was entitled to rely on this letter as evidence  
that she wasnt at fault. And, if the position  changed,  it was UKIs duty to tell Mrs L this and 
explain what  it meant for her. It didnt do this. Nor did it collect the policy  excess.
UKI says it thinks the compensation Im intending  to award Mr and Mrs L of £300  for the 
distress and inconvenience its caused them is on the high side. But I set out in my 
provisional decision the reasons why I think this is fair and reasonable compensation in the 
circumstances of this particular complaint. Nothing Ive seen since has changed my view on 
this.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  here and in my provisional  decision, I uphold Mr and Mrs Ls 
complaint and direct UKI Insurance Limited  to: 
Amend the Claims and Underwriting Exchange and any other  internal and external 
databases to show the claim against  Mrs L as a no-fault  claim.
Recalculate Mrs Ls premiums for her 2017  policy renewal based on the claim being  
a no-fault claim, rather than a fault claim.  It should  refund her the difference between  
what she actually paid and what she wouldve  paid if the claim had been  categorised  
as a no-fault claim. UKI has said this refund would be £73.92. UKI should also pay 
Mrs L interest on the refund at the rate of 8% a year from the date she paid her 
premium to the date she gets the refund. 
Give Mr and Mrs L a letter, which they can show to any current  and future insurers  if 
needs be, explaining  the incident shouldve  been  recorded as a no-fault claim against 
Mrs L.
Reimburse Mr L for any administration costs hes incurred in having Mrs L removed 
and then reinstated as a named driver from his current car insurance. Mr L says 
these costs amount  to £71.17 but he should provide evidence in support of this claim  
to UKI. 
Pay Mr and Mrs L £300  for the distress and inconvenience it has caused  them.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 March 2019.
Jane Gallacher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN51329313COPY OF MY PROVISIONAL DECISION OF 20 DECEMBER 2018
complaint
Mr and Mrs L are unhappy  U K Insurance Limited recorded a claim on Mrs Ls car insurance policy as a fault 
claim when she wasnt at fault. 
background
In August 2015 Mrs Ls car was damaged when a neighbours camper van, which was on fire, stopped  next to the 
driveway where Mrs Ls car was parked. I understand the fire brigade and police  were called to the incident.
Mrs L claimed on her car insurance policy  and UKI paid for repairs to the car. It also wrote to Mrs L in 2015  to say 
her policy excess had been  waived  but that if the incident  was subsequently found to be Mrs Ls fault it would 
collect the excess. 
The third party camper van drivers insurer  later denied liability for the fire. And UKI decided to abandon its claim. 
But it didnt tell Mrs L it had done this, or explain to her what this meant for her.
UKI also didnt include details of the claim  in Mrs Ls 2016 policy  renewal documents. It says this was an error it 
only discovered  some months after Mrs L had renewed  her policy. It did, however, include details of a claim in 
her 2017 motor  proposal confirmation. But the details  said Mrs L hit a third party/object.  UKI says they shouldve 
said: Fire/flood/water damage.
Shortly after Mr L bought a new car insurance policy in August 2018, he was told by the broker hed bought it 
through that Mrs L had a fault claim recorded  against her on the Claims  and Underwriting Exchange (CUE). 
Since Mr L hadnt  disclosed this when  he applied for the insurance, the broker  said the insurer could no longer 
provide cover. 
For now, Mrs L has been  taken off Mr Ls insurance  cover, and I understand this has cost  Mr L just under  £50. 
He wants compensation  for this and any other costs he incurs  in getting Mrs L included as a named  driver  on any 
other car insurance policy he takes out.
When Mr and Mrs L complained to UKI, it agreed  it had made a mistake  in not telling them the claim was being  
recorded as a fault claim. And it offered them £50 in compensation. It has also said more  recently Mrs L paid 
more for her insurance than she shouldve, because her claim had been incorrectly recorded. So it said it would  
refund Mrs L £58.24 plus interest at 8% per year from 26 June 2016, when she renewed her policy, to when  it 
pays the refund. 
But UKI said it couldnt amend the record on CUE. And it didnt think it should compensate Mr L for any additional 
costs he incurred in getting  Mrs L removed as a named driver on his insurance.  It said Mrs Ls policy  documents  
at renewal after 2016 showed a fault claim  had been recorded against her and so Mr and Mrs L shouldve  been  
aware of this.
Unhappy with UKIs response,  Mr and Mrs L complained to us. The investigator who looked at Mr and Mrs Ls 
complaint didnt  uphold it. She didnt think UKI had done  anything wrong
in recording Mrs Ls claim as a fault claim. She also thought Mr and Mrs L shouldve known  from Mrs Ls policy 
renewal documents that there was a fault claim on her policy.
Mr and Mrs L disagree and so their complaint  has come  to me to decide.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered  all the available  evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.   
From the information Ive seen  so far, I intend to uphold  Mr and Mrs Ls complaint.
Mrs Ls policy  said UKI could take over and carry out the defence, negotiation  and settlement of any claim under 
it. This means UKI could settle Mrs Ls claim  even if she didnt  agree with it. And its a standard term that youll 
find in most car insurance policies.  But UKI did need  to act fairly and reasonably  in deciding to settle  Mrs Ls 
claim as it did. From what Ive seen so far, I dont think  it did.
Ref: DRN51329314I can see from UKI internal records that the third party insurer  wrote  to UKI after the incident saying information it 
had didnt suggest its insureds  negligence had caused the fire. Following this, a UKI case handler notes the third 
party insurer  said the vehicle was burnt out and, since there was no proof of negligence by its insured,  it wouldnt  
be paying  out on the claim. The case handler goes on to say I have been advised by colleagues that, because 
no negligence  can be proven, then this will go down as a fault claim.  So, because  UKI wasnt  going  to be able 
recover its costs from the third party insurer, it decided to note Mrs L claim  as a fault claim. 
But, as Ive said, UKI needed  to act fairly and reasonably in reaching its decision to record Mrs Ls claim as a 
fault claim. And, based  on what Ive seen so far, UKI hasnt  shown me enough evidence to demonstrate  its 
decision was fair and reasonable. The value  of Mrs Ls claim  was small,  so I wouldnt expect UKI to spend 
significant time and resources investigating it. But I would expect it to do more than it seems to have done. At the 
moment, it looks to me as if UKI abandoned the claim  simply  because the third party insurer  asked  it to prove the 
third party had been negligent.
Mr L says the police and fire brigade were called to the scene and he has given us the number of the fire 
services report.  But I cant, for instance, see UKI asked for copies of this report  or any police report  that may 
have been  made  either of which might give some insight into what  caused the fire. And I cant  see it asked the 
third party insurer for any engineers report it had on the damage to the vehicle  which, again, could shed some 
light. Nor can I see that UKI took any legal advice,  either internally or externally, on whether its decision to 
abandon the claim was fair and reasonable  so its decision doesnt appear  to have been  supported by any 
expert opinion.
.
Weve recently  asked  UKI to give us the evidence it relied on in making its decision  to record Mrs Ls claim as a 
fault claim. But all it says is that, because there  were no police reports or independent witnesses, there was no 
evidence to show the third party was negligent. 
Ill look at this issue again  if UKI can give me any other  evidence it has used to back up its decision that I havent 
seen yet. But, as things stand, I dont think  UKI has done enough to show  it acted  fairly  and reasonably  in 
deciding to record Mrs Ls claim as a fault claim. And that means UKI should:
Amend CUE and any other internal  and external databases to show the claim against Mrs L as a non-
fault claim. (We have recently asked  UKI for a copy of the CUE report and Mr and Mrs L might  be 
interested to know it describes the incident as: A third party vehicle has cought (sic) alight  and stopped 
outside.)
Reinstate Mrs Ls no claims discount.
Recalculate Mrs Ls premiums for her 2016 and 2017 policy renewals based on the claim being a no 
fault claim, rather than a fault claim, and with her no claims discount reinstated. It should refund her the 
difference between  what  she actually paid and what she would have paid if the claim had been  
categorised as a no fault claim. It should  also pay Mrs L interest  on the refund at the rate of 8% a year 
from the date she paid her premiums to the date she gets the refund.
Give Mr and Mrs L a letter, which they can show  to any current and future  insurers, explaining the 
incident shouldve been  recorded as a no fault claim  against Mrs L.
Moving on, UKI has said Mr and Mrs L shouldve  been  on notice  the claim had been recorded as a fault claim 
against Mrs L. So it doesnt think its to blame for the difficulties     Mr L had when his new insurer advised him 
there was a fault claim against  Mrs L. I dont  agree. 
As Ive mentioned,  UKI wrote  to Mrs L in 2015 saying  that, based on what shed said about the incident, her 
policy excess had been waived. It also said if the position on liability for the incident changed  and she was found 
to be fully or partially  at fault, the excess would be collected and her no claims discount could  be affected. 
But UKI didnt tell Mrs L its position on liability had changed,  nor did it collect  her excess.  So I dont think  Mr and 
Mrs L wouldve been on notice that a fault claim  had been recorded against Mrs L. Its true that Mrs Ls 2017 
policy renewal did say there was a fault claim  (although the details about the claim were wrong). But the 
reference to the fault claim wasnt prominent  so, for instance, even though I knew it was referred to in the 
document, it took me a while to find it. And, given the background to the claim and the time that had passed, I 
dont think Mr and Mrs L wouldve been looking  for it. I would always expect people to read their insurance  
documents with reasonable care  but, in these circumstances, I think its something  they could easily and 
reasonably have missed.
It follows from this that I think UKI should reimburse  Mr L for any administration costs  hes incurred  in having Mrs 
L removed as a named  driver from his current car insurance.  When he set up his complaint  with us, Mr L said this 
was going to cost him £49.95. It would be helpful if Mr L could  let us know what, if any, administration costs  he 
did actually pay for doing  this.
Ref: DRN51329315Since the issue  with Mrs Ls claim came to light in August 2018, I can see it has caused     Mr and Mrs L 
considerable distress and inconvenience. I think  it shocked  and upset Mr L to be told by his new insurer  that hed 
misrepresented his wifes  insurance position when he was unaware of it. He then had the inconvenience  of trying 
to work out what to do for the best  cancel the insurance or get Mrs L removed as a named  driver. Mr and Mrs L 
have presumably both been inconvenienced to some extent by Mrs L not being able to drive       Mr Ls car 
(although I know Mrs L has her own car). 
I think Mr and Mrs L have  also been upset because Mrs L has been held to be at fault, when  she was in bed at 
the time of the incident  (although I should point out that, in insurance terms, fault doesnt equate to blame  and 
simply means the insurer hasnt been  able to recover  its losses). And Mr and Mrs L have had to try to make 
sense of a series of events that are quite confusing  because  of the various mistakes UKI made along the way 
in administering  the insurance   and that took place  a few years ago. For the distress and inconvenience this has 
caused them over the last few months,  I think  UKI should compensate Mr and Mrs L £300.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons Ive given, I intend to uphold Mr and Mrs Ls complaint and to direct U K Insurance Limited to:
Amend CUE and any other internal  and external databases to show the claim against Mrs L as a non-
fault claim.
Reinstate Mrs Ls no claims discount.
Recalculate Mrs Ls premiums for her 2016 and 2017 policy renewals based on the claim being a no 
fault claim, rather than a fault claim, and with her reinstated no claims discount. It should refund her the 
difference between  what  she actually paid and what she wouldve paid if the claim had been categorised 
as a no fault claim. It should also pay Mrs L interest on the refund at the rate of 8% a year from the date 
she paid her premiums  to the date she gets the refund. It would be helpful if UKI could  let us have this 
calculation.
Give Mr and Mrs L a letter, which they can show  to any current and future  insurers if needs be, 
explaining the incident shouldve been recorded as a no fault claim against Mrs L.
Reimburse Mr L for any administration costs hes incurred in having Mrs L removed  as a named driver 
from his current car insurance, subject to Mr L providing evidence in support  of this claim.  
Pay Mr and Mrs L £300  for the distress and inconvenience  it has caused them.
Jane Gallacher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5132931