K821x#15complaint
Mr K complains that Blue Motor Finance Ltd (BMF)  havent allowed him to reject  a car he 
has been financing  through  them even though he complained of faults with it within the first 
30 days.
background
Mr K took receipt of a used car in April 2018. He funded the deal through a hire purchase 
agreement with BMF but a day later he contacted the dealership and complained that he 
was experiencing faults with the radio,  window and handbrake. A further issue with the 
Bluetooth connectivity  and the gearbox  was highlighted within 30 days  of the inception of the 
finance deal.
The dealership initially said they could not find anything  wrong  with the car. But they later 
said theyd try to repair the problems.  But Mr K said he wanted to reject the car and that 
because hed complained within 30 days it was his right to do so.
He took the car to another  garage and they noted a problem with the Bluetooth connectivity 
and confirmed that the window would not open.
BMF said there was no evidence the car wasnt  fit for purpose when it was supplied  but that 
they would  repair the faults  identified. But Mr K wasnt satisfied with their response so he 
referred his complaint to this service.
Our investigator thought there was evidence that the car had faults within  the first 30 days. 
She understood that the dealership hadnt been  able to identify  faults but could not 
understand why, if that were the case, they would have been  prepared to carry out repairs. 
She was persuaded that the subsequent report gathered by Mr K supported his argument 
that there  were faults with the car and she thought  it reasonable to suggest that not all the 
issues he complained  of may have been  noted  in that subsequent report, as they were 
intermittent issues. She suggested that BMF therefore allow  Mr K to reject  the car and that 
they should refund his deposit.  But she didnt  think it would be fair to return any of the 
finance instalments  Mr K had paid as she noted hed completed a reasonable mileage  in the 
car and had fair usage of it. 
Mr K subsequently had financial difficulties and was unable to pay his monthly  instalments.  
BMF say there have  been no payments towards  the finance agreement  since June 2018. 
They didnt accept  the investigators  view on the complaint and they asked for a final 
decision by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the investigators view. 
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ref: DRN58491082Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr K acquired his car under a hire purchase  agreement. The hire purchase agreement  is a 
regulated consumer credit agreement  and as a result our service is able to look into 
complaints about  it.  
The relevant  law says,  amongst  other  things, that the car should  have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied.  If it wasnt then BMF, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant  law also says the quality of goods  is satisfactory  if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price  and all the other relevant circumstances. 
The relevant  legislation  gives Mr K a short term right to reject the car if there was a fault with 
it that he identified  within the first 30 days. If that is the case the business do not have a right 
to repair  the vehicle.
Im persuaded there was a fault or faults with this car and that they were  reported  within  the 
first 30 days. I say that because:
I cant understand why the dealership would agree to carry out repairs if there  wasnt 
a fault with the car. I think their willingness  to repair the car suggests there was some  
merit in Mr Ks suggestion there were faults
the report Mr K received from an independent  garage highlighted  faults with 
Bluetooth connectivity and a window that would not open  and shut.  This report was 
generated within 30 days and supports Mr Ks initial concerns
I understand that the car wasnt new when Mr K took receipt of it but I think a reasonable 
person would expect  all of the windows to open  and shut on a car that was about  seven 
years old so I think the car wasnt of satisfactory quality and as Mr K had reported his 
concerns within  the first 30 days,  BMF  should  have allowed  him to reject it at that point.
In those circumstances wed usually tell the business to terminate the agreement and refund 
the consumers  deposit and I think the investigator  has been right to ask BMF to do that. 
Unfortunately this complaint has been waiting  for a final decision for about a year now.  Im 
very sorry that Mr K and BMF have had to wait so long and I apologise for the delay whilst 
they waited for this complaint to reach  the front of the queue.
Mr K hasnt made any payments towards  his agreement in the meantime  and BMF have 
allowed him to keep it whilst this complaint was in progress.
So Ive considered what that means  for the outcome of this complaint.
The MOT  records  say that the car completed 8771 miles in the year January 2018 to 
January 2019.  Mr K took receipt of it in April of 2018 so I think its reasonable to suggest  
much of that mileage will have been completed  in his possession.   Mr K has explained that 
he no longer uses  the car. But hes told me the current mileage  on it is 47,044 and in the 
January 2019  MOT it was recorded  as 41,030. That suggests Mr K has completed a little 
over 6,000  miles in the car in the last nine months which  equates to about  8,000 miles per 
Ref: DRN58491083year  a similar  mileage  to what was completed in the car last year.  So I think its fair to say 
Mr K has had fair use of the car this year.
Mr K has explained that the issues he originally complained of were  never fixed.  But I dont 
think they will have had any particular  impact on how much enjoyment hes had from the car 
so Im not asking BMF to refund any of the monthly  instalments  that have been due.
Its clear that BMF should  have allowed him to reject the car earlier. I think  the evidence was 
clear that there was a problem and that that problem  was reported within 30 days. I dont 
think it was reasonable  of them to have suggested in their final response letter that a 
problem didnt exist at the point  of supply and Mr K has therefore been inconvenienced by 
their failure to respond promptly. In those circumstances  I think BMF should pay him some 
compensation and I think £200 is reasonable in the circumstances.
 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint and tell Blue Motor  Finance Ltd to:
end the finance agreement. There should  be nothing further to pay once the account  
has been brought up to date
collect the car at no further cost to Mr K
refund  Mr Ks deposit and add 8% simple interest per annum from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement
pay Mr K £200 compensation in recognition of the distress and inconvenience hes 
experienced
remove any adverse information  that may have  been reported  to Mr Ks credit file in 
relation to this issue.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 November  2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5849108