K821x#15complaint
Mr W complains that Admiral Insurance Company Limited wrongly declined  to apply an 
uninsured driver promise to a claim he made on his motor insurance  policy.
 
background
Mr W was told by the police on 30 October 2018 that his parked car had been  damaged  in a 
hit and run accident.  The police had CCTV footage  of the other car. They  found  that it had 
false number plates  and were unable to trace the driver. Admiral said it had to record  a fault 
claim against Mr Ws policy. He had to pay his policy excess  of £750 when the car was 
repaired. His no claims discount (NCD)  was affected and his premium  rose at renewal. 
Mr W said his claim  fell under Admirals uninsured driver promise.  That meant  his NCD 
shouldnt be affected,  and Admiral should  cover the policy excess. Admiral said in order for 
the promise to apply, the other driver had to be identified. It said it also needed details of the 
other car. Admiral said it could then check whether insurance for it was in place or not. Mr W 
said if the driver was using false plates, the car wasnt  insured. 
One of our investigators  reviewed Mr Ws complaint. She thought  it very likely  that the other 
driver wasnt insured,  although she could see why Admiral said it couldnt be sure of that. 
She thought  a strict application  of the uninsured driver promise had led to an unfair outcome, 
so she said Admiral should treat the claim as meeting the promise.  That meant  refunding 
Mr Ws policy excess and reinstating any NCD.
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review.    
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
The accident  happened  in October 2018,  so the policy that applied at the time was the one 
in place for the period  from November  2017  to November 2018. In that policy there  are 
several references to the uninsured driver  promise.
The key features summary says if a policy holder makes a claim in relation to an uninsured  
driver for an accident that wasnt  the policy holders fault, the policy  holder  will keep their 
NCD and Admiral will refund their policy excess.  The restrictions  on cover  section says the 
other driver must be confirmed and identified as uninsured in order for the promise  to apply. 
And under making a claim,  the policy says the other  driver must be confirmed and identified 
as uninsured - and that the policy holder  must have reported the claim to the Motor Insurers  
Bureau (MIB) - which must have accepted the claim.  
Mr W reported the incident to the MIB.  But it said it was unable to assist, as the police had 
confirmed that the other driver couldnt  be traced.  It said the false plate on the other  drivers 
car meant the identity of the vehicle couldnt be established. 
As Mr W wasnt present at the time of the accident,  he had no details  of the other  car or the 
other driver.  He told Admiral that the police  had identified the make and model of the car and 
had noted its registration. But Admiral said there was no point in it contacting  the police, as 
they had already told Mr W that the cars plates were false, so it couldnt  be traced.
Ref: DRN56220352I think that as Mr W wasnt  able to provide the required  details, he didnt meet  the criteria set 
out in the 2018 policy  for the uninsured drivers  promise to apply. Given the lack of those 
details, Admiral wasnt able to say for certain  that the other  driver  was uninsured. 
In many cases where an unknown driver has caused damage and is untraceable, the driver 
may well be insured. But here, we know for a fact that the other car had false  plates. I think 
that makes it far more likely  than not that the other car wasnt  insured. In these particular  
circumstances, I dont  think  its fair and reasonable for Admiral to rely on the policy  terms in 
order to avoid applying  the uninsured driver promise.
I note that in the policies that were  issued in May 2018 and September 2018 the criteria 
Admiral set out for the uninsured driver promise are slightly different  than those in the policy 
that applies to Mr W. Policy holders  are required to do less under  those policies. 
Both 2018 policies  say the other drivers  details  should be provided only if possible. And 
theres no reference to having to make a claim to the MIB thats accepted by it. Admiral says 
the September 2018 policy applied to Mr Ws situation. But Admiral relied on the original 
policys criteria  in dealing with Mr Ws claim.  It said Mr W must provide the other drivers 
contact details and contact the MIB. If the new policy wording from September  2018  had 
been applied,  I think the outcome would have been the same.  It seems  Admiral would still 
have required the other cars valid registration  plate number, which Mr W didnt have.
As I dont think the way Admiral dealt with Mr Ws claim led to a fair and reasonable 
outcome, I think it needs to put matters right. I think Admiral should refund Mr Ws policy 
excess, restore his NCD  and refund the extra premium hes paid due to the loss of NCD.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Admiral Insurance  Company 
Limited to do the following:
Restore Mr Ws NCD
Refund any extra premium charged to Mr W due to his loss of NCD
Refund Mr Ws policy excess
Add interest to the two refunds, at the simple yearly rate of 8%, from the date of each 
payment to the date of settlement
If Admiral thinks  its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax from the 
interest, it should tell Mr W how much its taken off. It should also give him a tax deduction 
certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax if appropriate. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 October  2019.
Susan Ewins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5622035