K820x#14complaint
Ms Ws complaint is concerning the amount of compensation  The Royal  Bank of Scotland  
Plc (RBS) has offered  to settle her complaint  about  a mis-sold payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy taken out alongside a credit  card.
background
Ms W took out her credit card in October 1989 and at the same  time took out a PPI policy.  In 
2017 she complained she had been mis-sold the PPI and RBS agreed to uphold  her 
complaint. It wrote  to her and offered £2,358.37 after tax as compensation.
Ms W wasnt happy with the offer as she said RBS hadnt calculated the interest on the PPI 
premiums that were added to her card correctly.  She also wasnt  happy RBS had worked out 
the compensatory  interest correctly.  
RBS provided some  information and explanation  about its calculation but Ms W still didnt 
agree this was correct.  So she didnt accept the offer and brought her complaint to this 
service. 
During the investigation RBS found some  additional information from Ms Ws accounts, from 
1996 to 2001, and it used  this to recalculate  the compensation. This resulted  in a new, lower 
offer of £1,906.56 being made to Ms W, which replaced the original offer RBS made.
Our adjudicator said what RBS had offered was fair. Ms W didnt agree and asked for an 
ombudsman to look at her complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The parties agree the PPI started at the same time as the card account was opened, in 
October 1989 and the last premium for the PPI was charged in September 2017.
When a business  works  out compensation we expect it to pay back all the premiums paid for 
the PPI plus any interest caused by those premiums. In addition it should  pay compensatory 
interest for any times  a consumer is out of pocket. 
To do this RBS needs to carry out a reconstruction of Ms Ws account  as if she hadnt  been 
sold PPI. And within that calculation it needs  to make certain assumptions.  For example if 
Ms W cleared her balance  down  to zero on a particular  month,  it is fair to say assume she 
would have paid a bit less to clear the balance to zero if PPI costs hadnt been  part of the 
balance. 
Whilst the PPI is active on an account its costs  remain  part of the balance  until the balance  
is cleared. This means if any card rate interest is charged on the balance, and some of the 
balance is for the PPI costs, the card rate interest  is worked out on the amount in the 
balance for the PPI. 
If a consumer clears their balance then it is assumed they would have paid less, as the 
balance would have  been less without  PPI. So for the extra  they paid they need  to get 
Ref: DRN54643732compensatory interest  because theyve been  out of pocket. Thats  calculated  at simple 
interest of 15% before April 1993  and 8% after this date. 
When PPI is part of the balance the consumer needs to get the card rate interest  included  in 
their compensation, but not the compensatory simple interest until they have paid off the 
balance. Thats because they havent  paid the PPI cost and are not out of pocket. 
Ive looked at the information and calculations RBS has carried  out and I think what it has 
done is fair, and I shall explain why.
For the period  from 1989 to September 1996 RBS has no data about  the credit  card and 
what may have been paid. So it has used  some assumptions about what  Ms W may have 
been charged for the PPI.
To do this it has taken the premiums charged for the PPI for the first 12 months of known 
data and averaged this. It has then used this average amount to work backwards to the start 
of the PPI. During this period it has used the assumption that the balance  wasnt  cleared 
each month  and worked out card rate interest  on the premiums that were charged,  but no 
simple interest. Taking an average  of the first known premiums  in this way is considered  a 
fair approach where there is no data available.
This part of the calculation  is based  on the average amount of PPI charged and the other  
figures are part of a calculator RBS has developed. I know Ms W was concerned  about  
some of the figures.  But the PPI average amount of £0.61 is correct and this has then been 
worked back to the start of the card in 1989.
In the calculation spreadsheet provided  by RBS, and sent to Ms W, by comparing the PPI 
premiums column with the cumulative  cost of the PPI column it can be seen that card 
interest is added  each month for the PPI costs during  this estimated period. So RBS has 
added compound interest to the premiums  for this period.
However we know from when the data started in 1996 that Ms W actually cleared  her 
balance every month by a direct debit payment. So from October 1996 until 2017  Ms W was 
not charged any interest on the PPI premiums,  so it wouldnt be fair to expect  RBS to refund 
any.  But Ms W was out of pocket as she paid more  each month to clear the balance  
because if the PPI. So she gets compensatory  interest for this instead.
In 2017 Ms W started carrying  a balance forward, so some credit  card interest was then 
caused by the PPI.
The way RBS has worked out the premiums using  compound card rate interest  up to 1996  
would give Ms W more  interest than just using the basic  simple  interest  of 15% to 1993 and 
8% after that date. 
So I think the approach taken to estimating the costs of the PPI during the period to 1996, 
using RBS standard approach and calculator,  is fair. If I were  to tell them to assume the 
balance was cleared every  month, as is possible in this case, this would result in only simple  
interest being paid and would reduce the total compensation. This is in fact what  happened 
when the additional information  was found  for the period between  1996 and 2001 and RBS 
used this to do a recalculation. The offer it then made was less than the original, but was 
more accurate. 
Ref: DRN54643733Initially RBS found  full data for Ms Ws account  from July 2001. But as the investigation  
progressed it found more data related to the account  and what was paid each month 
towards the credit card balance from Ms Ws current account.  This information went  back  to 
1996.
This data all showed that Ms W paid the balance  on her credit card in full by direct  debit 
each month. So she wasnt charged  any interest  on the balance until February  2017  when 
Ms W did have  a balance carried forward each month and was charged interest  on it.
Ive looked at the calculation RBS has carried out from 1996  to 2018 and again I think  the 
approach it has taken is fair. It is refunding all the premiums charged,  but between  1996 and 
February 2017 no card rate interest is included as none was paid by Ms W. It has included 
8% simple  interest for all the time Ms W has been out of pocket for any of the PPI costs.
Ms W has provided  some of her own calculations and raised concerns about RBS 
calculations with some  specific  points. For example she has highlighted in the RBS 
calculation that the 8% interest on the PPI premium of £4.78, paid on 19 October 1997, only 
gives £0.54 of statutory interest over 21 years. This isnt correct as the £0.54 shown in RBS 
calculations is the actual statutory interest  for that one month, on the total premiums and 
associated interest that was no longer  part of the credit card balance.
RBS reconstruction  of the whole account works out each month the differences in what the 
balance would have  been without PPI. It uses this, with approved calculations behind the 
spreadsheet, to work out the total premiums, any interest due on those premiums where 
paid, and then it shows any compensatory interest, on the total Ms W was out of pocket for 
any costs of the PPI.
In the figures  Ms W has provided for in October 1997, she is calculating card rate interest 
and 8% simple interest, to produce much  higher  interest amounts she believes she is due. 
But her calculations do not take the same approach and the reconstruction of the account 
that RBS has provided. And she is not due any compound card rate interest,  as she has 
calculated, as she wasnt charged any that month.
I think RBS has taken  a reasonable approach to assessing the costs of the PPI when there 
is no data and also to working out the total costs Ms W paid for the PPI. And it has worked 
out the additional compensatory  interest  for when she was out of pocket for any amounts. 
So Im satisfied that the offer of £1,906.56,  after tax, was fair compensation. RBS has 
indicated it will update  the compensatory interest  part of the calculation  to the date of final 
payment, which  is what I would expect.
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  set out, I think the offer The Royal Bank  of Scotland  Plc has made for 
the compensation due to Ms W is fair, subject to updating the 8% simple interest to the date 
of final settlement. So Im not telling it to do anything  more.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 April 2019.
Ref: DRN54643734Christine Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5464373