K822xComplaint
Mr G complains that Barclays  Bank  UK PLC (Barclays) unfairly defaulted his loan. 
Background 
Mr G took out a loan with Barclays in October  2017.  In July 2018  Mr G called Barclays after 
he missed some payments.  Mr G advised he wasnt working and intended to leave the 
country for a few months. 
Barclays completed an income and expenditure assessment but found Mr G couldnt afford  
to make any payments.  It agreed to put his loan on hold until December 2018 before issuing 
a default. 
Due to an error at Barclays the loan defaulted in September  2018, while  Mr G was still 
abroad, and was passed to a third party. The default  notice was sent to Mr Gs old address, 
despite him telling  Barclays he no longer lived there. 
Mr G later complained and referred his complaint to our service.  The investigator who looked 
at Mr Gs complaint upheld it. Barclays agreed that Mr G could  apply for another Resolve 
loan. If the Resolve loan was approved, Barclays said it would remove  the default from 
Mr Gs credit file. Barclays also agreed  to pay Mr G £100. 
Mr G discussed the new loan with Barclays over the phone but it didnt proceed as the 
income and expenditure assessment found it wasnt affordable. Mr G asked to appeal so his 
complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr G has raised  concerns that Barclays continued to write  to him at an old address,  despite 
being advised he was leaving the country. But Barclays has confirmed it has to send 
important information,  like default  notices, in the post which means it needs an address. 
Mr G didnt give a new address when he called in July 2018 and Barclays  confirmed it would 
continue to send  mail to the one it had on file. I know Mr G is concerned about his privacy 
but I think Barclays decision to write  to him was reasonable  as it had to send out important  
information about his loan. 
That being  said,  if Barclays hadnt made  a mistake Mr Gs loan wouldnt have defaulted in 
September 2018. When Mr G called  Barclays  in July 2018 he was told the loan account  
would be put on hold until December 2018  and that a default wouldnt  be applied until that 
date. Ive thought  carefully about the fairest way to resolve this complaint. 
Whilst I agree Barclays applied the default too soon, I have  to take into account that Mr G 
was already in arrears  and couldnt  say when he would be able to start making payments 
again. Mr G later failed an affordability check when  discussing the Resolve loan. From what 
Mr G told Barclays,  hes unable to support the monthly payments  required to repay the 
outstanding debt. For me to tell Barclays to remove the default and restart  payments Mr G 
will need  to demonstrate to Barclays hes able to afford the payments by passing the 
affordability assessments. 
Ref: DRN57592682Mr G has told us that his situation  has changed  for the better  and that he wants  to start 
making monthly loan payments. But, as the investigator said, Mr G needs  to demonstrate to 
Barclays that his loan is affordable before it removes the default.  If he cant  then Barclays 
decision to default  his loan accurately reflects Mr Gs situation. 
Barclays has recently confirmed that its willing to complete  another Resolve loan application  
with Mr G. If Mr G passes the application process  and makes the first three monthly 
payments in full, Barclays has agreed to remove the default from his credit  file. But if Mr G 
fails the affordability  check or doesnt  make  the agreed payments Barclays  wont  remove the 
default. I think thats a fair approach as it gives Mr G the chance to get the default removed 
by demonstrating  he can afford the loan payments. Mr G should be aware that whilst  
Barclays will remove the default from his credit file, any payments hes missed will still be 
reflected. 
The investigator also asked Barclays to pay Mr G £100 to reflect  the inconvenience this 
situation has caused. Ive thought about  everything  Mr G has said in terms of how the 
situation has affected him. I think £100 fairly reflects the impact  of Barclays  error on Mr G so 
Im going  to endorse the investigators  recommendation. 
Ive considered all the information provided  by both sides. Having done so, I agree that this 
complaint should  be upheld.   
My final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint and direct  Barclays  Bank UK PLC to settle  as 
follows: 
-Contact Mr G within four weeks of acceptance to arrange a Resolve loan application.
-Complete a Resolve  loan application. If successful and Mr G makes  the first three 
monthly payments  in full and on time Barclays should remove the default from Mr Gs 
credit file. If unsuccessful, Barclays can proceed  with recoveries action and leave the 
default on Mr Gs credit file. 
-Pay Mr G £100 for the distress  and inconvenience caused. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 January 2020. 
Marco Manente
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5759268