K820x#14complaint
Ms G, on behalf of Mr P, is unhappy  about the charges hes incurred on his account with 
Santander UK Plc, even though he told them he was experiencing financial difficulties. Mr P 
wants Santander to repay  the charges hes incurred in relation to direct  debits, unauthorised 
overdrafts and standing  orders.
background
Santander didnt  uphold Mr Ps complaint. They felt their actions overall had been 
reasonable. As Mr P didnt agree, the complaint  was referred to our service. 
An adjudicator has already looked at this case.  He felt the response of Santander  to Mr Ps 
situation had been fair. So he didnt uphold the complaint either.
As Mr P is still unhappy with this case,  the matter has now been  passed to me to look at. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
I note there  have been several occasions  when Mr P contacted Santander to advise he was 
experiencing financial difficulties. On each  occasion  Im satisfied that Santanders response 
was reasonable.  Mr P was asked to contact  Santanders financial support  team  in 2017,  but 
as I understand,  he chose  not to follow this recommendation.  
On another occasion when Mr P contacted Santander he did speak to their financial support 
team and completed an income and expenditure report.  This resulted in some charges  being 
refunded and Mr P being advised to look into other  accounts which may be more  suitable to 
him to help him manage  his situation.  Santander  has also told our service that they referred 
Mr P to information on their website  about  financial difficulties to try to assist him. 
Despite being  told by Santander of different  ways to manage his account, and being given 
details of free debt services, I dont believe Mr P followed these recommendations. As 
Santander has explained, by Mr P changing his account to an ATM  card only account (for 
example), he wouldnt have been  able to go overdrawn in the first place. I do note though  the 
reason why Mr P didnt  want  to change to such an account. 
Around October 2018, upon Mr P contacting Santander, they agreed  to waive a sum of 
money as a gesture of goodwill. Ultimately I can see that the charges applied to Mr Ps 
account were in line with the account terms and conditions. And I accept the explanation  by 
Santander that the reason  they couldnt  apply  a £10 overdraft limit was because of the type 
of account Mr P held with them.  
Mr P says hes received  conflicting advice from Santander as to why hes incurred certain 
charges. I do appreciate  that Mr P feels very strongly about this case.  But I think the actions 
of Santander have been reasonable  and overall theyve acted fairly and sympathetically to 
Mr Ps circumstances. I do think Santander  has tried to help with Mr Ps situation. Any 
financial hardship Mr P is still experiencing isnt as a result  of an error  by Santander. I 
therefore wont be asking  them  to do anything further.
Ref: DRN56415362my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms G, on behalf  of  
Mr P, to accept or reject my decision before 26 April 2020.
Robyn McNamee
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5641536