K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains that Nationwide Building Society processed two payments of £37.11  each 
instead of CAN$7  each  which hed agreed and authorised.
background
Mr A and his wife were  planning a visit to Canada.  They each needed an Electronic Travel  
Authorization (or eTA), which can be obtained  from the Canadian Governments website for 
CAN$7 (about £4.25) each. 
Mr A applied online for the eTAs and provided  his Nationwide credit  card details to pay for 
them. Shortly afterwards, he received an email from the merchant saying it would be 
claiming an additional CAN$ 27 each for customer protection. Mr A contacted  Nationwide  
almost immediately. Nationwide  said that the payments hadnt been completed,  but said it 
would contact the merchant once they had. 
When the transactions were completed, each was for US$49, or £37.11 after conversion.  
Mr A complained to Nationwide. He said hed agreed to two payments of CAN$7 but that his 
credit card account had been debited with significantly more than that. He hadnt  agreed to 
the larger payments.  Nationwide looked at what had happened.  It concluded that Mr A had 
applied for the eTAs  through a third party website, which had charged extra  fees in line with 
its terms and conditions.  It concluded that Mr A had authorised the payments and didnt 
agree to a refund. 
Mr A referred the case to this service, where  one of our investigators considered it. He 
largely agreed with what Nationwide  had said. He identified the website that he thought Mr A 
had probably used. Whilst he wasnt able fully to reconcile  the figures set out, he noted that 
the site did refer to fees in addition to the sums paid to the Canadian Government; he 
thought it likely that the fees Mr A had paid were covered by the terms and conditions as 
they appeared at the time. 
Mr A didnt accept the investigators findings and asked  that an ombudsman review  them.       
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, however, I find myself 
broadly in agreement with the investigator. 
Its possible to apply  for a Canadian eTA directly through the Canadian  Government  website.  
But there are also a number of commercial sites offering a similar service but charging 
additional fees. It appears that Mr A, perhaps  inadvertently, used one of these. Having 
looked at the current  version  of that site, it does say  albeit not very prominently   that it 
has no connection with any government and that its based in the USA. 
The site also indicates that additional fees will be charged. By using the site and authorising  
a card payment,  I think that Mr A did agree to those fees and authorised Nationwide to make 
payment of them through his credit  card account.   
I accept that the merchant  didnt explain the fees very clearly in subsequent email 
exchanges with Mr A; there appears to have been  some confusion over currencies, since the 
Ref: DRN58595272site was in the USA,  the basic eTA fee was priced  in Canadian dollars and Mr A was in the 
UK. I dont believe though  that I can fairly hold Nationwide responsible for that. 
I note too that Nationwide initially  indicated  it would take the matter up with the merchant, 
through the card scheme, but didnt do so. I dont believe  that would have helped  Mr A, 
however, since Im satisfied the merchant would have been able to show that Mr A agreed  to 
a card payment  and that it had delivered  the services  it agreed to provide. 
Mr A has my sympathy. I think  its very likely that he paid rather more  for the eTAs than he 
thought he would  and more than he needed to, because  he used a commercial  website. I 
do however take the view that he authorised the payments and that it wouldnt  therefore be 
fair to make Nationwide  refund them.       
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont require Nationwide Building Society  to do anything  more to 
resolve Mr As complaint. Under  the rules of the Financial Ombudsman  Service, Im required 
to ask Mr A to accept  or reject my decision before 22 February  2020.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5859527