K820x#14complaint
Mrs S complains about the advice she was given by Lloyds  Bank  PLC (Lloyds) in 1989/1990 
regarding the transfer of her pension benefits.  She believes this was unsuitable. She also 
complains about  Lloyds advice which led to her contributing to her personal pension  with it 
from about 1991 to 1994.  Mrs S believes that she should have instead  been advised to join 
her employers pension  scheme at this time.  
background
I issued a provisional decision on 12 April 2021. A copy  is attached  and forms part of this 
final decision. In the provisional decision I set out the reasons why I was not intending  to 
uphold the complaint.
Lloyds accepted the provisional decision and did not make any further  submissions.
Mrs S did not accept that provisional decision. Mr S is representing Mrs S and, in summary, 
he said:
Mrs Ss employment did not end in June 1989 but in March 1989.  But she did not 
make enquiries about transferring her pension in March 1989  because she was not 
aware of her options until June 1989.  
In March 1989 Mrs S contacted Lloyds regarding the best option for continuing  to 
save for retirement  because her new employer did not offer a pension  scheme.  As 
this was before June  1989 when she was given  her options, the only discussion  was 
around contributing  £25 a month  to a pension. So a conversation  about  transfer  
would have been instigated by the Lloyds representative. This resulted  in 
unnecessary pressure being placed on Mrs S to transfer and fill out application 
forms. A letter of March 1989  refers to the process necessary to transfer the existing 
Lloyds pension.
Financial benefit  in the form of commission was generated  for Lloyds as a result  of 
the advice that was given  to Mrs S.
It would  not be correct to assume  that Mrs S would have a further 27 years  to 
accumulate pension  benefits as it was her intention  to have children. This would have 
led to a much reduced ability to save for retirement given the likely career breaks. 
It is unfortunate that Mrs S was not directed to a S32 policy as this would have been 
the best option.
The financial adviser in 1991 did not check adequately whether Mrs S could have 
joined an occupational  scheme  and it should  not be left for Mrs S to prove  that she 
could join such a scheme. The adviser  should  have explored Mrs Ss options  in terms 
of joining  her employers  scheme,  but was more influenced by commission.
Mrs Ss new pension  policy in 1995 was set up in error, as she could have simply 
paid in her contribution to her existing plan.  This new policy generated a new set of 
charges. This error was accepted and a calculation of loss was made. The error  was 
caused by the influence  of commission payments. 
Ref: DRN58440892This investigation has taken three years during which time Mrs S has lost the 
opportunity of topping  up her salary to the personal allowance of £12,500  with 
income from her pension. And she has not received any compensation payment  from 
Lloyds for this or the upset caused.  Mrs S should  receive  some  payment. 
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
the advice to transfer the deferred pension 
I note the submissions about  Mrs Ss date of leaving service being in March 1989. In the 
provisional decision I set out that Mrs S was supplied with her pension  options in June 1989  
 I am sorry if that seemed to imply that she left service at that point. But in any event, that 
does not make any material difference to my findings. 
I appreciate that the evidence is that there  were  conversations  in March  1989 regarding 
transferring the pension.  But the evidence also is that by the time that transfer actually took 
place Mrs S had been provided with her options regarding the pension.  Furthermore,  as I set 
out in the provisional decision,  there was significant  potential, based  on the reasonable 
assumptions at that time, that Mrs Ss deferred  benefits could  be improved by transferring. 
So it was not unsuitable to recommend such a transfer and it may well be that Mrs S thought  
this was of benefit  at the time. The potential to transfer to a S32 policy,  which  Lloyds could 
not offer, was not necessarily the better option. 
I appreciate that Lloyds  or the Lloyds adviser  would have  received commission in respect  of 
the advice that it gave  Mrs S. But this would have  been normal at the time  advisers are 
usually remunerated for the advice they give. I appreciate that this could have influenced the 
adviser but I cannot  assume that occurred, especially where the advice  was not unsuitable.  
I also appreciate the comments  that have been made about the period Mrs S could likely 
contribute to a pension. But it couldnt  be assumed at the time, and in her circumstances at 
the time,  that she would  have considerably less than that period because of career  breaks. 
Hindsight should not be used. The situation  at the time was that Mrs S had a significant 
period of time to build up further pension benefits. 
So I do not uphold  the complaint on this basis.  
the 1991 advice
We have tried to establish if Mrs S could have joined an occupational scheme and, if so, 
what the nature or benefits of that scheme  might be. Unfortunately  there is almost no 
information of that nature  available. With such a lack of evidence  or likelihood  that Mrs S 
could have joined such a scheme or, then, evidence that she would have been able to retain 
the benefits of such a scheme given her length  of service, I do not believe I can reasonably 
make a finding that Lloyds has caused  detriment to Mrs S. This is bearing in mind  that she 
did have, at the time, a plan suitable for saving for retirement. 
I appreciate that this is an unsatisfactory position for Mrs S and I would have hoped that 
some level of evidence  could be obtained that would establish  to some extent what the 
position was with respect to the ability to join an occupational scheme. This is why we 
Ref: DRN58440893undertook further  investigation. But that evidence is not available  and in the circumstances I 
cannot make  a finding that Lloyds has acted  incorrectly.  It would also be very difficult  to 
establish if any loss had been  caused  and what that might be. 
other matters
I understand the comments that have been made  about the 1995 advice but my 
understanding is that this has now been redressed.
I also note the comments  about the length of time taken to resolve  this complaint. I am sorry 
for that but this did not stop Mrs S from accessing her pension  benefits if she wished  to. And 
in any event, I cannot hold Lloyds responsible for that where I havent upheld  the complaint.  
Similarly I do not believe it is appropriate to make  an award to the effect that Lloyds  should  
make a payment  for upset  or inconvenience  where I do not believe it has made an error.
 
my final decision
I am sorry  to disappoint Mrs S but I do not believe this complaint should be upheld.  So I do 
not make  any award against Lloyds. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 July 2021.
David Bird
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN58440894copy provisional decision 
complaint
Mrs S complains about the advice she was given  by Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds)  in 1990  regarding the 
transfer of her pension benefits. She believes this was unsuitable. She also complains about  Lloyds  
advice which led to her contributing to her personal pension with it from about  1991 to 1994.  Mrs S 
believes that she should have instead been  advised to join her employers pension scheme at this 
time. 
background 
In June 1989,  upon her employment ending, Mrs S was given the option of either deferring  her final 
salary pension  or transferring the value of her deferred benefits elsewhere. 
As Mrs Ss new employer didnt offer an occupational  pension scheme  and she wanted to save  for her 
retirement, she made enquiries  with Lloyds about transferring her pension.  After  receiving its advice 
as to her options, she opened a personal pension  with it, making monthly contributions into this until 
May 1992. And, in 1990,  she also transferred her occupational pension into it. 
From September 1991  until 1994,  Mrs Ss new employer  began to pay monthly contributions  of about 
£140 into her personal pension. And, in January 1995, it also made  a single payment to it of about 
£560.  
Since March 1995, Mrs S has made her own monthly contributions of £25. And, in 1999,  she 
contracted back in to SERPS, having contracted out in January 1991.  
In 2017, Mrs S complained  to Lloyds saying  its advice for her to transfer to a personal  pension was 
unsuitable, as shes lost out on the guaranteed benefits her occupational pension provided. She also 
said she didnt join her new employers pension  scheme in 1991, as Lloyds had given her the 
impression it was better to have one personal pension due to flexibility with contributions, rather than 
pensions with different companies.  And it wasnt made clear that each new contribution would  lead to 
a new part being set up within the personal  pension, incurring commission and other charges. 
In response to the complaint, Lloyds said it wrote to Mrs S in 1999, as part of the industry wide 
Pensions Review, offering to review  the advice  she received and asking about  her circumstances  at 
the time. Lloyds said the letters indicated the advice she received might  have been inappropriate. 
And, as it didnt receive a response to the letters when  its likely Mrs S received these, her complaint 
had been made too late.
Mrs S brought  her complaint  to us. One of our investigators looked  into this and said the complaint 
hadnt been made too late. And a decision was later issued by an ombudsman, explaining that the 
complaint was one this service could  consider. 
One of our investigators went on to look into the merits of Mrs Ss complaint. He said Lloyds didnt  
offer a section 32 buyout scheme. And while that might  have been an option elsewhere, Lloyds  
advice for Mrs S to set up a personal pension, make contributions and transfer her occupational  
pension to it in 1989 was suitable, based on what was considered at the time to be reasonable 
assumptions for investment performance. And also because  she didnt have access to an employer  
sponsored scheme  at that point.  
However, he said he couldnt see any evidence  that Mrs S was told about the usual benefits of joining 
an employers scheme if eligible to do so, in either 1989 or 1991. Or that it was explained that she 
should explore whether  she could do so, as part of considering  her long-term  interests in the way it 
would reasonably be expected. He also felt Lloyds advice in 1989  negatively impacted on Mrs S 
perception of employer versus personal pension  schemes. And, therefore,  on her decision not to join 
her new employers  sponsored scheme, which he felt it likely she was eligible to do.
Ref: DRN58440895The investigator said that employer scheme appeared to be a money  purchase plan, rather  than a 
defined benefit one. And that while such schemes involved some risk, the retirement  benefits werent  
guaranteed and its likely the amount Mrs Ss new employer paid into her personal pension  was equal  
to what  it wouldve contributed to such a scheme, it might still have been a better option than 
contributing to her personal pension. Especially as its likely to have had lower charges. 
So he asked Lloyds to carry out a calculation to see if Mrs S had suffered  a loss with respect to her 
pension benefits  as a result  of not being advised to join her employers  scheme. And he asked Lloyds 
to pay Mrs S £200 compensation to make up for the trouble and upset caused  to her as a result of 
finding out her retirement planning might have been compromised by its advice. 
Lloyds didnt agree with the investigators opinion.  It said:
The top of a letter  Mrs S provided dated September 1991  says  Non Joiner Paperwork held 
by (Mrs S), which confirms discussions were held about her new employers scheme. And 
this may explain why personal pension  contributions were recommended  as opposed  to 
joining that scheme.
Mrs S employer was paying what seems a high amount of her salary into her pension  
around 16%. This could  be because it was compensating  her for not joining its scheme, which 
indicates this had been  discussed. Theres also no evidence Mrs S was eligible  to join its 
scheme. And it doesnt think the bank statements Mrs S provided  show she worked  for it.
Mrs S was contributing  to her personal  pension when she started working for her new 
employer and it wasnt  until June 1992 that she stopped doing  so. This suggests  she might 
have made a conscious  effort not to join its scheme, as she wouldnt have been able to 
start/stop her own contributions.
The scheme information  confirms, If you leave the plan within two years of joining it, you may 
take a refund of your contributions, with interest. In this case  your employer will also get a 
refund of contributions.  Mrs S employer  only paid her personal pension  contributions 
between September 1991 to June 1992, equating to 10 months. And, in 1993, Mrs S took a 
leave of absence and then left her employment in 1994, when the plan was also paid up. 
Mrs S added that:
In relation to the advice  given  in 1989, Lloyds shouldve considered if it could offer suitable  
advice if it didnt offer a section 32 buyout option.
The note about being  a non-joiner was added by Mrs Ss representative and wasnt made at 
the time of the advice. It was submitted  that Mrs S had the opportunity  to join the scheme  but 
was convinced not to, rather  than that she wasnt eligible to. 
Her employer paid 14% of an employees annual salary into the scheme. And the scheme 
Mrs S wouldve been eligible for was a defined  benefit scheme, as evidenced by information 
shes provided from a former  colleague. 
Her 1993 leave of absence was due to having  time off to look after her new baby.  She went  
back to work part time and then left that employer  towards  the end of 1994. And the single 
payment of about £560  was made by her employer in January 1995,  as it failed to pay into 
her pension  after shed  returned to work part time. 
Bank statements  and a resignation  letter show she was employed during  the time her 
employer offered the defined benefit occupational  pension scheme in question. And, while  
Ref: DRN58440896she cant specifically  evidence now that she would have been  eligible for the scheme, she 
recalls being offered  the option. 
As no agreement could  be reached, the complaint  was passed to me for review. 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
1989 advice  to start  the personal  pension
When Mrs S first received  advice to start a personal  pension with Lloyds, she didnt have access  to a 
pension scheme through her employer. So I am not persuaded that the advice  to commence  the 
pension plan in 1989  was unsuitable for her as it enabled Mrs S to continue saving towards her 
retirement. 
Advice to transfer  the deferred pension to Lloyds  in 1990
My understanding is that Mrs S received advice  about her deferred occupational scheme  in March 
1990.
On leaving service  in 1989 Mrs S was sent a letter which set out her options with respect to her 
deferred pension  benefits. This set out that:
1. Deferred  Pension
You are entitled to a pension  of £1,050.00 per annum payable from your normal retirement date, your 
60th birthday (date)
Included in the above pension are two elements which the Scheme will guarantee to increase over 
the period to your normal retirement date and those are described below.
(i) your guaranteed  Minimum  Pension (GMP)
This is the part of your pension which relates to the State Earnings Related  Pension from which you 
were contracted-out and at the date of leaving the GMP you had accrued amounted to £309.92 per 
annum. This part of your pension will be revalued up to normal retirement  date at the rate of 7.5% per 
annum.
(ii) Post 1.1.1985  Pension
The Lloyds Bowmaker Pension Std - we will also increase the proportion  of your pension  (excluding 
GMP) which related to service after 1st January  1985 at a rate of at least  3% per annum, over the 
period to your normal retirement date.
Spouse's and Children's Benefits
A spouse's  pension of one half of your deferred pension  is payable in the event  of your death before 
or after retirement. If your spouse is more  than ten years  younger than you the pension payable will 
be reduced by 2 1/2% per annum for each year in excess of ten. In
addition child allowances, as set out in the Guide to the Scheme, are also payable
Increase to a Pension in Payment
Both your pension and any spouse's pension  will be increased  each year, once  payment commences,  
at the rate decided from time to time by the Trustees in accordance with the Rules  of the Scheme.
Ref: DRN584408972 Transfer of benefits
As an alternative to the above deferred benefits you may, if you wish, elect to transfer the value of 
your deferred  benefits to either:
(a) A suitably  approved Pension  Plan of your new Employer
(b) An approved individual contract  with an insurance  company (a Section 32 contract)
(c) An approved Personal Pension contract.
The transfer  value available to you is £7,672.75 inclusive  of your Guaranteed Minimum Pension. 
The documents supplied at the time set out that Mrs S had six years service in a defined  benefit 
scheme. It was also set out that, based on reasonable assumptions, she might  expect  to receive a 
pension of about £3,500  at age 60. She had about 27 years until her normal retirement  date. An 
illustration was produced which set out what Mrs S could  expect to receive if she transferred her 
benefits to a personal pension. This was based on assumed rates of future  return  which were  
reasonable at the time. At the lower rate of assumed growth  a pension of about  £2,700 a year was 
projected. At the higher rate, a pension of about £7,000 was projected.  
Additional documents  set out that the benefits of the deferred scheme  include guaranteed increases 
in payment and widows benefits.  Mrs S signed the documents to enable the transfer in 1990.  
I have not seen any documents which  set out what advice  was given to Mrs S at the time.  However, 
as the investigator set out in his assessment, the guidance issued by the industry regulator  for 
financial viability as part of the industry wide pensions review, indicates  a pass for transfer advice 
given in the first half of 1990  as being between 13.6% and 13.7% growth  required a year for 
consumers with a moderate  ability to accept investment risk (Mrs S is indicated  as willing  to accept  a 
lower/moderate degree of risk in 1991). This is where  the years to retirement  are between 25 and 30. 
Mrs S had 27 years to normal retirement date.  
Given this, it is apparent  that there was significant  scope for improvement of pension  benefits  based 
on the reasonable growth  assumptions at the time.  We know that, in the main, such growth 
assumption have fallen  considerably  since that time and this with hindsight makes the transfer look 
poor value.  But this would not have  been  known at the time and the transfer took place based on 
reasonable assumptions  at that time. 
Furthermore, the transferred  benefits represented  a comparatively  short membership of six years.  Mrs 
S still had 27 years to build up further pension benefits and so it would not be unreasonable  at the 
time to assume  that these would not make  up the majority of her pension benefits. Mrs S may not 
have built up much in the way of additional  benefits since,  but hindsight should  not be used and this 
couldnt have been known at the time. So security  of these pension  benefits  was not of the 
importance it might have  been had service been longer  and/or Mrs S had a shorter period to 
retirement.  
As the investigator also discussed, Lloyds  did not offer a Section 32 buy-out policy, but that does not 
necessarily make its (assumed) advice to transfer unsuitable. As I say, the transfer to a personal 
pension was viable and it was not unlikely  it would provide better benefits. And the personal pension  
had different benefits  than a Section  32 plan.  Even assuming a relatively high rate of revaluation  for 
the GMP benefits, the personal pension  could still provide improved benefits. Overall the possibility of 
using the Section  32 option  did not, in these circumstances,  render any advice  to transfer  to a 
personal pension unsuitable. 
1991 advice
Ref: DRN58440898It is my understanding  that Mrs S joined a new employer  in 1991 and at this point  she approached 
Lloyds regarding the payment of further pension contributions to her personal  pension. It is also my 
understanding that Mrs S has said that she had the opportunity of joining her employers pension  
scheme in 1991. It is submitted that Mrs Ss period of employment  ran from August 1991 to 
December 1994. 
It isnt in dispute that Lloyds provided further advice in 1991 in relation  to Mrs S applying to vary the 
terms of her personal pension to pay in increased  contributions from her new employer. I can see that 
a fact find dated 29 August  1991 was completed for Mrs S. This records her current employer and 
that she is receiving a salary from it. The fact find does ask or check if Mrs S is currently  contributing 
to an employers  pension scheme (it is indicated that she does not) but it does not ask if she has the 
ability to do so, or check if she has declined to do that. 
Be that as it may, it is unclear whether Mrs S would have had access to an occupational scheme. 
We have  asked Mrs Ss employer for details about  whether Mrs S would have had access to some 
form of occupational  scheme,  what kind of scheme she may have had access to and any details of 
her employment which might indicate her access  to such a scheme. Unfortunately  it has been  unable 
to provide any detail, apart from a suggestion that there might have been a group  personal pension  
scheme provided by Standard  Life. 
It is also unclear, given  the fairly  short period of employment between 1991  and 1994, what would  
have happened to Mrs Ss contributions when  she left employment, had she had access  to such a 
scheme. They  could have been  retained in a paid up pension or its possible they could have been 
refunded. 
The material  issue is that, given the passage of time, it is not possible now to establish with any 
certainty whether Mrs S would have access to some  kind of occupational scheme, what  kind of 
scheme Mrs S might have had access to, and who might have provided that scheme. I appreciate that 
documents have been provided  in respect of a colleagues  access to a pension scheme but that does 
not establish what position  Mrs S would have been in. It is therefore not possible  to ascertain at the 
moment with any certainty whether she has been disadvantaged as compared to the Lloyds  scheme. 
Given that, I cannot uphold the complaint and I couldnt make an award  because  it is not possible to 
calculate if Mrs S has lost out in some  way.  
As I have said, the personal pension, in and of itself, is not an unsuitable scheme  to use for pension 
savings. 
my provisional  decision
I do not currently intend  to uphold the complaint or make any award.
David Bird
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN5844089