K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
1987 around the same time Mr and Mrs A took out a further advance.  Mr and Mrs A say 
Bank of Scotland trading as Halifax mis-sold them the PPI. The policy  covered both Mr 
and Mrs A for accident,  sickness and unemployment. 
I understand Mr and Mrs A have  made  a number of points about  an attempted  sickness 
claim on the policy being turned down  but to be clear, this decision deals with the mis-sale 
of their PPI only. 
Mr and Mrs A have  submitted a large  volume of paperwork for us to consider. While  I wont  
comment on every point  that has been made,  I would like to assure them  that I have looked 
closely at and thought carefully about  everything  Mr and Mrs A and Halifax  has sent us.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs As case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. I know this will come  as a disappointment  to Mr 
and Mrs A so Id like to explain my reasoning. I note Mr and Mrs As concerns around 
Halifaxs lack of evidence  compared to what theyve  provided. With sales that happened so 
long ago, its not reasonable or practical  for us to expect financial business  to always  be able 
to produce paperwork.  So it would not be fair for me to uphold  the case on that basis alone. 
In cases where I have limited information available from the sale,  I must make a decision 
based on what is more  likely to have happened, using  the information  I do have available  to 
me. 
Halifax had to make it clear the PPI was optional and get Mr and Mrs As consent  before 
adding it to their account. Mr and Mrs A have said they were told they needed to take out the 
insurance. But they havent said what it was that led them to think  this. The information I 
have doesnt suggest that the PPI was a condition of Mr and Mrs As further borrowing. Ive 
seen a copy of the certificate of insurance issued after the sale and a copy  of Mr and Mrs As 
offer of further  advance document  neither of which suggest the PPI was compulsory.  And 
without persuasive  evidence to suggest Mr and Mrs A were  left with no option but to take out 
the cover, I think that its more likely that a discussion took place about the benefits of the 
policy and Mr and Mrs A chose to take it out. 
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mr and Mrs A so it had to check  that the PPI was right for 
them based  on their needs and circumstances  in 1987. While I appreciate Mr and Mrs A 
experienced difficulties when they tried to claim on the policy,  I need to decide whether 
Halifaxs advice in 1987 was appropriate for their needs and circumstances at that point. And 
having done so, I think that it was. 
For example, Mr and Mrs As employment  circumstances meant  they were unlikely to be 
caught by any of the exclusions  and limitation relating to unemployment claims. And theyve 
explained that they were in good health  when they took the policy  out. Which would suggest 
they wouldnt have  been caught by the exclusion relating  to pre-existing medical conditions.
Ref: DRN50734212I also think they had a need  for the policy. Mr A says he wouldve been  entitled to some  sick 
pay but cant remember exactly how much. This is understandable considering the length  of 
time since the sale. Mrs A says she wouldve received sick pay from her employer  and has 
sent us an employee  benefit booklet  which shows its likely  she wouldve been entitled  to six 
months full pay followed  by six months  half pay from her employer. 
But the PPI wouldve paid out on top of any employee benefits Mr and Mrs A wouldve been  
entitled to  and for up to 24 months if either  were  unable  to work because  of accident or 
sickness. It also wouldve paid out for up to 12 months if either Mr or Mrs A lost their job. So I 
think the policy offered  a valuable benefit considering Mr and Mrs As need for the cover in 
1987.
Mr and Mrs A say they attempted to make a claim on the policy when Mr A was unable to 
work due to illness and that their claim was turned down. I understand that for this reason  
they strongly believe the policy did not cover them for what they were  told it would cover 
them for and was therefore  mis-sold.
I can understand why theyve reached this conclusion. But there are lots of reasons that can 
lead to a claim being declined   even if the policy was suitable for the consumers 
circumstances when  they were initially sold it. And while this may lead to disappointment on 
the part of the insured, who believed he or she was fully covered, it doesnt  automatically 
mean something went wrong at the point of sale or that the seller, rather than the insurer,  
was at fault. 
In this case, Ive already established,  and Mr and Mrs A agree, that their circumstances in 
1987 meant they werent caught  by the significant exclusions in the policy. As a result, Im 
satisfied Halifaxs initial recommendation was suitable. 
And while Mr and Mrs A may well have been told that the policy would  cover  them  in the 
event of illness, this wouldve  been  subject to the terms  and conditions  of the policy  rather  
than an unconditional  form of cover. So I dont agree that Halifaxs  actions when it sold Mr 
and Mrs A the policy has caused  them  to lose out. 
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr and Mrs A about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But as Ive said above I think its likely they chose to take it out - so it looks  
like they wanted  this type of cover. And for much the same reasons  as to why Ive found that 
the policy was suitable for them, I dont think better information about the PPI would have put 
them off taking out the cover. It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think  better 
information about the PPI would have put them off taking out the cover. This means I dont 
think Mr and Mrs A have  lost out as a result of anything  Halifax  did wrong.  
Ive thought about what Mr and Mrs A have said about being unhappy with how Halifax has 
handled their complaint.  From carefully  reviewing this case I can see that Mr and Mrs A have  
undoubtedly spent  a significant amount of time compiling evidence  to support their case  and 
navigating Halifaxs different departments and the natural frustrations that arise  when 
needing to make a complaint. And while I do not wish to take anything away  from this, I can 
understand why Halifax  has at times  struggled to find information about  this sale.  
The policy was sold over 30 years  ago and the attempted claim made over 15 years ago. 
Unfortunately, and while no doubt frustrating,  this can often  lead to delays in cases, missing 
information and in some cases, errors.  Halifax has acknowledged and apologised for the 
Ref: DRN50734213errors it made  during its investigation and given what I've said above, I'm not persuaded it 
needs to offer compensation in addition to this. 
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision  before  8 May 2019.
Gemma Farrell  
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5073421