K820x#14complaint
Mrs S says Financial Insurance Company Limited  (FICL) mis-sold her a regular payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy to cover her store  card repayments.
background
Mrs S took out a store card in 2004. At the same time she took out a PPI policy to cover her 
card repayments. The policy  cost £1.50  per £100 of the balance on Mrs Ss store  card. A 
successful claim  on the policy wouldve paid 15% of the outstanding  balance on the store 
card if Mrs S was unable to work due to accident or sickness  or lost her job. The benefit 
would continue to be paid until Mrs S returned  to work or the balance  was cleared.
Our adjudicator didnt  think Mrs Ss complaint should be upheld because  she thought Mrs S 
wouldve understood she had a choice  in taking the cover and thought it provided a useful 
benefit to Mrs S.
Mrs S disagrees. She says the policy was no good  to her as she was self-employed.
So the complaint has come  to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Ss complaint.
The PPI was applied  for in store when  Mrs S applied for a store card. FICL have given us a 
copy of the original store card application form. I can see that the sections on the application 
form that deal with card protection and additional  card holders have been left blank. 
But I can see that Mrs S has signed for PPI under the words  (Only sign this box if you 
require Account Cover)  Yes, I would like to protect my Account with Account Cover 
If Mrs S didnt  want to take out PPI she couldve left this section blank  like the others and not 
signed to take the cover.  Because she signed within the PPI section  rather  than leaving it 
clear, I think  its likely Mrs S knew she had a choice about taking out PPI. And I think  she 
signed within the box because she wanted the cover.
I dont think Mrs S was advised to take the cover. What  this means is that FICL  didnt  
recommend PPI to Mrs S, they just gave her information about PPI. This information needed 
to be given in a way that was clear, fair and not misleading so she could make an informed 
choice about buying PPI.
FICL say that sufficient  information wouldve been provided at the point of sale to allow Mrs 
S to make an informed  choice on whether  to add PPI to her account. But I cant  say whether 
this information  was good enough. That being said even if FICL did give all the information  
Mrs S needed to make an informed  choice on taking out the policy,  I think  she wouldve still 
taken the policy because at the time of sale:
Ref: DRN57797282She was eligible for the PPI.
Although Mrs S says she was self-employed at the time this wouldnt have made  it 
any harder than an employed person to make a claim on the policy and it doesnt 
look like she wouldve  been caught by any of the other main  exclusions in the terms 
and conditions of the policy which couldve made it difficult  to make a successful 
claim.
At the time of the sale Mrs S says her family  wouldve  helped  her make  her 
repayments if she was unable to work or lost her job. But there is no guarantee her 
family could help and the policy wouldve covered  her until she was in a position to 
return to work. So I dont think knowing this information wouldve changed her mind 
about taking the policy and I think the policy wouldve provided a useful benefit for 
her in her circumstances.
Theres nothing to suggest the policy wasnt affordable to Mrs S and if she no longer 
wanted the policy she was able to cancel it.
So I dont  think it wouldve made a difference in how the information was given to Mrs S on 
the PPI. I think she wouldve still taken out the PPI policy  as it suited her needs and was of 
value to her.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained I do not uphold Mrs Ss complaint  against Financial Insurance  
Company Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 March  2019.
Caroline Davies
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5779728