K821x#15complaint
Mr L has complained  that Financial Administration Services  Limited (FASL) allowed a fund 
purchase to be effected in his self invested  personal pension (SIPP)  when  the cash  wasnt 
available in his SIPP cash account,  which left a negative cash balance of £73,667. Hes also 
referred to issues with FASLs website/platform.
background
The adjudicator issued a very detailed assessment on 7 April 2019. Neither party has 
disagreed with what happened as set out by the adjudicator. So Im not going to repeat all 
the details here. 
Essentially Mr Ls complaint arose  because there was confusion  about whether an on line 
instruction to switch  funds  had been completed. Mr L thought the purchase element of the 
transaction hadnt gone through and so he placed  a duplicate purchase instruction.  In fact 
both purchases went through, leaving a negative balance on Mr Ls SIPP  cash  account. 
In summary  the adjudicator concluded:
Rectifying the duplicate purchase  transaction  gave  rise to a financial loss as a result 
of the unit price falling  between the date on which the instructed duplicate transaction  
settled and the subsequent sale of the units purchased  during that duplicate  
purchase transaction. 
FASL accepted  that its systems contributed to the confusion that led to the duplicate 
purchase transaction being placed.
The adjudicator  agreed FASL had correctly  rectified the financial loss suffered by the 
unintended duplicate  transaction by crediting Mr L with £602.05. 
FASL wasnt responsible for the losses suffered on the sale of the intended 
purchase: FASL didnt tell Mr L to sell his entire  holding. Just an amount equivalent to 
what hed invested in the unintended duplicate purchase transaction. FASL wasnt 
responsible for any losses which arose as a result of the fall in the unit price  of the 
fund between the date on which the original switch instruction settled and Mr L then 
deciding to sell the units bought  as part of that original intended  switch  instruction. 
There had been website/platform system  issues  in 2017. Mr L hadnt  had the 
product/service he was reasonably  entitled to expect. That had caused him distress  
and inconvenience  for which FASL should  pay him compensation of £200.
FASL accepted what the adjudicator had said and was prepared to pay the sum suggested 
by the adjudicator. 
Mr L remained unhappy. He made  a number  of additional comments which  the adjudicator 
considered. But he didnt change his view.  He maintained that FASL had done all it needed 
to do to put the duplicate  transaction right and redress  the financial loss Mr L had sustained  
as a result  of FASLs systems being  deficient.  FASL wasnt  responsible  for Mr Ls additional  
losses, incurred because  hed decided to sell his entire holding and not just what he needed 
to sell to correct the duplicate purchase. 
Ref: DRN55344092As to the issues Mr  L  had raised  about  errors  and deficiencies in how the system operated, 
the adjudicator  said he was satisfied  FASL had put in place changes to prevent what  had 
happened in Mr Ls case arising again. The adjudicator accepted there were website or 
platform failings which had caused Mr L distress and inconvenience.  The adjudicator 
explained we couldnt consider as part of Mr Ls current complaint later arising  issues. But 
Mr L could raise those with the business  as a new complaint and if not resolved  to his 
satisfaction he could  then refer his concerns to us. 
Mr L responded. He referred to the maximum amount of compensation for poor customer  
service being £200  but asking if a rebate on the platform  fees could be considered.  He said 
hed had numerous problems for several months  and he didnt think  it was right he had to 
pay the full platform  fee for the period. In particular he said the interactive charts which  hed 
used regularly before  the new platform was launched werent usable for some months and 
thered been issues with other functions or features which had led to him requesting a 
transfer to a different platform which was more reliable and cost a lot less. 
On that basis he wasnt  prepared to accept £200  as compensation for the problems hed 
experienced and that the negative  cash  situation  he found himself  in should never have 
happened. 
The adjudicator replied.  He said he wasnt sure how Mr Ls understanding  had arisen and 
clarified that £200 wasnt the maximum award.  But he explained,  taking into account the 
system issues  as part of Mr Ls current complaint, he thought that was a fair and reasonable 
amount. He said hed arrange for the complaint to be referred to an ombudsman. He asked 
for any further comments Mr L wished to make by the date he specified (which  could be 
extended). Mr L didnt make any further representations. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the views 
reached by the adjudicator and the reasons he gave. I dont have much to add.
As the adjudicator acknowledged, Mr L could  have called  FASL  to check what was going on 
with the original switch  and new fund purchase. But, like the adjudicator,  I can understand 
why, from the information  available to Mr L, and as he hadnt received a confirmation of the 
original instructed switch,  he reasonably believed the purchase element of the switch hadnt  
been effected. 
I think Mr L was entitled  to rely on the information he had. It would  be unacceptable for him 
to have to seek  to verify or chase  up direct with FASL on line instructions hed given  or deals  
hed placed when he was paying for an internet based platform  service. 
FASL doesnt really  dispute that  it accepts its systems caused confusion and led Mr L to 
believe his original switch  instruction hadnt been  carried out. 
Where, as here, a business  admits  that something  has gone wrong, it will usually need to 
redress any financial loss the consumer has suffered in consequence.  
FASL calculated Mr Ls loss at £602.50.  The adjudicator set out exactly how that figure had 
been arrived at. I agree thats the extent of Mr Ls financial loss arising from the duplicate 
transaction. As the adjudicator noted, FASL  told Mr L what he needed to do to put right the 
Ref: DRN55344093unintended duplicate  purchase. And FASL offered compensation  for the loss that Mr L had 
suffered due to the fall in the unit price. 
Mr L didnt need  to sell his entire  holding. But he decided  to do that. FASL isnt responsible 
for the loss that Mr L has suffered because the unit price  had reduced  and so he made a 
loss on the units  hed always intended  to buy and which he then decided to sell. 
So I agree that the payment of £602.50  was the correct redress  for Mr Ls financial  loss. And 
I think the further payment of £200  for distress  and inconvenience was appropriate too.  
I know Mr L considers it should be more.  Latterly  his focus has been more  on the overall 
shortcomings in the new platform that was introduced, prematurely and without adequate 
testing in Mr Ls view.   Hes referred  to a spate of problems requiring updates to the system 
but which didnt  always fix the issues that had been identified.
I can understand his frustration and why hes changed to a new platform.  I can also see why 
hes suggested he should be entitled to a refund of some of the fees hes paid for a system 
he considers wasnt  robust, reliable  or easy to use. 
But weve looked  at how inadequacies in the system  at the time impacted on the central 
issue that Mr L has complained about   the losses  hes suffered because of the duplicate  
transaction and which left a negative balance on his SIPP cash  account.  Weve also 
considered the frustration  and inconvenience  that Mr L was caused as a result of that 
particular problem. 
As the adjudicator explained,  after occurring issues wont form part of Mr Ls current 
complaint. I dont think Mr L has identified particular failings which may have led to a 
financial loss as a result of difficulties which  meant he wasnt  able to switch  funds, trade  etc.  
In the end, Mr L was able to prevent further  issues by moving to a new (and cheaper) 
platform.  If Mr L considers there are other specific instances which warrant  compensation 
(whether for financial  loss and/or distress and/or inconvenience) then he may want  to 
consider making  a further complaint to FASL. 
As the adjudicator has explained, the award  that we can make in this sort of situation  isnt 
limited to £200. But awards for distress  and inconvenience might perhaps be more modest 
than Mr L might assume. I think the amount suggested by the adjudicator is within  the range 
wed award for this sort of poor service and limited to this particular complaint. FASL has 
agreed to pay £200 and Im not going to say it should pay more. 
my final decision
I uphold the complaint. Financial Administration  Services Limited should pay Mr L £200  in 
recognition of the distress and inconvenience Mr L has suffered.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 May 2020.
Lesley Stead
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5534409