K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that HSBC UK Bank  plc delayed an international payment. As a result  he 
lost the opportunity to exercise his option  to obtain membership interests in a company. He 
says his immediate  and future losses  are up to a million US$s.
background
For Mr M to exercise the option, he had to ensure  payment  was received in US$s  by 
23 November 2019. He tried to complete  an online payment  but couldnt. So he gave  
instructions to the bank by phone on 21 November. Payment wasnt  received until 
28 November.
HSBC said that, due to a mistake, the payment wasnt released until 27 November. But it 
said transfers in US$s can take up to four working  days  as detailed in its terms and 
conditions and as told to Mr M during his phone call. As there was no guarantee that the 
money wouldve  been transferred by 23 November, it didnt think  it was responsible  for 
Mr Ms losses. But it paid him £200 for the inconvenience caused.
Our investigator concluded that HSBC did cause  the payment  to be delayed,  but that HSBC  
wasnt responsible  for Mr Ms loss because there was never  any guarantee that the payment 
wouldve arrived by 23 November.
Mr M didnt  agree. He said,  in summary, that HSBC had admitted to an error and that if it 
hadnt made a mistake  there was every possibility that the payment  wouldve been made on 
time  as evidenced  by other  transfers  hes made.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I find that I have  come  to 
the same  conclusion as the investigator, for much the same  reasons.
The US$ payment had to be received  by 23 November  2018 for Mr M to be able to exercise  
his option to obtain membership interests in a company. He tried to make payment online on 
18 and 19 November but was unsuccessful.  It seems the security generation code wasnt 
recognised. HSBC told us there was no known error with its payment system on those dates.  
So theres not enough evidence for me to conclude that HSBC was responsible  for Mr Ms 
failure to make an online payment.
Mr M contacted HSBC for help with the online payment on 20 November. It seems the bank 
couldnt identify  what was going  wrong and told Mr M he would need  to phone another  
department to make a manual payment. Unfortunately  it was too late to arrange,  so he 
phoned it the following morning, 21 November and gave the required instructions.
HSBC told us it shouldve  released the payment on the same day. But, due to a mistake,  
payment wasnt released until 27 November.
Ive considered this very carefully. And Im mindful  of the opportunity  Mr M has lost because  
payment wasnt received  on time.  Having done  so, Im sorry, but I dont conclude  that HSBC  
should be liable for Mr Ms losses or any future losses he feels  he will make. Let me explain 
why.
Ref: DRN59628082In its terms and conditions, HSBC sets out that its customers should  allow  four working  days  
for US$ payments. And, during his call on 21 November, he was told the payment could take 
up to four working  days. Mr M offered to pay extra  to ensure the payment was received  by 
the 23 November,  but there wasnt a faster or guaranteed  service available. HSBC  couldnt 
guarantee that payment  would be received  by 23 November.
I accept that, once the payment was released, it only took a day to reach the payees 
account. But it doesnt follow that this means,  had the payment been released  on 
21 November, it wouldve been  received  the next day. Payments can take up to four working  
days. So I cant say with enough  certainty that, had the payment been  released on the 21st, it 
wouldve been received by 23 November.
It follows that I cant order HSBC to compensate Mr M for the opportunity hes lost. HSBC  
has apologised for its mistake and paid Mr M £200  for the inconvenience  caused. In the 
circumstances, I think  this is fair and reasonable.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 July 2019.
Elizabeth Dawes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5962808