K820x#14complaint
Mr I complains about delays National Westminster Bank Plc caused when handling an 
international CHAPS  payment. He says the payment didnt arrive in the beneficiarys bank 
until 28 November 2018 and this resulted in him losing out on a property purchase and 
investment opportunity abroad. He wants compensation.
background
NatWest said in its final response that Mr I had been  incorrectly told in branch on 7 
November 2018  that he would have  to wait 24 hours for faster payments received into his 
account to clear before being  able to make his foreign  payment. But the last faster payment 
was received at 15.48 after the 15.15  cut off time for processing foreign transfers. So, 
whatever he was told the 8 November was the earliest he wouldve been able to make  the 
transfer. His payment  was held by the intermediary bank as it required more  compliance 
information. NatWest  sent what information it could from its records  on 12 November  and 
asked Mr I for more details. These were received from him and sent to the other bank on 13 
November. It confirmed  the payment had been  approved and released on 15 November 
2018. It hadnt made an error and acted  in line with the accounts terms and conditions. 
NatWest has subsequently said it gave Mr I the benefit of the debt in its final response letter 
but there isnt actually  any evidence of him being  misadvised in the branch.  Its explained to 
Mr I that it wasnt  responsible for the delay.
Our investigator felt this complaint  shouldnt be upheld.  He said:
We can only look at what NatWest has done  and whether  it caused a delay. We 
cannot look at what the intermediary or receiving banks  have done as theyre  outside  
our jurisdiction.
On 8 November  2018 NatWests branch staff made the transfer as instructed. It was 
received by the intermediary bank the same day. On 9 November at 16.13 the 
intermediary bank  asked  NatWest  for more information before the payment could be 
released. After the weekend NatWest contacted Mr I on 12 November. This 
information was sent to the intermediary bank  the same day. The payment was 
release by the intermediary bank on 15 November. 
Although the payment wasnt received by the beneficiary within the advised 1 to 2 
business days he cant see what more  NatWest couldve  done to speed  along the 
process or that itd made  any error.  Itd sent the payment instruction correctly  and 
responded to the intermediary banks message within  24 working hours.  NatWest  
hasnt done anything wrong.
Mr I remains unhappy and has asked  for an ombudsman review.  He says we should 
consider the intermediary banks actions. Hes also unhappy NatWest didnt contact him until 
the 12 November.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN51462562I agree  with the investigators conclusions for the same reasons.
NatWest wasnt in position to action the payment on 7 November 2018  as the last of the 
faster payments  hadnt  been received into Mr Is account until after the cut off time for 
foreign payments. So, the earliest the payment could be made was the following day.
Mr I went into a NatWest  branch on 8 November  and the payment was correctly  processed 
and sent that day. The branch  manager has confirmed Mr I was given a summary of the 
payment which  has details of the payment amount, beneficiary details and states 1-2 
business days. But he says Mr I wasnt provided with any guarantees about when the 
payment would arrive and that he was aware  of the risks. 
After the payment was sent NatWest  received a request, late in the afternoon  of Friday 9 
November, from the intermediary bank asking for more compliance information. I think  it 
responded to this request  reasonably, taking into the account it was closed over the 
weekend, by supplying  what  information it could and seeking the rest from Mr I on Monday 
12 November. As a result the intermediary bank promptly  had the all the information it 
needed and it released the payment a few days later on 15 November. Mr I says the money 
wasnt received by the beneficiarys bank until 28 November 2018.
Overall I think  NatWest  acted appropriately and reasonably  in dealing with the intermediary 
banks request for more information. And I dont think NatWest can be blamed for any delay 
in the payment being released  by the intermediary  bank  or in it being received by the 
beneficiarys bank.
I also note NatWest says it terms and conditions for foreign payments also says it doesnt  
accept liability for any loss arising from any cause beyond its control or for any delay  in 
transit of the payment unless such delay is caused  by the banks negligence or wilful  default.
Taking everything into account  I dont think NatWest has done anything  wrong  or is 
responsible for any delay.  And I cant fairly or reasonably  require it to compensate  Mr I for 
any losses he says hes suffered as a result of the payment being delayed, arriving late and 
him losing out on a property and investment opportunity.
This complaint relates only to what NatWest  did. If Mr I is unhappy about what the 
intermediary or beneficiarys  banks  did he will have to contact them direct.  I cannot comment 
on their actions.
Overall, although I recognise  Mr Is frustration, I dont see any compelling reason to change  
the proposed  outcome in this case.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 March  2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5146256