K820x#14Complaint
Mr J complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc closed his accounts  without  reason. He 
wants RBS to explain why it closed his accounts.
Background
Mr J had five accounts  with RBS.
In February 2019,  RBS decided to close all Mr Js accounts. RBS wrote  to him to let him 
know he needed to make alternative  banking arrangements. And that he could collect his 
remaining balance by visiting  a branch.  
Mr J says he hasnt done anything which would cause RBS to close his accounts.  Hes 
explained that RBSs actions have  caused him a great deal of stress  and upset.  And said he 
couldnt work because he had no accounts for customers  to pay him. And his mental health 
was seriously impacted.
Mr J complained to the bank. RBS said it hadnt  done anything wrong. And it had closed 
Mr Js accounts in line with the terms and conditions  of the accounts.  Mr J wasnt happy with 
this response.  He wants RBS to give him an explanation for why it closed his accounts.
An investigator looked at Mr Js complaint. He said RBS hadnt  done anything wrong when it 
closed Mr Js accounts. Mr J disagreed. Hes still upset by what  happened and says RBS 
have caused him a great deal of upset by closing his accounts.
As no agreement could be reached  the matter has come to me to decide.
 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear from what Mr J has told us and the bank that he feels  very strongly about his 
complaint. I appreciate Mr J is upset  RBS closed his accounts.  And that this caused him a 
good deal of trouble and upset. But for me to uphold this complaint, I must  be satisfied that 
the bank has done something  that wrong. And in this case, I dont think  it has. Ill explain 
why. 
Whilst I appreciate the impact this had for Mr J, a bank is entitled to close an account with a 
customer just as a customer may close an account  with a bank. But before a bank closes  an 
account, it must do so in a way which complies  with the terms and conditions of the account.
The terms and conditions  of the accounts say that under  certain circumstances, RBS could 
close Mr Js accounts immediately. Having  looked  at the information RBS relied upon to 
close Mr Js accounts, I think its fair and reasonable RBS took the action it did. I can see 
that RBS wrote to Mr J on 14 November 2019,  to let him know it was closing his account. 
So, its entitled to close Mr Js accounts  as its already done.
 
Ref: DRN59173132I know Mr J is frustrated that he hasnt been  given a proper  explanation why his accounts  
were closed. But RBS doesnt have to give a reason for doing so. So, I cant  say RBS has 
done anything  wrong by not giving Mr J this information as much as hed like to know.
In summary,  I recognise how strongly Mr J feels about whats  happened,  and I dont doubt it 
was a frustrating  and worrying time. So, I realise  Mr J will be disappointed  by my decision, 
but overall, based on the evidence Ive seen, I cant say RBS have acted unreasonably and 
treated Mr J unfairly when  it closed  his accounts. So, Im not going to ask RBS to do 
anything.
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 March  2020.
Sharon Kerrison
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5917313