K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2001. Mr D says Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ds case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think Barclays made it clear that Mr D didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose  
to take it out  although I can understand why he might not remember  this.
It seems  that Mr D applied for this credit card and PPI policy  in a meeting. Ive seen a 
copy of Mr Ds credit card application form. This form has Mr Ds personal  details 
handwritten on the form. The form also had a section for PPI. A tick has been  placed 
next to the option Yes,  I do require Barclaycard Payment Protection and Mr D has 
signed the overall application to confirm what he was applying for. 
Mr D has disputed this and said that he was taken advantage of because  of his age, 
the adviser completed the form and the tick wasnt his. Ive carefully considered this, 
and as this was a meeting, I accept that its a possibility that the adviser  did complete 
the form. 
But I still think its more likely than not that a discussion took place about PPI  
particularly as this was a sale where  Barclays were making a recommendation about 
PPI. Even in a scenario where the adviser did tick the option  for PPI - presumably 
following a discussion,  Mr D still signed  the overall form to agree to what he was 
applying for. 
Ive also considered that, if the option for PPI had been ticked  without Mr Ds 
consent, the charge for the PPI premiums  would have appeared on Mr Ds monthly  
credit card statements when he had an outstanding balance. 
I think that Mr D would reasonably questioned why he was being charged for PPI if it 
was something he hadnt  agreed  to take out  much  sooner than he did. But the 
evidence is that PPI remained on the account for a number of years.   
Ive also noted  that there are major inconsistencies in Mr Ds testimony. For example, 
he initially  complained  to Barclays that the PPI was sold during a telephone call and 
the adviser encouraged and persuaded him to take PPI. This is very different  to a 
recollection of the sale taking  place in branch and not being aware that the option for 
PPI had been added.  However, given the time thats  passed  since the sale took 
place, its not surprising that Mr D may not recall  everything clearly  now. 
Barclays recommended the PPI to Mr D so it had to check  that the PPI was right for 
him  and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it 
Ref: DRN52339372was. For example he wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI 
cover and he seems to have had a need for the cover.  
Its possible the information Barclays gave Mr D about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been. But he chose  to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would  have been useful for him if something went wrong.  It 
also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI 
would have put him off taking out the cover. 
Which means Barclays doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr D.
But Barclays  has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr D because: 
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr D about that. Because  Barclays  didnt  tell Mr D, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays  has paid back the amount  of commission  and profit share  
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr D has said - including  what hes said about not claiming on 
the policy when  he was made  unemployed.  Mr D still has the option of speaking  to Barclays 
about the possibility of making a back dated claim on the policy.
Mr D has referenced sales targets through  his employment being a reason  why he took out 
the credit  card.  My decision doesnt  deal with the credit card or lending decision, only the 
sale of the PPI. I have  noted that even  if Mr D did take, or was persuaded to take the credit 
card because of sales targets, it appears to have been used regularly for a number of years 
afterwards.
Ive considered Mr Ds existing means for making his repayments.  But the PPI policy could 
have paid out for up to 12 mouths, which is for longer than Mr D would have received full 
sick pay. Having  this PPI policy would also mean that Mr D would have the option of being 
able to use his sick pay for other living expenses that he may have had. Although  Mr Ds 
family may have wanted to help him make his repayments, circumstances can change  and 
they may not have been in a position to help when needed.
So these points dont  change my decision.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does  not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr D.
But Barclays  Bank UK PLC does  have to pay back to Mr D any commission  and profit share 
it got that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 June 2019.
Ref: DRN52339373Daniel OShea
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5233937