K820x#14complaint
Mrs F complains that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax)  mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
In 2004 Mrs F applied to Halifax  for a loan. Halifax agreed to lend and also recommended 
that Mrs F take out PPI to protect the loan repayments.
Our adjudicator didnt  feel we should uphold Mrs Fs complaint. Mrs F disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion. Mrs F mainly says that she originally didn't want  PPI but Halifax  told 
her that if she took PPI it would help her loan application. Mrs F told us she felt her sick pay 
scheme at work meant she didn't need PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Fs complaint.  Ill explain why. 
I think Halifax made Mrs F aware that the PPI was optional and that she chose  to have it. 
I say this because  she made it clear  on the application form that she wanted to take out the 
policy. I see the application form set out yes and no options - Mrs F signed in the yes box 
to say she wanted to apply  for PPI. 
And I find that the way that information about  the PPI was set out in the loan agreement 
Mrs F signed also presented the policy clearly as a matter  of choice. I think  its likely that the 
Yes box was pre-printed with an X as Mrs F had already filled in the application form 
saying she wanted  this. There was a No box that couldve been marked  instead if she 
hadnt wanted PPI. 
I dont know exactly what was discussed at the time.  Ive taken carefully  into account what 
Mrs F says about the way Halifax sold her this PPI. But it wouldnt be reasonable to expect 
Mrs F to remember exactly what was said so long ago. This means  that what  she says now 
isnt enough on its own for me to be able to uphold this complaint  just based on the way 
Mrs F says she was sold PPI. I have to look at all the available information and decide what  
I think is most likely.
Looking at the paperwork she completed  to get her loan and the PPI, I cant  fairly say that 
Halifax failed to make Mrs F aware  that PPI was optional when the forms she filled in both 
had Yes and No options for PPI. I think its likely that she wouldve been aware at the time 
that it was up to her to say if she wanted PPI. And I find that the PPI was added to her 
account when  she indicated this was what she wanted. This all happened  a long time ago, 
so its easy to understand why Mrs F mightve  forgotten some of these details now.
Halifax says it advised Mrs F to take out the policy and it doesnt look as if it was unsuitable 
for her based on what Ive seen of Mrs Fs situation at the time. 
Ref: DRN59442442Mrs F was eligible  for the policy given  her circumstances and the PPI terms and conditions.  
Although she had good sick pay entitlement  at work,  this only covered her for up to 
12 months (and shed  only have  got full pay for the first 6 months). The loan was taken out 
originally over a 17 year term  so the policy wouldve  provided  useful additional  cover  for 
the first year and continued to protect  the loan monthly repayments when work benefits  
stopped. When  Mrs F took out the insurance she couldnt have known if shed  stay in the 
same job for the whole of the loan term - or what other means she might have to cover her 
monthly loan repayments. 
As well as this, the policy also paid out for up to12 months per claim if Mrs F lost her job 
unexpectedly and was out of work. And repeat claims were  possible. 
 
I cant assume that other people would always be in a position to pay her loan if Mrs F had 
money problems. And, although she had life insurance set up, PPI provided a different sort 
of cover and paid out in different circumstances. So, on balance, I find that the PPI was 
suitable for her. 
The loan agreement  sets out what the policy would cost Mrs F each month, as well as 
showing the monthly loan repayment,  and the total monthly payment shed have to make.  So 
I think Mrs F wouldve been aware how much shed  be paying for the insurance.  
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mrs F about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve 
been. But she chose  to take out the policy and so appears to have wanted this type of cover.  
Mrs F wasnt affected by any of the main things the policy didnt cover and the policy seems 
to have been affordable. Given the benefits  it offered her, I think it unlikely that Mrs F 
wouldve been put off taking out the policy if better information had been provided.  
This means  I dont  find that Mrs F has lost out as a result of anything  that Halifax  mightve 
done wrong. So it doesnt need to do anything to put things right.
my final decision
For these reasons, I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 April 2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN5944244