K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that Tesco  Personal  Finance PLCfailed to remove  a search on their 
credit records at the time it said it would, and this meant  they were  offered a higher interest 
rate on a Tesco loan, and Mrs C was also refused credit from other  providers shortly  
afterwards. 
background
On 4 January  2018 Mrs C, on behalf  of Mr and Mrs C, applied for a further loan from Tesco. 
Mr and Mrs C already  had a loan with Tesco, and this further  loan would be used  to pay that 
one off and for some  additional borrowings. The completed loan application was sent out 
shortly afterwards to her address. But a further  copy was sent to a previous address of Mr 
and Mrs C. This was because only Mrs Cs address was updated when she called Tesco in 
2015 to notify  it of a change of address.
After receiving the loan application papers, Mrs C contacted Tesco on 11 January 2018. She 
was told a new application would have to be sent out with the correct address for both of 
them, and a further credit check  conducted. 
Mrs C had complained  to Tesco about  the loan documents being  sent to a previous address. 
On 23 January it wrote to Mrs C saying  that when she called to update  her address in 
August 2015 it shouldve  advised her that it would only update her address  and her husband 
would need to contact it to get his address updated.  It also said it shouldve confirmed the 
details it held for her husband when she called to arrange the top up loan earlier  that month, 
and it was sorry it hadnt done so. Tesco gave £250 compensation for these customer  
service failings. 
Mrs C also complained to Tesco that she was told that the credit  search  carried  out on 4 
January would be removed before re-processing  the loan application with her husbands 
correct address. On 7 February 2018 Tesco responded  to the complaint. The Tesco 
customer service  representative said she had listened to the 4 January call and although 
Tesco had said it would  remove  the initial search,  it hadnt said when that would happen.  But 
she believed  it couldve been explained further as to when  the search would be removed. 
And she also said that Tesco hadnt sent the new loan application  documents by special 
post as promised. Tesco gave a further  £200 compensation. 
In June 2018 Mr and Mrs C complained  to us. They said theyd been told the first credit  
search would  be removed before the second credit search was carried out. But theyd been 
told later that the search would take time to remove. They wanted  to know  when the first 
search had in fact been removed, as Mrs C had been refused credit,  so she thought the two 
searches mightve  had a detrimental  effect on her credit rating. 
And they also thought theyd been  offered  a higher  interest rate on the Tesco  loan than that 
initially offered because of the two searches. 
Our investigator initially thought that Tesco should pay Mr and Mrs C a further £100 
compensation as the first credit  search was still on their credit files at the time he gave his 
view in January 2019. He thought this was also justified because Tesco didnt tell Mrs C to 
ask her husband to call to change his address when she changed  hers in 2015. He thought  
Tesco should remove the first search  from Mr and Mrs Cs credit files. 
Ref: DRN54036262But he didnt  think Mr and Mrs C had been charged a higher interest rate because of the two 
searches. He thought it might have been  because a credit search  at the correct  address 
located more credit held by Mr and Mrs C. he also didnt think there was enough evidence to 
show that the searches were the reason Mrs C was refused credit. 
Tesco didnt  think further compensation  was justified or that the credit search should be 
removed. This was because after a further  review of its file it said it had written to Mrs C in 
2015 after she changed her address saying that if she had any joint accounts the other  
account holder  would need to change their address. It said that the credit reports  for Mr and 
Mrs C only showed the first search  on 4 January and not the second search. Tesco  said that 
whilst it would have been preferable for the second, and not the first, to have been removed, 
it didnt make any difference to what the credit  reports should show, which was one search. 
Shortly after this our investigator left the service, and a new investigator took over the 
complaint. He wrote to Mr and Mrs C saying  that he agreed with Tesco. He thought the £450  
compensation already offered was fair. He was also satisfied that only one search was 
showing for Mr and Mrs C and that was fair as both had applied for credit. He understood 
Tesco had removed  the wrong search,  he didnt think  that would negatively affect them.
Mr and Mrs C werent  happy with this. They had a number  of queries. Our investigator 
confirmed that it was the second search  that had been removed  from their credit reports. He 
confirmed that he couldnt say precisely  why Mrs C had been  refused credit but as our 
previous investigator  had said,  there  wasnt enough  evidence to show that the denial  of 
credit was due solely  to the credit searches. In response to some further queries, he later 
confirmed that Tesco  had told us that it had requested one of the searches be removed on 
15 January 2018.
The complaint came to me for an ombudsmans decision. 
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I can see Mr and Mrs C are frustrated by 
Tescos handling  of their loan application,  and the credit file. Thats  understandable. But Im 
afraid Im going to have to disappoint them, as I think the compensation already offered by 
Tesco is fair, and I wont  be asking it to do anything further. 
Mr and Mrs C are convinced that two credit searches  being  done for their loan application 
have resulted in a higher  interest rate on their loan, and in Mrs C being refused credit. Whilst 
I dont doubt the strength of their view, Im unable  to agree. 
Tesco offered a higher interest rate for the loan after conducting  a search that included  the 
correct address for Mr, as well as Mrs, C. It says that the search  produced a further £8,800 
in credit held by them, and Ive no reason to doubt it. Mr and Mrs C were seeking  an 
unsecured loan. The level of indebtedness or available credit (such  as through  credit  limits)  
is very relevant to the interest rate that a lender  is prepared to offer.  So I cant fairly say that 
the fact two credit searches were  carried out is the reason the interest rate offered was 
higher. 
Im afraid I take the same view with respect  to Mrs Cs denial of credit.  Mrs C says that it 
must have  been  caused by the credit searches, because  she and her husband were 
approved for two £25,000 loans and she was then refused credit from an energy and a credit 
Ref: DRN54036263card provider . But I dont  think that follows. Mrs C says she was refused credit  two months 
later, so in March.  By then the loan had been  approved and drawn down. So her level of 
indebtedness may have increased  from the time the searches  for the loan were carried out. 
How much debt a person  holds influences the willingness of lenders to extend credit. So the 
fact they had the loan mayve affected the willingness to extend  further  credit. Again, I cant  
fairly say that the two credit  searches  were  the reason Mrs C wasnt  given credit.
Mr and Mrs C wanted to know  which credit  search was removed and when. Ive looked  the 
credit reports provided for them  in November 2018.  I can see that these show a credit 
search for each of them on 4 January. There is no credit search showing for a week later.  
There is an Administration  Review search  showing on each file on 31 January 2018.  But 
these are soft searches  and are not visible other  than to Mr and Mrs C. So it appears that 
the later search  conducted around 11 January was removed  in error. I cant say when that 
was, and Tesco is unlikely  to be able to do so either.  This is because whilst Tesco can say 
when it requested a search be removed (in this case 15 January);  it cant  say when it was 
removed. This is because that depends on the credit reference agency.
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs C say that another institution had a search  removed within a 
fortnight, but businesses  and credit reference  agencies all have different systems. And as 
Ive already said, since I think it is unlikely that Mrs C was refused credit solely because two 
credit searches mayve  been showing,  I dont  think the fact we dont know  precisely  when 
the credit  reference  agencies  removed the search is significant. 
It does seem that Mr and Mrs C may think  that the second search was on their credit  reports  
as late as November,  as theyve said that to us. But thats not the case. It may be that Mr 
and Mrs C think the Administration Review searches showing for late January 2018  are the 
second credit searches  for the loan. These are dated too late to be those searches, and are 
not credit  searches. 
Tesco have  paid Mr and Mrs C £450  in total for customer  service failings relating to their 
loan application.  Mr and Mrs C feel that is unfair  given all the circumstances  of the case.  I 
appreciate their strength of feeling.  But Im not going to ask Tesco  to do anything  further  or 
pay any further compensation.
 It wouldnt be right to tell Tesco to remove the one remaining credit search given that Mr 
and Mrs C did obtain credit. And I dont think it makes a difference  that it is the earlier  search 
as Mr and Mrs C arent disadvantaged by that. 
And given  my findings that I dont think that Mrs C being refused credit  was solely due to two 
credit searches being on her file, if indeed they still were at the time,  I dont think  telling 
Tesco to pay any further compensation  would be fair. Im sorry to disappoint her and Mr C. 
my final decision
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 April 2019.
Helen Wheatley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5403626