K822xcomplaint
Mrs Z initially referred two complaint matters to this service;  one in her position of joint 
executor of her late fathers estate and the other related to a Self-Invested Personal Pension 
(SIPP) in her name.  This decision is only about  the SIPP, the other  matter  appears to have 
been withdrawn.  
Mrs Z says a partner of St. Jamess Place Wealth Management Plc (SJ)  the partner  
failed to invest her SIPP  from 2016 as he was supposed to; and that he instead  left the SIPP  
inactive, with a cash holding that had been  depleted by fees when she discovered the failure  
in 2018.
background 
A summary  of the relevant background is as follows:
Mrs Zs father  passed  away in 2015.  The partner had been his financial adviser  for 
over 25 years at the time  the partner says they had also been friends throughout 
that period.
Mrs Z and her sister  were the executors of their fathers estate, and the estate 
included a SIPP held with James Hay. In the course of resolving the estate the SIPP  
was split and Mrs Z, as a beneficiary, inherited  a share  that took the form of a SIPP 
of her own in her name  which is the subject of the present complaint.
The setting up of Mrs Zs James Hay SIPP was completed in February 2016. The 
partner says he assisted,  completely  free of charge, both sisters in a number  of 
different matters related to resolving  the estate and that one such  matter  was the 
setting up of Mrs Zs SIPP.  He says, overall, he undertook a substantial amount of 
work in this respect (and other  respects)  consuming an equally substantial amount 
of his time  and that he did so in honour of his friendship with their father.  In addition 
to providing his services  free of charge  at the time, he also says Mrs Zs assumption  
that he received  ongoing commission from the SIPP is incorrect,  that he received no 
such commission and that the charges applied to her SIPP  are only those from 
James Hay for its administration  of it.
Mrs Z held a meeting  with the partner in March 2016 and she recorded its key 
contents in handwritten notes. A number  of different subjects were  discussed, 
including her SIPP. In May 2016 the partner  sent her an email.  Included within it was 
his promise to work further on the SIPP  the email does  not state precisely what he 
intended to do, it only says he intended to take care of outstanding  matters 
including the pension.  He promised to update Mrs Z thereafter. He accepts  that he 
did not and he says this omission occurred because  other matters took priority.
Mrs Z says the partner had arranged  with her to have the SIPP invested; that he 
undertook to execute that and that his promise to take care of the SIPP in May was in 
this regard. No action was taken to invest the SIPP in 2016   and up to 2018. Mrs Z 
says the partners inaction and breach of undertaking caused this and that she 
remained unaware that the SIPP  was uninvested  until 2018. She holds the partner  
(and SJ) responsible  for this and responsible  for the loss of growth an invested SIPP 
would have achieved  during the relevant period; in addition, she says she does not 
recall receiving the periodical statements  for the SIPP which  repeatedly provided 
information about it being held in cash (and not in investments).
SJs position is mainly  as follows   in January 2016 the partner  informed Mrs Z that the SIPP 
was due to be set up in her name  and that once that was done it will be held in cash; 
Ref: DRN58406692following the meeting in March that year he sent her the email in May but accepts he did not 
follow up on the SIPP matter due to other priorities in the estate; correspondence from 
James Hay to her in August 2016, February 2017 and February 2018 repeatedly reminded 
her that the SIPP remained  in cash;  the partner did the same  in April 2018; she was aware 
of the SIPPs cash holding at all relevant times,  if she wanted it invested it was for her to 
express this and that could have been  arranged for her; the partner assisted  her in good 
faith and did nothing wrong  in that respect; however, in order  to settle the matter amicably, 
and without prejudice, it is prepared to pay her the total charges applied  by James Hay to 
her SIPP for the relevant  period (£978.32, rounded up to £1,000)  in addition to £500 for any 
trouble and upset  caused to her.
Mrs Z disagreed with SJ, she considers its offer to be insufficient and says she should also 
be compensated for lost growth  (of around 30% over the relevant period, based on 
independent advice she received) in the SIPP, resulting from the lack of investment.
One of our investigators  looked into the matter. He concluded that SJs offer is a fair and 
reasonable basis to settle the complaint, that he is not persuaded it should  pay more  and 
that he is not persuaded the partner was obliged to invest the SIPP as Mrs Z alleges.  He 
noted the following:
On balance, it is more  likely  (than not) that Mrs Z would have  known that the SIPP  
remained in cash; it is unlikely she could have believed it was invested without any 
investments details having been  provided  to her; and it is to be expected that she 
read the SIPP statements sent to her which reminded her the SIPP was held in cash.
The partners intention  to provide  investment advice for the SIPP did not go past the 
stage of discussion and no such advice was given; he was assisting her free of 
charge and Mrs Zs suggestion that he should  have invoiced her for his services is 
not supported  by evidence that he never planned to do so, given that he intended to 
help without charge  in honour  of his friendship  with her father.
In the context set by the above  two points, and in the absence of an arrangement in 
which the partner  was appointed to make investment  decisions  for the SIPP at his 
discretion, he could not have been  responsible for making any such  investments 
without them having first been recommended to Mrs Z and approved/instructed by 
her. In addition, she ought reasonably to have mitigated the matter throughout her 
knowledge that the SIPP remained in cash  however, it is also noted that her 
personal circumstances were difficult at the time so it would be understandable if 
other matters took priority.
Mrs Z asked  for an ombudsmans decision.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I have reached the same 
conclusion expressed  by the investigator,  for broadly  the same  reasons he gave. I do not 
uphold Mrs Zs claim for compensation (for lost growth) and I consider that SJs offer to 
settle the complaint is fair and reasonable.
A number  of wider issues were in play around 2016 and thereafter. They featured as part of 
the circumstances in which the SIPP was set up in Mrs Zs name. They  are not directly  
relevant to the specific complaint she has made about the SIPP,  but they provide useful  
information about what her approach was more  likely (than not) to have been  at the time  
Ref: DRN58406693and the same with regards to the partner.  I will not breach Mrs Zs right to confidentiality on 
these wider (and personal) issues so I will not detail them. However, I am satisfied that they 
support, on balance, preliminary  findings that she had a lay persons approach towards  the 
SIPP at the time; that she genuinely sought and relied upon guidance from the partner; that 
this appears to have  been amplified by a number of serious personal responsibilities she 
was managing at the time;  and that I can therefore  understand why she could (or would) 
have expected to take the partners lead with the SIPP.  
The partner did not charge for his assistance  to Mrs Z in the course of the SIPP being set up 
in her name. There is no evidence of any fees being  applied to his work in this respect or 
any charges being  presented to her for his work.  I am persuaded by his explanation that he 
assisted her without charge in honour of his friendship with her father. Overall  evidence of 
the help he provided to her with regards to the estate, including  the SIPP, shows a relatively 
substantial level of work on his part. As a financial adviser an intrinsic value would 
undoubtedly have  applied to that work  and to his time in performing it. In ordinary  
commercial circumstances that value (and work  and time) would have  translated in to 
fees/charges  based on an agreement (including fee rates) between the parties at the 
outset. The partner waived this. I consider that he did so because he never  intended to 
charge for his work  but wanted to assist Mrs Z for the reason he explained.
Having said the above  especially with regards to Mrs Zs lay approach to the matter at the 
time  it must also be said that any objective to invest the SIPP was hers to own.  The 
partner could not reasonably have led on that, it remained her responsibility to set that 
objective, to confirm it as an instruction to the partner and to be satisfied with any 
recommendation from him in this respect  before any investment could take place. I consider 
that, even if she was a novice  to investments, she ought reasonably to have expected   at 
least  notice of how her SIPP was to be invested before any such investments were  
instructed and executed. 
In the absence of such  recommendation and instruction, it would have been clear  to Mrs Z 
that the matter  had not progressed beyond any discussions held in March 2016.  She ought  
reasonably to have  been  reminded of this as she received the periodic  SIPP statements 
showing that it remained uninvested. The matter ought to have been pursued  further and it 
would have been reasonable for her to lead in this respect  given that the SIPP and 
investment objective  were  hers. There  is no evidence that she did this at the time or up to 
2018. This is not a criticism. Like the investigator, I too have  noted  the wider  difficult  
circumstances she faced  and I too can understand that other matters probably took priority.  
However, the point  is that the partner  cannot fairly be blamed for the uninvested  SIPP. I 
appreciate that he did not follow through on his email of May 2016, but this applies only to 
the SIPP. There is evidence that his assistance  in other estate related matters continued 
thereafter. He was helping Mrs Z, out of goodwill, with the estate and with regards to the 
specific areas in which  he could help. There was no formal arrangement in which he was 
obliged to deliver a specific  service  in setting up and investing  the SIPP and I have not seen 
persuasive evidence  of an informal arrangement in this respect. 
I do not suggest that the partner could  not have provided such a service  or that he did not 
wish to do so, but the incentive and primary responsibility to invest the SIPP  remained with 
Mrs Z until the point at which the partner had recommended investments and had been  
instructed to execute  them.  At that point, he would have been  obliged to execute  the 
investments, but the matter did not go that far and appears to have been left suspended on 
the basis of the discussion  in March  2016.
Ref: DRN58406694Overall and on balance,  I do not consider that SJ (or the partner) is responsible  for Mrs Zs 
uninvested SIPP. Given this finding,  I consider its offer to her to be commendable   it covers 
the fees she incurred in the SIPP from James Hay and it provides her with £500 for the 
trouble and upset  the matter could have  caused her. I agree with the investigators 
conclusion that it is a reasonable offer and one that Mrs Z should consider accepting.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my decision is that Mrs Z should consider the reasonable 
settlement offer that has been made  to her by St. Jamess Place Wealth  Management  Plc; 
and I do not uphold her claim for financial loss (loss of growth in the SIPP). 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs Z to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 December  2020.
Roy Kuku
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5840669