K822xcomplaint
Mr Hs complaint is that Interactive Investor Services Limited  (IISL)  mismanaged a problem 
with its secure messaging system (the problem) that affected him. 
He says, with details, that the problem began around 20 August 2018; that it had an impact 
upon him/his account (including a missing secure  message of 24 August  2018); that IISLs 
communications about the problem was poor;  and that IISLs resolution of the problem was 
prolonged (and, because of its poor communications, he was not told when it was resolved).
background 
Mr H raised his complaint  issues  separately, between 13 and 26 September  2018. IISL 
treated them  collectively and concluded that the problem  had not affected his ability  to trade  
but it upheld the aspect  of the complaint related to the prolonged nature of the problem. In 
this respect it offered  £45 for the trouble and upset caused to Mr H.
One of our adjudicators intervened in the matter and, in writing  to IISL, he reflected Mr Hs 
unresolved issues   which Mr H considered  had not been addressed (or properly addressed) 
in IISLs  response  to the complaint  as follows:
The delay in resolving  the problem and the lack of communication  during the delay.
The lack of notice  when the problem  had been resolved.
The lack of information about a missing secure message of 24 August.
The lack of a response to a complaint issue about an email Mr H says he was 
promised on 6 September but never received   despite chasing  it on 7, 10, 12, 13 
and 20 September,  before complaining about it on 26 September.
Overall, the adjudicator proposed that the offer of compensation  for the trouble and upset 
caused to Mr H should be increased  to £100. IISL agreed. IISL conceded the delay in 
resolving the problem, the lack of notice when the resolution took place and the lack of 
communication with Mr H during the delay. It undertook to review its processes in these 
respects. IISL also said that Mr Hs secure  message of 24 August is not missing, it has 
access to it [a copy of its contents  was provided] and it will work on providing  the same  
access to Mr H through his account.  In terms of the email promised on 6 September IISL did 
not consider it to be a distinct issue and said it is part of the overall issue about  the problem 
and its management  of (and communications about) it.
Mr H did not accept the settlement proposal. He considered that his complaint about the 
email promised on 6 September  had not been  properly addressed. He said the same applies 
to cross communications between him and IISL (between 6 and 18 September) related to an 
enquiry he had about the portrayal of the days market movement as zero.  The case was 
then referred to an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The complaint form submitted  by Mr H to this service was about the problem with the secure 
messaging system and a chronology of the problem, from around 20 August to 24/25  
September (when the form was completed),  was summarised within  it. I appreciate that the 
Ref: DRN59209192matter about the portrayal  of the days market  movement featured in his complaint to IISL 
but it does not appear to have featured in the complaint  referred to us. 
The notion  that IISL has not completely addressed this issue  does not appear to be in 
dispute. It explained to the adjudicator that it is awaiting  screenshots  from Mr H in order  to 
do so and that it will investigate the matter further  upon receipt  of them.  I have noted  a 
comment by Mr H that the request for screenshots came at a time when it was too late for 
him to capture  them   and that the issue he sought to address had since  not repeated  itself.  
This suggests an explanation for why the requested screenshots  have not been forwarded  to 
IISL. Overall, I do not consider that this is a matter this service  is in a position  to determine. It 
does not appear  to have been  included in the complaint referred to us, aside from that, 
evidence required to consider it further  does not appear  to exist.
I am satisfied that the issues about  the problem with the secure messaging system and 
IISLs management of it cover all the points made by Mr H  about the problem  in the 
complaints he submitted  to IISL and to us. I do not accept that his individual points are as 
distinct as he suggests, they all relate to the same  problem  and to the same body of criticism 
he has presented about  IISLs management of and communications about the problem (and 
about its resolution). IISL has conceded  its faults in relation to the delay in resolving the 
problem, in relation  to its communications (lack  of) during the delay and in relation  to its 
failure to notify  Mr H when  the problem was resolved.  It has identified the message of 24 
August that Mr H thought was missing. It has agreed  to pay Mr H £100 for the trouble and 
upset caused  to him by these matters and I am satisfied that such a payment is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this case  and is broadly  consistent with the sort of 
award we make for comparable matters. I am also satisfied that the matter  about the email 
promised on 6 September has been sufficiently covered by IISLs concessions and the £100 
offer. By Mr Hs own account the conversation with IISL on 6 September  was about the 
secure messaging system so it does not appear  to be a distinct complaint issue.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I uphold Mr Hs complaint based on the concessions made by 
Interactive Investor  Services  Limited and I order Interactive  Investor Services  Limited  to pay 
him £100 for the trouble and upset  caused  to him. Under the rules  of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or reject  my decision before 
15 April 2019.
Roy Kuku
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5920919