K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs J have complained about their home  insurer  Lloyds Bank General Insurance  
Limited because  it declined part of their claim made  when items  were stolen from an 
underground, secured car park at their home.
background
Mr and Mrs J live in a flat. The building the flat is in comprises an underground 
garage/secure parking  area for the use of residents  of the flats. Within  the garage  is a large 
cage secured by a lock the residents have keys to.
In September  2018 there was a break-in to the garage; items belonging to various residents 
were stolen from both the parking area and the cage. Mr and Mrs J found  their golf clubs  and 
two bicycles had been stolen. They contacted Lloyds. Despite some initial concerns, which  it 
investigated and overcame, Lloyds accepted there  had been a genuine loss. However, 
Lloyds declined the parts of the claim for the golf clubs  and one bicycle. It felt their loss 
wasnt covered by the policy  terms because of where and how the items had been stored 
when they were taken.
Lloyds accepted that the golf clubs had been taken from the cage and the bicycle  from the 
parking area. However, Lloyds noted  that the bicycle had not been  secured within  that area, 
and both the parking space and the cage were communal areas and not part of the flat 
Mr and Mrs J owned. Lloyds agreed  to cover  the loss for the second bicycle  (pending proof  
of ownership and value) because whilst  it was also in the parking area when  it was taken, 
Lloyds accepted it had been  secured  by a chain.  
Mr and Mrs J complained  and our investigator upheld  the complaint. She felt Lloyds should  
deal with the claim for both items and pay Mr and Mrs J £200 compensation. 
Lloyds disagreed on a number of grounds. I havent  set them  all out here but, overall,  Lloyds 
felt that Mr and Mrs J had not taken  care to safely secure their belongings because both the 
parking area and cage were communal areas for which they could not control  access. The 
complaint was passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I said above, I havent set out all the opposing arguments made by Lloyds in response to 
our investigators findings, nor all of the responses  she made in reply.  But I have noted and 
considered them all, summarising  the key positions.  In turn, below,  Ive focused on the key 
points that Im satisfied  affect the outcome of the complaint.
I can understand Lloyds position in this scenario  most insurers dont  want to be liable for 
items stolen  from communal areas. But, in order for Lloyds to fairly and reasonably  decline a 
claim, what it intends must be clearly reflected by the policy wording. Ive considered what  
Lloyds has said but, in this case, I dont think the policy wording does fairly and reasonably  
support its decline.  
Ref: DRN57420922The golf clubs are contents items  so they are covered where items are stolen from the 
home. The policy defines the home as the private  residence and its outbuildings,  and private 
residence as:
The house, bungalow, flat, or maisonette, including any attached or integrated structures  
such as garages,  car ports, conservatories and stores, and their fixtures and fittings,  all of 
which are used for domestic  purposes, and any business purpose we have agreed,  at the 
address shown in the policy schedule.
Lloyds says that the garage/parking area is not attached to or part of the flat, rather  it is part 
of the building which also comprises the flat. So its not part of the private residence. Im not 
persuaded thats a reasonable, everyday interpretation of the policy wording. Mr and Mrs J 
clearly feel their residence is the block of flats of which  their home  is a part. The garage is 
part of the structure of that building. Therefore, it is an integrated part of their residence.  
And, to me, that seems  to be exactly what the Lloyds policy  wording sets out as being 
covered. 
Regarding bicycles,  the policy explains that these are covered within the boundaries of the 
home. Ive explained  my view on the policy wording for home  and private residence above. 
The same applies here. Whilst the cover  for bicycles does contain  an exclusion for theft from 
communal areas, this wording seems less prominent than and contradictory to that which  
states there  is cover for bicycles within the home/boundaries of the home.  I dont think  its 
entirely clear  that there might be exclusions that apply to the cover for the bicycles when in 
the home. Where there is a lack of clarity,  Lloyds will be aware that this service usually 
applies the policy interpretation which favours  the policyholder.
I understand that insurers dont want to be liable for losses that occur due to reckless  or 
careless behaviour  of their policyholders. That is often the reason for the public 
places/communal areas exclusion that forms part of the bicycle  cover  on this policy,  as 
discussed above. Im also aware  that Lloyds  has specifically  argued here that by leaving 
their possessions in the garage and the cage, Mr and Mrs J have acted  somewhat  recklessly 
thus putting their belongings  at risk. Im not persuaded that is the case. The garage is 
secured with limited  access, as is the cage within the garage.  
Having considered everything, I think Mr and Mrs Js loss of the golf clubs  and bicycle,  which  
Lloyds previously declined liability for, are reasonably covered by its policy.  It will now have 
to deal with Mr and Mrs Js claim  as it relates to these items.
I know Mr and Mrs J were unhappy that it took Lloyds a number of months  before  it gave 
them an answer  on their claim.  I can see Lloyds  undertook some  investigations  and, whilst 
I dont wat to go into too much detail regarding this because those concerns were overcome, 
I can understand why Lloyds initially  acted  as it did. I understand that having a claim in 
progress for a few months was upsetting for Mr and Mrs J but Im not persuaded Lloyds did 
anything wrong  in this respect. 
However, Lloyds ultimate decision to decline  part of the claim was, I have found, unfair and 
unreasonable. I accept  that this caused  Mr and Mrs J distress and inconvenience. Im 
satisfied that £200  compensation is fairly and reasonably due.       
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  I require Lloyds Bank  General  Insurance  Limited to:
Ref: DRN57420923Deal with the parts of Mr and Mrs Js claim for stolen golf clubs and the bicycle, for which 
it previously declined  cover, in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy.
Pay Mr and Mrs J £200 compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision  before  8 November 2020.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5742092