K820x#14complaint
Mrs A complains that Santander UK Plc wont agree to remove  her ex-husband from their 
joint mortgage account.
background
Mrs A and her former husband took out a mortgage with Santander some  years ago. 
Theyve since separated  and Mrs A says she no longer has any contact with her ex-
husband. She lives in the property and has in practice taken on sole responsibility for the 
mortgage. She applied to Santander to remove her ex-husband  and take the mortgage 
solely into her name.
She applied  in March 2019, and then again in September 2019. The first time, Santander 
refused the application because it said she had just changed jobs, it looked from her 
payslips that her income had gone down,  and it couldnt be sure she could afford the 
mortgage on her own anymore. But it said it would be willing to reconsider once it had seen 
six months payslips from her new employment.
In September,  she applied again. Again, Santander refused. It said Mrs A had failed its credit 
checks and hadnt  shown over six months  that she could manage the mortgage on her own.
Mrs A complained. Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint be upheld so Mrs A 
asked for an ombudsman to review  the complaint. She didnt think  it was fair for Santander 
to say she couldnt afford the mortgage when she had been  the only one paying it for years. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where a mortgage is in joint names,  both parties are generally  liable for it  even if, in 
practice, only one of them is making  the payments. This joint liability  reduces the risk for 
both lender and borrower; if, for example,  Mrs A wasnt able to pay any more,  Santander 
could pursue her former husband  for the mortgage  payments.
As I say, thats the usual position. However, the positions  complicated here because of 
Mrs As ex-husbands sequestration (the Scottish equivalent of bankruptcy). I see from the 
online register that he entered  sequestration  in 2017, and was discharged in 2018. However, 
I dont know the terms of the sequestration  and in particular I dont know  whether he 
retains an interest in the property. Nor do I know the terms of Mrs A and her ex-husbands 
separation. Mrs A says she has no contact  with him anymore.  But Santander might not be 
able to remove him from the mortgage if he retains an interest  in the property  or if his 
trustee does. Mrs A might  want to take legal  advice about her rights in this respect,  if she 
hasnt done so already.
So even if Santander  had been  willing to grant the transfer to Mrs As sole name in principle, 
there might still have been difficulties in it going  ahead without her ex-husband or his 
trustees involvement.
In any case, matters didnt get that far. Santander  wasnt willing  to make a change  to the 
mortgage because, on both occasions,  it didnt think doing so would be affordable for Mrs A.
Ref: DRN56854002The rules  of mortgage regulation say that taking out a new mortgage  or making  a material 
change to an existing  one  requires an affordability assessment. Adding or removing  a 
borrower is a material change.  That means  Santander is required to do an affordability 
assessment. It can only set that requirement  aside if it can show  making the change would 
otherwise be in the borrowers best interests.
In my view, whats in Mrs As best interests  involves looking  at all the circumstances. Given 
their relationship is at an end, its in her best interests that her finances are separated from 
those of her ex-husband. But thats less straightforward if he still has an interest in the 
property.
And, even  though Santander can set aside the affordability assessment where its in Mrs As 
best interests to do so, I dont think it would be in her best interests to do so where the 
mortgage is unaffordable  in other words, account  needs to be taken of her finances  even  if 
a full detailed  affordability assessment isnt done.
In the first application,  Santander noted  that Mrs A had very recently changed jobs,  having  
moved from being an employee  to working on an agency basis. She says she did so 
expecting her income to increase. But on the basis of the small number of weeks she had 
been doing the new role, it looked  like her income  was lower. As a result,  Santander had 
concerns that the mortgage might  not be affordable for her in her new circumstances. I think 
that was reasonable based  on the evidence at the time. But it offered to look again in six 
months  and I think that was fair.
As it happens, over the six month period  Mrs A missed some payments. She made some of 
them up, or paid late  but the mortgage did fall into arrears. This shows that Santanders 
concerns were valid. And meant that when she applied again in September, she still didnt 
have six months track record  of managing  the mortgage on her own in her new 
circumstances.
Mrs A can apply  again, when shes in a position to do so. I understand her income has been 
affected by the current pandemic, and shes taken a payment deferral. Once  thats over 
shell need to discuss with Santander how the missed payments  are to be made  up. But 
when shes back on track  shell be able to apply again  possibly subject to what Ive said 
above about any interest her former husband or his trustee might  have  in the property.  
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 August 2020.
Simon Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5685400