K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a monthly  premium payment protection  insurance  (PPI) policy  taken 
out in March 2002. Ms D says Financial Insurance  Company Limited (FICL) mis-sold her the 
policy.
background
I issued a provisional decision (PD) in February  2019  a copy  of which is attached  and 
forms part of this final decision. I wasnt persuaded the policy had been mis-sold. So I didnt 
think FICL owed Ms D any money.
In response to my PD, FICL hasnt provided any new information  and/or arguments. But 
Ms D made a number  of points  which Ive summarised below:
English wasnt her first language   so FICL  could have sold her the policy and she would 
not have known.
Had she known the policy  had been  sold to her, she would have cancelled  it as soon as 
the problems with PPI came to light.
Her savings were the result of her hard work  rather than anyone elses.  They  were  held 
in an overseas bank  account in sterling and the cost of transferring the money was low.
Ms D also provided a payslip, an extract from her employment contract dated 2001  and a 
currency transfer form to support what she has told us about her sick pay and savings during 
the course of this complaint.
Now that the deadline  in my PD has passed,  Ive decided to go ahead  and issue my final 
decision.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website  and Ive taken this into account  in deciding 
this case.
And having done all of that, I still dont think the policy was mis-sold  for many of the reasons 
Ive already given.  
Ms D remains of the view that the policy was added to her account without her knowledge.  
So Ive given  this careful consideration again.
As I said in my provisional decision,  there is limited information available  in this complaint  
which is a challenge.  But when evidence is incomplete and matters  are in dispute, as is the 
case here, I have to base  my decision on what I think is more likely to have  happened  given 
the information available  however limited  it might be.
And for that reason, as nothing substantive has come to light since  my PD, Im still not 
persuaded that its likely  the policy was added to Ms Ds account without her agreement  
nor have I seen enough  to say that its likely FICL didnt  make it clear that the policy  was 
optional.
Ref: DRN57441942I have considered what Ms D says about  English not being  her first language. But as she 
was able to go through  a store card application  shortly before the policy  was sold,  Im not 
persuaded that this particular point changes what Ive already said.
As for Ms Ds sick pay and savings, the extract from her contract of employment states that 
she was only entitled to statutory sick pay  which means it was limited.  I accept that its 
possible her savings were held in sterling  and that her account may not have imposed 
especially significant fees on withdrawals. But I have shared with Ms D an email she sent us 
in October 2018  in which she said that her savings  were  the result  of contributions from her, 
her partner (at the time) and family. And as she hasnt explained  or commented on that 
email in light of what she said in response to my PD, I remain  of the view that there  are 
question marks over how much of the savings were actually hers.  
However, even if I accept  for arguments  sake  that the savings were entirely Ms Ds, she 
hasnt provided  us with any supporting evidence of them.  I understand why it may now be 
difficult to provide such information given how long ago the event in question took place. But 
as said in my PD, the difficulties associated with the timeframe involved in this complaint are 
something I have to consider when weighing things up. And as the amount Ms D says she 
had in savings  was significant, especially in light of how much money her payslips suggest 
she was likely to have  been earning before the policy was sold to her, I find it hard to argue  
that she didnt  have a need  for the PPI given how limited the evidence  of the savings is.
With everything Ive said in mind, therefore, Im still not persuaded that better information 
about the PPI would have  led Ms D to make  a different decision and not take the policy.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 May 2019
Morgan Rees
ombudsman
Ref: DRN57441943a copy  of my provisional decision
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken  
this into account in deciding  Ms Ds case.
And having done that, Im not currently inclined to uphold the complaint.
Ms D says that the policy was added to her account without  her knowledge. FICL  disagrees  and says 
she chose to take the policy. I dont know which  of these assertions represents what actually 
happened because I wasnt part of the conversation. But when matters are in dispute, as is the case  
on this occasion, I have to base my decision on what I think is more likely to have happened given the 
information available.
There is limited information available in this complaint   which, while a challenge, isnt unusual  or 
unreasonable given how much time has passed since  the event in question. 
FICL has provided us with call scripts that it says were used  during telephone sales  the nearest of 
which is dated  2003.  I acknowledge  that I dont know if this script would have been followed when 
Ms D bought her policy.  But it does, in my view, tell me something about the way policies like hers 
were sold.  And with that being the case, it does go some way to suggesting that Ms D would  have 
had a choice to make before the policy was added to her account.
Whats more, while I dont doubt the honesty of Ms Ds particular assertion, the policy was sold nearly  
20 years ago. Even the best of memories can struggle over that sort of timeframe. And that is 
something I have to consider when weighing  up whats likely to have happened.
As things stand, therefore, there isnt any compelling  evidence that indicates the policy was added to 
Ms Ds account unknowingly. And for that reason, I find it hard to argue  on her assertion alone  
that she didnt make a choice and agree to take the policy.
As a result, this leaves me with the rest of the sale to consider. FICL  says the policy wasnt 
recommended  which means  Ms D only had to be given  the information she needed  to decide for 
herself whether taking PPI was the right decision. 
Its possible the information Ms D was given  about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it should have been.  But 
based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, it doesnt look like she was affected by any 
of the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover  which  means it could have been useful for her if 
something went wrong. 
I know Ms D says she was entitled  to some sick pay from her employer. But shes recently 
acknowledged that she cant recall how long her sick pay would have been paid for  while theres  
little information on how much she would have been paid. I understand why it may now be difficult to 
provide such  information given how long ago the event in question took place. But as Ive alluded to 
above, the difficulties  associated  with the timeframe involved in this complaint are something I have to 
consider when weighing things up.
Ive also thought  carefully about the savings  Ms D says she had in an overseas bank account. She 
seems to say the savings  were the result  of contributions  from her, her partner (at the time)  and 
family. So it isnt clear  how much of the savings  were actually hers.  And as a result, it also isnt clear 
that it would have  been  straightforward to withdraw them (and withdraw them quickly) in an effort to 
keep up with her repayments  which is only further compounded by the possible costs of moving 
money from one country  to another.
And with that being the case, there isnt enough evidence  at present to persuade  me that better  
information about the PPI would have led Ms D to make a different  decision and not take the policy.
Ref: DRN5744194