K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that a Legal and General  Assurance Society Limited advisor misled  him into 
thinking that his existing  life and critical illness policy would  be automatically stopped if he 
went ahead  with the recommended new policy.
background
Mr H said L & Gs advisor recommended replacing his existing policy.  He said the paperwork 
was sent to an incorrect address so hed never been aware that he had two policies running 
simultaneously until the first policy expired  recently.
L & G was only able to supply a copy of the 2003 application form, something which  an 
investigator at this service  felt made  it difficult to safely  assess  what Mr H and the advisor 
had discussed.
Given this, she accepted Mr Hs evidence that the advisor may not have been clear  about 
the reasons for the new policy or whether it would replace his existing one. She also felt that 
L & G had probably  not explained things sufficiently but this didnt mean the 
recommendation had been unsuitable.
She said that if a client wanted additional cover  it may be sensible to recommend an 
additional top-up  policy  rather than replacing an existing one, both from a cost point of view 
and because the conditions, particularly in relation  to critical illness, could be more restrictive  
on newer policies.
She also noted that the 1998 policy was designed to pay a lump sum in the event of Mr H 
suffering a critical illness or dying, whereas the 2003 policy was designed for general family 
protection, providing an ongoing income  in the event  of a claim.
Overall, she didnt believe there was enough  evidence to uphold  the complaint.
Mr H and his wife did not agree, and said:
The salesperson  came to their house  unprompted; they had not asked  for more 
advice or recommendations
She told Mr H that this new policy was superior to his existing policy  and better value 
for money (for the same £20 premium)
She also recommended that Mrs H take out her own £20 a month  life and critical 
illness policy. She applied for this, including supplying  the necessary medical 
evidence, and they assumed this policy had been actioned
This is why they were  not surprised that two direct debits, each  for £20 a month, 
began to come out of Mr Hs bank;  they assumed  Mr Hs 1998 policy had been 
cancelled and both of their new policies were  in operation
The investigator had no right to draw  her own conclusions about  what  was said,  
based on no evidence  whatsoever
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN56194252There is, unfortunately, very little hard evidence about why this 2003 policy was 
recommended, let alone whether it was intended  to replace the 1998 one or provide 
additional cover. Given the time this recommendation took place, and the regulatory  position 
regarding term assurances  policies, this is not surprising.  The advisor was not required to 
provide the full suitability/ recommendations letter which applied  to investments at the time 
(and term assurance policies after 2005). So I cannot reasonably draw any definite 
conclusions from this lack of supporting paperwork.
I have seriously considered Mr and Mrs Hs evidence about what the advisor said, and I 
have no reason to doubt it. It does seem as if the advisor was far from clear about what  was 
being recommended,  and why. But Ive had also had to consider what paperwork Mr and 
Mrs H would most likely  have  been sent, notwithstanding the address problem, and what  
they clearly were not sent. 
I feel that Mr H and Mrs H ought  reasonably to have queried why they did not receive any 
confirmation about her policy going  ahead - or the necessary paperwork outlining the terms 
and conditions  and queried why two direct debits were now being taken from his bank 
account given  theyd received nothing to say Mrs Hs policy  was in operation.
That said,  if this 2003 policy  had simply duplicated the cover provided by his 1998 policy I 
would probably  be minded  to uphold the complaint  on the grounds that it was simply not a 
reasonable recommendation. But, in fact, it did offer quite different and complementary 
insurance protection. The first policy was designed  to pay off the mortgage in the event of 
critical illness or death, while this policy was explicitly designed to provide  family  protection.  
Mr H had a wife and young child by this time,  and they would have received a monthly  
income of more than £600 in the event of a successful claim. This,  in my view, was likely to 
have been of value - and therefore  a reasonable recommendation.
This does  not mean that I am fully satisfied  that the advisor made clear that she was 
recommending this to run alongside, and in addition to, his existing policy.  But I just dont 
feel there is sufficient evidence to safely reach the conclusion that Mr H was definitely 
misled, particularly given  the recommendation was not an unreasonable one.
my final decision
I do not uphold  the complaint or make any financial award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 April 2019.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5619425