K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Lloyds  Bank PLC mis-sold Mr and Mrs G payment protection 
insurance (PPI).
background
This complaint is about a monthly  premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 2000.
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mr and Mrs G disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.
Ive considered carefully Mr and Mrs Gs comments.  However,  Ive decided not to uphold  this 
complaint. I will explain  why.
The sale of the PPI took place about  18 years ago and I wouldnt expect someone to recall 
in detail everything that happened so long ago. Ive borne in mind  these difficulties in the 
evidence when considering the case.  As with all cases, Ive still had to decide  whats  most 
likely to have happened, based on what evidence there is. In a case  such  as this, the 
balance in finding the fairest outcome can be difficult.
The documents presented the PPI as a choice. But Mr and Mrs G say this doesnt reflect 
what actually happened. They say they were told that, unless they took PPI, they wouldnt be 
eligible for the mortgage. They say they remember the cost of the PPI being a lot of money 
and that they thought at the time it wasnt  fair. 
I realise it would  be very difficult for Mr and Mrs G to prove that their recollections are 
accurate, and I can completely understand that they will be very frustrated by this. But it 
wouldnt be fair for me, so many years  later, to decide that Lloyds acted wrongly in the way 
Mr and Mrs G believe.  I dont know precisely  what was said,  and whether this was just keen 
sales technique or something  more which was unfair. I dont even  know  if it was PPI that the 
adviser was talking about (rather than, say, buildings insurance).  Mr and Mrs G have quite  
reasonably admitted they cant remember all the details, including  anything about the actual 
person who sold them  the PPI. 
I can also see that the PPI didnt  start straight away. Documents on file show that the insurer  
said thered been  too much of a delay since, at the start of the process, Mr and Mrs G had 
signed the PPI form and direct debit form. So, after the mortgage  had started and theyd 
bought their property,  the insurer asked for the forms to be re-signed. Mr and Mrs G sent 
these back about  three  months later. So they should by then have understood that they had 
got the mortgage even  without PPI. This isnt definitive evidence though - I realise  this was 
their first mortgage and they may still not have understood the process,  and may even then 
not have understood that changing their decision about PPI wouldnt have affected the 
mortgage. 
Ref: DRN59652382However, Mr G didnt  have any memory of this delay when our adjudicator  spoke to him 
about it. This isnt at all surprising, given how many years ago it was, but it does I think  show 
how difficult it would be to rely just on Mr and Mrs Gs memories to decide that the Lloyds 
adviser acted wrongly. 
Mr and Mrs G have said theyve had other complaints about Lloyds selling PPI upheld by 
Lloyds  and that this is evidence of Lloyds poor sales practices. I dont know  any of the 
details of those  cases. And I know there  can be many different reasons a PPI complaint is 
upheld. I dont think the fact of those upholds gives me good  evidence to say this complaint 
should be upheld.  
So, overall I dont  have enough to say that Lloyds  put unfair pressure on Mr and Mrs G.
Ive thought about other reasons the PPI might have been  mis-sold. But I dont think these 
apply:
Lloyds Bank recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs G, but it doesnt  look as if it was 
unsuitable, based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time. Being unable  
to pay a mortgage can lead to significant  difficulties.  Mr G (the person insured) was 
self-employed and wouldnt  have received  the sick benefits an employee would have 
been entitled to. PPI could have paid unemployment benefits if his business  failed 
and he became unemployed. And it could have put off the time when theyd need to 
fall back on any savings or other means  they may have  had for paying  the mortgage.  
This all would have  put Mr and Mrs G in a more secure position. So I think the PPI 
would have been potentially useful. 
Its hard to know how well Lloyds Bank  explained the costs  and benefits of the policy. 
But I dont anyway  think full and clear information  about the costs would have 
affected whether  Mr and Mrs G took the PPI.
Its possible Lloyds Bank didnt clearly point out the main  things  the policy didnt 
cover. But its unlikely Mr G would have been  affected by any of these. Mr G was 
self-employed, and in some policies that made  it difficult to claim. But the wording of 
this particular policy didnt  cause those problems. 
Its likely  Mr G was eligible  for the policy, and Mr and Mrs G would be paying for it 
monthly, so they could  cancel  it at any time without  further cost if their situation 
changed, or if they decided they didnt  want  it.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  15 August 2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5965238