K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains about UK Insurance Limiteds  refusal to pay a claim under his buildings 
insurance policy after he discovered substantial damage to his floor caused by damp.
background
Mr B has been represented  by a third party but I will refer to Mr B throughout for simplicity. 
In 2015 Mr B noticed some damage to his sitting room floor.  When he took up the 
floorboards to investigate  he found some standing  water had gathered underneath  the 
house. He spoke to a neighbour who discovered a similar problem at his home.  It was 
identified that the leak was coming  from the neighbours water  supply  and he had it fixed.  
The space under Mr Bs sitting room  then drained  naturally.  He repaired the flooring and 
assumed the problem  was resolved.
In 2017 he again noticed a problem with the floor. On inspection this time he found  
substantial damage  that appeared  to include  rot and fungal growth. Inspection  by expert  
contractors identified that the property  had suffered from the effects of severe damp. Not 
only was the floor damaged but it was assessed that the damage  had spread to walls and 
potentially was creating higher levels of damp elsewhere in the house.
Mr B notified  UKI that he had a claim against his insurance policy.  UKI quickly declined the 
claim. Mr B complained to UKI but it maintained its position. It argues that the policy 
excludes damage that happened gradually. And it says that Mr B had been  aware of the 
damage for two years since its attributed to arising from the leak and standing  water that 
was seen in 2015. UKI says that it was denied the opportunity to inspect and properly 
address the damage at that time because  Mr B had failed to notify  it of a potential  claim as 
was required by the policy. As a result UKI feels that Mr B hasnt complied with the 
requirements of the policy and also that the damage isnt covered.
Our investigator issued  a view in which she agreed  with UKI and concluded that the claim 
shouldnt be paid. Mr B has requested that an ombudsman consider the complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I agree with the conclusions reached  by 
the investigator.
The policy excludes  damage which occurs gradually. It also specifically excludes damage  
caused by rot and fungus, a clause  not specifically highlighted by UKI but one which I need  
to take note of. But with both of these clauses this service takes the view that there are 
circumstances in which it would be fair and reasonable for the insurer to meet a claim in 
spite of these exclusions. And that would be the case here, if I was satisfied both that the 
damage (including rot and fungal) had arisen from an insured event, such  as a leak as 
happened here, but also that the policy  holder  was neither aware of the damage that was 
occurring nor should reasonably have been  aware. On this issue of whether the policy 
actually covers the damage at all this latter requirement is crucial.
Mr B obtained opinions about  the new damage from three sources - a damp expert, a 
chartered surveyor, and the public health  department of his local authority.  The conclusions  
Ref: DRN51953072of all three reports are that this latest damage arose  as a direct result of the earlier leak in 
2015. The experts identified that the growth and damage theyd seen was entirely consistent 
with the date of that leak and the public health  office confirmed that there  was no ongoing 
leak causing any new problems. Im satisfied on all the evidence Ive seen  that the latest 
arose from that 2015 incident. 
Mr B argues  that he wasnt aware  of this damage  and thought the problem  had resolved 
itself. I dont know what Mr Bs experience is of buildings and their conditions but Im 
prepared to accept  that he wouldnt have repaired and replaced his previous flooring  after 
the first problem if hed known for sure that this secondary damage was likely to occur. But I 
cant ignore the fact that he was obviously aware of the previous problem and the ability  to 
seek appropriate professional help was available to him. That could have  ensured  that the 
property was properly  dried. Im also conscious  that the expert reports  suggest that some of 
the methods used  to repair the original  damage, including the nature of the floor backing  as 
well as some  limitations to air bricks  under the floor, created an environment  in which this 
later severe rot and growth was likely  to arise. So I believe that Mr B was careless  in his 
actions at the time and certainly was sufficiently aware of the problem of water damage  to be 
able to have taken actions which would have  prevented the later damage.  It couldnt  be said 
that he was unaware  of the problem even  if he didnt foresee precisely what might  arise from 
it.
This takes  me to UKIs argument that Mr B failed to notify it of a possible claim at the time of 
the first leak and that in doing  so he denied them the opportunity to take actions  which would 
have prevented this claim. It points to the policy term which  requires:
When you find out about a claim,  or possible claim,  under  this policy  you must tell us as 
soon as reasonably  possible. If you do not do so and prejudice our position we may reject or 
be unable to deal with your claim   
Mr B has argued that he wasnt  making a claim in 2015 so this term doesnt apply to his 
situation. In isolation  I have some sympathy  with his argument. I dont  know why the damage 
in 2015 didnt result in a claim against the policy but it was, like this incident, clearly 
something which could  have led to a claim. Mr B might argue that if he never had any 
intention to make a claim then even  the words possible claim might not apply to his obvious 
insurable loss, that is, the damage  to his floor in 2015 as a result of a water leak. An insurer 
would argue that something as fundamental as a major water leak causing substantial  
damage in 2015  is by definition a possible claim. And it also follows that the fact that the 
longer term damp penetration causing this later rot and fungal growth arose  from that leak 
shows that it could  also be seen as existing as a possible claim at that earlier point.
I need to make a decision of what is fair and reasonable in all of the circumstances of this 
case. And my conclusion  is that taking account  of the wording and the spirit of the terms 
referred to its a fair outcome that UKI declines Mr Bs claim.  His decision not to notify his 
insurer of something which constituted  a possible claim, both at the time in 2015  and later,  
led directly to UKIs position  being prejudiced as described in the policy term. I have no 
doubt that the damage that led to this latest  claim was the direct result of the failure to take 
proper action at the time of the first leak and before repairing the floor. Failing to notify UKI 
meant that they were denied the opportunity to prevent a claim against them later.  I also 
believe he had sufficient  awareness of the earlier problem to mean that the clause excluding 
gradual damage cannot be ignored.
Ref: DRN51953073my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 April 2019.
John Withington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5195307