K820x#14complaint
Miss N says Barclays  Bank UK PLC mis-sold her a payment protection  insurance  (PPI)  
policy.
background and summary to complaint
Miss N bought the policy in 2001  at the same time as taking out a credit  card.  She applied 
for the PPI and credit card by filling in an application  in a branch.
At the time,  Miss N was employed as a factory  worker and had been there for six months. 
She hasnt  been  able to tell us about her employment before that time. She has told us she 
was entitled to at least  three months  but less than six months sickness and redundancy pay 
and didnt have  any other means  of repaying her credit card if she couldnt work. Miss N has 
also told us she was in good health at the time of the sale.
The policy provided  cover  for accident, sickness, and unemployment, as well as life cover,  
subject to its exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay 10% of Miss Ns credit card 
balance in the event of a successful claim for disability or unemployment. The life cover 
would, subject to its terms, clear the card balance on death.  At the time, the policy  cost no 
more than 79p per £100 of the monthly  outstanding balance. The premium would continue to 
have to be paid during  a successful claim and it did attract interest.
Barclays has sent a statement  to show that by May 2004 the credit  card account was closed. 
Miss Ns representative has made  lengthy and substantial representations  on her behalf.  I 
will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In summary, 
Miss Ns representative says:
Barclays failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on handling 
PPI complaints under DISP App 3, it should be presumed Miss N wouldnt have taken 
out the policy and the complaint should be upheld. Miss Ns representatives believe 
there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a successful 
claim meant  the policy was of inherently poor value  as shown by the low claims ratio. 
The common law duty of utmost  good faith means  Barclays should have told Miss N 
about the poor value;
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Barclays should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Miss N and the impact  they 
would have had on her chances of making a claim;  and
The information Miss N received was misleading. These policies were promoted  as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue. 
Ref: DRN59193842Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and had a chance to 
give their responses to the adjudicators  opinion.  Miss N disagreed with the adjudicators  
opinion for several  reasons. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been  
passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations 
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account: relevant 
law and regulations;  relevant  regulators  rules,  guidance and standards; relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Miss Ns. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss Ns complaint.
This sale took place  in 2001 before the sale of general insurance products like this became 
regulated by the FSA in January 2005.  So the FSAs and the FCAs overarching principles 
for businesses and insurance  conduct rules (ICOB and ICOBS) are not applicable to this 
complaint; nor is the FCAs Perimeter Guidance (PERG).
The credit agreement itself had concluded  by May 2004. That means  the unfair relationship  
provisions set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit  Act, the Supreme Court judgement in 
Plevin about s.140  of that Act and the rules and guidance made  by the FCA about the 
handling of complaints about the non-disclosure of commission in light of the Plevin 
judgement, arent applicable.
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at the time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance 
Code for private  customers   the GISC Code. 
This sale was made during a period  of industry  self-regulation by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC).  It published the GISC Code, which  set out minimum standards  of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling  insurance, including  PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
Barclays, selling insurance  at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for all 
intermediaries (Including Employees of Insurance Companies)  other  than Registered 
Insurance Brokers   The ABI Code.  
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
Ref: DRN59193843The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct Marketing/ 
Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
While not all intermediaries  who sold PPI at the time were a member of the ABI or GISC, I 
consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Barclays at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take these codes into 
account when  deciding what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable in the circumstances of 
Miss Ns case.
I have also taken account of relevant law in reaching  my decision, including: the law relating 
to negligence, misrepresentation and contract (including the express and implied  duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   the Office of the Banking Ombudsman  in this 
case  might have been expected to reach in relation to an equivalent complaint. I note that 
under the Banking Ombudsmans  terms of reference the Ombudsman was required to 
decide complaints  by reference to what was, in his opinion, fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances  and that the Ombudsman was required  to observe any applicable rule of 
law or relevant judicial  authority.
I am also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first 
issued by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating to the 
sale of PPI. This sale took place before insurance mediation became a regulated  activity,  so 
Barclays was required to take into account the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were  
guidance when  considering Miss Ns complaint. 
key questions  
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If Barclays gave advice, whether it advised  Miss N with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for her, given her needs and 
circumstances. 
-Whether Barclays gave Miss N sufficient, appropriate and timely  information to enable  
her to make an informed choice about  whether to take out the policy,  including  drawing 
to her attention  and highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading  way  the main 
provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and exclusions.  
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Miss N, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Miss N suffered loss or damage 
and what I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Miss N and 
Barclays, Ive decided  not to uphold Miss Ns complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below.  
Ref: DRN59193844did Miss N know  she had a choice?
Barclays had to make it clear that the PPI policy  was optional.  Miss N has said she had no 
interest in the PPI and wouldnt have had it if Barclays hadnt  just included it as part of the 
package with her credit  card. But Miss Ns credit  card application had a separate  section  
with a box for her to tick if she wanted the PPI. The box is ticked, Miss N signed the form 
and I dont think there is anything on the form to suggest she had to tick the box. Taking 
everything into account, I think its more likely that Miss N knew  the policy  was optional and 
she agreed to take it out without undue pressure. 
did Barclays provide  advice?
Miss N has said Barclays  didnt  give advice  during  the sale.  Barclays  has said it did provide 
advice  and if it did it had to do more. Taking  this into account,  I think its fair to proceed on 
the basis that Barclays did give advice.
This means  Barclays had to advise Miss N with reasonable  care and skill, in particular 
whether the policy  was appropriate or suitable  given her needs and circumstances.
the advice
I dont know what steps Barclays took to establish  whether the policy was a suitable 
recommendation for Miss N. There is no record of what  the adviser discussed in relation  to 
the policy. This is unsurprising in respect of a sale during a meeting. The adviser had some 
limited information about  Miss Ns financial  circumstances,  but there is no specific  evidence  
to show the adviser  took steps to establish  whether Miss N would have been caught  by the 
significant exclusions and limitations which might have meant  the policy did not fully meet 
her needs.  For example,  there is nothing to suggest  Barclays considered whether Miss N 
had any pre-existing medical conditions  or what her employment situation  had been  before 
she started in her employment at the time.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded that Barclays  did all it should  have 
done to determine whether the policy was suitable for Miss N given her circumstances. So 
Im not persuaded Barclays advised  with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded Barclays did all it should have done to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Miss N, I do think  its more  likely  than not that the policy  was ultimately suitable  
for her. 
In reaching that conclusion  Ive taken into consideration:
-Miss N met the eligibility criteria for the policy.
-Miss N had a need for the policy   it seems likely her ability  to continue to meet  her 
credit card repayments would have  been put under strain if she was not working  for an 
extended period  of time  even  allowing for the sick pay and redundancy benefits she 
says she would  have  been entitled to.
-Although Miss N says she was financially stretched at the time, Ive seen nothing  else to 
suggest the monthly cost of the PPI wasnt affordable.
Ref: DRN59193845-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Miss N. Miss N was 
in a permanent  job at the time. She hasnt been able to tell us about her employment  
situation before she started that job and, bearing that in mind, what  I have isnt enough to 
make me think that anything about  her employment or occupation wouldve made it 
difficult for Miss N to claim. And she hasnt  told us about any pre-existing medical 
conditions that couldve affected  her ability to claim. There  were  also no additional 
restrictions on cover for mental health  or back problems.
-While  the policy would  only pay benefits  for a maximum of 12 months for each disability 
or unemployment claim, it still provided  useful cover  given Miss Ns circumstances.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Barclays  gave Miss N sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable her to understand what  
Barclays was recommending to her and make an informed decision about whether to follow  
that advice and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not Miss N was given a very broad  description of what the 
policy was intended  to cover (that is, that the policy would protect her card payments in the 
event she was unable  to work through disability or unemployment). Ive reached this 
conclusion because I think  Miss N would have been told this  at the very least   during the 
discussion with the adviser. I think its unlikely Miss N would have taken out the policy 
without any sense of what the policy was. Also the application form she signed described  the 
policy as cover for the card payments in case of unemployment, accident, sickness or death 
- which would have  given Miss N some  idea of what the policy  was for. 
The credit agreement mentioned a premium  for the insurance. Im satisfied  Miss N would 
have realised the policy wasnt free and its likely she would have  had some  understanding 
of how much the policy cost before agreeing to take it.
But the evidence  from the time of the sale doesnt  tell us whether Barclays gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost (the fact that the premiums  
would be added to the account balance, attracting interest if unpaid  at the end of the month, 
and were payable  during  a claim) or about  the exclusions  and limitations, before Miss N 
agreed to take the policy. Even  if that information  were in a leaflet or policy summary Miss N 
might have been given, I think its more  likely  than not that she based  her decision on the 
things she was told, rather than on anything she was given.
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Miss N, Im not persuaded Barclays  
did enough to present  information about  the policy it was recommending in a way that was 
fair and reasonable to Miss N. Im not persuaded that Barclays gave Miss N all of the 
information she needed about the policy to make an informed decision about whether  to 
follow the recommendation  and take the policy.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded that there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Miss Ns representative has raised a 
number of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing 
Ref: DRN59193846information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Miss Ns. 
Ive considered these  carefully and summarised them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have explained 
the low claims  ratio  what Miss Ns representative considers  to be poor  value  and the 
fact that much of the premium went to the business  rather  than the insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just told 
Miss N about the limitations and exclusions,  it should have gone further and explained 
the significance  of them to her. 
Im not persuaded by Miss Ns representatives  views on this. The duty of utmost good faith 
in insurance law imposed  a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose material facts and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Miss N has suggested. And taking into account the law, industry codes and standards of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that Barclays ought to have  done  either. 
what effect did Barclayss shortcomings  have on Miss  N? To what extent did Miss  N 
suffer loss or damage  as a result?
Ive found that Barclays  didnt  do all it should  have done when it sold this policy  to Miss N. 
So I have  gone  on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Miss N 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not Miss N 
would have still taken  the policy, had Barclays done  things  properly. 
While Im not persuaded that Barclays took the steps it should have done  to establish 
whether the policy  it recommended was suitable  for Miss N, I have  found  that the policy was 
ultimately suitable for her.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Miss N has suffered loss or 
damage in this case primarily depends  on whether, if Barclays had explained things 
properly, Miss N would  have acted differently, or whether she would have taken the policy  in 
any event.
Miss N says she would  not have  taken it and believes that I should presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. I have considered  the representations of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take insurance  requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Miss N had some interest in taking payment 
protection insurance. By this I mean  when Barclays offered  the PPI or advised her there was 
a suitable product she could buy that would protect her credit  card payments in the event 
she was unable to work  because  of accident, sickness  or unemployment,  she concluded she 
Ref: DRN59193847wanted that product. But she made  that decision based on incomplete  information, meaning 
what she thought  she was getting is not exactly what  she got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Miss Ns circumstances at the 
time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. In relation 
to the costs, Im satisfied  Miss N ought reasonably  to have known she would have to pay 
something for the PPI and that it would cover a portion of her outstanding  balance. But, I 
accept that Barclays  didnt make clear  the on-going cost information.  So while Miss N didnt  
know some  things, the ultimate position  in the event of a successful claim was not dissimilar 
to what she would reasonably have thought from the information she based her decision to 
take the policy on and found  acceptable.  
Possibly the most significant differences between what Miss N thought she had bought and 
what she actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims that were the result  of any conditions  that, at the policy  start 
date, Miss N already  knew  about  or had received  doctors  advice or treatment for in the 
previous twelve months;
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Miss N 
wasnt a permanent employee; and
The requirement that to be eligible for a disability claim, Miss N be not only unable to do 
her own job but also unable to do any paid work her experience,  education or training  
reasonably qualified her to do.
I do accept there is a possibility that the limitations  or exclusions above might well have  
caused Miss N pause for thought  and may well have  caused her to conclude the policy  
wasnt as good  as she thought and she might have decided not to proceed. The limitations 
on the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might  have dissuaded  
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Miss N from taking the policy.  
But, the evidence  about Miss Ns circumstances  at the time of sale shows the policy wasnt  
fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. She was eligible for its benefits and it provided 
cover that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable  to her should  the 
insured risks have  become a reality. I also havent  seen any evidence to suggest she 
wouldve been caught by any of the significant exclusions  Miss N didnt have any 
pre-existing medical conditions, was in permanent employment at the time and I havent 
enough information about her employment history  to say it wouldve affected her ability  to 
claim. So, I think she still had some good reasons  to take the policy out.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions, or place  any additional 
restrictions or more onerous  evidential  requirements in the event of a claim on those 
grounds than would have applied to any other  disability claim. And I think its unlikely Miss N 
would have expected to make a disability claim on the policy  without first providing some 
evidence to support  that claim.
If Miss N had known she could only claim for disability  if she was not only unable to do her 
normal job but also unable to do any paid work that, in the insurers view, her experience, 
education or training reasonably qualified her to do, it might have played into her thinking 
about what to do  and I accept it may have given  her pause for thought. But, given her 
circumstances, on balance I think she wouldve still been interested  in taking the cover.
Ref: DRN59193848Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not that Miss N would still have taken the PPI. The policy was sufficiently close to what 
she thought she was getting  and I think it couldve provided a useful benefit in a difficult time, 
notwithstanding her employment benefits and taking into account  her lack of other  means. 
And in those circumstances I consider it more likely than not that she wouldve taken the 
policy in any event.  
Miss Ns representatives say the rules about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
I have thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, I have found  it would be reasonable to conclude  there  
were substantial flaws  in the sales  process.  In those  circumstances, DISP App 3 says it 
should be presumed Miss N would not have bought the PPI she bought  unless, in the 
particular circumstances  of the complaint, there is evidence to rebut the presumption. 
I am satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude  the presumption  is rebutted 
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Miss Ns 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Miss N 
found herself in as a result of the sale was the same position  she would have been in had 
the breach or significant  failings not occurred. 
Miss N believes  the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws  in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including her own comments  that she would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Miss N in the position she would have been in if she had 
not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept its possible she wouldnt have taken out the policy, Im 
satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not that she would  still have taken 
the PPI had she been given clear, fair and not misleading information about  the policy she 
was buying. So Im not persuaded  it would be fair and reasonable in those  circumstances, to 
conclude Barclays should pay Miss N compensation,  as that would put her in a better 
position than she would  have been  in if everything  had happened  as it should have done. 
Im also aware that Miss N thinks Barclays misrepresented the terms of the policy in how it 
described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
Barclayss statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why Barclays  
failed to act fairly and reasonably was not because of what  it did or didnt say in the 
information it provided  but because the overall  information Barclays  gave Miss N, in the 
Ref: DRN59193849way it did, was insufficient to meet the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it 
to have met in 2001 when providing information  about an insurance policy. 
Ive also thought about the approach Miss Ns representative says a court might take if it 
were to find Barclays negligently misrepresented the contract to Miss N and about the 
remedy a court might award if it were to find that Barclays had been in breach  of its duty of 
utmost good  faith. But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about  what is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Miss N in a better  position  than if everything  had 
happened as it should have done. 
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss N to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 October  2019.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5919384