K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains about the level of service  provided by Hastings Insurance  Services Limited 
in its administration  of his motor insurance policy. 
background
Mr C changed cars and he asked Hastings to transfer his policy to his new car. But a few 
months later, he received  a letter  from the Motor Insurance Board (MIB) saying that his car 
was showing uninsured. Hastings agreed it had made an error. It waived the £25 transfer fee 
it would  have charged and paid Mr C £35 compensation for the inconvenience  caused him. 
But Mr C thought this wasnt  sufficient compensation for him driving whilst uninsured.  He 
wanted a refund of the premium for the time he was uninsured. Mr C was also unhappy that 
his policy  renewed  after hed asked for it not to be.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought  Hastings 
had provided Mr C with confusing letters that left him thinking  the transfer had been made 
when Hastings had actually kept his old car on cover.  But he thought  Hastings had acted to 
resolve the error and offered Mr C reasonable compensation. He thought  Mr C would have 
had to pay his premium in any case and so he didnt think Hastings should pay him any 
refund. He thought Hastings was entitled  to send Mr C a renewal invitation. The policy  didnt 
then renew because Mr C didnt make a payment,  so he hadnt been  caused any loss.
Mr C replied that he didnt  get the service or cover hed paid for. He thought he was due 
compensation for the time he wasnt insured. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that the initial error occurred when Mr C contacted Hastings to change  his car on 
cover and this was done without sending him a new quote. But this was corrected the same 
day and Hastings said it sent the quote  by email and asked Mr C to confirm this and pay the 
difference to make  the transfer. But it also wrote to Mr C to confirm  the transfer and said 
payment would be collected. 
Mr C said he didnt receive  the email. I have  no reason to doubt this. But Ive seen evidence 
from Hastings files that it was sent to him. I can see that it had Mr Cs correct email  address. 
Hastings said the transfer didnt happen  as Mr C didnt contact it. But I think  Mr C reasonably 
thought from Hastings letter that the transfer  had been made and the fee collected.  Instead, 
the policy was transferred  back to his old car, but I dont think  Hastings explained  this clearly 
to Mr C. So I think Hastings made errors  that led to the transfer not being made and it didnt 
tell Mr C this clearly.  
It was some months later that Mr C was notified  that his car was showing uninsured. I think  
Hastings then acted  quickly to remedy the matter,  as Id expect it to do. And it paid Mr C a 
total of £60 in compensation  for its level of service.
Ref: DRN59151082Mr C said this wasnt enough for the level of stress  hed been caused. But from what  I can 
see, this was only for a short time.  And so I cant see that the errors caused any further 
impact on Mr C. I think Hastings offer of £60 compensation  is fair and reasonable as its in 
keeping with the level Id award in similar circumstances.  
Mr C said he could have been  stopped  by the police or had an accident whilst driving 
uninsured. But, fortunately,  neither of these things happened.  I can only consider actual 
rather than potential events. So I dont require Hastings to compensate Mr C for these 
hypothetical losses. 
Mr C wanted a refund for the time he was uninsured. But I dont think  this would be 
reasonable. Mr C would have had to pay his premium in any case  as he cant  legally be 
uninsured. 
Mr C said hed declined Hastings renewal  quote  but it still tried to take the renewal premium  
from his account. Hastings said that the payment wouldnt  have been taken as Mr C had 
declined to have  automatic renewals.  I cant be sure what  happened here as I dont have 
any further evidence  to consider. But as the payment wasnt taken, then I cant see that this 
caused Mr C any loss that warrants compensation.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 April 2019.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5915108