K821x#15complaint
Mr W is unhappy with the advice he received from Anthony Feeney Financial Services  
(AFFS) to transfer his existing pension plan into a self-invested personal  pension (SIPP). 
The reason  for making the transfer was to allow  Mr W to invest in two unregulated 
investments. These were: store pods through Store  First; and Dolphin Investments. Mr Ws 
complaint is made, on his behalf, by his representative.
background
Mr W was put in touch with AFFS in late 2013 to talk about his pension  arrangements.  An 
adviser from AFFS carried out a review  of his situation. AFFS advised Mr W to transfer his 
existing pension plan into a SIPP. This was so he could then invest in store  pods and 
Dolphin Investments. Both of these were unregulated  investments.  
I understand that the transfer value of Mr Ws existing  pension was, around  £46,300.  This 
existing pension was transferred to the SIPP. This was at the end of 2013  / beginning  of 
2014. £21,500 was then invested in store pods. A further £16,500 was invested  in Dolphin. 
Both of these seem to have been made towards the end of February 2014. It also seems 
that a further investment of just under £7,800  was made the following month. This was 
invested in a Nucleus portfolio. This last investment hasnt  been  confirmed. But this doesnt 
affect the outcome of this complaint. The store pods and Dolphin investments now appear to 
be illiquid. Mr W is worried hes lost the value of his investments. 
So in June  2016 Mr W complained, via his representative, to AFFS about the advice hed 
received. In brief, he said the advice  was unsuitable for his circumstances. So Mr W wants  
compensation for the money  he says hes lost. 
AFFS rejected the complaint. Again in brief, it said Mr W had only asked for advice about 
setting up the SIPP. He expressly hadnt asked for advice about the suitability of investing  in 
store pods and Dolphin.  AFFS also said it had warned  Mr W about the risks involved with 
these investments, but he still chose to go ahead with them.  This meant AFFS wasnt  to 
blame for any losses Mr W might have suffered. 
Mr W wasnt happy with this response.  So he brought the complaint  to us. One of our 
adjudicators looked into it. In summary, he thought the complaint should be upheld. The 
adjudicator said AFFS  hadnt  demonstrated that Mr W understood either the investments or 
the risks involved. It hadnt been  clearly  stated that the investments werent suitable for a 
normal relatively inexperienced investor like Mr W. The adjudicator also said there  was no 
need for Mr W to take additional risks with his pension.  AFFS should have advised against 
making these investments  as they werent  suitable. The adjudicator went  on to explain what 
AFFS needed to do to put things right. 
AFFS didnt agree with the adjudicators view. Via its representative at that time, AFFS said 
that storage  pods  werent an unregulated collective investment scheme (UCIS). This meant  
they werent either a specified investment or a designated investment as set out in the 
relevant regulations  so we are wrongly classifying these as an UCIS. 
This didnt  change the adjudicators view.  He said that regardless of the specific  
classification of the investments,  they werent  appropriate for someone of Mr Ws limited  
experience and limited  capacity for loss. In reply, AFFS original representative asked  for an 
oral hearing  to be held by our service. 
Ref: DRN50001352As AFFS  didnt agree  with the adjudicators  view,  this complaint has been passed  to me for a 
decision. 
my provisional decision  
I issued my provisional decision dated 14 June  2019. In it, I explained Id considered all the 
available evidence and arguments to decide  what was fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I decided  to uphold this complaint. But I 
thought Mr W should  be compensated  in a slightly different way to that set out by our 
adjudicator. Ive detailed that below. I also went on to explain why I thought the complaint 
should be upheld.  
I said both AFFS  and Mr W, via their various representatives, had made  numerous  points  to 
support their respective positions. I was very aware that Id summarised this complaint in far 
less detail and in my own words. I said I wasnt going to respond to every  single point made  
by all the parties involved. No discourtesy was intended by this. Instead, Id focussed on 
what I thought  was the key issue here:  was AFFS advice to Mr W to transfer his existing 
pension to a SIPP suitable? 
I explained our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal  nature of our 
service. If theres something I hadnt  mentioned, it wasnt  because Id ignored  it. I hadnt. I 
was satisfied I didnt  need to comment on every  individual argument to be able to reach what 
I thought was the right outcome. 
I then turned to the matter of the hearing  request.  The original representative for AFFS 
requested that we hold an oral hearing  to decide  this case fairly. But since  that hearing 
request, AFFS had changed  representatives.  The original representative for AFFS stated the 
reason it wanted  a hearing was to discuss the matters set out in correspondence between it, 
AFFS, Mr Ws representative and ourselves. 
I repeated that Id reviewed all the available evidence and arguments. Having done  so, I was 
satisfied a hearing wasnt needed. I said this because I thought all parties had been  able to 
state their cases clearly in the numerous  submissions that had been made. 
I understood AFFS might be disappointed  by this. But I added  that its very rare that a 
complaint cant be fairly decided without a hearing. This is because, unlike a court, we dont 
just rely on the parties involved to prove their own case. We have the power to make our 
own investigation. If particular information  is needed to decide a complaint fairly,  there  are 
very few cases where we cant  request it from either  side or a third party.  
Even without  a hearing, it was still possible for AFFS to make the key points  of its case out 
loud  either directly  or through its representative.  It could  have  spoken  to the adjudicator  
and a recording of the call added to our case file for me to listen  to. Or a recording could 
have been left on the phone without interruption. If AFFS  wanted  to do this, I invited it to 
contact the adjudicator within two weeks to arrange  this. But neither AFFS nor its 
representative responded to this invitation. 
I then turned to our jurisdiction. In general terms, the original representative  for AFFS argued 
that the store pods investment wasnt either a specified investment or a designated  
investment. So it wasnt  an UCIS.  This meant the advice to invest in store  pods wasnt  an 
Ref: DRN50001353activity covered by our service. I said Id also seen arguments on similar  cases that the 
Dolphin investment  also wasnt an UCIS.  
But the advice  to invest in store pods and Dolphin wasnt the activity Im looking at. Im 
looking at the advice to Mr W to open  a SIPP. That is a regulated activity. It doesnt matter  
whether or not the investments were  UCISs.  
I then went on to say the rules that AFFS had to follow are set out in the regulators 
handbook. The advice given to Mr W needed to take into account  the relevant  rules. This 
was irrespective of whether  or not the store pods investment was a regulated  product. The 
regulations required  the advice given  to Mr W to be suitable. To do that, AFFS had to get 
enough information about his circumstances. 
AFFS completed a fact find for Mr W. He signed  this in October 2013. This noted  some of 
Mr Ws circumstances. But it only recorded  limited details. For instance, it didnt include 
Mr Ws outgoings, if he was a homeowner  or lived in rented accommodation, or if he had any 
other assets,  savings  or investments, other  than his existing pension  plan. 
The fact find stated that while Mr Ws existing  pension plan was of value, its benefits didnt 
represent a significant proportion of his financial wealth. But it wasnt  clear to me at all how 
this conclusion was arrived  at. As Id said, there  was no record  of Mr W having any other  
assets, savings  or investments. 
The fact find listed five levels of risk under a section titled risk and reward.  These  ranged  
from very cautious to speculative.  The fourth box adventurous was ticked. This attitude  
to risk was explained as: 
You prefer to invest in more specialised stock-market  linked investments, in return for the 
potential for increased  capital growth.  Again, investment values  will fluctuate according  to 
market conditions, however, these  fluctuations  will be more pronounced. 
The following  was also ticked:
Although  I have made infrequent investments over the years I have relatively little 
knowledge of the workings  of investment markets and, in particular, the relationship between 
risk and reward. 
There was no detail  on how Mr Ws attitude to risk was assessed,  or how his knowledge of 
investments was checked.  The available  evidence pointed  to him having very little 
investment knowledge,  if any at all. And Mr W certainly didnt seem to have invested in high 
risk, speculative products  before. Apart from his existing pension,  there  was nothing to show  
he had any other investments whatsoever. So I didnt  think I could rely on his attitude to risk 
being adventurous, as stated on the fact find. 
I was satisfied that given Mr Ws lack of investment experience, he was relying on AFFS to 
give him suitable advice. Whatever his actual attitude to risk was, it was also important  for 
AFFS to look at Mr Ws capacity to actually take that risk. I could see from the fact find that 
his annual salary  was around  £16,000.  As Id said above, the fact find stated Mr Ws existing  
pension wasnt a significant proportion of his financial  wealth. But I wasnt  satisfied this was 
a realistic record of his situation. 
Ref: DRN50001354Given Mr Ws modest income, and apparent lack of any other savings  or investments, I 
thought it was likely that a pension pot of nearly  four times his yearly salary would be a very 
significant part of his financial wealth. So Mr W could ill afford for his investments  to fall in 
value, or be lost completely. 
In a section which asked if Mr W was intending  to invest  in an unregulated or alternative  
investment, the answer Store First & Dolphin  was given. This section went on to say that 
Mr W preferred  this type of investment over mainstream investments such  as investment 
bonds because  fixed returns  secured  against assets are attractive. But given  Mr Ws lack of 
investment experience, it wasnt clear to me how this position was arrived  at. 
AFFS then issued a financial planning report.  I assumed this was provided to Mr W after the 
fact find was completed. The copy  Id seen wasnt signed or dated. It said Mr W especially 
liked the control that a SIPP would give by allowing him to take a more active  role in 
choosing what he deemed  were suitable  investments  rather  than the traditional  funds in his 
existing plan. 
But this was contradicted by the fact find. In one section, Mr W was asked to what extent  
would he like a more  extensive range of investments to choose  from. On a scale of one to 
five, with one being  not at all happy,  and five being very happy, a neutral answer of three 
was recorded.  This section indicated to me that Mr W had no strong feeling either way about 
his investment choices.  Given these  contradictions,  I wasnt  convinced he was unhappy with 
the range  of investments available  to him through his existing pension plan. 
The investment strategy section of the report stated  Mr W sought advice from AFFS about 
the intention of investing in commercial property, storage  pods and Dolphin in particular. It 
said he hadnt sought advice about  the suitability of this investment and had stated he 
understood the additional risks associated  with such an investment. But even after theyd 
been explained to Mr W, given his limited knowledge of investments,  I wasnt  satisfied he 
would have had a good enough understanding of the risks to adequately judge the suitability 
of these investments.  He would have been  heavily reliant on AFFS. 
In any event, the report then went on to consider the proposed store  pods and Dolphin 
investments. It said AFFS had done  research to familiarise itself with the investments. It 
listed some  of the risks involved for each. 
This section  of the report ended by saying  in bold type  that Mr Ws fund shouldnt be 
placed in one asset class.  Instead, it should form part of a diversified portfolio across  a 
number of asset classes. But at the time,  the report didnt make  any recommendation of 
alternative investments  that could be used. 
I could see that soon after the transfer to the SIPP, the store pods and Dolphin investments 
were made. The following  month  AFFS recommended that Mr W should make an additional 
investment in a Nucleus  portfolio. This was for just under £7,800. As Id already said,  it isnt 
clear if this investment  actually went ahead.  I assumed it did. But either way, this doesnt  
affect the outcome of this complaint. 
While dealing with this complaint, I said I was very aware that the regulator, the Financial  
Conduct Authority,  and its predecessor, the Financial Services Authority,  issued alerts  about 
advising on pension transfers.  These  dealt with transfers to invest  pension  funds into 
unregulated products through  a SIPP. One of these was published in early January 2013,  
some months before the advice given by AFFS. Another one was issued in April 2014. 
Ref: DRN50001355These alerts didnt change or alter the regulations in any way. Instead,  they simply re-stated 
the principles that were  already in place when AFFS advised Mr W. 
The 2013  alert clearly stated the regulators position  when it said:
The FSAs view is that the provision of suitable  advice  generally requires consideration of 
the other investments held by the customer or, when advice is given on a product which  is a 
vehicle for investment in other products  (such  as SIPPs and other wrappers), consideration 
of the suitability of the overall proposition, that is, the wrapper and the expected underlying 
investments in unregulated schemes.  It should  be particularly clear to financial advisers  that, 
where a customer seeks advice on a pension transfer in implementing  a wider  investment 
strategy, the advice on the pension  transfer must take account of the overall investment 
strategy the customer is contemplating.  
I was satisfied it wasnt possible for AFFS to advise  Mr W on the suitability of the SIPP  
without also considering how he planned to invest. It was very clear  to me that AFFS knew  
all along that Mr W intended to invest in store pods and Dolphin. With this in mind, I didnt 
think it was suitable  to advise Mr W to transfer his existing pension into a SIPP to allow him 
to make these investments. 
AFFS said it did set out some risks of these investments. For store  pods, these were: 
Investment in a single undertaking  or having one investment as a large part of a
schemes assets brings considerable risk.
The buyer may grant a lease for a term of 6 years to the Seller at fixed rents that are
stepped throughout the term.  This is an attractive  option for the Buyer  as it would
appear to provide a guaranteed income for 2 years after purchasing  the property,
however after the initial  period stated, there is no guarantee of occupancy  or rate of
return.
You may not always  be able to secure  a tenant and if there is a prolonged period of 
un-occupancy, surplus funds  may have to be used up to cover  the annual  SIPP  fees, 
service charge, buildings insurance and electricity rent in addition  to the nominal 
ground rent during  the term, you may also be required to make contributions to the 
scheme if there are insufficient funds available to cover  the fees.
You must consider the potential marketability carefully in respect of a specialist
commercial property such as this. It will have to be sold in order for you to secure
pension benefits  at your chosen retirement  age via an annuity.
The investment  comes with a buy back option which does  reduce the inherent 
illiquidity risk of this type of asset, however there  is little to back  up this guarantee 
apart from the word  of the company.
For Dolphin, the risks were listed as: 
Investment in a single undertaking  or having one investment as a large part of a
schemes assets brings considerable risk.
The loan is for a fixed term of three years and the investor  will receive a fixed rate of
interest. The interest will be paid twice a year on a pro rata basis.  The loan is 
secured on the property  held by Dolphin (or a subsidiary SPV established for a 
specific project).
As this is a loan to a company, the company could default  on the loan, particularly in 
the circumstances listed below however the loan does have first legal charge on the 
Ref: DRN50001356specific property which may limit the potential loss. You should be aware, however 
that all of your investment  is potentially at risk.
The German government may remove the tax break incentive.
If there  is a major fall in German property prices,  this may make  sales to German
investors difficult.
The collapse of the Euro currency could create  a recession in Germany  or at least
stimulate greater caution and impact on current bank lending practices. This might
create a knock on effect, in relation  to the loans that are currently being made 
available to German property buyers by the German banks.
As Id already said, the report went on to say I recommend that your fund  is not placed 
within one asset class and should form part of a diversified portfolio across a number 
of asset classes. But I didnt think this went far enough. AFFS knew  Mr W intended to do 
just that. He planned to invest his pension into commercial property. Given  Mr Ws lack of 
understanding of investment markets, I wasnt satisfied he realised the extent of the risk he 
was taking with his existing pension. AFFS should  have been  much clearer in its warnings to 
him. 
These investments  were unregulated. They were specialised, non-mainstream types of 
investments. I thought  they were also high risk investments that werent  suitable  for 
somebody with Mr Ws low capacity for loss. The available  evidence  didnt show me that 
Mr W was fully aware of the risks involved in making these investments. I was satisfied these 
investments werent  suitable for him  and thats  what AFFS should have told him. 
I was satisfied that given a realistic assessment of Mr Ws attitude  to risk as balanced, or 
medium, a standard  personal pension would have been suitable for his needs. I thought the 
extra charges normally associated with a SIPP werent justified   and the fact find stated 
Mr W wasnt happy with the level of fees on his existing  pension. 
I thought suitable advice  should have been not to make the store pods and Dolphin 
investments. If that advice  had been given,  I didnt see any reason why Mr W would have 
transferred his existing  pension  to the SIPP. There would simply have been no need  for the 
SIPP. So the advice  to open  a SIPP was unsuitable  for Mr Ws circumstances. 
fair compensation
I said my aim is to put Mr W into the position  he would likely now be in had he been given 
suitable advice.  I thought  if Mr W had been given suitable advice, he would have kept his 
previous pension. 
I said AFFS should establish the notional  current transfer value of Mr Ws previous pension 
plan, assuming it hadnt been transferred. The current transfer  value of the SIPP 
investments, including any cash held in the SIPP bank account, should be compared to the 
current notional value  of Mr Ws previous pension plan. 
If there are any difficulties getting  the notional valuation, then the FTSE UK Private Investor  
Income Total Return Index should be used. Thats a reasonable  proxy  for the kind of return  
that could have been achieved if suitable  funds had been chosen.  
If theres a loss, AFFS should  ideally pay an amount into Mr Ws pension  plan to increase its 
value by the amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow for 
Ref: DRN50001357the effect of charges and any available  tax relief. Compensation  shouldnt  be paid into the 
pension plan if it would conflict  with any existing protection or allowance.  
Its unlikely that AFFS will be able to pay the compensation  into Mr Ws pension  plan.  If 
thats the case, it should pay the amount  direct  to him. But if it had been possible to pay into 
the plan, it would have provided  a taxable  income when Mr W takes the benefits. So the 
compensation should be reduced to notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise 
have been paid. 
The notional allowance should  be calculated using Mr Ws marginal rate of tax in retirement. 
I think hes likely to be a basic rate tax payer in retirement. The reduction should  equal the 
current basic rate of tax. But, as Mr W would have  been  able to take a tax free lump sum, 
the reduction should be applied to 75% of the compensation. 
Since the store pods and Dolphin investments are now illiquid   they cant readily be sold on 
the open market  their value should be treated  as nil. The resultant sum represents the 
redress due from AFFS to Mr W. AFFS can then arrange to take ownership of the store pods  
and Dolphin investments. If thats  not possible,  then Mr W can sign an undertaking that he 
will pay AFFS any future disbursements he may get from these investments. That 
undertaking must allow for any tax and charges that would be incurred on drawing the 
receipts from the SIPP. AFFS will need to meet any costs in drawing up the undertaking. 
I think its very likely  Mr W will have to maintain the SIPP  for a period of time as these 
investments cant be sold. This will stop the SIPP from being closed. If AFFS is unable to 
buy the store pods  and Dolphin investments from the SIPP provider, it should pay Mr W five 
years worth  of SIPP fees to compensate  him for these  costs.  
In addition, AFFS should Pay Mr W £300 for the disruption caused to his retirement 
planning. 
AFFS should also provide  details of the compensation calculation to Mr W in a clear, simple 
format. 
Finally, simple interest is to be added to my award  at a rate of 8% gross a year from the date 
of my final decision to the date of payment. Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. 
If AFFS deducts income tax from the interest,  it should tell Mr W how much has been taken 
off. AFFS should give Mr W a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim 
the tax from HM Revenue  & Customs if appropriate.  
I then gave all parties  two weeks to raise  any further  points if they wished to do so. Mr Ws 
representative confirmed  he didnt have anything else to add. No response at all was 
received from either AFFS representative,  or AFFS itself. 
my findings
Ive considered afresh all the available evidence and arguments  to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, and as no additional 
points have been raised, I see no reason to depart  from my provisional findings  and 
decision. 
Ref: DRN50001358my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Anthony Feeney Financial Services should 
calculate the loss and pay compensation to Mr W as set out above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 August 2019.
John Miles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5000135