K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC)  mis-sold payment protection  insurance 
(PPI) to him in 2005.  
background
PPI was sold to Mr H alongside a flexi-loan. The cost of his PPI premium  was a percentage 
of his monthly loan repayment. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld. She thought the offer HSBC 
made to return some  of the commission Mr H received from his PPI premiums was fair. Mr H 
disagreed with that view and so the matter  has been passed to me to make a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken that into account  in deciding 
this case.  
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr H, but I dont  think this policy was mis-sold. I agree with our 
adjudicator that the offer HSBC made to refund some of the commission it received from 
Mr Hs premiums is a fair way to settle this complaint.  
Neither party has been able to tell me how the PPI was sold.  But from what  we know about  
the way HSBC sold this type of PPI policy, it appears likely that the same  paperwork would  
have been provided to Mr H regardless of the method of sale. Ive seen a sample copy  of 
that paperwork. In the absence of evidence to the contrary, I think that what Mr H was told 
when PPI was sold probably follows whats set out on the sample  form.  
The first thing Ive looked  at is whether  Mr H would have known the cover  was optional and 
he didnt have to buy it if he didnt want it. Mr H told us that HSBC  told him that PPI was a 
necessity and that he was given the impression that he had to buy PPI. As I said above, 
Mr H also told us that he couldnt remember how the policy was sold to him. So its not 
entirely clear  to me how he could have remembered being  given such specific information by 
the bank if he couldnt recall the method or anything else about the sale. 
I can see from the sample paperwork that regardless of the way PPI was sold,  HSBC would 
have sent or given  Mr H a demands, needs and recommendations form. I think the wording 
on the form is sufficiently  clear to indicate that Mr H had a choice about buying PPI. I think  
hed have also had to sign separately  for cover on his credit agreement. Whilst I appreciate  
he doesnt now remember, I think HSBC  would have made it clear  to Mr H that this policy  
was optional and he didnt have to buy it if he didnt  want it. 
In light of the demands, needs and recommendations form, I think  HSBC probably advised  
Mr H to buy this PPI cover. That means it had to make sure the policy  was suitable for his 
needs. To help me decide whether the PPI was suitable, Ive looked at the terms and 
conditions of the cover. And Ive also thought  about  what Mr H told us about his personal 
circumstances at the time. 
Ref: DRN53705912I can see that if hed had to make  a claim,  Mr Hs loan repayments  would  have been  covered 
for up to 12 months if he lost his job or he became  unwell. Mr H told us that he couldnt  
remember what his sick pay arrangements were when he took the cover out. Thats  not 
surprising given the sale was so long ago. But as he also told us hed only been in his job for 
around two months,  I think its likely the PPI would have paid out for longer than his sick pay 
would have lasted.  Mr H told us that he didnt have  any other  means with which to make  his 
repayments if he was out of work.  So on the face of it, it looks as though PPI could have 
been useful for him. 
Ive also considered whether Mr H would have been  affected by any of the policys 
exclusions. As I said above, Mr H told us that hed only been in his job for two months. I 
dont think that would  have had an impact  on any potential claim. I say this because the 
definition of employment in the policy is simply that Mr H was working for 16 hours  a week.  I 
havent seen a restriction that sets out a minimum timeframe  that Mr H had to have been 
with one employer.  
Mr H told us he was in good health  when  this cover was sold  so I dont  think  hed have 
been affected by any of the policys exclusions about medical conditions. And I havent seen 
anything else that would  have stopped him from making a successful claim if he needed  to. 
Overall, I think PPI probably was suitable for Mr H. 
HSBC still had to give Mr H enough  information about the cover so he could decide for 
himself whether it was a good fit for his needs. I accept its possible that HSBC didnt tell 
Mr H everything  it should have done.  But Ive set out above  why I think  PPI could have been 
helpful to Mr H if he was out of work.  Although I appreciate he doesnt now remember, I think  
Mr H probably  chose  to buy PPI at the time  so it looks as though he wanted this type of 
cover. I dont think more  or better information  would have put Mr H off buying PPI. 
All of this means  that means HSBC doesnt  have to pay back  all of the cost of the PPI to 
Mr H. But HSBC did pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr H because: 
HSBC got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr H about that. Because  HSBC didnt tell Mr H that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, HSBC has paid back the amount of commission  and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so HSBC  UK Bank Plc does not have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr H. 
But HSBC  UK Bank Plc does have to pay back to Mr H any commission  and profit share  it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand  it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 September  2019.
Ref: DRN53705913Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN5370591