K822xComplaint
Mr and Mrs C are unhappy  with the response  of Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook), 
following a claim against it under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act (CCA)  1974.
Background 
Mr and Mrs C were contacted by a company, Ill refer to it as G, which supplied and 
installed solar panel systems. Following  a meeting, Mr and Mrs C agreed  to enter into a 
contract with G for it to supply and install a solar  panel system. To fund this, they also 
agreed to enter into a 15 year fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook.
Mr and Mrs C made  a claim under  section  75 (s75)  of the CCA. They said that they been 
told that the solar  panel system  would  be self-funded and that their monthly  loan 
repayments would be more than off-set by the feed-in-tariff (FIT) income and savings they 
make on their electricity bills by using the electricity generated by the solar panel  system 
rather than buying  it from their energy provider. But that hadnt happened.  Instead, their 
monthly loan repayments had been much higher.
Shawbrook wrote to Mr and Mrs C and explained that it was still looking into their complaint. 
Unhappy with this, and as Shawbrook had had 8 weeks to look into their complaint, they 
referred their complaint  to this service.
During our investigation Shawbrook  made an offer to resolve Mr and Mrs Cs complaint. It 
agreed that the benefits of the solar panel  system  had been misrepresented. To put things 
right it said it had worked out the potential income and savings to Mr and Mrs C, from the 
solar panels,  over the 15 year term of the loan. It said it would restructure the loan to ensure 
that they would pay no more than this over the 15 years. As this meant  Mr and Mrs C had 
been paying more each  month than they wouldve been if their system had been self-
funding, Shawbrook said it would use the overpayments to reduce  the outstanding balance  
of the loan. It also offered to pay Mr and Mrs C £200 for the trouble and upset caused.
Following our involvement Shawbrook made a slight change  to its offer. Rather  than using 
the overpayments to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan, it gave Mr and Mrs C the 
following four options  as to how they would like their overpayments  to be used:
1.the overpayments are used to reduce  the outstanding balance of the loan and Mr and 
Mrs C continue to make their existing monthly  loan payments  resulting in the loan 
finishing early,
2.the overpayments are used to reduce  the outstanding balance of the loan and Mr and 
Mrs C pay a new, lower  monthly loan payments until the end of the existing loan 
term,
3.the overpayments are returned  to Mr and Mrs C as a lump sum and they pay their 
existing monthly loan payment resulting in the loan finishing early; or,
4.the overpayments are returned  to Mr and Mrs C and they pay a new, lower  monthly  
loan payment until the end of the existing loan term.
Our investigator felt that the offer put forward by Shawbrook was fair in this complaint. Mr 
and Mrs C didnt agree. In summary they said if the benefits of the solar  panels hadnt been  
misrepresented to them, they wouldnt  have  entered into the contract. They  said the contract  
should be rescinded with all their payments returned to them  and the panels removed from 
their home
Ref: DRN50044942As an agreement couldnt  be reached the complaint has been  passed to me to review.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs C say that they were approached by G and during a sales meeting told that the 
solar panel  system would be entirely self-financing. Neither Shawbrook  nor Mr and Mrs C 
dispute that the benefits of the solar panel  system  were misrepresented  and as a result  this 
decision will deal with what I consider to be fair compensation.
The role of this service is to help settle disputes between  consumers and businesses  
providing financial services fairly  and reasonably  with minimum formality. In cases  like this 
one, determining fair compensation isnt an exact science. My role is to arrive  at a fair and 
reasonable outcome taking account of the particular  circumstances.
My view of Mr and Mrs Cs complaint is that it isnt so much about  the solar  panels 
themselves, but that they were led to believe that they would be self-funding and come at no 
additional financial cost to them. And based on this I dont think  it would be fair or reasonable 
to require the removal of the solar panels from their home. It would cost Shawbrook  a 
significant sum to remove them, so I dont think it would  be fair or reasonable to ask it to do 
that. Rather,  I think the fair outcome here is to put Mr and Mrs C in a position where the 
panels are self-funding over the original  term of the loan. By allowing Mr and Mrs C to keep 
the panels, Im satisfied  that they will likely benefit  from lower  electricity bills or FIT payments 
going forward.
I have carefully considered the methodology Shawbrook has submitted to this service to 
calculate the total benefits of the solar panel  system.  This methodology is based on the 
actual and estimated  future performance of Mr and Mrs Cs solar  panel system.
Shawbrook has outlined  that when calculating the estimated future performance of Mr and 
Mrs Cs solar panel system it will use a number of assumptions. These  include  a self-
consumption rate of 37%, the percentage of energy generated  by Mr and Mrs Cs solar 
panels that they are expected to use rather than buying it from their energy provider, 
electricity price inflation, the degradation  rate and the estimated retail price  index (RPI).  
Ill start with the self-consumption rate. Energy providers use a 50% self-consumption rate 
when calculating payments to be made to their customers. This was the rate that was set by 
the Government when it introduced the FIT scheme. The Energy Savings Trust website 
previously gave a table of potential  savings  under  various  scenarios  depending on the 
location and the consumers lifestyle rather than a specific  percentage. 
Whats clear is that self-consumption is impacted  by the period  that someone is in their 
home and able to use, or self-consume, the electricity that their solar  panel  system is 
generating. It is self-evident that determining an exact figure  over the term of the loan is 
difficult. My role is to determine fair compensation and arrive at an outcome that is fair and 
reasonable overall. And in cases of this nature that isnt an exact  science.
Taking the above into account Im satisfied  that using a self-consumption rate of 37% is fair 
and reasonable in this case.  Im of the opinion  that it takes into account changing consumer 
Ref: DRN50044943occupancy habits over the lifetime  of the solar  panel  system.  Once  the loan has been  repaid, 
Im satisfied that it is highly likely that Mr and Mrs C will continue  to benefit from the system 
as a result  of a reduction in their electricity bills because  of the electricity generated by the 
panels and the FIT payments.
Ive considered the other assumptions  used by Shawbrook as outlined above. Im of the view 
that these appear  reasonable considering the actual known figures. As an example, the 
actual average RPI for the last four years doesnt  seem to be far from the assumed figure. In 
summary, Im satisfied the assumptions that have been used by Shawbrook provide a fair 
and reasonable basis  for calculating fair compensation.
Shawbrook has calculated that by making the solar  panel  system  self-funding,  Mr and Mrs C 
have been paying more  each month  than they should have been. Shawbrook  has offered to 
return these overpayments with 8% simple interest.  This is in line with what I would expect. It 
has also given Mr and Mrs C four options as to how they can use their overpayments and 
associated interest. For clarity,  these  options  are:
1.the overpayments are used to reduce  the outstanding balance of the loan and Mr and 
Mrs C continue to make their existing monthly  loan payments  resulting in the loan 
finishing early,
2.the overpayments are used to reduce  the outstanding balance of the loan and Mr and 
Mrs C pay a new, lower  monthly loan payments until the end of the existing loan 
term,
3.the overpayments are returned  to Mr and Mrs C as a lump sum and they pay their 
existing monthly loan payment resulting in the loan finishing early; or,
4.the overpayments are returned  to Mr and Mrs C and they pay a new, lower  monthly  
loan payment until the end of the existing loan term.
I believe that these  four options are fair and reasonable as it provides Mr and Mrs C the 
flexibility to decide  how best to use their overpayments to suit their situation.
Im satisfied that there was enough  information  available when Mr and Mrs C first contacted  
Shawbrook that meant  that their claim should have been upheld.  The fact that this didnt 
happen undoubtedly caused  them trouble and upset and consequently Ill make an award  of 
£200 to reflect this.
My final decision
My final decision is that Mr and Mrs Cs complaint  should be upheld.  In full and final 
settlement of it, Shawbrook Bank Limited must:
allow Mr and Mrs C to keep the solar panels,
estimate the potential  savings and income  to Mr and Mrs C from the panels over the 
15 year term of the loan and rework  it so that they pay no more than this. Where  
possible it should use Mr and Mrs Cs electricity bills and FIT statements to do this,
add 8% simple interest* to any overpayment  made from the date the overpayment 
was made until the date of the settlement,
allow Mr and Mrs C to decide  how theyd  like their overpayment  and associated  
interest to be used, using  the four options described above; and,
Ref: DRN50044944pay Mr and Mrs C £200 for the trouble and upset  caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  15 June  2020.
Michael Fisher
ombudsman
*If Shawbrook Bank Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take 
off income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr and Mrs C how much it has taken off. It 
should also give them a certificate showing this, if they ask for one, so they can claim the tax 
back from HM Revenue  & Customs.
Ref: DRN5004494