K820x#14complaint
Mr B is unhappy with the incorrect information  Zurich Assurance Ltd (Zurich) provided him 
when he went to take benefits  from his pension plan. He feels he is now financially worse off 
as a result. 
background
I issued a provisional decision on 27 September 2019. Ive recapped  the background below:
Mr B had a retirement annuity contact with Zurich  which started in 1983.  In November 2017 
Zurich sent him a wake up pack containing information about  his retirement plan and 
options for him to consider as he neared his retirement date in April 2018. Amongst other 
things, this pack explained:
If you want  flexible access to your money,  you may want to look at drawdown which 
keeps your retirement savings invested.
Your plan does not provide a drawdown  option. However, you can still choose drawdown 
by transferring your retirement savings, please  speak  to your financial adviser about this 
option. 
We recommend you take financial  advice before deciding to take drawdown and shop 
around to ensure you get the plan that meets your needs. 
The pack  also explained  that Zurich would not be providing Mr B with advice or a 
recommendation. And the covering letter indicates  that a copy of the pack  was sent to a 
financial adviser listed as the servicing agent  on Mr Bs plan (I will refer to this financial 
adviser as FA from now on). 
About six weeks before  Mr Bs retirement date, Zurich sent him another  retirement pack. 
This pack repeated  much of what was contained  in the November mailing,  including that 
Mr Bs plan does not provide a drawdown option  and that he should  speak with his financial 
adviser and shop around before taking  his pension benefits. A copy  of this letter was also 
sent to FA. 
In early July 2018,  responding  to a request from Mr B, Zurich sent him and FA illustrations of 
what his yearly pension  income might  be at ages 65, 70 and 75. 
A couple of weeks later,  Mr B called Zurich to discuss taking his pension  benefits. During  
this call he was incorrectly told he could take a partial lump sum withdrawal from his fund. At 
this time, Zurich also told Mr B about the servicing  agent on his plan and provided  him with 
the name and address of FA. 
The next day, Zurich sent Mr B a retirement benefits  claim pack. A copy was again sent to 
FA. This pack  explained Mr B could  take all of his pension benefits as a lump  sum. It also 
explained:
You dont have to take a lump sum from this plan. There are other ways to access  the 
value of your pension plan value as lump sums. You can usually take up to a quarter as 
tax-free cash if you move your pension plan into a flexible  retirement  income or buy a 
guaranteed income for life. You cannot  take flexible  retirement options under this plan.
Ref: DRN50234952There are many different  ways to take your pension plan. 
You may wish to consider transferring your pension plan to one or more different 
providers to access different options.
Once we have paid your claim, you wont be able to cancel the lump sum payment. 
Therefore its important to think carefully  before making your decision.
In all of this correspondence Zurich encouraged Mr B to seek financial advice. 
On 30 July Mr B phoned Zurich again  because he didnt see the option for taking a partial 
lump sum withdrawal from his plan on the forms he received.  Zurich  explained this was 
because his plan didnt provide for a partial withdrawal; his only option for taking a lump  sum 
with Zurich was to take his benefits in full. 
A few days  later Zurich  received Mr Bs completed claim form. Mr B ticked  the box to say he 
had received advice from a regulated  financial adviser. However,  the claim couldnt be 
processed because  Mr B had requested a partial withdrawal, which  wasnt  available  on his 
plan. Zurich then wrote to Mr B, with a copy to FA, letting him know that his partial claim 
couldnt proceed because it wasnt permitted under the terms of his plan. Mr B was told to 
contact Zurich if he wished to proceed with a claim for the full fund. 
About a week later Mr B contacted Zurich and confirmed that he wished to proceed  with 
claiming the full value  of his pension plan as a lump sum. This request was completed and a 
cheque sent to Mr B on 22 August. 
Mr B called Zurich again a few days later requesting that Zurich  cancel his recent claim. He 
explained that hed spoken  to FA and he recommended Mr B transfer his benefits to a 
flexible access plan.  At this time, Zurich told Mr B he could return the cheque  and his claim 
would be cancelled. Mr B did so, but Zurich wouldnt reverse  the claim. Mr B then 
complained to Zurich.  
Zurich upheld the complaint, recognising that hed been incorrectly told on one occasion that 
he could take a partial withdrawal from his plan and that he was told his claim could be 
reversed if he returned the cheque. Zurichs final response letter  explained that this wasnt 
correct as Zurich is only able to reverse this type of claim in exceptional circumstances. 
Zurich determined that Mr B wanted  to reverse his claim because he had now sought 
financial advice and this advice differed from what hed already done. Zurich concluded 
these circumstances  didnt warrant such a concession and advised  that the funds would be 
returned to him. However, it did apologise for the giving  him incorrect information  and offered 
him £210 to cover his costs and the trouble and upset this caused. Mr B didnt think this was 
enough, so he brought  his complaint to this service  for an independent review. 
One of our investigators  looked into Mr Bs concerns  and concluded that Zurichs offer fairly  
recognised the impact  its mistake had on Mr B and didnt recommend Zurich do anything 
more. 
Mr B disagreed and his complaint was passed  to me for a decision.  Mr B said hes not 
received any funds from his pension pot and Zurich have paid HMRC a large amount of tax 
on money hes not received. 
I understand that Zurich has agreed to reverse the claim and reinstate Mr Bs pension  plan if 
he can show that HMRC approve. To date, Mr B has not been able to evidence  this. 
Ref: DRN50234953And my provisional findings were as follows:
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   Having done so, I dont intend to uphold 
this complaint. 
I appreciate Mr B is unhappy he was given incorrect information about how he could take 
benefits from his pension. He says as a result hes had to pay more  tax on his pension 
benefits. Zurich  admitted  it made  a mistake  and offered £210 compensation to make up for 
this. Mr B doesnt think this is enough. But having reviewed everything thats been provided 
so far, including the available recordings of the calls between Mr B and Zurich, I consider 
Zurichs offer fair and reasonable in the circumstances. Let me explain why.
Mr B says he was told on numerous  occasions  that he could make partial withdrawals from 
his pension plan.  Ive not seen evidence to support this. From what I have seen, Zurich 
incorrectly told Mr B this during one phone call. But Mr B was given the correct  information 
about his options on numerous  occasions before he took his benefits.                       
Mr B also says he was told the only way he could get a lump  sum from his plan was if he 
took all of his plan benefits this way. I cant be sure how this was explained to Mr B on the 
phone, as there were issues with the call recording. But all of the written information sent to 
Mr B correctly explained how he could take his benefits, including  transferring his pension  
plan to another provider to access additional  options. 
Although Mr B was incorrectly  told he could  make a partial withdrawal from his plan, this 
appears to have been an isolated mistake and could have easily  been sorted with the 
assistance of his financial adviser. I understand Mr B says he wasnt  aware that he had a 
financial adviser. But from what Ive been  provided  it appears that every time Zurich  wrote  to 
Mr B it was noted that a copy was also sent to FA, the servicing  agent  on his plan.  Its 
unclear why Mr B didnt  query this if it wasnt accurate.  And  he was told about FA and 
provided with contact details nearly a month before he took benefits.  Further, the benefit 
claim form indicates that he had received financial advice from a regulated  adviser. In light of 
this, I dont think Zurich  can be held responsible for the manner  in which  Mr B opted to take 
his pension benefits or the tax Mr B incurred as a result.  When Zurich paid the claim, which it 
did when it issued the cheque originally, tax had to be deducted at the same  time. The first 
25% of pension funds  taken are generally tax-free,  but the remaining 75% would be taxed. 
I also dont consider Zurich was unreasonable when it decided to not reinstate Mr Bs 
pension plan. However, Zurich has nevertheless agreed to do so if Mr B can evidence  
HMRC has approved. This is because Zurich is obligated to follow the rules  established  by 
HMRC when making pension payments. It has already reported  to HMRC that Mr Bs plan 
was paid out in full and taxed accordingly. This can only be reversed in exceptional 
circumstances. And in this case, the evidence  suggests that Mr B wanted the claim reversed 
only after receiving financial advice. Its unclear why the advice occurred when it did and not 
sooner, but Ive seen nothing to suggest Mr B was prevented from getting financial advice 
earlier. Further, as noted above, FA was listed on all of the documents sent to Mr B as 
receiving a copy. I cant see that Mr B ever queried this. And he was given the name  and 
contact details of FA nearly a month  before he claimed his pension benefits. All of this 
supports Zurichs conclusion that there were no exceptional circumstances at play 
warranting a reversal of Mr Bs claim for pension  benefits. 
Ref: DRN50234954Mr B was given the wrong information and I appreciate that this would have been upsetting. 
But Zurich  has apologised and offered compensation  to make up for the trouble  and upset 
caused by its error. In light of the circumstances  of this case, I consider this amount 
reasonable and so I dont intend  to ask Zurich to do anything more. 
my provisional decision
For the reasons  given,  I dont intend to uphold Mr Bs complaint.  
I invited Mr B and Zurich to respond  to my provisional decision. Zurich  responded that it 
agreed with my conclusions and had nothing further to add. 
Mr B responded and clarified his statement of the case. But in essence, he emphasised his 
position that he was given  incorrect advice  by Zurich on multiple occasions. He also said 
Zurich provided incomplete call recordings that conveniently omitted  parts of the calls 
favourable to his position. Most  recently,  Mr B has reiterated his arguments  regarding the 
reinstatement of his plan,  asserting he was told it would  happen  and only after Zurichs  delay  
in actioning this, was he told it wasnt possible.  
Since my PD, Mr B requested unedited copies of all call recordings between  him and Zurich 
during the pertinent  time. Zurich responded that it was satisfied it had provided him with all 
relevant information  requested. And it explained  that edits  made  to the call recordings were 
of content not relevant, including small talk by the staff during referrals and no dialogue with 
Mr B had been edited out.
Zurich ultimately provided Mr B with call recordings which he then provided to this service.  
Mr B argues  these calls demonstrate he was told his policy could be reinstated and because 
Zurich failed to do so, tax has been  paid to HMRC  on benefits  hes not received. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I see no reason to depart 
from my provisional decision or the reasons explained therein. I remain  of the view that 
Mr Bs complaint should not be upheld. 
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I have  taken  into account relevant law and
regulations; regulators  rules, guidance and codes of practice; and what  I consider to have
been good industry practice at the time.
Where the evidence is incomplete,  inconclusive, or contradictory (as some of it is here),
I reach  my decision on the balance  of probabilities  in other words, what I consider  is most
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
It is my role to fairly and reasonably decide  if the business has done anything  wrong  in
respect of the individual circumstances of the complaint made and  if I find that the
business has done something  wrong  award compensation for any material  loss or distress
and inconvenience  suffered by the complainant as a result of this.
Mr B has provided substantial submissions in support of his complaint and I am grateful for 
the considerable detail  provided. I have  carefully  reviewed all of these submissions in their 
entirety. However, I trust he wont take it as a discourtesy that Ive not repeated everything 
Ref: DRN50234955here. Ours is an informal dispute resolution  service,  and Ive concentrated on what I consider 
to be the crux of the complaint. The purpose of this decision  is not to address every
point raised in detail,  but to set out my findings and reasons for reaching  them.
If I dont comment  on any specific point, its not because Ive not considered it but because  I 
dont think I need  to comment on it in order to reach the right outcome. This service  is 
impartial between,  and independent  from, consumers  and businesses. What this means  is 
that we dont represent either party, and I dont act under eithers  instructions  or take 
directions on how a complaint will be looked at and what questions should  be asked or 
answered.
I feel I should also clarify that the role of this service isnt to regulate or to punish businesses.  
That is the job of the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). So as a business 
regulated by the FCA, Zurich is required to comply fully with our information requests and in 
this case, Im not persuaded  that Zurich  didnt do this. Ive also listened  to the call recordings 
provided to us by the business  and the versions  provided by Mr B and considered the 
comments of both parties regarding their contents.  As an informal  service I cannot speak to 
whether the calls have  been intentionally edited, but taking into account  everything Mr Bs 
said, I dont consider information that would change the outcome of this complaint has been 
intentionally removed  from the call recordings. However, if Mr B feel this to be the case, he 
can raise these concerns  with the regulator.
In my provisional decision I explained  why I didnt think Zurich had to do more  since  it only 
provided Mr B with incorrect information (that he could take a partial withdrawal from his 
plan) once  and this was done over the phone. All of the information  about Mr Bs retirement 
options were provided to him and his listed FA in writing, as required by the FCA.  Mr B says 
he was told he could  take a partial  withdrawal numerous times, but Ive not seen evidence to 
support this. So I remain of the view that Zurich neednt do more to put things right.  While 
Zurich made  a mistake, the evidence Ive been provided shows  it was an isolated  one and 
was quickly corrected. Furthermore, Mr B had all of the information  about his plan, including 
that it didnt allow for partial withdrawals, well in advance of his decision to take all of his 
benefits. 
As Zurich was not a financial adviser, it could  not advise him on how to meet  his objectives 
to take a partial sum from his plan. As a pension product provider, all Zurich could do was 
tell him the options available to him under his Zurich pension  plan and give him information  
about the open market  option. In this case,  the only option available to Mr B under  his Zurich 
plan to access cash, was to take all of his benefits. Mr B could only take a partial withdrawal 
if he transferred to a different pension arrangement. 
So even if Mr B was told on the phone the only thing he could do with his plan was to take 
the whole  thing or leave it until retirement, this doesnt change  my mind about the outcome 
as this genuinely was the only thing he could do with his current  plan. And as I detailed  in my 
provisional decision, the retirement options packs sent to Mr B made  clear  he could transfer 
if he wanted additional options. I dont  think it would be fair or reasonable for Zurich  to be 
required to recite the contents  of the retirement  options pack over the phone  or explain it in 
in the kind of detail Mr B seemed to have wanted.  But Zurich told Mr B on multiple occasions 
that he had a financial adviser  servicing his plan,  gave Mr B the advisers  contact details and 
recommended he seek  financial  advice before making a decision. Zurich cant  be held 
responsible for Mr Bs decision to proceed without advice.
Ref: DRN50234956Mr B is also unhappy that Zurich will not reinstate  his plan after he took his benefits  in full so 
he could transfer  to another provider to access his pension  flexibly. Mr B says he was told on 
multiple times that it would be possible to reinstate his plan. But Zurich  then failed  to action 
his request immediately  and this is why it couldnt  be reinstated.  I dont agree. Even if I were 
persuaded Zurich  delayed  actioning  his request (which Im not), this would not have been 
the reason his policy couldnt be reinstated. The timing of the request wouldnt have made a 
difference  as I explained in my provisional  decision, the reinstatement was denied  because 
a genuine mistake under HMRC rules  hadnt been  made. 
The regulator requires  pension providers to send detailed written retirement benefit 
information several months  in advance of a consumers selected retirement date and again a 
few weeks before. This is because once a decision is made to take benefits, it usually 
cannot be undone unless a genuine  mistake has been made.  When  Zurich processed  Mr Bs 
request to take his benefits in full, it was required to pay to HMRC tax on those benefits. The 
only way that tax would be returned  is if the entire policy was reinstated. Zurich  has agreed  
to do this if Mr B could provide HMRCs written confirmation that it agreed to the claim being  
reversed. To date, this hasnt been  provided.  
Its possible Zurich could  have better  managed Mr B expectations when he asked to have 
his claim reinstated.  But having carefully  listened  to all the calls about this, I dont  agree  
Zurich told Mr B his plan would definitely be reinstated. During these calls Mr B was told that 
it was HMRCs decision as to whether the plan could be reinstated. While Zurich  undertook  
to see if Mr Bs claim could be reversed, it told him not to cash  the cheque, and to return  it. 
At this time, Zurich had no reason to believe a genuine mistake hadnt  been made. But once 
Zurich confirmed HMRC would not permit the policy to be reinstated because a genuine 
mistake hadnt been evidenced, Zurich sent him a second cheque.  Mr B returned this 
cheque after being told it wasnt  possible  to reinstate the policy and after receiving a final 
response to his complaint again  denying  reinstatement of the policy.  From everything Ive 
been provided, it seems  the decision to return the cheque  at this point was his alone and I 
cant hold Zurich responsible for the situation  Mr B now finds himself  in as a result.  At any 
point the cheque could be reissued at his request. 
I appreciate Mr B is going to be deeply disappointed  by my decision,  but Im unable  to agree 
that the evidence Ive been provided demonstrates  that Zurich repeatedly gave Mr B 
incorrect information both before and after he took his pension benefits in full. Therefore, I 
dont consider it fair or reasonable  to hold Zurich responsible for any harm  Mr B may have 
suffered as a result  of his decision to take his benefits in this way and to then return  these 
benefits after his request  to have his plan reinstated  was declined.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 April 2021.
Jennifer Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5023495