K822xcomplaint
Mr R complains about the service hes received from Shop Direct  Finance Company Limited 
(SDF) in relation to his catalogue shopping account.
background 
Mr R says he ordered five items  of clothing, but he returned them as they werent suitable. 
He says the retailer sent four of the items back to him, saying theyd  been  worn and washed, 
which he denies. And he says his accounts  falling into arrears because  he isnt prepared to 
make payments until he receives credits for the items in dispute.
SDF says when Mr R returned the items, the retailer inspected  them  on 4 May 2018  and 
determined some of them  had been worn,  washed  and the tags re-attached.  It says this 
breached the retailers  returns  policy. And it says as Mr R disputed the inspection  findings, 
two further inspections took place  in June and July 2018, but the outcome remained  
unchanged.
SDF also says during its investigation into Mr Rs complaint, it noted that the correct process 
had been followed  by the retailer in relation  to the inspection of returned goods.  But it says it 
identified that one item had been  wrongly recharged to Mr Rs account,  although the retailer  
hadnt returned that item to him. And it says another item was recharged to his account 
twice, on 4 May 2018 and again on 31 May. 
So, SDF says a credits due to Mr Rs account for these two items. And it says its agreed  to 
pay him £80 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused to him as a result of 
these incorrect transactions.
Our investigator thought this was reasonable and that Mr Rs complaint should be partly 
upheld on this basis.
Mr R disagreed with the investigators conclusions. So, the matters  been referred to me to 
make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to partly uphold Mr Rs complaint and to require SDF to pay him £80 
compensation for the distress  and inconvenience  hes experienced as a result of this matter. 
Ill explain  why.
Mr R bought the items of clothing using  his catalogue shopping account with SDF. So, it was 
responsible for any breach of contract  or misrepresentation  by the retailer.
I see the dispute relates to the retailers returns policy and in particular whether or not it was 
entitled to decline  to accept the return of some of the items Mr R had bought.
Ive looked carefully  at the policy and I see it says the retailer  will replace or refund most 
goods provided they are returned to it within 28 days of receipt, complete, unused,  in their 
original packaging  and with any security tags attached. 
Ref: DRN57675562I also see the retailer declined to accept the return of some of the items of clothing Mr R sent 
back to it because following inspection it determined that they had been worn, washed and 
the tags re-attached. And I see after Mr R complained about the matter two further 
inspections were carried out, with the same outcome in each case.
I acknowledge Mr R feels very strongly about this matter, but from everything Ive seen, I 
cant conclude the retailers refusal to accept  the return of these items amounted  to a breach 
of contract  for which SDF is responsible  as his finance provider.
I see SDF now accepts two items were wrongly  re-charged to Mr Rs account. And Its 
agreed to pay him £80 compensation for the distress and inconvenience  hes been caused.  I 
think this is reasonable.  And I dont think it would be fair for me to require it to pay him any 
further compensation, in the circumstances.
So, I partly  uphold Mr Rs complaint on this basis.
 
my final decision
I partly  uphold  Mr Rs complaint against  Shop  Direct Finance Company Limited. It must pay 
him £80 compensation for the distress and inconvenience  hes experienced as a result of 
this matter.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  15 April 2019.
Robert Collinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5767556