K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain  that Elderbridge Limited has received payments  in settlement of a 
loan secured over their home, but have ignored their requests for a discharge and the title 
deeds. They  also complain theyve been  continually harassed by Elderbridge since 2016.  
Mr and Mrs M are represented in their complaint by S, a solicitor.
background
In or around 2016 Elderbridge took over a loan Mr and Mrs M had with G, a loan provider. In 
their complaint S said Elderbridge has written to and telephoned Mr and Mrs M constantly 
despite being asked not to contact them. S said Mr M was ill and both he and Mrs M were 
becoming increasingly distressed by the situation. 
In 2017 S brought a complaint to this service regarding communication  of Elderbridge with 
Mr and Mrs M. Our service issued an assessment not upholding the complaint. 
S said Mr and Mrs M agreed a payment  plan,  which was paid in full to Elderbridge on 
23 August 2018.  S said to Elderbridge that Mr and Mrs M needed a discharge  of the 
standard security  over their home. 
S said it had telephoned Elderbridge several times  since August 2018, and it could only 
advise that the discharge was with its legal  department. She said she received no response 
in September  or October and lodged a formal written complaint on 25 October 2018. S said 
Elderbridge had continually sent harassing letters to her clients but had not responded to Ss 
letters. She said she only received an acknowledgement of the complaint. So she brought  a 
new complaint to this service. 
S noted again  that Mr M had a serious illness and her clients continued to be distressed, 
frustrated and upset  at the situation. She said Mrs M requires help dealing  with paperwork 
and had incurred  legal  expenses. S wanted  the executed discharge to be sent to her office  
without any further  delay, together with her clients title deeds. 
Our investigator confirmed she could  not address issues related to the first complaint in 2017  
but she could  look at the impact of Eldridges actions from March  2018. She accepted  that 
Eldridge had sent letters directly to Mr and Mrs M rather than S, as S had requested  and, 
although she concluded that the letters were not threatening in nature, she acknowledged 
that Mr and Mrs M expressed their distress at having to deal with the ongoing  issue rather 
than S.
The investigator said that after the debt was paid-off in August 2018 shed expect 
Elderbridge to remove the discharge  on the property and provide  the title deeds within  a 
reasonable time frame which she thought would be two months. And that it was only after 
intervention from this service that these actions were taken - some 11 months  later. She 
recommended Elderbridge pay Mr and Mrs M £650 for the trouble and upset this situation 
has caused them. 
S, on behalf of Mr and Mrs M, did not agree that £650 fully compensated her clients  for the 
continued stress theyd  suffered at the hands  of Elderbridge and asked for a final decision 
from an ombudsman. In her response S included reference to communication going  back  as 
far as 2016.
Ref: DRN50065682I issued a provisional decision to Elderbridge and S, on behalf of Mr and Mrs M, on 13 
December 2019.  I said: 
Elderbridge accepted that it could have done more to make sure the deeds were  
returned sooner.  It also said that due to an administration oversight correspondence  
relating to the complaint  was uploaded  incorrectly and not passed to the complaint 
department to pick up and review.  Having accepted these  errors were made, its left 
to me to decide  if £650 is fair and reasonable compensation  for the distress  and 
inconvenience caused. 
communication
From the copies of correspondence shes sent its clear that S made  Elderbridge 
aware on a number of occasions that Mr and Mrs M were vulnerable and that Mr M is 
very ill. 
S said she asked Elderbridge to stop sending  mail to her clients, but to direct  it to S 
instead. I can see that in March  2018 Elderbridge did send post to Mr and Mrs M 
concerning payments due and payments missed. And Mrs M called Elderbridge to 
say shed received  threatening  letters. Its clear  that Mrs M was upset during this call. 
Elderbridge said the letter  sent was a standard broken  agreement  letter  but it 
accepted it caused Mrs M some  distress and apologised. Im satisfied that this letter  
was not threatening and welcome  the apology Elderbridge  has issued.
discharge
Elderbridge confirmed all remaining  payments  were  received until August 2018 and 
that it wrote-off the remaining balance in September 2018. 
I can see that S wrote to Elderbridge in September and October 2018, requesting  the 
discharge with no response, and then lodged a complaint with it on 25 October. 
At the time our investigator  issued her view,  in July 2019, Mr and Mrs M had been 
waiting 11 months for the discharge  on the property to be removed. She thought  that 
two months was a reasonable time-frame  for this to have been done. 
When a loan has been repaid the lender, in this case  Elderbridge,  is required to 
remove their legal charge/security because it no longer has any interest in the 
property. In Scotland the Registers of Scotland requires a discharge deed  to be 
produced. In early  December 2019  S confirmed Elderbridge had sent her a copy of 
Mr and Mrs Ms title deed and confirmation that the security  had been  removed. 
While its reassuring  that Elderbridge removed the legal charge I do consider it 
unreasonable that Mr and Mrs M have waited a further four months  from the 
investigators view to obtain peace  of mind about their loan and property. This means 
theyve had to wait, in total,  15 months. Given that S has made  Elderbridge aware on 
a number of occasions that her clients are vulnerable  - a fact not in dispute - I think 
Elderbridge should have  responded much  quicker to Ss request for a conclusion to 
the loan and discharge.
I can see how this situation will have caused Mr and Mrs M a great deal of further 
distress. The failure of Elderbridge to remove the legal charge from the property until 
Ref: DRN50065683well over a year after it should have has meant Mr and Mrs M have been in a very 
unsettling legal limbo.  Their solicitor, S, has said she contacted Elderbridge  several 
times and been  repeatedly told the situation  has been passed to the legal  team. S 
has also said her clients are particularly distressed at the longevity of this case. Ive 
no reason to doubt this testimony.
Subject to any further evidence I was minded to increase the level of compensation 
from £650 to £1,000  for the distress and inconvenience this situation has caused Mr 
and Mrs M. 
Elderbridge and S, on behalf of Mr and Mrs M, accepted my provisional decision.  
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties have  accepted my provisional  decision  I see no reason to change it. 
my final decision
My final decision is that Elderbridge Limited  must pay Mr and Mrs M £1,000 in 
compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  13 February  2020.
Maxine Sutton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5006568