K822xcomplaint
Mr M complains that DAS Legal  Expenses Insurance Company Limited  has acted unfairly  
and unreasonably when dealing with his claim under a legal  expenses  policy.  He wants  to be 
able to choose a new solicitor to act on his behalf  and compensation.
background 
Mr M had a legal  expenses insurance policy  with DAS.  He had a legal dispute involving a 
neighbour and DAS appointed two firms of solicitors  to act on his behalf (the first was 
replaced with the second firm) and paid for an expert report. Mr M complained to this service 
about DAS decision  to pay for an expert  report,  which he said wasnt sufficient to deal with 
his case. In a final decision  issued in 2018, this service found that the complaint shouldnt  be 
upheld as it wasnt for an insurer to decide if an expert report  was necessary or suitable;  that 
was the solicitors role. The ombudsman also noted  that Mr Ms consent to pay for the report  
wasnt required and DAS had offered  to appoint a third firm to review  the expert report and 
barristers opinion on Mr Ms behalf if he wished. Mr M didnt accept the final decision.
A third firm of solicitors,  U, was asked to take over the legal dispute. U initially said that 
Mr Ms claim  didnt  have  reasonable prospects  of success, but DAS quickly realised that it 
hadnt sent all the documents needed. When U had received the further information, it said 
that while Mr M may have  prospects of success, the amount of funding  available under the 
policy (bearing the size of the court fee and likely expert costs) meant it would be very 
difficult to deal with the claim properly. U refused  to act. DAS explained the position  to Mr M 
and said if he found a firm who would act and advised that there were reasonable prospects 
of success, it would consider funding his legal costs  up to the balance of the £50,000 limit.
Mr M complained. DAS said that the policy only covered up to £50,000 of costs (as Mr Ms 
claims against his neighbour were grouped together) and repeated  its offer; it also offered 
£100 for the poor communication that happened  while U was involved with the case. DAS 
said that the possible claim against  Mr Ms landlord wasnt  covered  by the policy  as 
contracts, such as a lease, entered into by Mr M were excluded;  it was simply putting right a 
mistake as Mr M never  was able to claim cover for such  a claim. DAS pointed  out that U was 
entitled to refuse to act; it was a firm independent of DAS.
Mr M complained to us. He said that DAS was acting unreasonably in saying  that all his 
claims should be treated  as one legal dispute and subject to a total indemnity  costs cap of 
£50,000. Mr M also said that if it was fair to apply the cap, it wasnt fair to do it when he was 
mid-way through his legal dispute. Mr M felt that DAS had failed to acknowledge his emails  
promptly and called  when  hed said he didnt want to be communicated with over the phone.
The investigators view was that U couldnt  be forced to act on Mr Ms behalf. If it didnt want  
to represent him, that wasnt a matter for which DAS could be held responsible. He didnt 
think that the complaint should  be upheld. The investigator noted that all of Mr Ms claims 
were linked to the same  neighbour;  he pointed out that the policy  said the maximum DAS 
would pay for any one claim or all claims resulting from one of more events arising at the 
same time or from the same originating cause was £50,000. Also, the lawyers involved had 
dealt with the claims as part of one dispute.  The investigator thought that it was fair and 
reasonable for that limit to be applied to Mr Ms claims.
Ref: DRN59819252The investigator said the possible claim against  Mr Ms landlord was excluded  under the 
terms and conditions of the policy as it was connected to a contract entered into Mr M, even 
though the various panel solicitors had mentioned that it was a legal option. He thought the 
£100 offer of compensation fairly  and reasonably  reflected the communication  issues, the 
failure to send everything to U, and calling Mr M rather than emailing. 
Mr M disagreed. He pointed out that hed paid three  £250 excess fees for each of his claims 
so it wasnt fair to group them under one indemnity limit. DAS confirmed that Mr M had paid 
three excess fees, and while the policy made  it clear  that there was only one indemnity limit 
and the claims all originated from the same cause, it offered to refund £500 if Mr M would 
accept that all three claims were covered by the £50,000 limit. Mr M refused the offer.  
Mr M also said that his claim against the landlord should be covered as the policy  only 
excluded leases entered into for less than seven years; the investigator explained that the 
policy excluded contracts entered into by Mr M in these circumstances. Mr M said if hed 
known earlier that all of his claims against  his neighbour were subject to the £50,000 limit, 
hed have got extra insurance.  
The investigator said that he understood why Mr M thought he had three claims with a limit 
of £50,000 each and accepted that DAS had told him this. But under the terms of the policy, 
Mr M wasnt entitled to this level of indemnity and DASs offer was fair and reasonable in the 
investigators view. He also pointed out that the type of legal expenses  insurance in this case 
was before the event, which  meant  it was unlikely  Mr M wouldve been able to get similar 
insurance with a higher limit if DAS had correctly told him that the £50,000  covered  all of his 
claims against his neighbour (as the dispute had happened and was ongoing).
After the event insurance and its availability  were  explained to Mr M but the investigator 
said if Mr M had known  the position  about the £50,000  indemnity earlier, hed be in the same 
position as now.  The investigator said £500  of the excess  fees should be repaid to Mr M and 
£100 compensation for the communication issues (including incorrectly  telling Mr M that 
there were no prospects of success when U didnt have all the information) was a fair and 
reasonable outcome. He declined to revisit  anything within  the 2018 final decision.
Mr M continued to disagree with the investigators view.  He said that hed suffered significant 
financial loss due to the actions of his neighbour and DAS. Mr M asked a number of 
questions and said DAS should increase his indemnity limit to £150,000 as there  were  three  
claims against his neighbour. The investigator  answered the questions  and explained  that if 
Mr M was still unhappy, the complaint could be reviewed by an ombudsman. Mr M asked for 
a final decision by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  The nature of final decisions by this 
service is that they must be suitable for publication  and to be read by third parties in order to 
understand the general approach we adopt. This means that I must deal with the complaint 
in a way that preserves  Mr Ms anonymity  and without causing the decision to be 
inaccessible to others. That said, I have read everything and considered carefully what the 
parties have told this service.
Ref: DRN598192532018 final decision
Mr M feels that this services final decision of 2018,  which he didnt accept,  should  be 
reopened. I disagree. Final decisions are the end of the process  and one ombudsman  cant  
interfere with the decisions of another. And in any event, I dont think its necessary. DAS 
offered to appoint a third firm of solicitors and did so on Mr Ms request.
Prospects of success
This isnt really the core of this complaint.  U isnt saying that Mr Ms claims have no 
prospects of success,  though its clear  that it has concerns.  What  U has said is that it wont 
act on Mr Ms behalf. DAS is an insurer and no-one can compel  a solicitor to act if theyre  not 
willing to do so. A solicitor  has the right to refuse  to accept instructions (subject to very 
limited exceptions which dont appear  to apply  here). I cant say that DAS is acting unfairly or 
unreasonably in telling Mr M this. Ill deal later in my decision  about the trouble and upset 
caused to Mr M from the initial view of U that his claims had no prospect of success.
Indemnity limit
This is the core of Mr Ms complaint and the key reason why U wont act. Mr M has three 
claims against his neighbour, for which he has paid three excess  fees over a period of time 
and was initially told by DAS that each  were subject to an indemnity limit for his legal costs  
of £50,000 (a total of £150,000). DAS doesnt challenge this. What  it says is that the 
qualified lawyers involved all treated the claims  as linked because they all relate to the same 
originating clause  Mr Ms neighbour. DAS says that it didnt realise  this until later in the 
proceedings. DAS points  out that under  the terms and conditions  of the policy  any one claim 
or all claims resulting from one of more events arising at the same time or from the same 
originating cause are subject to one indemnity limit of £50,000, and U raised the same  point.
As a matter  of interpretation of the policy, I think DAS is correct. Mr Ms claims against  the 
neighbour are closely linked  and all originate with the actions of that neighbour. Theres  
three claims  but all result  from the same originating cause. This means  these claims are only 
entitled to a £50,000 limit, not £150,000.
But is it fair and reasonable to apply the policy in the circumstances?  Mr M says not and 
points out DAS charged him three excess fees and told him each had £50,000 of cover.  But 
under the terms  and conditions of the policy, excess fees applied to each claim, not each  
indemnity limit. DAS was legally able to ask for three excess  fees and still include all three 
claims under one indemnity limit. More  relevant  are DAS comments to Mr M about  each  
claim getting £50,000 of cover. That was incorrect.
If the mistake hadnt been made,  Mr M would still have  had to pay three excess  fees and 
only have £50,000  of cover for all three  of his claim.  My role isnt to punish businesses, but 
to put the policyholder into the position that they wouldve been  in if the mistake hadnt 
happened. Mr Ms position didnt change as a result  of the mistake.
Mr M disagrees. He says that hed have bought extra insurance if hed known earlier. I dont 
think thats likely in all the circumstances.  Theres no evidence that Mr M has bought  such  
insurance despite knowing DAS position for some  time. And its unlikely  before  the event 
insurance was available as the dispute  has started  and is ongoing. That only leaves after the 
event insurance, which  is much more costly  and would  require Mr M to have instructed a 
new firm of solicitors  (as DAS has suggested). This hasnt  happened.
Ref: DRN59819254Im not persuaded that its fair or reasonable for me to set aside the terms and conditions  of 
the policy, or that DAS is acting unfairly or unreasonably  by applying the single indemnity 
limit of £50,000 to all three claims against  Mr Ms neighbour. I will return to the issue of 
compensation for non-financial loss later in this decision.
The Landlord claim
Mr M says his possible claim against  his landlord should be covered by the policy because 
the various lawyers  involved mentioned it as a possibility. But the terms and conditions  of the 
policy do exclude such a claim as it arises out of a contract signed by Mr M (a lease is a 
contract) and the type of contract isnt one that the policy  says is covered. Mr Ms point about 
leases for over seven  years doesnt help him, given the wording  of the policy.
And DAS isnt responsible for the legal advice given  to Mr M; thats a matter for the lawyers. 
I would comment though that mentioning an excluded claim as an option isnt necessarily 
inappropriate  if its an option, I can understand why it was raised, but this doesnt mean 
DAS should fund such a claim.
Communication
DAS accepts that it didnt  get this right when  dealing with Mr M or his case. It failed to send 
all the necessary information to U from the outset,  which caused distress to Mr M as he was 
told that the claim had no prospects of success (which was later reviewed when U got all the 
information). DAS called  Mr M when  he said he wanted communication by email  only. And it 
did incorrectly tell him each claim had an indemnity limit of £50,000. I think all of this is unfair 
and unreasonable conduct  by DAS.
Putting things right
Money never  truly compensates for trouble and upset. But bearing in mind  what Ive found to 
be DAS failings, I think £100 is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances when combined 
with the other steps to put things right. Mr M is more upset about other issues  for which I 
havent found DAS to be at fault. I do think £500 of excess fees should also be refunded to 
Mr M. This is because while the policy allows each  claim to attract  an excess  fee, given the 
incorrect information given to Mr M when he paid the fee about  the indemnity limit, Im not 
persuaded its fair or reasonable  for DAS to keep all three excess  fees. DAS itself was willing 
to refund the £500 if Mr M accepted that the indemnity limit was £50,000 for all three claims. 
If Mr M accepts my final decision, this is what hell be accepting.
I note that DAS is willing to continue cover  up to the £50,000 level, but has said that Mr M 
has to find his own solicitor who is willing to act and confirm that the claims have a 
reasonable prospect of success. Given Mr M has used  three firms of panel solicitors,  this is 
a fair and reasonable way forward in my view.
Ref: DRN59819255my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint  and DAS Legal Expenses  Insurance 
Company Limited  should pay Mr M £100  compensation  for trouble  and upset and refund 
£500 excess fees. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman  Service, Im required to ask 
Mr M to accept  or reject  my decision before 4 March 2020.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5981925