K822xcomplaint
Mr H complains that NewDay Ltd (trading as Aqua)  increased the limit on his credit  card 
without properly assessing whether he could afford the additional lending. 
background 
Mr H opened an Aqua credit card account in August 2013, and had a limit of £250. Aqua 
increased this to £400 in July 2014. The limit was increased again to £800 in March  2016, 
and to £1600 in August 2016.
Mr H went over the limits after they were  increased, and incurred interest  and charges on the 
account. Mr H said he was experiencing financial difficulty when the credit  limit was 
increased, and that Aquas actions had made  the situation worse.
Our adjudicator recommended  the complaint should  be upheld. He concluded that Mr Hs 
account management before the first credit limit increase showed he was struggling to 
manage his finances.  Once the increases had taken  place, the investigator thought the 
charges applied to his account showed he was having trouble managing his account.
Overall, the adjudicator thought that if Aqua had properly considered  Mr Hs circumstances, 
it probably wouldnt have  concluded that it was appropriate to increase his credit limit.
The adjudicator said Aqua should refund the interest  and charges  applied  to Mr Hs account, 
and use the refund to reduce the balance. He also said Aqua should  remove the negative 
entries on Mr Hs credit  file relating to the increases.
Aqua agreed with the adjudicators conclusions. It agreed to refund interest and charges, 
which left a balance  of £167.17 on the account.  Aqua  said it would also amend Mr Hs credit 
file.
Mr H wanted to understand how Aqua  had worked  out the refund. He wasnt  convinced that 
its figures were accurate. He also considered Aqua should compensate him for its poor 
service when he told it he was experiencing financial difficulty. Mr H also mentioned that 
Aquas actions meant hed had to take out additional borrowing, which had disadvantaged  
him. He asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Aqua has accepted that it shouldnt have  increased  Mr Hs credit limit. So its agreed to 
refund the interest and charges applied to his account from July 2014.  I havent  seen 
anything to suggest that the refund amount its calculated is incorrect. 
Mr H says he had to take out a number of payday loans to keep on top of his credit  card 
repayments. Hes provided  some evidence of the loans he took out. But from what  Ive seen, 
I havent been able to safely  conclude  that Mr H had to take out the loans  because  of the 
increases Aqua made  to his credit limit.
Ref: DRN57648162Mr H also says Aqua didnt do enough to help him when he told it he was experiencing 
financial difficulty. But I havent seen anything to suggest that Mr H told Aqua about  his 
circumstances when  the credit limit was increased.  
From what  Ive seen, it seems Mr H didnt tell Aqua about the financial difficulty he was 
experiencing until December 2017   some time after the credit limit had been increased.
Once Aqua  became aware  of the situation we would  expect it to treat Mr H positively and 
sympathetically. This might  include  refunding interest and charges applied to the account. As 
Aqua has already agreed to do this, Im not persuaded  it needs to do anything else.
my final decision
My decision  is that NewDay Ltd (trading as Aqua) should:
1.Refund interest and charges applied to Mr Hs account since the first credit limit 
increase was made in July 2014. The refund  should be used  to reduce the balance 
on Mr Hs account.
2.Remove any negative  information recorded on Mr Hs credit  file as a result of the 
credit limit increases.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 August 2019.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5764816