K820x#14complaint
Ms B complains  that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background
Ms B took out a credit  card during a meeting in a branch of Halifax  in January 1999. At the 
same time she was sold a PPI policy. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Ms Bs complaint. Ms B disagrees with our adjudicators view. 
Ms Bs main complaint is that she didn't  need PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.  
Ive decided not to uphold  Ms Bs complaint.
Ive seen the application form Ms B filled in with the help of a branch advisor. I dont know  
what was discussed.  But I think the way the application form is set out makes it clear  that it 
was up to Ms B to say if she wanted  to take out PPI alongside her credit card. Theres a pre-
printed cross in the box to have PPI added to the account. I think this probably reflects  what  
Ms B told the advisor she wanted  and Ms B has signed the completed application. So I find 
that Halifax made Ms B aware  that the PPI was optional and that she chose to take it.
Halifax says it recommended the PPI to Ms B, and it doesnt look as if it was unsuitable for 
her based  on the information Ive got about  her circumstances at the time. 
The policy wouldve paid Ms B a monthly benefit of 10% of the outstanding balance  on the 
card for up to 12 months  per claim if she couldnt  work through accident  or sickness.  This 
was longer than shed  have been  able to rely on getting sick pay from her employer. 
And the policy couldve also paid out for up to 12 months if she became unexpectedly 
unemployed and she met the requirements  to make  a successful  claim.  
Relying on family and friends to help out in the event  of money  problems isnt as dependable 
as taking out PPI as everyones circumstances can change unexpectedly. So I think that PPI 
was suitable for Ms B.
Its possible some information Halifax gave Ms B about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  There were some things the policy didnt cover.  But it doesnt look as if 
those wouldve applied  to Ms B. So, I dont think having more information  about things the 
policy didnt cover wouldve affected her decision to take it out.
Ref: DRN56983642Ms B chose to take out the policy and so appears  to have wanted this type of cover. Overall, 
I think it unlikely Ms B wouldve made a different decision if better  information  had been  
provided. On balance, given the affordable benefits  it gave her, I think  she still wouldve 
taken out the policy.
In coming to my decision I've taken  into account  everything that Ms B has said in response 
to the adjudicators view. Ms B told us that she wouldve claimed on the policy if shed known 
she could  and that when she enquired about  it, she was told it couldnt be used when she 
was made  redundant. But that doesnt  mean  that PPI must  have  been  mis-sold when she 
took it out and it isnt a reason for me to uphold her complaint. Our adjudicator has explained 
that Ms B needs to take up this complaint about  a failed  claim directly with Halifax.  Its 
possible that Ms B might be able to make  a backdated claim if she was given wrong 
information about her cover. If, after giving Halifax a chance to look into whats happened 
and explain, Halifax  is unable to resolve this issue to Ms Bs satisfaction  then she can 
complain about  it to this service and well be able to look into this.
my decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Ms Bs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 February  2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN5698364