K821x#15complaint
Ms P complains  that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) rejected  her travel insurance claim 
following the death of her aunt, due to the fact aunt isnt included  in the definition of a close  
relative that is detailed  in the policy.
background
Ms P booked a holiday that was due to depart on 4 January 2019. Very sadly, at the end of 
2018 her aunt passed away  and the funeral was arranged for 4 January. So Ms P changed 
the departure  date of her holiday and made  a claim on her travel insurance for the 
associated costs.
UKI said the claim wasnt covered under the policy, as it only covers  cancellation  due to the 
death of a close relative. And an aunt isnt included in the definition  of a close  relative set out 
in the policy.
Ms P was unhappy  with this, as she said she had a very close relationship  with her aunt, 
who she had lived with when she was growing up and had acted more like a parent. She 
complained to us.
Our investigator considered all the issues and upheld Ms Ps complaint. She said Ms P had 
a similar  relationship with her aunt as some of the relationships that were  listed  under the 
definition of close relative in the policy. She therefore thought  UKI should  consider the claim 
as if an aunt did meet the definition of a close relative.
UKI disagreed with this view. It said it had checked  the electoral register  and couldnt find 
evidence that Ms P lived with her aunt at her current address.  UKI asked for the complaint  to
be reviewed by an ombudsman.
my provisional decision  
In my provisional decision,  I said:
UKI says that because  an aunt isnt listed as a close relative in the policy, it cant  consider 
Ms Ps claim. The policy defines a close relative as follows:
Close relative  your partner; fianc(e); parent, parent-in-law, step-parent  or legal guardian;  
child, step-child or foster child; sibling; sibling-in-law, half-sibling or step-sibling;  grandparent 
or grandchild.
So, I can see that an aunt isnt included. This means  Ms Ps cancellation costs  arent  
covered by her policy. However, I need  to decide whether allowing UKI to rely on this term to 
refuse Ms Ps claim produces a fair and reasonable outcome  to this complaint.
Ms P has said that she had a very close relationship  with her aunt.  She says they lived 
together for more than 30 years  and she had been  more like a mother to her at certain  times  
in her life. UKI has said it checked the electoral register and couldnt find evidence that Ms P 
lived with her aunt, so doesnt  think  there  is any evidence to prove they were close.  
However, it checked the address where  Ms P currently lives. Ms P has confirmed that this 
wasnt the address  they lived at together and has provided the address of the property 
where they did, which is on the same road.  I have verified that both Ms P and her aunt were 
Ref: DRN55184262on the electoral  register at that address at the same time for two years, so this confirms  they 
lived together for at least those two years.
When thinking about the traditional relationship between an aunt and their niece, this 
wouldnt usually involve  the two living together. This arrangement would be more  likely for 
any of the family members described  under the definition  of a close relative in the policy,  for 
example parent, fianc or step-brother.  It is likely  that when  the policy was written,  the 
relationships listed  under close  relative  were selected after considering  the relationships 
people traditionally  have with the family  members.  Based on what  Ive seen, I think  its likely 
that the relationship Ms P had with her aunt was closer than a traditional  relationship  with an 
aunt and more  similar to a traditional relationship with a parent or step-parent.
Ms P has provided a timeline of her family life that led to her aunt living  with her, including a 
period where  her parents  spilt up and she says her aunt acted like her second  mum. She 
has also provided a written testimony  from a neighbour during the time they lived together, 
who confirms that the family were very close, including Ms Ps aunt. This further supports 
Ms Ps account of the relationship.
UKI has said that it doesnt accept the testimony  from Ms Ps neighbour as Ms P and the 
neighbour know each other. I accept that the testimony should be considered cautiously.
However, in the context  of the other evidence I think it is persuasive.  Based on Ms Ps 
account, her neighbours testimony  and the electoral roll evidence I think  its most likely that
Ms P had a close relationship with her aunt as she has described.
I understand the policy wording is very clear  about who should  be included  as a close  
relative. And in most circumstances, this would apply. However, in this case, as Ms Ps 
relationship with her aunt was much closer  than a traditional relationship  and more  closely  
matches those that are listed, I dont think it would produce a fair and reasonable outcome to
Ms Ps complaint if I allowed UKI to rely on this policy term to reject Ms Ps claim. This is 
because, as Ive explained, Im satisfied her relationship with her aunt was more like the 
relationships set out in the definition  of close relative. And I believe considering  the claim on 
the basis Ms Ps aunt was a close relative will mean the cover  under the policy has operated
in the way it was intended  to, ie to cover losses, subject to any other relevant terms and 
conditions, following the death of a close relative.
In summary,  I think the fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint is for UKI to deal with
Ms Ps claim in the same  way it would  if it accepted  Ms Ps claim was following the death  of 
close relative as defined in the policy.
I have also considered the basis  of Ms Ps claim.  Rather than cancelling the trip, Ms P chose 
to change her flights to a date a couple of days later so she could attend her aunts funeral 
and still go on holiday. This means she wouldnt be covered under the policys  Cancelling  
your trip (before you are due to start your trip) section, as this specifies it is for when you 
unavoidably need to cancel your trip However,  I have considered what is fair and 
reasonable in these  circumstances.
Ms P has incurred the cost of the amendment of her outbound flight, which  was £265.  She 
also missed the first two nights at the hotel she had booked, which  wasnt  refundable. This 
cost her £400 in total. Had Ms P chosen to cancel the trip altogether, she would have lost a 
lot more money, as she would have lost the money for all seven nights at the hotel and the 
cancellation cost for the flight. And, I would still say it was fair and reasonable for her claim 
to be dealt with on the basis her aunt should  be treated as a close relative.
Ref: DRN55184263This would have meant that UKI would have been  obliged to pay out significantly more in 
order to settle her claim. Based  on this, and the fact Ms P missed part of her trip, I think  it is 
fair for UKI to settle the claim  by reimbursing Ms P for the money she has lost from changing  
her flight  booking and cancelling  the first two days of her hotel stay, as outlined  above.
It is worth noting that Ms P also chose  to extend  her trip by two additional  nights, to make up 
for those  lost at the start. However, this wasnt an essential cost due to her aunts death. So,
I dont think it should be included in what UKI pays,  as the policy only covers reasonable 
costs
I also think UKI should pay interest  on the amount due to Ms P at eight  percent  per annum
simple, as she has been without these funds  as a result of UKI turning down her claim.
the response to my provisional  decision 
Ms P had nothing further to add, following my provisional decision.
UKI said it didnt think the fact that Ms P and her aunt were on the electoral register at the 
property for two years, along  with a neighbours testimony, was sufficient evidence to prove  
that they were  close. Further it said Ms P had advised  that she had lived with her aunt for 30 
years, so the fact we have  only been able to find evidence for two of these years needs  to 
examined.
Further, UKI said that even if it was to accept that Ms Ps aunt meets the definition  of a close 
relative, it still needs to satisfy other  terms and conditions, such as providing medical proof  
that the aunt wasnt an inpatient in the 12 months leading  up to the holiday. It therefore  says 
it wouldnt be able to pay the claim on that basis as it stands.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
After considering UKIs points, I dont agree that the evidence is insufficient to say Ms P was 
close to her aunt. I understand the electoral register only provides two years  worth of 
records so this doesnt prove the length of time they lived together.  However it isnt a 
requirement to be on the electoral register, so it doesnt mean  the years they were registered  
at that address were the only years  they lived together. However, it does mean that they 
definitely did live together at some point. As I explained, I think  this shows  the relationship 
was closer than a traditional relationship  with an aunt.
I have also considered UKIs point about  the claim satisfying other policy  terms and 
conditions. I agree that further information may be required in order to ensure the claim isnt 
excluded under other terms of the policy. I have  received details from Ms P of her aunts 
condition before she went on holiday.  However, it isnt for me to decide the outcome of the 
claim. I therefore direct UKI to consider Ms Ps claim in line with the policy terms, while  
accepting that her aunt meets the definition of a close relative under the policy. 
Ref: DRN55184264my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given I uphold Ms Ps complaint. I therefore require U K Insurance 
Limited to:
consider Ms Ps claim in line with the policy terms and conditions while accepting that 
her aunt meets the definition of a close relative under the policy.
pay interest at eight  per cent per annum simple on any amount  it pays if Ms Ps claim is 
successful from the date Ms P submitted her claim to the date of actual payment.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 December 2019.
Sophie Goodyear
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5518426