K820x#14complaint
Mr B has complained that Legal and General Assurance Society Limited (L&G)  mis-sold  
him an income protection  insurance policy.
 
background
In 2005, while in the process of obtaining a mortgage, Mr B met with an adviser  from L&G 
and agreed to take out an income protection insurance policy.  The policy, after a deferred  
period of 26 weeks, would pay a monthly benefit in the event that Mr B was unable  to work 
due to illness or injury.
In 2012, Mr B sold his property and cancelled the policy.
In 2019, Mr B complained to L&G that the policy had been mis-sold. He said he hadnt 
wanted or needed the policy but had been  led he must take the policy to obtain the 
mortgage. He pointed out that the letter  which the adviser sent to him outlining his 
recommendation actually acknowledged that he didnt want this type of cover. He wanted  a 
refund of all his premiums.
L&G initially  told Mr B that it wasnt responsible  for the sale of the policy  and that he had to 
put his complaint in writing. It later acknowledged  that this information was wrong and 
offered him £100 compensation for any inconvenience  caused. However,  it didnt uphold  his 
complaint about  the mis-sale. It was satisfied that the advisers recommendation had been 
suitable. It saw nothing to suggest  that Mr B was led to believe he had to take the policy  to 
obtain the mortgage. It considered that the statement  highlighted by Mr B in the advisers  
letter was simply an error.
Mr B was unhappy at L&Gs response. He referred  his complaint to us. He also said he 
thought £100 was inadequate compensation for the extra time to which  hed been put in 
bringing his complaint as a result of L&Gs wrong  information.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should not be upheld. She was satisfied  
that L&G had done nothing wrong  in respect  of the sale of the policy and that its offer of 
£100 was fair compensation for its poor service when Mr B made  enquiries  about making a 
complaint. 
Mr B didnt accept the investigators findings. He maintained that he was told he must  take 
out a policy  of this type to obtain  his mortgage.  He referred again  to the advisers letter  and 
said this proved he hadnt wanted the cover.  He said that the benefit from the policy  would 
have been inadequate to keep him in his property in any case  as it wouldnt have covered 
his financial commitments  on top of the mortgage.
In view of the continued  disagreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  this 
complaint. I shall explain  why.
Ref: DRN58208002When Mr B referred his complaint to us, he described the policy  as Payment  Protection  
Insurance (PPI). Let me clarify that PPI generally refers to a policy  which is tied to a 
particular credit agreement and which provides for repayments to be made under that 
agreement for a short-term period (usually one or two years). The policy which Mr B took 
out, while it may have  been marketed by L&G as Mortgage Payment Insurance  (MPI), is not 
what I would  regard  as a PPI policy. Instead it is an income protection insurance policy,  also 
known as Permanent Health Insurance (PHI). This would pay benefit  over a longer  term in 
the event that Mr B was unable to work due to illness or injury.  And while the policy  had a 
connection to his mortgage (the monthly benefit  payable couldnt exceed 140% of his 
monthly mortgage payment), the benefit would be paid directly to Mr B to use as he wished, 
rather than directly to the mortgage provider.
The evidence shows that, after conducting  a Fact Find, the adviser noted that Mr B wanted 
to protect  his ability to meet his financial  commitments in the event he was unable  to work 
due to illness or injury.  The adviser  recommended that Mr B take out the income protection 
insurance policy. I regard  this as a suitable recommendation given that Mr B was entering 
into a long-term financial  commitment and didnt appear to have other means of meeting his 
financial commitments  in the event of long-term  sickness. The adviser  recommended  a 
deferred period  of 26 weeks which  complemented the sickness  pay to which Mr B was 
entitled from his employer. He recommended a monthly benefit of £1,132. Mr B has 
suggested this was too little but it equated to 50% of his gross income which was the 
maximum amount for which he could  be insured  under the policy. The sum therefore seems 
appropriate to me.
Mr B has pointed  out that the letter setting out the advisers recommendation states:  
As you have indicated  that you do not want to address Redundancy Income Protection, 
Mortgage Income Protection, Critical Illness Lifestyle Protection or Death Income 
Replacement aspects of your family  protection need areas we identified,  
 
He therefore says it was clear he didnt want mortgage income protection.
However, this sentence  goes on to state:
 my recommendation is limited to the protection of your mortgage only.
In light of this, and given that the letter earlier states  very clearly that Mr B did want to 
discuss this type of cover, I am satisfied that the later statement that Mr B didnt want to 
address mortgage  income protection was simply an error in the letter.
I have seen no evidence  to suggest  that the offer of the mortgage  was in any way linked to 
the insurance policy, or that L&G implied  this to Mr B. I therefore consider  that Mr B chose to 
accept the advisers  recommendation  of his own free will.
Given that Im satisfied the adviser  made a suitable  recommendation, and that Mr B 
accepted this recommendation even though he was under  no obligation to do so, I see no 
reasonable grounds for concluding that the policy was mis-sold.
L&G gave wrong  information to Mr B when he first enquired  into the possibility of making a 
complaint about  the policy. This will have caused  some inconvenience to Mr B. L&G has 
apologised for this error and has offered £100  compensation. Im satisfied that this was fair 
and I dont require  it to pay anything more.
Ref: DRN58208003my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 April 2020.
David Poley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5820800