K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 1988. 
Mr and Mrs W say Bank of Scotland plc (Halifax at the time) mis-sold  them  the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ws case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why. 
Unfortunately due to the length of time since the policy was sold, there isnt any 
documentary evidence  available  from the sale. So Ive considered what  both parties have 
said in order to come to a decision on what I think is more likely to have happened.  
Mr and Mrs W say they arent sure if they were aware of the PPI at the time and they think it 
was added without  their knowledge. But I havent  seen anything  to support what  Mr and 
Mrs W have said and they havent  been able to remember  anything else from the time the 
policy was sold. While  this isnt surprising,  given the policy  was sold to them  more  than 31 
years ago, its difficult to rely on their limited recollections alone to fairly  and reasonably 
conclude that something untoward happened. 
On the other hand, Halifax says that the optional nature of the policy wouldve been 
explained to Mr and Mrs W in good  time before  the sale of the PPI was concluded. And as I 
havent seen any persuasive evidence to show that the policy  wasnt presented  as optional 
or that it was added without Mr and Mrs Ws consent  - I think thats likely to have been the 
case. So on the balance of probabilities, and without  any evidence  to support what Mr and 
Mrs W have said,  I think  its more likely than not that Halifax made  it clear  the PPI was 
optional and Mr and Mrs W chose to take it out  although I can understand if they cant 
remember this now.  
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mr and Mrs W so it had to check that the policy  was right 
for them  and based on what  Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think that it was. 
For example I havent seen any evidence to suggest they were  affected by any of the 
exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover and they seem to have had a need for the cover.
Mr and Mrs W say that they were both entitled to sick pay from their employers, so the policy 
wasnt suitable for them. But upon  a successful claim, the PPI wouldve paid out for up to 12 
months for an unemployment claim and up to 24 months for an accident and sickness claim.  
And this wouldve paid out on top of their sick pay benefits. So these funds wouldve been 
free to use for other expenses. And as this mortgage is likely to have been Mr and Mrs Ws 
most significant borrowing, secured against their home, I think this additional financial 
security couldve been useful for them  had they needed to make a claim. So I still think  the 
policy was suitable  for them.  
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr and Mrs W about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But it seems like it would have been useful for them  if something  went 
Ref: DRN52853392wrong. It also looks like it was affordable.  So I dont think  better  information  about the PPI 
would have put them off taking out the cover. 
This means  Bank of Scotland plc doesnt have to pay back  all of the cost of the PPI to 
Mr and Mrs W. But Bank of Scotland plc has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr W 
and Mrs W because: 
Bank of Scotland plc got a high level of commission  and profit share  (more  than 50% of 
the PPI premium) - so it should  have told Mr and Mrs W about that. Because Bank of 
Scotland plc didnt  tell Mr and Mrs W, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Bank of Scotland plc has paid back the amount of commission  and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland  plc does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs W.
But Bank of Scotland plc does have  to pay back to Mr and Mrs W any commission  and profit  
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 February  2019.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5285339