K822xcomplaint
Miss M has complained about the way HSBC UK Bank Plc handled  her fraud  case.
what happened
In July 2018, Miss Ms card details were  used for a fraudulent transaction.  She reported  it, 
but HSBC didnt block her card, and further fraudulent payments went  through while  Miss M 
was abroad.
Miss M has complained about that, and about the problems  she had communicating  with 
HSBC. For example, Miss M requested contact to be only by email  but HSBC  didnt follow  
this, and didnt  contact her when  they said they would. Miss M explained that shed spent a 
great deal of time and effort dealing with HSBC  and emphasised that she found  them  to be 
particularly unhelpful.
HSBC refunded the fraudulent transactions in full in September  2018.
In response to her complaint points,  HSBC apologised and paid Miss M a total of £150  in 
compensation.
Our investigator looked into things and felt that £300  compensation would better reflect  the 
distress that HSBC had caused. HSBC agreed with our investigator, but Miss M disagreed,  
so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
what Ive decided and why
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Having done that, Ive come to the same conclusions as our investigator, and for much the 
same reasons.
Ill first clarify that this decision only deals with HSBCs customer  service issues,  as theyve 
already refunded all the money  that was spent in the fraud.
I can see that Miss M feels very distressed by whats happened.  I understand that the fraud 
will have already caused her a great  deal of trouble  and upset, and so having customer 
service issues  on top will naturally have only made things worse. I agree with Miss M that 
HSBC should  have done things better   for instance, had they blocked her card when she 
first reported  the fraud, a lot of this could have  been avoided.
I also understand why Miss M would like a formal apology from HSBC. Its not an unusual  
thing to ask for. The problem is that if I were to tell HSBC to apologise, then their apology 
would seem forced, and not genuine   theyd only be saying sorry because I told them to. 
Further, I can see HSBC already apologised in their letters, and that clearly hasnt repaired 
the relationship  between  the bank and Miss M. So I dont think  that another  apology is likely  
to help here.
Instead of telling businesses to apologise, we often tell them  to pay compensation, to 
recognise that the business got something wrong  and the impact  it had. 
Ref: DRN58785182As I said above, it looks like HSBC have already resolved the financial impact of their 
mistake, by refunding the fraudulent payments. Miss M pointed out that its possible she 
could have got into severe  financial  difficulties  while waiting to be refunded. I understand the 
point shes making, but it doesnt look like that happened. And we only award  compensation 
for things  that have  actually happened, rather than things that could have happened, but 
didnt. Ive not seen any evidence that Miss M suffered any other  financial losses  here.
It is clear that this matter  has caused  Miss M a significant amount of trouble and upset. 
When it comes  to the amount of compensation Id award, its worth  bearing in mind  that the 
actions of the fraudster,  rather  than HSBC, will have been  responsible  for a significant 
proportion of Miss Ms distress  and inconvenience. Its also worth  bearing in mind  that were  
here to resolve  complaints, and not to issue large fines  or punish businesses.
We have guidelines about what levels of compensation  to award,  and we need to be 
consistent. I think HSBC  should  have handled things better, and that this had an unfair 
impact on Miss M. I agree with our investigator  that £300 is a fair total amount of 
compensation for HSBC to pay Miss M to put that right.
I should note here that it looks like our investigator mistakenly thought HSBC  had already 
paid Miss M £200 compensation, when  theyve actually paid her £150. So in order to have 
paid her £300 compensation in total,  HSBC needs to pay Miss M a further £150, and not 
£100. The overall outcome of the complaint  remains the same.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I agree with our investigator that HSBC UK Bank Plc should 
pay Miss M £300 compensation in total for the trouble  and upset they caused, less the 
compensation HSBC  have already  paid her for this matter.
This final decision marks the end of our services involvement in the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 December  2019.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5878518