K821x#15Complaint
Mrs W has complained about advice she received to switch  her pension  into a SIPP and 
invest in an unregulated investment. She has said that this advice was provided by a 
representative of Quilter Financial Planning Solutions Limited. At the material  time Quilter
was known as Positive  Solutions and so, for ease, Ill refer to that name in this decision.
Background
I issued a provisional decision in this matter  on 16 October 2020  in which I said that the 
complaint was not time barred, that Positive  Solutions was responsible for the complaint and 
that it should be upheld. The background and my provisional findings  are annexed in the 
extract below. That extract forms part of this final decision. 
I asked both parties to make any further  submissions before I issued my final decision. 
Mrs W had nothing to add but did provide some information that enabled me to clarify what I 
considered to be fair compensation  in the circumstances. That clarification was sent to both 
parties prior to this final decision.
Positive Solutions disagreed with my findings about  whether the complaint was time barred. 
It said that the complaint to Mr P on 14 October 2014 had not been made within  6 years of 
the advice (it says the advice was concluded  by 10 October 2008) and it was not reasonable 
for me to conclude  that this case  involved  exceptional circumstances  that meant that I could 
still consider the complaint.
My findings
Jurisdiction
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whether  this is a 
complaint that this service has jurisdiction to investigate.
I still think the complaint  is not time barred for the same reasons I set out in my provisional 
decision. 
The advice process may have started in early  October 2008,  but neither the advice nor 
arrangements for the switch to the SIPP and investment  were  concluded until some time 
later. And I think it was entirely reasonable for Mrs W to direct her complaint in 2014 to Mr P 
and expect it to be dealt with by him in in the appropriate way  either by forwarding the 
letter on to Positive  Solutions or by expressly  informing  Mrs W that she would need to re-
send the letter directly to Positive Solutions. Neither  of those things happened  but this was 
not the fault of Mrs W. So I think these  are exceptional circumstances and that we can and 
should look at the complaint, notwithstanding  the fact that it was referred to Positive  
Solutions by our service  in February  2015.
Positive Solutions hasnt  provided any further  evidence about whether Positive Solutions is 
responsible for the acts complained about (the authority  argument) and so I see no reason to 
depart from my provisional findings  about  that matter. 
So, overall, Im satisfied that our service has jurisdiction to consider this complaint against 
Positive Solutions.
Ref: DRN58426162Merits
Ive re considered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Positive Solutions hasnt  provided any new evidence and arguments  about my provisional 
findings about the merits of the complaint and so I see no reason to depart from them. So I 
find that Mrs W should not have been  advised by Mr P to switch  her pension  to a SIPP in 
order to invest in the Romanian fund. She should  have been  advised not to switch her 
pension at all.
Fair compensation
In assessing what would be fair compensation, my aim is to put Mrs W as close as 
possible to the position she would probably  now be in if she had been given  suitable 
advice.
I think,  had she received suitable  advice, Mrs W would have  left her pension where it 
was. I am satisfied that what  I have set out below is fair and reasonable given  Mrs Ws 
circumstances and objectives when she invested.
Mrs W has confirmed that the investment in the Romanian Fund was liquidated in 2012 
and a sum of money paid into her MC Trustees SIPP.  She has also moved  SIPP  
providers and clearly  isnt stuck in a SIPP as a result  of whats happened. The 
compensation steps below reflect this and I havent included compensation for future 
SIPP fees.
Positive Solutions  is entitled to take,  if it wishes, an assignment from Mrs W of any claim 
she may have  against third parties in relation  to the investment. If Positive Solutions  
chooses to take an assignment of rights, it must be affected before payment of 
compensation is made. Positive  Solutions must  first provide a draft of the assignment/s  
to Mrs W for her consideration and agreement.
Quilter Financial Planning Solutions Limited (again,  Ill refer here to Positive Solutions) 
should:
1.Obtain the notional transfer value of Mrs Ws previous pension plan, as if it had 
not been transferred to the SIPP.
Positive Solutions should ask the previous pension provider  to calculate  the notional 
transfer value they would have applied as at the date of this decision had Mrs W not 
transferred her pension  but instead remained invested in it.
If there are any difficulties in obtaining  notional values, then the FTSE UK Private 
Investors Income Total  Return  Index (prior to 1 March 2017, the FTSE WMA Stock 
Market Income Total  Return Index) should  be used instead. That is a mixed  index that is 
likely to be a reasonable proxy for the type of return  that could  have been achieved  from 
pension funds with the original provider  or a reasonable alternative.
2.Obtain the notional  transfer value of Mrs Ws current SIPP,  including  any 
outstanding charges.
Ref: DRN58426163This should be confirmed by Mrs Ws current SIPP provider. The difference  between 1 
and 2 is the loss to the pension. The calculation  should take account of the value of any 
cash held in the SIPP  currently and its also to be assumed that any other  contributions  or 
withdrawals that have been made would still have occurred and on the same  dates.
3.Pay an amount into Mrs Ws to reflect the loss to the pension  (as calculated  above). 
This payment should take account  of any available  tax relief and the effect  of 
charges plus any withdrawals or additional contributions Mrs W has made from the 
date they were made.
Ordinarily, I would ask that the redress be paid into Mrs Ws current SIPP.  But Mrs Ws 
current adviser  has said this might not be possible. I havent looked at this in detail as, given 
Mrs W is already  at pension  age, I think its reasonable in these circumstances that Positive 
Solutions pay the amount of the loss of the pension to Mrs W directly. But had it been 
possible to pay the compensation into the plan, it would  have provided a taxable income. 
Therefore the total amount to be paid to Mrs W should  be reduced  to notionally  allow for any 
income tax that would  otherwise have been paid. The notional allowance should  be 
calculated using Mrs Ws marginal  rate of tax in retirement. For example, if Mrs W is likely to 
be a basic rate taxpayer in retirement,  the notional allowance would equate to a reduction in 
the total amount equivalent to the current basic rate of tax. However,  if Mrs W would have 
been able to take a tax free lump sum, the notional allowance should be applied to 75% of 
the total amount.
4.Pay Mrs W £500 for the trouble and upset caused.
Mrs W will have been  caused significant upset by the events this complaint relates  to, 
and the loss of, in effect, all of her pension fund and the uncertainty that it will have 
caused for her future plans, I think that a payment of £500 is fair to compensate for that 
upset.
Positive Solutions should also provide Mrs W with a calculation showing its calculation of 
the compensation due in a simple  and easy to follow format.
The compensation should be paid promptly and interest of 8% simple interest  should be 
paid on the compensation if it is not paid with 28 days  of Positive  Solutions  being  informed 
of Mrs Ws acceptance of my final decision.
Ref: DRN58426164My final decision
For the reasons  above and in my provisional  decision annexed. it is my final decision that we 
can consider Mrs Ws complaint, that the complaint should be upheld  and that Quilter  
Financial Planning Solutions  Limited  should  pay fair redress as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 January 2021.
Abdul Hafez
ombudsman
Ref: DRN58426165Extract of provisional  decision
Background
Mr P was a Registered  Individual (RI) for Positive Solutions. Ill explain more about the term RI later in 
the decision, but for now its sufficient to say that Mr P was an agent  of Positive Solutions and 
authorised to give advice on its behalf. The extent of this authorisation is disputed and he ceased to 
be an RI of Positive Solutions altogether in 2011.
Mr P had advised Mrs Ws husband about his pensions. Mrs W says that she was given advice at the 
same time  in October 2008. As a result of the advice, she says she switched her personal pension 
with Prudential  worth  around £24,000  to a Self-Invested  Personal Pension (SIPP) with a business 
called MC Trustees. The funds were then used to make an investment  in a Romanian Geared  fund 
(Ill refer to this as the Romanian fund). That investment hasnt performed well and it looks like Mrs W 
has suffered  significant losses.
There is no suitability  report or recommendations  letter evidencing  the advice.
Mrs W says the advice  she received from Mr P was unsuitable. She complained to Mr P and, after 
she failed to receive  a satisfactory  response, referred her complaint to this service  to be considered 
against Positive Solutions. Positive Solutions argued that Mrs W had brought her complaint too late to 
be considered  under  our rules. Its position  was that the event  had occurred more than six years 
before the complaint was raised  and more  than three years after Mrs W ought reasonably to have 
been aware  she had cause for concern.
These issues were considered  by more  than one adjudicator. But the last adjudicator  who looked at 
the issue  thought the complaint had been made in time.  He agreed with Mrs W that:
She had not signed the letter of authority allowing Mr P to approach  her existing pension 
provider  Prudential - until 16 October 2008. So advice on the merits of switching  her 
pension couldnt  have been given  until after that date.
She sent the complaint  letter to Mr P on 13 October 2014 and the complaint was received by 
him on 14 October 2014.  So her complaint had been made in time.
Positive Solutions did not accept this argument and additionally argued that Mr P had not been 
authorised to provide  the advice. Therefore, its view was that this service had no jurisdiction to 
consider the complaint against Positive Solutions. Regarding authorisation it said the following:
Mr P was not acting as a Positive Solutions representative for the transaction  and he was not 
an appointed representative of Positive Solutions. S. 39 of the Financial Services and 
Markets Act 2000  does  not apply.  The adviser was a self-employed agent of Positive 
Solutions.
The contract of employment was non-exclusive  and did not prevent Mr P acting for another  
firm at the same time.
Positive Solutions had no record of any advice given  by Mr P to Mrs W in his capacity as a 
Positive Solutions adviser.
The agency contract between Positive Solutions and Mr P states:
Ref: DRN58426166The company hereby appoints the Registered  Individual  as its Registered  Individual for the 
purpose only of introducing Applications  by Clients for new Contracts,  for submission  to 
Institutions specified  by the Registered Individual  and approved by the Company.
Neither MC Trustees nor the Romanian fund were  approved investments. Therefore Mr P 
wasnt authorised to provide  advice on these products.
The agency agreement  also said that the relationship between  Positive Solutions and Mr P
shall be strictly that of Principal  and registered  Individual  and not in any way that or employer 
or employee 
It goes on to say that Positive Solutions will only be responsible for his acts, omissions and 
representations 
to the extent that [we] would be so responsible  at common law or by virtue of the Rules of 
any organisation  (including  the FCA) of which [we are] a member  for the time being .
Mr P would also have needed to present  a terms of business to Mrs W and arrange for any 
commission to be remitted to Positive Solutions forthwith, but there is no evidence  that he 
did either of these  things.
Therefore it has no responsibility for any services that were provided  and Mrs W was not a 
customer of Positive Solutions.
It should be noted that Mrs Ws husband has also complained to Positive  Solutions about  advice 
given to him for a number of pension investments from 2008-2011, including his own investment in 
the Romanian  fund. Those complaints are being looked at separately to Mrs Ws complaint.  
My provisional findings
Ive first considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide  whether  this is a complaint 
that this service has jurisdiction to investigate. There are two principal issues that need to be 
addressed, has the complaint been brought in time and is Positive Solutions responsible for the acts 
complained about?
But before going on to explain my findings about these questions, I need to first clarify  what I consider 
the complaint to be about.
What is the complaint about?
Mrs W wrote to Mr P on 13 October 2014 saying:
I am writing in relation  to the undermentioned investments, undertaken as a result of your 
recommendations and advice as my IFA during the period October  2008 to the present date.
It is my view that there has been clear miss selling of this investment. In consequence, I a 
notifying you that I wish to register a claim against you and will seek  to recover all losses and 
commission earnings made as a result of the advice you gave to purchase this product and 
sell my more suitable investment, with guaranteed growth,  from the Prudential
The Romanian  Geared Growth Cell. The investment in this fund was achieved  following a 
transfer you made of my Prudential  Insurance Personal/Stakeholder plan  to a Sipp account  
with MC Trustees
I have  now found out the scheme is in administration  however, there is no identifiable value  
for my investment.
Ref: DRN58426167My claim against  you is to rectify this unsuitable transfer
Looking at the above, in my view the complaint is about  the suitability of advice  and arrangements  to 
switch Mrs Ws existing  pension to the MC Trustees SIPP  in order to invest  in the Romanian fund.
Has the complaint been  brought in time?
The rules which govern the operation of our service are part of the regulators handbook. The Dispute  
Resolution (DISP) section sets out that we cant consider a complaint  that has been made to the 
respondent business (or referred to us) more than:
Six years  after the matter complained about;  or (if later)
Three years  after Mrs W became  aware, or ought  reasonably  to have become  aware,  that 
she had cause  for complaint.
The event being complained  about  is the advice and arrangements to switch Mrs Ws pension to the 
SIPP for the investment in the Romanian fund. So when did this occur? 
There is no suitability  letter documenting when the advice  was actually  provided to Mrs W. As a result,  
I have to consider the wider  context to establish when  it was most likely to have happened.
The evidence  shows that there was dialogue between Mr P and Mrs W on 10 October 2008 about  the 
investment. Mr P says in one email:
I have attached a Transfer of Servicing letter for [Mrs W] to sign and email/fax  back  to me, 
once I receive  it I will obtain all the necessary  documentation for a transfer to Romania 
Geared Growth (RGG).
So by 10 October 2008, it looks as if the advice process had started and steps had been taken 
towards making the investment in the Romanian fund. 
However in order to make the investment, Mrs W needed to switch her personal  pension with 
Prudential to a different  platform  and provider  the SIPP  with MC Trustees. And although  the advice 
process had started  in early October 2008, Im satisfied that it wasnt concluded  until some weeks 
later. 
A pension  switch is a complex process. Advisers generally gather information about the existing 
pension and compare  this against the benefits of the new plan before  advising their customers  about 
what to do. That process appears  to have been adopted here as it looks like Mr P sought information 
from Prudential about Mrs Ws existing pension. That information was provided by Prudential to Mr P 
on 27 October 2008. I think its likely  that this information formed part of his final advice. So the advice 
cant have been finalised  before 27 October 2008.
Furthermore, the actual pension switch  and investment  in the Romanian  fund didnt occur until 
November 2008 and Mr P appears  to have been integrally involved in the arrangements to complete  
that process. He verified Mrs Ws application  forms and was in correspondence with MC Trustees in 
November 2008. As Ive said above, I think these arrangements all form part of the matter that Mrs W 
is complaining about. So, I think the acts Mrs W complained about  took place  in November 2008.
Mrs W referred her complaint to Mr P on 14 October 2014.  This is clearly within six years of the acts 
shes complaining about. However by that point, Mr P was no longer an RI of Positive Solutions  he 
ceased to be an RI in 2011. The complaint was only put to Positive  Solutions in February  2015 after it 
was submitted to us. So Mrs W cant be said to have  referred her complaint to Positive Solutions 
within 6 years  of the acts being complained  about.  
Ref: DRN58426168I also dont think the 3 year limb of the time bar rules gives Mrs W more time. Positive  Solutions 
pointed out that the Romanian fund was suspended in June 2011 and that by December  2010 the 
fund value had fallen by approximately 45%. So its likely that Mrs W was aware (or ought to have 
been aware) she had cause for complaint  about the investment more than three years before she did 
complain.
But our rules allow us to still consider a complaint if exceptional circumstances apply. And I think they 
apply here.  I think Mrs Ws referral of her complaint to Mr P in the first instance was an entirely natural 
thing to do. He was, after all, the person she had direct contact with about  the events  being 
complained about and my view is that she had no reason to think that she could  not submit her 
complaint to him and expect  it to be dealt with in accordance with Positive Solutions  complaints 
process. She did this within  six years  of the advice. And when referring the complaint to our service  a 
short time later, she clarified that Mr P was an RI of Positive Solutions at the relevant  time. So, in the 
circumstances, I dont  think Mrs W should be penalised for referring  her complaint to Positive  
Solutions shortly after the expiration  of our time limits. So, my conclusion is that this complaint isnt 
time barred as exceptional circumstances apply.
Is Positive Solutions responsible (under  our rules) for the acts being complained about?
Under our rules, Positive Solutions can only be responsible for certain  types of activity. The DISP 
rules set out that we can consider a complaint under our compulsory jurisdiction if it relates  to an act 
or omission by a firm in the carrying on of one or more listed activities,  (including regulated activities),  
or any ancillary activities carried on by the firm in connection with those activities, (DISP2.3.1R).  
In response to a complaint  from Mrs Ws husband, Positive Solutions has said that Mr P did nothing  
more than introduce Mrs Ws husband to Curzon, a firm that appears to have administered  the 
Romanian fund and that Mr P didnt provide advice. Positive  Solutions hasnt said the same in 
response to Mrs Ws complaint,  but Ive proceeded on the basis it doesnt believe that Mr P gave 
advice to Mrs W.
There is no written record of the advice  that Mrs W says she was given by Mr P. But, Im satisfied that 
she was indeed given  advice about the pension switch  and investment in the Romanian fund by Mr P 
and have no reason to doubt  her statement that Mr P:
asked for details of the Prudential scheme which I provided. His response was that I could achieve  
much better  returns by transferring the accumulated  fund into a Sipp and have the funds reinvested in 
a Romanian property fund and that this would achieve  far higher returns  than the Prudential scheme. 
He provided  me with documents to appoint him as my agent, which  he said was necessary. He 
emailed me a blank document  to which I had to add my signature. Subsequently, I also received 
further documentation to enable him to effect  a transfer from the Prudential to a Sipp account  which 
he had opened on my behalf.  Sometime later,  the funds  were transferred from the prudential and 
invested in The Romanian Geared Property Fund. Other than the documentation  [Mr P] provided to 
make these arrangements  and his assurance  that the returns would be better by investing in his 
recommended property fund, I received no written advice  from him. All communications in relation  to 
this matter were  through my husbands email
Mr P had advised Mrs Ws husband about his pensions  at around the same time and Mr Ps details 
are set out on the investment application documents submitted to MC Trustees on behalf of Mrs W. 
And as Ive set out above, Mr P appears to have been integrally involved in gathering information  from 
Prudential and making the arrangements for the switch and investment. Giving  advice and making 
arrangements for a personal pension are regulated activities  our service  has jurisdiction to look at.
However, I also need to consider the fact that Mr P was not an employee  of Positive  Solutions  he 
was its agent and had an agency agreement with Positive Solutions to be one of its RIs. This meant 
that Positive Solutions authorised Mr P to carry out certain  regulated acts on its behalf. The agency 
agreement was non-exclusive  and did not prevent Mr P acting independently or for another firm at the 
Ref: DRN58426169same time. So was Mr P purporting to act as an agent  of Positive Solutions when giving the advice 
and making  the arrangements?  
I think  he was because:
There is no dispute  that Mr P was advising Mrs Ws husband about his pensions at the same 
time in his capacity  as a Positive Solutions adviser. I think its likely he was doing  the same for 
Mrs W.
Mr P wrote  to and received correspondence from Prudential relating  to Mrs Ws ceding  
scheme as a Positive Solutions  adviser.
Mr Ps details with Positive Solutions authorisation number appears on the investment  
application forms.
Mr P asked Mrs W to sign a transfer of agency form on Positive Solutions letterhead.
But, Positive Solutions also says Mr P was acting beyond the scope of the agency agreement 
between them and so it cant be said to have  accepted responsibility for the disputed acts. And our 
rules say that we can only look at complaints about acts or omissions  by a firm for which  the firm has 
accepted responsibility (DISP 2.3.3G).  
So the key issue I need to decide is whether the advice  and arrangements given  and made by Mr P 
are acts for which Positive Solutions  accepted responsibility. If not, then our service wont have 
jurisdiction to consider this complaint against Positive Solutions.
What does the law say about this?
Relationships like the one between Positive Solutions and Mr P require an analysis  of agency law. 
Agency is where one party  (the principal  here Positive Solutions) allows another party (the agent  
here Mr P) to act on its behalf in such a way that affects  its legal  relationship with third parties. An 
agent may have actual  authority, where the principal has expressly or impliedly given its assent to the 
agent that it may act on its behalf.  Or the agent may have  apparent authority, where  the principal  has 
made a representation  to a third party  that the agent has authority to act on its behalf and the third 
party has relied on this representation.
There is an express agreement between Positive Solutions and Mr P. But, as highlighted by Positive 
Solutions, the agreement sets out that Mr P must account to Positive  Solutions for all business  and 
only advise on investments that it had pre-approved. There is also a general point in agency of this 
type that the agent  is required  to act in the principals best interests.
Mr P didnt do any of these  things in this case. Neither  the SIPP nor the Romanian investment were  
approved investments and he doesnt  appear to have notified Positive  Solutions about  what  he was 
doing either. So Mr P was not acting in accordance with the actual authority he had been given. So, I 
cant conclude that Positive Solutions accepted responsibility for acts complained about by Mrs W by 
way of actual authority.  
That is not however the end of the matter  because there is also agency based on apparent authority. 
The essence  of apparent authority is not concerned with what was actually agreed between  the 
parties (for example by way of the agency agreement), but rather, how the relationship between  those  
parties appeared to third parties. In this complaint,  Im concerned with how the relationship appeared  
to Mrs W. 
Apparent authority arises  when the principal represents to third parties through  words or conduct  that 
the agent  has authority to act on its behalf and the third party reasonably  relies upon that 
representation. The case law makes it clear that whether  a claimant has relied  on a representation is 
Ref: DRN584261610dependent on the circumstances of the individual case. So here, I must  consider whether, on the facts 
of this individual case:
Positive Solutions made a representation to Mrs W that Mr P had Positive  Solutions authority 
to act on its behalf in carrying  out the activities she now complains about; and
Mrs W reasonably relied on that representation in entering  into the transactions she now 
complains about.
Did Positive Solutions  represent  to Mrs W that Mr P had the relevant  authority?
I think  Positive Solutions placed Mr P in a position which would, in the outside world, generally be 
regarded as having authority  to carry out the acts Mrs W complains about.  I say this for the following  
reasons. Some of these interrelate. 
It authorised Mr P to use Positive Solutions letterhead  and email footers that were used to 
correspond with Mrs W and her husband. 
Positive Solutions held itself out as an independent financial adviser firm that gave advice  and 
offered products from the whole of the market after assessing  a clients needs.  No information  
was provided to clients or potential clients  about its agents  such as Mr P - being  authorised 
in relation to approved  products only. 
Its not clear that Mrs W was given a terms of business agreement  in respect of the disputed  
advice. Mrs Ws husband  did receive these terms and so I think its likely that Mrs W would 
have seen these.  And if she had, this would have shown that Mr P could advise on and 
arrange investments and set up SIPPs for Positive Solutions  customers. None of these 
activities would be unexpected for an IFA firm. They are all the type of activity  that IFAs  are 
usually authorised  to do. 
But the terms of business  agreement  would  not have shown any restrictions on Mr Ps authority to 
give advice on transferring existing  pensions, setting up a SIPP or using only certain investments. So, 
for example,  Mrs W would not know that an adviser should only recommend approved investments, 
should obtain  clearance from Positive Solutions before giving certain  types of advice and should 
present the advice in certain ways.
Positive Solutions authorised Mr P to give investment advice on its behalf  and Mr P was held 
out by it as authorised to give investment advice on its behalf. Positive Solutions arranged  for 
Mr P to appear on the regulators register in respect of Positive  Solutions. And Mr P was 
approved to carry on the controlled function CF30 - which  relates to investment advice - at the 
time of the disputed  advice. 
It was in Positive Solutions  interest for the general public, including Mrs W, to understand that 
it was taking responsibility for the advice given by its financial advisers.  Im satisfied that 
Positive Solutions intended Mrs W to act on its representation  that Mr P was its financial  
adviser.
The provision of financial advice was a key part of Positive  Solutions business. It said in its 
terms of business that its Partners  would give impartial, independent  financial advice. I 
dont see how Positive Solutions could have carried out its business activities  at all if the 
general public had not treated registered individuals like Mr P as having authority to give 
investment advice on behalf of Positive Solutions.
So I think that all of these  points taken together mean that Positive Solutions did represent to Mrs W 
that Mr P was authorised  to give the advice  he gave  to Mrs W and make the arrangements he did.
did Mrs W reasonably rely on Positive Solutions  representation?
Ref: DRN584261611I think  its important to reiterate that Mr P presented himself to Mrs W as a Positive Solutions adviser.  
And Mrs W has confirmed to us that she believed  Mr P to be acting for or even employed  by Positive 
Solutions.
I havent seen any evidence to show that Mrs W knew or should reasonably have known that Mr P 
was acting  in any capacity  other than a Positive Solutions adviser. And further, Ive seen  no evidence 
that Mrs W would have  proceeded with the pension switch and investment if she had any inkling that 
Mr P was not acting with regulatory authority  which  is what Mr P would  have been doing if hed 
given the advice and made arrangements without using his Positive Solutions hat.
So, on balance,  I think its likely that Mrs W proceeded on the basis that Mr P was acting in every 
respect as the agent of Positive Solutions with authority from Positive  Solutions so to act. In other 
words, Mrs W reasonably relied  on Positive Solutions  representation that Mr P was authorised  to give 
the investment  advice  he gave  to Mrs W.
It is therefore  my finding  that Positive Solutions is responsible for the advice Mrs W complains about 
and that we can consider her complaint.
my findings - merits
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
In giving  advice to Mrs W, Mr P ought to have made a recommendation that was consistent with her 
investment objectives, which ought to have been assessed  by reference to her personal  and financial  
circumstances. He should  have carried out a fact find of her circumstances and investment 
experience and given a written  recommendation  with reasons. It doesnt appear he did this any of this 
before recommending  the investment in the Romanian fund via the MC Trustees SIPP.
The Romanian  fund also appears to be a Unregulated Collective Investment Scheme (UCIS). Before 
1 January 2014, UCIS were only allowed to be promoted in limited circumstances. Relevant  
exemptions to the general promotion restriction up to 1 January 2014 included:
certified high net worth  individuals
certified sophisticated investors
self-certified sophisticated investors
Ive seen no evidence that Mrs W was someone who fell into these categories.
UCIS could have been promoted to Ms W by Mr P if it was, by Mr Ps assessment, a suitable  
investment for her. But Ive seen  nothing  to suggest that the Romanian fund was suitable. UCIS such 
as the Romanian fund are high risk as theyre based overseas, often subject to higher degrees of 
market volatility  and unregulated and so investors have no access to the Financial Services 
Compensation Scheme.  And the fund in this case utilised  gearing, which brought  with it further risk. 
Mrs W has said that the funds switched from Prudential to MC Trustees and then invested in the 
Romanian fund were  her only private pension provision  and she had no other assets at the time. The 
Prudential pension also had a guaranteed  annual growth guarantee  of 4%. 
So, taking this all into account, my view is that theres no evidence that Mrs W was a high-risk investor 
or that such a high risk investment and investment strategy was suitable  for her. Mrs W should not 
have been advised to switch her pension to a SIPP in order to invest in the Romanian fund. She 
should have been advised  not to switch her pension  at all.
Ref: DRN5842616