K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that HSBC UK Bank  Plc restricted his ability to use his account. Hes also 
unhappy about how long it took for the restrictions to be removed and that he wasnt  notified 
about that.  
background
Mr M has been a customer of HSBC for over ten years. In October 2018 he opened a joint 
account with his wife. During the process  of opening  that account  Mr M and his wife provided 
a lot of personal  information. 
On 18 December 2018 HSBC wrote to Mr M to explain it was carrying  out a safeguard 
initiative to help prevent  fraud and financial crime. As part of that review, it wanted to confirm 
that the information it held about him was correct. And it asked him to provide the 
information it needed in order to do so.
On 22 December Mr M sent HSBC a secure  message  explaining that he had already  
provided the requested information when  he opened his joint account. So, he didnt provide 
any further information to HSBC. HSBC replied to this message the following day confirming 
that it needed him to complete and return the Customer Information Form  it had sent him. 
On 24 December Mr M responded stating he had already provided the required information. 
But on 31 December HSBC sent Mr M a final reminder, which  gave him 15 days to provide 
the information it required to complete its safeguard review. In this correspondence HSBC  
explained that if the information remained outstanding Mr Ms access  to his account  would 
be restricted.
As Mr M didnt provide the information  HSBC needed by this deadline it applied  restrictions 
to his account. One of the restrictions it applied was his ability  to withdraw cash from his 
account. This restriction was applied from 28 January  until 17 May when  it was removed 
following a review of Mr Ms account after he provided the information HSBC  needed. 
Mr M wasnt happy that HSBC wouldnt use the information he said hed already provided 
during the joint account opening  process. And he thought it had unfairly restricted his 
account. He was unhappy he hadnt  been notified when HSBC removed the restriction.  So, 
he complained  to HSBC  about what had happened. 
HSBC didnt uphold  Mr Ms complaint. It said its terms and conditions allow it to require 
identity details. And it said it had written  to Mr M on a number of occasions to request this 
information and explain that his account  would be restricted if he didnt provide it. So, it didnt  
think it had done  anything wrong. But it did accept  it could  have  communicated better with 
Mr M when  it lifted the restrictions on his account. And it paid him £75 to recognise the 
trouble and upset  this had caused.  
Mr M wasnt satisfied  with HSBCs  response  to his complaint.  So, he referred it to us. Our 
investigator looked into this and, while they empathised with Mr M, they didnt think that 
HSBC needed  to do anything more here. They thought HSBC was within its rights to request 
the information it had asked Mr M to provide. And they thought the £75 compensation it had 
already paid Mr M for the poor communication he had experienced was appropriate and fair. 
But Mr M disagreed and asked for the matter  to be referred to an ombudsman. 
Ref: DRN56126072my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Mr M has raised  several individual points 
in his complaint  and I have considered all of these, although my decision focuses on what I 
consider to be the crux of the issue.
I understand he feels very strongly about this complaint. So I know how disappointing this 
will be for him. But I dont uphold his complaint  and Ill explain why I think  HSBC  acted  
reasonably in placing restrictions on his account.  
As our investigator explained banks have a legal requirement to show that they know and 
understand who their customers  are. To comply with this regulation HSBC asked its 
customers to complete a safeguard review. And as part of that process it required its 
customers to provide the information requested from Mr M.
Mr M feels it was unnecessary for HSBC to ask him to provide the safeguarding information 
it had requested from him. He says he had already supplied this information on opening his 
joint account in October  2018. So, I can understand his hesitance  and reluctance in 
providing it again. 
But HSBC  told Mr M and our service that the account opening process is separate  to its 
safeguarding procedure. So, the information he provided when he opened his joint account 
isnt the same as that needed  as part of the safeguard review. It said the questions  asked as 
part of the safeguard review are dependent on the responses a customer  provides. This 
explains why HSBC  couldnt use the information  Mr M had already supplied. 
I can appreciate that asking Mr M to provide this information was inconvenient to him. But 
Im satisfied HSBC needed this information  to comply with regulations  to know your 
customer. I dont think it would be fair to find HSBC at fault for responding to regulations, 
which are essentially intended  to protect  consumers and prevent fraud  and financial crime. It 
follows that I dont  think it was unreasonable for HSBC to request  this information. So, I cant 
fairly find it made an error  in asking Mr M to provide  the information it requested.
Its clear that as a result of not supplying the information requested  by HSBC Mr M suffered 
inconvenience and distress because of the restrictions that were  applied to his account. So, 
Ive thought about whether HSBC  made  Mr M aware  of the potential consequences if he 
didnt comply with its request for information.
HSBC has shown it sent two letters to Mr M in December  2018. Its first letter  explained the 
safeguard exercise  and that information was required  as outlined in the Customer 
Information Form that was enclosed. The second letter HSBC sent Mr M about  this was a 
final reminder. This was dated 31 December 2018  and explained  that if it didnt hear from Mr 
M within 15 days  it would place restrictions on his account. 
Its clear from both these letters that HSBC  made  reasonable  efforts to alert Mr M about the 
safeguard exercise.  And Im satisfied  it explained  that it needed this information  to prevent 
fraud and financial  crime. Im also satisfied that each time HSBC wrote to Mr M it made it 
clear that if he didnt supply the information  it requested it would restrict activity on his 
account which could  include  limiting cash withdrawals. So, I think Mr M ought reasonably to 
have known what could  happen. 
Ref: DRN56126073I can see HSBC offered Mr M a number of options as to how he could  provide  the 
information it needed, which included him doing  so via online banking  or by returning the 
customer information form it had sent him by post.  I think this demonstrates  that it was trying  
to make the process  as convenient  as possible for its customers. 
Overall, I cant fairly find HSBC acted unreasonably in restricting  Mr Ms account  as it had 
indicated it would. I know Mr M has questioned how HSBC is allowed to restrict his account 
and withdrawal limit. But the terms and conditions HSBC  that apply to Mr Ms account 
explain in plain and intelligible  language  that its entitled to make  reasonable requests  for 
information, and, if it doesnt hear from a customer its entitled to restrict their access to 
banking services. 
Ultimately HSBC was entitled  to request  the information it did and Mr M was obliged to 
provide it. Because he didnt provide the information HSBC required by the deadline  it set it 
was entitled to restrict Mr Ms access to his account. It didnt do so until 28 January 2019 
when it restricted the amount  of money  Mr M was able to withdraw from an ATM.  And Im 
satisfied that the action  it took here was in line with the terms of Mr Ms account.
I see that on 17 April 2019  Mr M completed  the customer  information form he was sent.  
HSBC said it received this one week  later. While Mr M had wanted the account restrictions  
to be removed immediately this didnt happen  until 17 May 2019. I appreciate that this was 
almost a month after Mr M had provided  the information  requested but reviews can take 
some time. HSBC needed to check the information  it had received  to ensure it was sufficient 
for it to undertake  its safeguard review. So I think,  on balance, the time it took HSBC to 
complete its review was reasonable in the circumstances.
HSBC accepts Mr M wasnt notified  immediately that the restrictions  on his account  had 
been lifted. Its apologised for that oversight and recognised  what  happened by paying £75 
in compensation  to Mr M. Its clear he doesnt think  this adequately reflects  his 
inconvenience and experience. 
I realise that not having unfettered access  to his money must have been  extremely  
inconvenient to Mr M. But Ive explained  why I dont think HSBC  made an error in taking  the 
action it took here. That said it could have  communicated  better  with Mr M about when it 
removed the restrictions from his account. Its conceded that it could have handled that part 
of Mr Ms complaint better  and I think this is reflected  in the compensation  its already  paid.  
Im satisfied that the sum already paid is fair to compensate  him for the shortcomings in 
communication here. So I wont be ordering it to pay any more.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 November 2019.
Julie Robertson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5612607