K820x#14complaint
Mrs M complains she was given poor advice  by a member of TenetConnect Limited to 
transfer her pension benefits  from her occupational scheme and purchase an annuity. Doing 
so has meant she lost her entitlement  to state  welfare benefits and left her worse off overall.
background
In December 2015 Mrs Ms company appointed a financial advisor  (Mr B), a member of 
TenetConnect Limited, to write to the members  of its pension scheme. This was to help 
them decide  whether to take their benefits  from the company  scheme or transfer it to 
another provider.  The company would meet the cost of the financial advice. So in January  
2016, aged 56, Mrs M was contacted by Mr B and he briefly  explained  her options. Mrs M 
said she didnt need to touch her pension  as she was in the process  of selling her property 
to downsize, expecting to complete in mid-February.  So she decided to remain  a deferred  
member of the pension  scheme and take her benefits at 60. 
But later that month the house  sale fell through, and she lost the new build property  she 
was moving to. So Mrs M called Mr B and asked about her options  in respect of her 
pension. He asked  Mrs M about  her circumstances. She was unable to work  due to her 
health conditions  (arthritis and COPD) so her only income was from a small private pension  
and means-tested welfare benefits  (Employment & Support Allowance (ESA) and the lower 
level of Disability Living  Allowance).  Her benefit entitlement had already been  reduced due 
to her pension income. As her outgoings significantly exceeded her income, she was living  
on her bank overdraft, and said shed soon reach the limit on the store card she used to buy 
groceries. She also had a small  personal  loan to which  she was paying  a nominal £20 a 
month. And as her sons father  couldnt  support him through  university in London, she 
needed funds  for that as well. 
Mr B with the assistance of his firms para-planner reviewed the benefits available  from her 
occupational pension and compared these to the wider market if she opted to transfer  to 
another provider.  Her occupational scheme  enabled her to take an immediate pension of 
around £4,200  per year or release  a tax-free lump  sum of around £22,000 and provide an 
annual income  of around £3,300, which would rise in line with inflation.  
The transfer value  of Mrs Ms occupational scheme was reduced to just over £134,000 as 
the scheme was under-funded.  So D wanted to ensure itd give her an income for the rest of 
her life. But as Mrs M was also a smoker  in addition to her health conditions,  Mr B thought  
she might  be eligible for a higher monthly income.  And due to her sons age, he 
recommended a ten-year  guarantee period so that her son would continue to receive  her 
pension if Mrs M passed away within that time period.
Mr B found  an annuity provider J which would enable Mrs M to take a tax-free lump sum 
of around £34,000  and purchase an annuity  to provide an annual  income  of around £6,200, 
significantly higher  than her occupational scheme, although it wouldnt rise in line with 
inflation. But in order to make an informed decision Mr D wanted  Mrs M to check the impact 
on her benefit entitlement.
Ref: DRN55486282So Mrs M phoned the relevant government agency  and reported back  to Mr B shed been 
told the tax-free lump  sum on its own would remove her entitlement  to ESA, as theres a 
savings limit of £16,000. But she realised even  if her house sold again quite quickly  it 
wouldnt complete  in time to pay for her sons flights to London. And she thought even if the 
occupational scheme increased each year it wouldnt beat the annuity from J. Mrs M thought  
hed found her a good deal, so asked how soon  it could  go through.  Mr B explained taking 
benefits from the occupational scheme would take about 2-3 weeks. But a transfer  would 
take longer due to the paperwork, although hed progress it as quickly as he could. Mrs M 
decided to go ahead with the transfer.  
In 2018 Mrs M spoke to another financial advisor  who made her think shed  been  badly 
advised. Her house sold again only a month or two after it originally fell through. And shes  
now realised losing  entitlement  to ESA also means she now pays for things  like opticians, 
the dentist and rates. Shes  been told flexi-access drawdown would have been  more 
appropriate as she wouldnt  have lost her entitlement to ESA. And there was no point 
gaining £500  per month if it means  losing £350  in benefits. So she complained.
Tenet didnt  uphold the complaint. It said Mr B had warned Mrs M she might lose her 
entitlement to welfare benefits, so told her to check before making a decision. And having 
done so, Mrs M knew the lump sum alone would take her above the threshold and still 
decided to go ahead. She was unemployed and her level of debt would become 
unsustainable so the lump  sum plus annuity  gave her the cash she needed  as well as 
providing an income, which made her better off than remaining on benefits. 
Mrs M referred  her complaint to this service,  and it was looked at by one of our 
adjudicators. As all discussions between Mr B and Mrs M had taken place by phone he 
asked Tenet  for the call recordings. Having listened to them he was satisfied Mrs M was 
aware of the consequences,  but was in desperate financial  need  and pressed for the 
transfer to go ahead.  So he didnt  think Tenet  had done anything wrong. 
Mrs M thought hed got the wrong impression and suspected hed only been given the 
calls Tenet  wanted him to have. She said shed  never been  in debt in her life and her 
financial difficulties had been exaggerated.  She admitted shed panicked when the 
house sale fell through.  She thought Mr B should have found a way to release enough 
cash to tide her over. But she never wanted  to take her pension before her retirement  
date. And she believed Mr B had personally  benefited from the transfer by creaming off 
about £100,000 from her pension which was money shed worked  hard for. So she asked 
an ombudsman to make a decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having  done so, Im not going to uphold it. Let me 
explain why.
Firstly I should clarify  Mr B works for a firm of independent financial advisors, he doesnt 
work for J (the annuity provider). Mr Bs firm is an appointed representative of 
TenetConnect, so thats why the complaint  is against Tenet  and not the advisors  firm. 
Ref: DRN55486283I cannot hold Tenet  responsible if Mrs M regrets her decision to transfer her pension  with 
hindsight. I need  to decide  if on balance  Mrs M was badly advised to transfer  her pension 
based on her circumstances at the time.  Ive seen Mr Bs recommendation letter to Mrs M. 
And Ive listened  to 15 calls between Mrs M and Mr B, including a couple of voicemail 
messages. Ive seen  nothing to suggest  there were other calls which Tenet  didnt provide, 
or that the calls were  selected to give a misleading impression of what  was discussed. 
Mrs Ms occupational scheme  was defined benefit  which meant she could have a transfer 
value. Her scheme  was underfunded,  which reduced the transfer value from about 
£160,000 to around £135,000. Mr B assessed Mrs M as a cautious investor and as this 
represents the entirety of her pension benefits, save for a small pension already  in payment 
he felt it was too small to make drawdown a viable option, as it risked not lasting for the rest 
of her life. So he researched the market  to see if he could improve the income shed receive 
from her occupational scheme. They discussed the prospect of her selling  her house again, 
but although thered been some interest, Mrs M said even if it sold relatively quickly,  she 
couldnt wait. In March her son needed to fly from their home  in Northern Ireland to London 
for university  interviews  and she wanted  to go with him. 
So Mrs M may well have  panicked when she discovered her buyer  had pulled out as shed 
hoped selling her house would release around £80,000 of equity, and perhaps more  as she 
thought it was undervalued by about £20,000.  This would  have  cleared  her debts, enabled 
her to support her son through university and boosted her income.  But according to what 
she was told by the benefits agency, shed have lost her ESA entitlement anyway, as the 
savings limit for means-tested  benefits is £16,000.  Although she may not have  realised 
losing ESA also meant shed be liable to pay for other costs like her glasses,  I cant  hold Mr 
B responsible for information provided  by the benefits agency. He suspected thered be an 
impact on her benefits, which is why he insisted  she check first, before making  a decision.
And given  her urgent need  for more money,  Im not sure what  Mrs M would have done 
differently if Mr B hadnt  facilitated the transfer of her pension. Mrs M says her financial 
difficulties were exaggerated, so she could have  waited until 60. But Mr B assessed the 
significant shortfall between her income  (£7,950)  and expenditure (£13,200) as 
unsustainable, and Mrs M described herself  as being up to her neck  in debts and said she 
needed money now and not in three years time. She said she spent £100-£150 a week on 
her store card which was approaching its limit and was utilising her bank  overdraft. She 
now says shes never  been  in debt and doesnt have  a credit card. But she also mentioned 
a £1,000 loan for which the bank  was accepting nominal payments of £20. And she may not 
consider her food hall card to be a credit card, but as she was spending more than she 
was paying back  shes effectively using credit. 
As it turned out, the house did sell again relatively  quickly, but Mrs M (or Mr B) didnt know  
this would happen. Mr B also told her taking benefits  from her occupational scheme would  
be quicker than transferring. But Mrs M worked out the index-linked annual income of 
£3,300 would be unlikely to catch up to the £6,200  provided by the annuity with J. And Mr B 
arranged the transfer as quickly as possible because  Mrs M asked him to. 
Ref: DRN55486284Purchasing an annuity is usually an irreversible  decision. But Mr B identified a product which  
provides Mrs M with a significantly  higher annual income than her occupational scheme, 
based on her health  and lifestyle, which are factors likely to limit life expectancy. And it 
includes a ten-year guarantee  period so her son would continue  to receive income if she 
passes away within that time frame,  which I cant say didnt meet her requirements.  Indeed  
Mrs M was initially very happy with the decision she made. She said she thought shed  got a 
good deal and without it shed be up the swanny.  I think shed always have lost her 
entitlement to ESA, whether by taking  a lump sum from her pension or simply selling her 
property and downsizing.  And although  Mrs M is unhappy shes  gained  £500 per month but 
has sacrificed £350 shes still better off overall, including as a result of the lump  sum which  
could have enabled her to clear  debts to maximise her use of this disposable  income.
In responding  to our adjudicators view of her complaint Mrs M suspects that Mr B creamed 
off more than £100,000 from her pension. Im not sure why she thinks that. The 
recommendation letter says Mrs M wasnt charged for the advice. And Tenet  has confirmed 
any fee Mr B received  would have been paid by the company, not from Mrs Ms pension  
funds. She may not consider the annuity  plus lump sum is worth as much  as a transfer value 
of £135,000, but it is difficult to compare the two. The annuity guarantees shell  receive this 
income for the rest of her life and appears to be the highest one Mr B could  locate on the 
open market at that time.
So in summary I think Mrs M knew shed lose her benefit entitlement  when she sold her 
property or took a lump sum from her pension. Drawdown is likely to be considered too risky 
for a cautious investor with that level of pension savings. And the annuity  she has will likely 
pay more overall than shed have received through her occupational scheme. I think Mr B 
carefully considered  Mrs Ms circumstances  before making his recommendation. So overall, 
I cant say Tenet has done  anything  wrong.   
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint and make no award against TenetConnect Limited. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 January 2020.
Sarah Milne
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5548628