K820x#14complaint
C complains that HSBC UK Bank  Plc closed its account when it ought not to have done.
Mr A, who is a director of C, represents it in this complaint.
background
In January 2019 HSBC closed Cs bank account. Mr A suggested HSBC wrote to the wrong 
address and did not do enough to let C know  about its intention to close  the account. Initially,  
C wanted the account re-opened, an apology and £500 to pay for Mr As time spent on this 
complaint and for distress and inconvenience  for Mr A and C. But subsequently it just asked 
for an apology and compensation for itself and Mr A.
At first, HSBC  replied  to say it had written  to C several times and got no response. Further,  
Mr A had used internet  banking and ought reasonably to have seen information (in the form 
of an online  banner)  on the website telling  him what C needed to do if it wanted to keep the 
account open. Moreover, it said it gave C appropriate notice before closing its account.  For 
all of these reasons, HSBC didnt  agree  it had acted incorrectly and it declined Cs requests.
The parties had reached a stalemate,  C came  to our service. 
When the complaint  was with us, HSBC wrote  and offered C £300 for inconvenience. This 
was because it sent its letters to an address that was not Cs registered office and which  C 
said was not its correspondence address. However,  it did say the address it sent the letters  
to, was the address it had on file for C. So it didnt accept it had made  a mistake,  rather it 
offered a goodwill gesture.
Our investigator looked into Cs complaint.  She didnt recommend upholding it. In brief, she 
thought, in circumstances, it was fair and reasonable  that HSBC wanted  up to date 
information about C. 
Also she found that HSBC  had closed the account in line with the relevant terms and 
conditions. 
She noted that HSBCs  records  show it wrote  to C at the address it had on file for it. Further, 
she could see that during  the relevant time period,  Mr A had accessed the account online 
several times. She thought the information that HSBC had put online, in the banner,  should 
have been enough to let C know it had to take action or its account would be closed.
In addition, our investigator  pointed  out the only eligible complainant  here is C not Mr A. He 
is a third party. She explained  she didnt have the power  to make an award  in relation to the 
distress and inconvenience of a third party. So she could make no award to compensate 
him. She found  that the offer of £300 for Cs inconvenience went far enough.
HSBC accepted our investigators recommendation, but Mr A for C did not. In brief,  he 
responded to say C didnt expect to receive  important communications via an online banner. 
This whole episode could have been  avoided if HSBC had written  to C at the address it 
should have used. 
Mr A added he doubted that the banner did appear online. He suggested  one of the reasons 
he said this was because  he said hed found  no trace  of the letters  that HSBC said it had 
Ref: DRN58791892sent. Further it had said it had enclosed a cheque in its final response when it had not. 
Moreover Mr A doubted he would  have overlooked the banner.  For all of these reasons he 
indicated we ought not, on balance,  place weight on what HSBC told us. He asked for a 
copy of the banner. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail  than the parties 
and Ive done so using  my own words. Im not going  to respond to every  single  point made 
by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what 
I think are the key issues here. 
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal  nature  of our service  as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres  something Ive not mentioned,  it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every  individual  argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome.
Where there is a dispute about what happened, I have based my decision on the balance  of 
probabilities. In other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light 
of the evidence.
Cs stance is that the closure of the account  was unfair because  HSBC did not do enough to 
tell it what it intended  to do. Whereas,  HSBC disagrees, it says it was entitled to close  the 
account having done what it ought  to have done. It suggests it only offered the £300 which  I 
understand has been sent to C, as it gave C the benefit of the doubt about which address it 
should have had on file.
It seems  the parties do agree that HSBC was entitled to ask C for information in these 
circumstances. HSBCs records show it did send letters telling C what  it needed and giving C 
the required notice  to close the account.  I realise Mr A tells us he didnt find any of these  
letters at the address to which the letters were  sent. However, on balance,  I think  it is 
unlikely that HSBC has given us inaccurate information about  this. In the circumstances, I 
cant fairly and reasonably  hold HSBC responsible for C not receiving these letters.  Neither 
do I find, just because C tells us it never  received these letters, I must infer from this HSBC 
is likely  to have provided us with inaccurate  information about this and some  of the other 
complaint points.
The parties disagree about which  address HSBC  should have had on file for C. But as a 
gesture of goodwill HSBC has agreed  to compensate C for this. I think its offer is fair and so 
I dont need to look any further  at this particular point. But I will make this observation  I would 
not have made a finding against HSBC about this point, if it had not already made an offer.
Further, in addition to the letters, HSBC says Mr A should have seen the banners  it put up 
when he went online and looked at the account.  Mr A suggests  he would have seen the 
banners had they been there.  I do not doubt  that is his sincere belief. However, I find it 
unlikely that HSBCs records  would  be inaccurate. What  started  all of this off was that HSBC 
had to comply with its legal and regulatory obligations by asking its customers  to supply it 
with information.  In those circumstances, I satisfied  it would have  taken a rigorous approach,  
not least of all because  of the possible implications  for it if it did not.
Ref: DRN58791893For all of these reasons I am persuaded that HSBC  did not act incorrectly  in closing the 
account.
C has asked for an apology but since  I dont agree HSBC acted incorrectly in closing the 
account, it follows I am not going to ask HSBC to provide one. 
C also tells us that the £300 does not go far enough to compensate C for inconvenience.  
Rather it suggests £500 is nearer the mark. It is not entirely clear  how C has calculated this. 
The main  inconvenience  seems to have been having to open a new account and I dont 
agree HSBC is responsible for this. 
Mr A did ask for compensation for his own personal distress and inconvenience.  However,  
he is not an eligible  complainant here only C is. I dont  have  the power in these 
circumstances to make any such award.
In summary,  I think the £300 that HSBC  has already  offered and seemingly paid is a fair and 
reasonable award. It follows Im not going to say that HSBC  has to do more.
my final decision
My final decision is that HSBC should pay C £300  for inconvenience as it has already 
agreed to do and as it seems it has already  paid C.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 May 2020.
Joyce Gordon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5879189