K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that HSBC UK Bank  Plc failed to correctly send a payment to an account  in 
Singapore which resulted in a lost business opportunity.  He also complains that HSBC failed 
to recall the payment.
background
Mr M made a payment of 10,000 Euros to an account in Singapore  on 12 October 2018. He 
says HSBC made a mistake with an account  digit which  meant the money  wasnt received in 
the intended account. Mr M says he then called HSBC on a number of occasions  and went  
to a HSBC branch. He says on 23 October  2018 he went to a HSBC branch and asked if the 
transaction could  now be processed  as HSBC now had the correct  account number and was 
told it could. Mr M says he then spoke to the intended recipient of the money  and was told to 
cancel the transaction. He says he asked  HSBC to recall the money but it didnt do so.
Mr M says he has lost the money  as the intended  recipient says it wasnt received  and has 
lost a significant amount of money due to a lost investment. He says he should  be paid 
significant compensation for that as well as for the distress he has been  caused.
HSBC accepts it made a mistake with the account number and has paid £150 
compensation. It says Mr M told it to process  the transaction with the correct account 
number and it tried to recall the money  but it has no control over that process.  HSBC  says 
the money was sent to the intended  account.
Mr M brought his complaint to us but our investigator thought HSBC had dealt fairly with it by 
paying an appropriate amount of compensation. The investigator thought  HSBC  had made  
the initial mistake but had acted in line with Mr Ms instructions by re-sending  the money. He 
also thought that the money  had reached  the intended account and Mr M should speak to 
that company  about why it denies  that was the case.  The investigator thought HSBC had 
tried on a number of occasions  to recall the money but it wasnt  responsible for that process  
and didnt think HSBC  had made  a mistake in using  the code and number that it did to recall  
the money.
Mr M doesnt accept that view and raises  a number of questions  about how HSBC  tried to 
recall the money.  He says he has been caused significant financial difficulties as a result of 
what has happened. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall view as the investigator for the same reasons. I realise Mr M will be disappointed by 
my decision  and I appreciate how strongly  he feels about whats  happened. I also make  
clear to Mr M that although I have summarised his main arears  of complaint I have read all 
of his letters to us and representations. And I hope he will continue  to speak to the company 
he sent the money to, as I am of the same view as the investigator, that the money appears 
to have been received by it.
There is no question here that HSBC  made  a mistake in entering the wrong account number. 
I have no doubt  in those circumstances that Mr M was concerned about what  happened and 
spent some time trying to find out what had happened. But Im satisfied that HSBC  has fairly 
Ref: DRN55004462apologised for that part of the complaint and paid what I think is a fair and reasonable 
amount of compensation.
The main  part of Mr Ms complaint is what took place on and after the 23 October  2018.  I am 
satisfied that Mr M gave HSBC the correct account  number  in Singapore and told it to 
process the transaction. I can see that HSBC followed Mr Ms instructions  and sent the 
money. I think  at that point HSBC no longer had control over Mr Ms money  and that the 
money was in the control of the receiving bank.  I appreciate that Mr M then asked HSBC  to 
recall the money  but for the reasons I have explained Im satisfied that all HSBC could do at 
that stage was to make  the request for the money to be recalled.
I have looked  at HSBCs  records and can see that it made a number of attempts for Mr Ms 
money to be recalled. Ive not seen  any evidence that HSBC  made  a mistake in making 
those attempts or that it used an incorrect code or number.  Im satisfied it has explained why 
it used the codes it did that are well known to the parties.
Overall whilst I accept  HSBC made  the original mistake I find that it wasnt responsible for 
the money not being sent back  after 23 October  2018 and that it followed Mr Ms instructions 
by resending it. For those  reasons I cant fairly order HSBC  to pay any further compensation 
and compensate Mr M for any lost business opportunities or investment. In any event I cant  
see that Mr M has provided us with any evidence or details of what those losses were.  
Im satisfied that having looked at HSBCs records that the money was received by the 
intended recipient.  And no doubt  Mr M will ask that business to return  his money or take 
other action  to recover it.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 December  2019.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5500446