K820x#14complaint
Mr S is unhappy that Calpe Insurance Company  Limited  settled a third party claim made  
against his motor insurance policy.  He doesnt  believe  the damage repaired was all as a 
result of the accident  and Calpe has referred  to an amount for damage to his car despite him 
not claiming. 
background
Mr S has his comprehensive car insurance through XS direct.  There  are a number of 
insurers behind the policy but Calpe is the lead insurer. The policy  has a £3,000 excess 
applying to all areas of the policy.  This means for any claim made, whether  by Mr S or a third 
party, Mr S is responsible for the first £3,000  of any claim.
In 14 October 2018, Mr S was involved in an accident involving another  vehicle when he 
pulled out of a side road and into the side of another  vehicle travelling along the main road. 
A few days  later Calpe  received a third party claim for the damage caused during the 
incident. Calpe contacted  Mr S about the incident and sent out an accident report  form.  
Calpe received a report  of the damage which occurred  to the third party vehicle and an 
invoice showing the cost for repair.  The report showed damage to the offside front and back  
doors. It also noted damage  to the car not related  to the incident. Mr Ss vehicle was also 
inspected and damage to the front nearside  corner was noted.  Following  this Calpe sent an 
investigator to speak with Mr S about what happened and obtained  a witness statement and 
his completed accident report  form. As Mr S had admitted pulling out of side road, even 
though he believed the way clear, the investigator didnt believe there was any prospect  of 
defending the claim  in court. Calpe  settled the claim on that basis. 
On 23 November 2018 Calpe wrote to Mr S notifying  him that it intended  to settle  the claim 
as he would be held 100% liable  for what happened. Mr S complained about that as he 
didnt believe he caused the extent of damage claimed for and he queried why damage to 
his car had been taken into account.  Calpe didnt  uphold  Mr S complaint and so the matter  
was referred to us. 
Our investigator concluded Calpe hadnt  done  anything wrong. She said it was fair and 
reasonable for the insurer to deal with the claim and this was allowed for in the terms and 
conditions. And she was satisfied that Calpe had fairly taken  into account the evidence 
provided in deciding whether or not to settle the claim.
Mr S has asked  for the matter to be taken  further. In summary hes said:
He isnt going to reimburse Calpe for the cost of the claim.
He doesnt  believe the level of damage  claimed  for was caused to the third party 
vehicle. He only damaged one passenger door and it was only minor  damage.
He never  made a claim for damage  to his vehicle but £506.40 has been taken 
account of. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  this 
complaint. I explain why below. 
Ref: DRN57318752The issue  at the heart  of this dispute is whether Calpe was acting fairly when settling the 
claim. The starting point  is the contract between  Mr S and Calpe  the terms and conditions 
of the policy. Under What happens next?  Claims  procedure  these say:
.We can take over and conduct  the defence or settlement  of any claim, or make 
any claim in your name or in the name  of the any person claiming  under this Policy to 
recover any amount paid by us. 
And under Section  1  Liability to Third  Parties, the policy says:
As a result of an accident involving Your Car or any other vehicle Your Certificate  of 
Motor Insurance  entitles  You to drive,  the Underwriters will pay all sums you are 
legally responsible for;
(a)following death or injury to any person,
(b)damage to anyone elses property (liability for such damage  is limited to 
£20,000,000 in respect of any one claim or number  of claims arising out of one 
event),  
Claims can be complicated, particuarly when liablity for damage might need  to be 
established.   And such claims can sometimes become protracted affairs.  Insurers  have the 
expertise to know whether a claim is likely to succeed in court  and so choose  to settle a 
claim, rather than go through a legal and costly process it knows  it wont likely win. 
Before agreeing to settle the claim, Calpe considered the information provided by the third 
party, including a description of the incident and a report  into the extent of the damage. It 
also sent an investigator to question Mr S about what happened  and obtained  his completed 
accident report. In that, Mr S confirmed waiting  to pull out of a side road onto a main road 
and on seeing  no oncoming traffice pulled out, into the side of the third party  vehicle. Under 
the highway code,  vehicles pulling out from side roads are to give right of way to traffic 
travelling on the main road. Given that, I dont think  Calpe was unfair in relying on the 
investigators report that concluded  it wouldnt be able to defend the claim in court.  And 
given insurers expertise in these matters,  Im satisfied Calpe reached its decision to settle 
claim fairly and reasonably. 
Mr S has also said hes unhappy as he belives the damage claimed for has been 
exaggerated. I have  considered this but Mr S hasnt provided any persuasive  evience in 
support of his belief.  The third party vehicle was inspected and both damage caused by the 
incident and that which pre-existed  it was noted  on the report.  The report was carried out by 
a third party engineer  and Im not aware of them having any vested interest  in the outcome 
of the report; particuarly  as the repairs were  carried out by another party.  In the absence  of 
any comparable evidence  from Mr S as to the extent of the damage, I find Calpe  was fairly 
entitled to rely on the report it was sent and the invoice for repairs.  
Finally, Mr S is unahppy that £506.40  has been taken into account for the damage to his car. 
He complains as he said he didnt claim for this. I accept from the information provided  that it 
doesnt appear Mr S claimed for damage  to his vehicle. Nevertheless the report  was likely 
carried out to help establish the cause and damage  to both vehicles. It isnt clear why Calpe 
asked for a quote  for the damage, particuarly as Mr S wasnt claiming.  But in any event, 
Calpe hasnt actually  taken this amount into account or asked Mr S to pay it. The only sum it 
Ref: DRN57318753has asked him to pay is the amount  it cost it to repair the third party  vehicle and carry out its 
investigations. 
Mr S policy has a £3,000  excess. As set out above, this means Mr S is responsible for 
paying the first £3,000 of any claim. The claim was settled costing Calpe £1642.16. I 
therefore dont  find Calpe  is acting unfairly in asking Mr S to reimburse  it this sum  this is 
the amount he agreed to pay when entering  into the contract.
Overall, I dont  uphold this complaint as Im not persuaded Calpe has acted unfairly or 
unreasonably in settling the claim as it did. I therefore make  no award against it. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 October  2019.
Claire Hopkins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5731875