K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs L are unhappy with how Zurich Insurance  PLC has dealt with their claim for 
storm damage to their swimming pool covering structure. It has treated the structure as 
temporary rather than permanent, and so applied a limit on the claim.
background
In 2014 Mr and Mrs L had a marquee  installed over their swimming  pool to act as an 
enclosure for it. It remained  in place  thereafter, but in early 2018  was damaged and partially  
collapsed during a period of heavy  snowfall. Mr and Mrs L made  a claim for the structure  on 
their home insurance policy.
Mr and Mrs L had the swimming pool structure replaced at a cost of £5,111.04.
Ultimately Zurich accepted the claim under the storm peril due to the volume of snow that 
had fallen at the time of the damage. However,  because of the nature of the structure, it said 
it had to be considered  under the contents  in the open section of the policy.  This was 
because the structure could be unbolted from its fixings and packed  away and so wasnt a 
permanent building. As it was considered contents in the open,  Zurich applied the policy limit 
for that cover, which is £1,000. 
Mr and Mrs L were  unhappy with the claim settlement and complained.  They explained that 
the marque they had was designed and built by the manufacturers  to be used throughout the 
year. It was for that reason they purchased it and they use it every  week  without fail. It took 
four people four days to erect.  Due to the amount of time it took to erect, Mr and Mrs L 
consider it is patently obvious that it isnt a temporary structure.
Mr and Mrs L also consider it is not a temporary structure because it is attached directly to 
their home whilst also being fixed to the swimming  pool decking. They  believe  the marquee  
should be considered a permanent outbuilding or an integral part of the structure  of the 
swimming pool. 
Zurich considered the complaint and Mr and Mrs Ls submissions, but didnt change its 
conclusions about  the nature of the marquee. It noted the manufacturer said the marquee 
wasnt suitable for use in extreme  weather conditions or snow   it recommended  additional  
precautions were taken.  However, it felt that the service it had provided could have been 
better in that there were  delays in it making its decision and it could have kept Mr and Mrs L 
better informed. It offered compensation of £250. 
Mr and Mrs L didnt accept the offer or Zurichs  conclusions. They referred the complaint to 
this service for consideration. One of our investigators considered  the complaint, but didnt 
recommend it be upheld.  
Mr and Mrs L didnt accept the investigators  view and asked that the complaint be referred 
to an ombudsman for consideration.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  The outcome of this complaint comes  
Ref: DRN50215972down to whether  the marquee  should  reasonably be considered  part of the buildings for the 
purposes of the insurance policy.
Mr and Mrs L consider that the marquee  should  be considered part of the buildings as it had 
been in place for more than three years and it was attached to the house. I can understand 
their point of view. However,  I think this case turns on the nature of the structure, rather than 
how Mr and Mrs L chose to use it.
The structure is a marquee  a large  fabric  structure  held up by a metal framework. The 
structural metal members  are bolted together.  The walls and roof are made  from a PVC 
fabric that is attached  to the structural members  in such a way as to allow the covering to be 
detached and removed. The entire  concept of its design is to allow the structure to be taken 
down so it can be either erected elsewhere  or stored. In addition, the manufacturer indicates 
on its website that the structure isnt suitable  to be used in all weather conditions. It states 
that additional precautions should  be taken in snow and extreme conditions.  Furthermore, I 
note the roof is described as only wind resistant  indicating that it could be damaged by high 
winds. 
Having carefully considered the information about  the marquee  and its intended use, I think 
it is reasonable to conclude  that it is designed  to be used as a temporary  structure and not 
robust enough to deal with the extremes of weather,  as a permanent structure would be 
expected to do. In light of this I dont  consider  Zurich  was wrong when it decided, despite 
how Mr and Mrs L used the marquee, it was a temporary structure. 
Mr and Mrs Ls policy provides cover for both buildings and contents. As I think  Zurich was 
reasonable in describing the marquee  as a temporary structure, it cant reasonably be 
considered part of the main house or an outbuilding to be included  in the buildings  cover. So 
it can only fall within the cover for contents  and, given where it was located,  that cover  would  
be for contents in the open.  There is a limit for that cover - £1,000  which Zurich offered to 
settle the claim for. 
Overall, I cant find that Zurichs decision  about  the claim  settlement in this case was wrong 
or that it should  increase  it. Although  Mr and Mrs L havent commented about the amount 
Zurich offered for its handling  of their claim,  for completeness, I consider it is an appropriate  
amount in the circumstances.
my final decision
My final decision in this case is that I dont  uphold it. Under the rules of the Financial  
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr and Mrs L to accept  or reject my decision 
before 19 June 2020.
Derry Baxter
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5021597