K820x#14This complaint
Miss R complains that Wren Sterling Financial Planning Limited (Wren  Sterling)  provided a 
poor level of service which led to her missing the guarantee  date for her pension  transfer.  
She says this caused her to suffer a financial loss for which  she should be compensated. 
What happened
Miss R built up benefits in her employers  defined benefit workplace pension  scheme  (the 
scheme). The value  of her benefits was preserved  when she left the scheme.
 
The employer decided to close the scheme and offered members the option of transferring 
their preserved benefits into an alternative pension scheme of their choice. Miss R was 
interested in transferring into a private  plan so that she could take flexible benefits.
In September  2017, the scheme administrator sent a transfer  quote  to Miss R. This 
confirmed the quote was guaranteed until 11 December  2017. The guarantee date was later 
extended to 26 January  2018.
Section 48 of the Pension Schemes Act 2015 requires that members of defined benefit 
schemes must take regulated financial  advice  before being  allowed to transfer preserved 
benefits worth more than £30,000. Since  Miss Rs transfer value was greater than £30,000, 
she was required to take advice. Miss R met Wren Sterlings adviser in October 2017 to 
discuss her objective  of transferring into a private plan. Over the next few months there  
followed an exchange of correspondence between the adviser and Miss R. The guarantee 
date of 26 January  2018 was missed. The pension transfer was completed at a later date but 
based on a lower value. Miss R was unhappy  about  receiving a lower transfer value and so 
complained to Wren Sterling.
There was a disagreement about  the reason why the guarantee date was missed.  Wren 
Sterling told Miss R that it didnt have  all the information it needed to provide advice before 
the guarantee date expired. It said its adviser did all she reasonably could to meet  the 
deadline but was unable  to do this because the scheme administrator  had failed to provide 
the missing information  before 26 January 2018.
However, Miss R told Wren Sterling that she provided the information  to its adviser when 
they met in October 2017. As a result, Miss R said the adviser made an error  in needlessly 
requesting the information which led to an undue delay and was therefore responsible for 
missing the guarantee date. To put things  right,  she asked Wren Sterling to pay her 
compensation equivalent to the difference in the transfer values.
Our investigator didnt  uphold this complaint. She told Miss R that she agreed  with Wren 
Sterlings position  that it didnt have  all the information needed to advise her. And that the 
adviser had requested the missing information  within a reasonable timeframe  but the 
scheme administrator  had failed to respond before the guarantee date. As a result, she 
concluded that Wren Sterling hadnt made an error  and so wasnt  responsible for the 
financial loss claimed by Miss R.
Miss R didnt accept our investigators conclusion. Since agreement  couldnt be reached, this 
complaint has been referred to me to make a final decision.
Ref: DRN58331502What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  When considering whats  fair and 
reasonable, Im required to take into account  relevant law and regulations,  regulators rules,  
guidance and codes of practice,  and what I consider to have been  good industry practice  at 
the time.  And as a fresh  pair of eyes looking at this complaint, its for me to decide, based on 
the information provided, whats more  likely  than not to have happened.
Both Wren Sterling and Miss R have provided  detailed submissions to support their 
positions. Ive read and considered these  submissions  carefully.  The purpose of this final 
decision isnt to address  every single point theyve raised. So I hope that they dont take as a 
discourtesy the fact my findings  below focus on what I consider to be the central  issues.
Appropriate transfer  analysis 
Before I go on, its important to note that Wren Sterling had a number of regulatory 
obligations when  advising Miss R about her potential  pension transfer. This included 
preparation of an appropriate transfer analysis to ensure that she had enough  information  
to be able to make an informed decision about whether transferring was in her best interests. 
In simple terms, this meant  Wren Sterling had to assess the benefits  likely to be paid and 
options available under the scheme and compare this with those available under the 
proposed private  plan before it advised  Miss R. Wren Sterling  wouldve been  in breach of the 
regulators rules had it facilitated the pension  transfer before carrying  out the analysis. 
Wren Sterling couldnt start the analysis  until it knew the transfer value and was in 
possession of certain information relating to the scheme and proposed  private plan. 
What is the disputed missing information?
The disputed missing  information concerns the revaluation rates that applied  to Miss Rs 
preserved benefits. The evidence shows that Miss R provided the transfer  quote  to Wren 
Sterlings adviser in early  October 2017.  The adviser  and Miss R then met on                               
14 October 2017 to fill in some forms to progress matters  it was at this meeting Miss R 
says she provided information  to the adviser about  the revaluation rates.  But Wren Sterling 
disputes this and says the missing information prevented it from being able to complete the 
analysis and provide advice.
Why are revaluation rates important?
When a member ceases membership of a defined benefit scheme before their normal 
pension age, they generally  become entitled  to a preserved benefit in the scheme. To 
prevent the value  of the preserved benefit  being  diminished over time through  the impact of 
inflation, schemes are legally required  to revalue benefits between the date of the member 
leaving and the date benefits start. Scheme rules  specify how preserved  benefits  in that 
scheme are revalued, which may be higher than the statutory minimum prescribed in the 
legislation. So the revaluation rates vary from scheme to scheme.
Revelation rates are a critical  part of the analysis  process and are used to establish  the 
members projected pension and other benefits to compare these with the proposed private  
plan. This helps advisers decide if a transfer is in their clients best interests and informs 
their recommendation to transfer or stay in the scheme. 
Ref: DRN58331503Is Wren Sterling responsible for Miss R missing the guarantee date?
I acknowledge that Miss R says she provided  the information about the revaluation  rates to 
the adviser. But I have  to weigh this against Wren Sterlings own assertion that Miss R didnt 
provide it and this was the reason why it requested the information  from the scheme 
administrator on 3 November 2017.
Based the evidence  Ive seen, I cannot  conclude, on balance, that Miss R provided the 
disputed information  to the adviser.  The evidence shows that on 3 November  2017  Wren 
Sterling requested the information from the scheme administrator. I agree with Wren  
Sterlings position  that, without this information,  it couldnt complete the analysis or provide 
advice to Miss R. The evidence also shows that Wren Sterlings adviser told Miss R she was 
experiencing difficulty in obtaining  the missing information from the scheme  administrator.  
And that Miss R also tried and experienced difficulty too.
I think that requesting  the missing information on 3 November 2017 left sufficient  time to 
complete the analysis  and provide advice to Miss R before the guarantee date  subject, of 
course, to Wren Sterling  being provided  the information in a timely  manner.  Wren  Sterling 
isnt responsible for the time taken by the scheme administrator to respond. Ive thought 
about whether  Wren Sterling shouldve identified and requested the information  sooner and 
chased more frequently  than it did. But based  on what  Ive seen, I think  it acted reasonably.
Conclusion
I know that Miss R will be disappointed with this outcome,  but, taking everything into 
account, I cannot reasonably conclude on balance  that Wren Sterling is responsible for  
Miss R missing the guarantee date for her pension transfer. So I find that it wouldnt be fair 
or reasonable in these circumstances for me to require Wren Sterling to pay Miss R 
compensation or to take any other action in response to this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons  explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Miss Rs complaint.
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my final decision  before 1 June  2020.
Clint Penfold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5833150