K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs R are unhappy  that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) declined  their home insurance 
claim on the grounds that the damage was gradual  and had occurred  over a period of time. 
background
In September  2018, Mr and Mrs R contacted  UKI to make a claim under their home 
insurance as their bathroom had been  damaged due to a water leak.  They explained theyd 
stripped out the bathroom in order to identify the cause  of the damage.
UKI declined  the claim. It said the damage had occurred over a period  of time and this 
wasnt covered under  the policy. It said Mr and Mrs R were aware there  was a likely problem 
prior to September 2018 and they hadnt taken steps to prevent further damage. 
It said Mrs R had told it in July 2018  - when  she contacted it about  a contents claim - that 
shed noticed  a musty smell  in the bathroom and it had been there for a long, long time  
over a year. Mrs R had explained  that a contractor shed employed to do other work in her 
house had said the joists  under the floorboards were likely  rotten.  
UKI added that Mr and Mrs R had proceeded with works without first contacting  it about the 
extent of the damage, so it wasnt able to assess the full extent of the damage and its 
position had been prejudiced.
Mr and Mrs R thought  UKIs decision to decline the claim was unfair, so it brought  a 
complaint to this service.  
Our investigator considered it and thought UKI had acted fairly.  She was satisfied the 
damage had occurred over a period  of time as it related to what  Mrs R had spoken about  
during her call with UKI in July 2018. And as gradual  damage  is excluded under the policy,  
our investigator was satisfied UKIs decision to decline the claim wasnt  unfair.  
Mr and Mrs R disagreed  and so the complaint  has been passed to me for an ombudsmans  
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont think  this 
complaint should  be upheld  and Ill explain why.
The starting point  is the contract between Mr and Mrs R and UKI. The policy  lists a number 
of exclusions as to when cover will not be provided.  So Ive considered  all the evidence to 
decide if UKIs reliance  on the gradual damage exclusion is fair. UKI has also said that    
Mr and Mrs R didnt meet a number of their obligations under the policy, so for completeness 
Ive considered whether they adhered to the conditions of the policy.
The policy says cover wont  be provided where damage is caused gradually. UKI has said 
Mrs R told them in July 2018  that she had concerns about a damp  smell coming from the 
bathroom. Having  listened to this call, Im satisfied  Mrs R was aware there was a problem in 
Ref: DRN53332342the bathroom before the damage was reported  in September 2018.  I say this because  Mrs R 
says thered been a smell in the bathroom  for a long, long time  over a year. Mrs R added 
her contractor had said the joists  were likely rotten  and there was most likely a leak. 
I think its more likely than not that the smell Mrs R complained of relates  to the damage  in 
the bathroom. Mr and Mrs Rs plumber reported  that the cause of damage was a cracked 
waste pipe under the shower cubicle. A corroded  down pipe and a hole in the wall were  also 
identified.
From what  Ive seen, Im satisfied the damage happened  gradually and as a result, I think 
UKI has acted fairly by declining  the claim on this basis. 
The policy sets, amongst others, the conditions that the insured must adhere to. 
When you find out about  anything you need  to claim for, or may need  to 
claim for, you must  tell us as soon as possible.
You must take reasonable care to prevent loss, injury or liability,  damage or 
accidents to the buildings and contents cover under this policy 
Mrs R made  it clear  to UKI in July 2018 that a damp smell had been present for over a year 
but they didnt report  it until the end of September 2018  more  than year after Mrs R said 
shed first noticed it.
Because of the length of time taken  to report the issue,  Im not satisfied Mr and Mrs R told 
UKI as soon  as they possibly could. And because of the delay  in reporting it, I cant  say              
Mr and Mrs R took action  to prevent the damage from worsening. 
The policy also states that the insured shouldnt make any arrangements for replacement or 
repair before  UKI has been made  aware. Here, when Mr R reported the damage in 
September 2018, he said his contractor had already stripped the bathroom to find the cause 
of the damage. 
While Mr R might have done  this with good  intentions, the policy  clearly  states  that such 
works shouldnt be carried  out before UKI is aware.  If an insurer  doesnt  have the opportunity 
to review the damage before  works  are commenced, its position is prejudiced  as it cant  
validate the true extent of the damage caused by an insured event. So it wouldnt be fair to 
ask UKI to cover the cost of stripping  out and repairing  the bathroom. 
Having considered all of the above, Im satisfied  that UKI has acted fairly in declining the 
claim. I know  my decision will disappoint Mr and Mrs R but Im satisfied its fair in the 
circumstances.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  9 September 2019.
Ref: DRN53332343Nicola Beakhust
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5333234