K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage Mr and Mrs W hold with Metro  Bank  PLC. They  say 
Metro misled their broker, Mr R, during  a telephone  conversation, about  the deadline for 
arranging a new interest rate product. As a result, they say theyve had to pay one month at 
Metros standard  variable  rate (SVR). Mr R has brought the complaint on their behalf.
background
Mr and Mrs Ws existing  deal was due to run out on 31 January 2019;  under the terms of the 
mortgage, the rate would revert to SVR if they didnt  take a new deal. In the months  running  
up to the expiry date,  Metro sent letters to Mr and Mrs W inviting  them to consider a new 
deal. One of those  letters,  dated  13 December 2018, included  the following:
If you find a mortgage rate youd like to switch to, we need time to make  sure everything is 
sorted, so youll need to tell us 10 days before 31 January 2019.
Nothing was arranged so the mortgage  reverted to SVR on 1 February 2019. Metro wrote  to 
Mr and Mrs W on that date to tell them this, and inform them  of their new monthly  payment 
on SVR. 
On 5 February 2019, Mr R spoke  to Metro on the phone; he asked if a new deal could be in 
place for the next payment date, and was given  the ten-day  deadline. He arranged a new 
deal for Mr and Mrs W, which was actioned on 11 February 2019. However, the new deal 
started on 1 March 2019.
Mr R complained on Mr and Mrs Ws behalf; he said it was standard  industry  practice that if 
a new deal was arranged at least ten working days before  the next due payment date, the 
next payment  would be at the new rate. Metro rejected the complaint and it was referred to 
us; the investigator  who considered it didnt recommend  it be upheld. Mr R has asked that an 
ombudsman decide  the complaint.
my findings
Ill start with some  general  observations. Were  not the regulator  of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal  processes  or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
Financial Conduct  Authority. We deal with individual  disputes between businesses  and their 
customers. In doing  that, we dont replicate the work  of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either  sides instructions on how we investigate  a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations  and reach our conclusions  without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have  to work  within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules  give us.
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive some disappointing 
news for Mr and Mrs W, and Mr R. There are no reasonable grounds  for me to uphold  this 
complaint and make an award in Mr and Mrs Ws favour.
The reason  Mr and Mrs W ended up being  charged interest on the SVR in February 2019 
has nothing to do with what  was discussed  in the 5 February 2019 phone call between  Mr R 
Ref: DRN57978842and Metro. The call is a complete red herring and of no relevance  to the outcome of the 
complaint.
Metro informed Mr and Mrs W by letter on 13 December 2018 that if they wanted a new rate 
in place immediately,  theyd needed to say so ten days (NOT working days) before 
31 January 2019.  Thats  pretty clear and unambiguous; Mr and Mrs W needed to choose a 
new rate and tell Metro  what they wanted no later than 21 January  2019. 
When that didnt  happen, the mortgage went onto SVR on 1 February  2019,  exactly as the 
contract allowed  for. Its reasonable to conclude Mr and Mrs W knew this by the time Mr R 
made the phone  call, because Metro had written  four days beforehand  telling them  what 
their new payment would  be. 
But the real point here is that by the time Mr R phoned Metro, it was too late for 
Mr and Mrs W to avoid paying  SVR in February  2019. All they could do was avoid paying it 
in March 2019 by ensuring  the new deal was in place at least  ten days  before the end of 
February. Viewed  in that context, the information Metro gave Mr R on the phone ensured  
Mr and Mrs W didnt  pay SVR for more than the one month.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes  this 
services consideration  of this complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further  
discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W (or  
Mr R on their behalf)  to accept or reject my decision before 1 December  2019.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5797884