K820x#14complaint
Mr H thinks that Vanquis Bank  Limited  shouldnt have put a default on his credit file in 2013. 
He also thinks Vanquis was wrong  to not offer him any potential protection  for ill health which 
wouldve covered  his monthly payments  around  this time, when he started to struggle 
financially. 
background
An investigator has already looked  at this matter.  She felt that Vanquis had acted fairly by 
registering the default when they did. She also explained that, despite offering a repayment 
option plan (ROP) to Mr H twice, he refused this type of protection.  So she didnt think she 
could uphold  the complaint.
As Mr H is still dissatisfied with the situation,  the case  has now been referred to me to look 
at. Ive noted Mr Hs further  comments to our service about Vanquis refusing to accept a 
repayment plan which he proposed. Mr H is also adamant  that he did notify Vanquis about 
the mental health challenges he was experiencing at the time.  And that they failed to act 
appropriately in light of this information.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Whilst Ive looked at all the evidence, this 
decision will focus on what I think are the key issues in dispute.
the ROP
A ROP is a plan that effectively freezes a debt on an account for up to 2 years,  whereby  no 
interest or charges are applied. Vanquis seem to have  offered this to Mr H in September  
2011 and October  2012. But as I understand Mr H declined this form of protection. I 
therefore cant say that Vanquis has done anything wrong in this respect.  It should  also be 
noted though that Vanquis wasnt obliged to offer Mr H this product. 
the default
Any updating of information on a consumers credit  file must  be recorded accurately. This is 
very important. From  what  I can tell Mr H initially maintained regular payments on his 
account. But this then stopped. Vanquis issued a default notice in August 2013 and then 
applied the default around December 2013. The information Vanquis has provided  to our 
service shows  that Mr H told them  he was experiencing financial difficulties. But not that 
there was any reference made to Mr Hs mental  health  issues. I do understand  that Mr H 
says he did notify  them of this. I dont have  enough evidence to be sure one way or another  
on this issue. But I think If Mr H did notify  them of this, it would  seem  Vanquis failed to act 
appropriately in light of this information.  One thing I do know is that Vanquis didnt act 
unreasonably by registering the default  when they did. Mr H had missed  several  payments 
and had been given notice that theyd apply a default to his account. 
I appreciate Mr H is unhappy Vanquis didnt agree to his proposed repayment plan. But Im 
afraid they werent under any requirement to accept  this at the time it was made. As I 
understand Vanquis did eventually accept a full and final offer from Mr H regarding  his debt 
Ref: DRN52647872and this has now been settled in full. Vanquis  has updated Mr Hs credit  file to show  that the 
default has been fully satisfied. This is fair under the circumstances.
I do appreciate that Mr H will be disappointed  with my decision.  But Im afraid I dont  think 
Vanquis has acted unfairly  in this case when it comes to the default or ROP.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 June  2020.
Robyn McNamee
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5264787