K822xcomplaint
Mr P complains about MBNA Limiteds decision to decline a claim he made under section 75
of the Consumer Credit  Act 1974 (s.75).
background 
In March 2017 Mr P and his wife instructed a third party company (the company) to
relinquish two timeshares for them (timeshare  A and timeshare  B). They paid the
company a total of £7,995  made  up of three instalments, one of which  was paid for using
Mr Ps MBNA credit card.  The contract between them and the company (the contract)
included a full money back  guarantee if the timeshares werent relinquished  within 12
months of the date of the contract.
In June 2018, Mr P contacted MBNA and explained that they had had very little contact  from
the company and the timeshares hadnt  been relinquished. As the 12 month period had
expired, he said that the company had breached the contract. Furthermore,  Mr P said that
claiming money back in relation to timeshare  A, and the cost of legal fees, had also been
included in the contract. But not only had the company failed to do this as well but they had
also failed to mention  their no win, no fee policy.
Mr P also told MBNA that before they entered into the contract, the company had warned
them about  the risk of court action  if they stopped paying their timeshare management fees.
This had made them panic and decide  to instruct  the company. But when Mr P had
subsequently stopped  paying the fees for timeshare B he found  out that this action would in
fact terminate the timeshare. So the company had misrepresented  the true position and
ought to have known that Mr P could have  relinquished the timeshare through non-payment.
MBNA raised a s.75 claim and contacted the company. The company responded to say that
in February 2018  Mr P had notified  them that hed received a rental income  of £3,818  from
timeshare A. So the company had asked  Mr P to provide  further information in relation to
this. It was a term of the contract that Mr P should  respond promptly  to any requests for
information but he failed to do so. The company  couldnt have  proceeded with the
relinquishment without  this information  as it might have been to Mr Ps detriment if he had
renewed his agreement with timeshare A. Furthermore, the company believed that Mr P had
had a change  of heart, following the rental income, and no longer wished to relinquish
timeshare A in any event.
As for timeshare B, the company  told MBNA  that they believed  that Mr Ps ownership  had
been cancelled  due to outstanding management fees so he was no longer liable for any
timeshare fees.  Again,  Mr P had failed to supply or provide documentation as requested  to
show that he still owned the timeshare.
Finally, they said that the no win, no fee referred  to by Mr P related to a potential
compensation reclaim,  which  couldnt be processed  due to the lack of documentation.  Plus
this was entirely separate to the relinquishments.
So MBNA declined  the s.75 claim on the basis that, in relation  to timeshare A, Mr P hadnt
provided the information requested and he now no longer  wanted  to relinquish it. There was
no evidence to suggest that the company wouldnt have completed the relinquishment had
the requested  information been provided. As for timeshare B, Mr P stopped paying the
maintenance fees so his contract with the timeshare  company had now ended.  So the
Ref: DRN51650492company was unable to continue their investigations.
Mr P complained to MBNA about this decision. He repeated the reasons advanced  in June
as to why he believed there had been a misrepresentation  and breach of contract.  He also
said that he had provided all relevant documentation  to the company when entering into the
contract and the company had taken  copies of the ones they had needed.  The company had
never contacted them  to request anything  further.
MBNA didnt  change their mind so Mr P brought his complaint to our service. He confirmed
that although he no longer  wished to relinquish timeshare A the primary objective of the
contract for this timeshare  had been  to claim money  back, which hadnt happened.  He
pointed out that it would have made  no sense for them  to pay the company so much money
just for relinquishment, when that was something  they could do themselves.
Our investigator asked  MBNA to provide copies of the information requests the company
said theyd sent Mr P. MBNA, in turn, requested this from the company. But the company
replied to say that as they had now ceased trading they were no longer able to access  old
emails.
In any event, our investigator  thought that it was more likely  than not that Mr P had received
the request for further information in relation to the timeshares. She agreed that the contract
stated that Mr P had to provide  information to the company promptly.  Plus given Mr P had
had a change  of heart about timeshare A, the company wouldnt have had an opportunity to
complete the relinquishment within the 12 month timeframe.
She also said that she had no evidence of the discussions prior to the contract with the
company being  signed. So she had relied  upon  the contract, which didnt refer to any money
claim so the service had been in relation to relinquishment only.
Mr P remained unhappy  and asked for a decision, so his complaint was passed  onto
me. Having  reviewed it, I issued a provisional  decision.
my provisional decision  
In my provisional decision,  I said:
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I must decide what, if anything, MBNA should  do to resolve Mr Ps complaint. To do this, I
have to decide what I think is fair and reasonable, having regard to  amongst  other  things 
what the law says.  Here, that is s.75 which says that, in certain  circumstances, if Mr P paid
for goods and services  using his credit card and there was a breach of contract or
misrepresentation by the supplier, MBNA  can be held responsible. By paying for part of the
contract using his credit card, MBNAs responsibility  under  s.75  if any  extends  to the full
contract price of £7,995 (section  11(1)(b)  and section 189 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974).
The contract
I need to first decide what the terms of the contract, and agreed service, between  Mr P and
the company were.  Ive seen a copy of the contract and at the top of the contract both
timeshare A and timeshare B are expressly referred to. So its clear that the contract applied
Ref: DRN51650493to both.
Under clause (a) of the section entitled what  we agree to do for you under the agreement
the company promised  to provide Mr P with:
.the most cost effective method of terminating  the agreement  and how to release yourself
from any future obligations, charges or maintenance costs  under your timeshare
agreement.
And clause  (b) goes onto state:
Upon receipt of the deposit from you the work required will then be put into effect  through
our recommendations and we shall take all necessary steps to release you from your
agreement.
There is no reference anywhere else in the contract to any other  service  beyond
relinquishment. Nor is there a reference  to the contract covering the cost of any legal fees.
So although  Ive noted Mr Ps comments about  the service including reclaiming money  and a
no win, no fee policy, Im afraid  that this simply isnt borne out from the contract  terms.
Ive also noted  Mr Ps comments that it wouldnt have made sense for them  to pay so much
for relinquishment only, given this was something  they could achieve themselves. But the
terms of the contract  were clear so Mr P knew  or ought to have known  the service  his
payment was covering.
So based  on this evidence Im minded to decide  that the £7,995 paid to the company was for
the relinquishment of the timeshares only. And I accept  the companys explanation  to MBNA
that the no win, no fee policy, and the money claim, was an entirely separate  matter.
This provisional conclusion is further  supported by clause (b) of the section  entitled
exclusions which states:
If for any reason, we are unsuccessful in securing your release  from your timeshare
agreements then the extent of our liability shall only extend to the refund of any payment
made by you to us under  this agreement.
So it appears that the company, under the terms of the contract, werent liable to Mr P for
any service beyond the relinquishments.
Breach of contract or misrepresentation
I have considered Mr Ps comments in relation  to a misrepresentation before they signed the
contract. I cant know what was discussed between him and the company at that stage. But
even if I were to agree  that the comments were made, I also cant  know whether the
company ought  to have known about  the fact that Mr P could have relinquished the
timeshares through  non-payment of management  fees. So I have  insufficient  evidence to
conclude that there  was a misrepresentation here.  But there does  appear  to have been a
breach of contract in relation to timeshare B only. Ill explain why.
Under the section  of the contract entitled  Jurisdiction the following is stated:
[The company] give a full money  back guarantee that the relinquishment will be activated
Ref: DRN51650494within twelve (12) months of this date.
This meant that the company had until March  2018  to relinquish both timeshares. This didnt
happen. Mr P subsequently  decided to retain timeshare A. As for timeshare B, Ive seen a
termination notice  from the timeshare company to Mr P informing him that they had been
trying to collect his annual fees and failure  to pay them within  a month  would result  in the
timeshare being  terminated. This letter was dated June 2018  so it proves  that the
timeshare hadnt  yet been relinquished  or terminated and this was now beyond  the 12 month
guaranteed relinquishment period.
So Ive gone  onto consider the companys explanation to MBNA as to why they said, despite
the failure to relinquish the timeshares  within 12 months, they hadnt breached the contract.
i) Timeshare A:
The company appeared  to be suggesting  that Mr P had breached  the contract himself by
failing in general to provide information since the outset. I dont accept this. Firstly, the
company failed to provide MBNA with any evidence of their information requests. I would
have expected them to do this given  they relied  upon it to suggest  that Mr P had breached
the contract   a serious allegation. Or, at the very least, I would have expected more
detailed information   as opposed to the broad and vague statement they advanced. Indeed,
they were able to provide specific details in relation  to the email  from Mr P in February 2018
that I refer to below.  So there is no apparent reason  why they couldnt have done the same
on each of the information requests they say were made.
In contrast, Mr P has provided a detailed account of how he provided everything  he needed
to the company at the outset and specific details of arranged meetings that the company
didnt attend. So Im minded to accept Mr Ps account and conclude that the company didnt
make several information requests from the outset as suggested.
But the company  also referred  to receiving an email  from Mr P at the end of February 2018
notifying them about the rental income in relation to timeshare A. Unlike the above  broad
statement, the company  was specific  about this communication both in terms of the exact
date of Mr Ps email and the amount of the rental  income. Plus Mr P has himself  confirmed
that he started to receive a rental income  something the company couldnt have known
unless hed told them. So I accept that this happened as outlined by the company and that
their subsequent request for further  information  from Mr P went unanswered.
I think that at that point  the companys reluctance  to proceed with timeshare A, without Mr P
first confirming whether  or not he still wished to relinquish, was a reasonable one. Especially
as he had indeed  had a change of heart.  As this was still within  the 12 month  relinquishment
period I dont think it can be said that the failure to relinquish timeshare A was as a result of
the companys  breach of contract. Instead,  it was as a result of Mr Ps change of heart  and
his failure to respond to the companys request for further information on this particular
issue.
In reaching this provisional conclusion, Ive also considered Mr Ps comments that his
change of heart was only due to realising that the company wasnt going to claim any money
back as part of the contract. But Ive already explained why I dont  think  Mr P could have
expected this as part of the service.
Ref: DRN51650495ii) Timeshare B:
In relation to timeshare  B, the company said that they had been unable to relinquish
because Mr P had failed to forward any further communications relating to impending  legal
action.in relation  to.management fees. Its far from clear  whether the company was
suggesting that they had requested  this information  from Mr P or not. If the suggestion is that
they had, then again this account is completely lacking any detail  which I would have
expected to see together with copies  of the requests sent to Mr P.
Its also unclear why the company say this missing information would have prevented them
from relinquishing the timeshare in any event  or indeed why they believed that the
information existed.  Especially given that the termination notice Ive referred to above
confirmed that the repercussion  for non-payment was termination of the timeshare, as
opposed to legal action.
Furthermore, the company also appeared to suggest that Mr Ps non-payment of fees dated
back a number of years.  Again, the termination  notice contradicts this as it confirms that
the only amount  outstanding was Mr Ps annual fees  as opposed to many  years of
arrears.
So overall, the companys explanation  isnt enough  to persuade  me that the failure to
relinquish was as a result  of lack of information from Mr P  especially given how at odds
their explanation is to the content of the termination notice. And as Ive already explained,
given the date of the termination notice, the company had already  breached  the contract by
this point as the 12 month relinquishment  period had expired. So the fact that the timeshare
may have  been  subsequently terminated beyond  that 12 month period due to non-payment
of fees is an irrelevant point.
For all of these reasons, I think its more likely than not that the company had no good
reason for their failure to relinquish timeshare B within the 12 month  period  and they
therefore breached  the contract  in failing to achieve this and honour  the refund guarantee.
Loss as a result of the breach of contract
Just because there has been a breach of contract  does  not automatically  mean  that there is
a loss to remedy. So I need to next consider what loss Mr P has suffered as a result of the
breach of contract.
The contract didnt  provide  a breakdown of how much each relinquishment was going  to
cost. So in the absence of any defining  evidence, I think  that the logical and fairest
conclusion is that each relinquishment would have  cost the same.  It follows  that the cost of
the service for each  timeshare was £3,997.50  which  is the total contract price of £7,995
divided equally between the two timeshares.
So the loss to Mr P is £3,997.50 as this is the amount that he should have got back  as part
of the money  back guarantee  for timeshare B. MBNA need to refund him this amount plus
8% annual simple interest. The interest should  be calculated from the earliest opportunity
that MBNA  had to uphold Mr Ps s.75 claim in relation to timeshare B up until the date of
settlement.
MBNAs account notes  for 6 July 2018,  having received the companys response, state that
even if Mr P had stopped  paying the fees for timeshare B this didnt  change  the fact that the
Ref: DRN51650496company had failed  to complete the service within 12 months. Its unclear why MBNA didnt
pursue this line of investigation as, for the reasons Ive outlined above,  this appears to have
been the correct rationale. In any event, they were clearly aware  of the issue  on that date
and could have  therefore upheld the s.75 claim at that point. So I think this is the date that
interest should be calculated from.
the response to my provisional  decision 
MBNA have  accepted my provisional findings.
Mr P says that the 8% annual simple  interest  should  be calculated  from the date of the credit  
card purchase.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint  and in light of both parties response to my 
provisional findings. In particular,  Mr Ps comments about the interest calculation.
Where there has been a breach of contract  I need  to consider when that happened and what  
losses flowed thereafter. The breach  of contract  in this case occurred  in March 2018  when  
the 12 month guarantee period expired. So its only at that point that Mr Ps loss, namely the 
failure to receive  a refund under the guarantee, crystalised. It wouldnt therefore be 
appropriate to calculate the interest from the date of the credit card transaction  as there was 
no breach or loss yet at that point in time.
Ive considered whether the interest  should therefore be calculated from March 2018.  But 
Mr P didnt contact MBNA about the breach  of contract until June 2018.  So up until that point 
MBNA wouldnt  have  known about  the breach and would have therefore had no opportunity 
to rectify it and limit the period for which  interest  would accrue. It wouldnt therefore be fair or 
reasonable to expect  them to pay interest  from March 2018. 
Having received Mr Ps claim, MBNA then needed some time to look into it. From what  Ive 
seen their requests  for further information  from both Mr P and the company were entirely 
reasonable. So, again, it wouldnt be fair to ask them  to pay interest  for this period given their 
investigations were  valid and they couldnt  uphold the claim until they had sufficient 
information. 
For all of these reasons, I still think that the fairest outcome is for interest to be calculated 
from the earliest opportunity MBNA had to uphold the s.75 claim.  As outlined in my 
provisional decision, that was 6 July 2018.
No other  comments or new evidence  have been advanced and having re-reviewed the 
existing evidence I see no reason to change  the rest of my provisional  findings  either.   
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I uphold  Mr Ps complaint. I direct
MBNA Limited to:
Pay Mr P £3,997.50 plus 8% annual simple  interest*, calculated from 6 July 2018 up
until the date of settlement.
Ref: DRN51650497*If MBNA considers they should deduct  income  tax from any 8% interest  element of my
award they may do so, but they should  give Mr P the necessary certificate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 April 2021.
Sim Ozen
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5165049