K822xcomplaint
Mr Bs complaint against The Royal Bank  of Scotland Plc (RBS) is about issues  relating to 
the delivery of his bank cards to him. 
background 
Mr B lives abroad. He complained previously to the ombudsman service that RBS had failed 
to provide him with new bank cards when  he needed them.  
RBS sent Mr B new cards for his two accounts on 5 June 2018. They put a stop on the 
accounts until Mr B confirmed hed received the cards. Mr B called  RBS on 19 and 21 June 
to say the cards had arrived and RBS removed the block  on his accounts.  
Mr B complained to RBS that theyd previously  told him they couldnt send his cards in the 
post. He said:
RBS didnt tell him they were going to send his cards after all, and that his accounts 
would be blocked until the cards had arrived. 
He only found  out after making several international calls to RBS after he was unable  to 
use online banking.
He was unable  to access his money for two weeks. RBS should have sent him the cards  
one at a time, which would have allowed him to access the other account. 
His wife tried to transfer money  to him on 23 June but the transaction failed. 
RBS continued  to send him pre-paid envelopes  even though hed told them they cant  be 
used from the country hes living in.
RBS apologised  to Mr B for the service  theyd provided. They  reimbursed Mr B for the costs 
of postage and calls,  and paid £100  for the inconvenience  caused to him.   
Mr B was unhappy with RBS response and brought his complaint to the ombudsman 
service. He said RBS hadnt taken  his complaint seriously.
Our investigator looked into what had happened. In her most recent view, she said RBS 
should pay Mr B a total of £250  in addition to the costs  of postage and calls.  RBS accepted 
that, but Mr B said the compensation should be at least double  what our investigator  
proposed. This complaint  has therefore  been passed to me to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im satisfied that RBS 
didnt provide Mr B with the level of service  they should have. 
RBS told Mr B initially that they couldnt send his bank cards to him. To be helpful to Mr B, 
they then decided to make  an exception and send the cards. But RBS didnt tell Mr B they 
were doing  so, and that they would  put a stop on his accounts until he confirmed the cards 
were safely  received. 
RBS have referred to the terms and conditions of Mr Bs accounts. Based on these, I think 
RBS were entitled to put a stop on Mr Bs accounts until the new cards were received. But I 
think RBS should  have told Mr B what they were planning to do. 
Ref: DRN57533232If RBS had done so, I think  Mr B would likely have asked if his cards  could be sent one at a 
time, as hes later suggested. And if RBS had said that wasnt  possible, Mr B would still have 
had the opportunity to make alternative arrangements  while  he was unable  to access his 
accounts.  
The impact  of RBS actions was that Mr B had no warning that hed be unable to access  his 
money for two weeks. Hes said that during  this time he had to borrow from his family  which  
caused embarrassment. He also had to make several time consuming calls to RBS. During a 
number of the calls he was told no one was able to help him, which  must have been  very 
frustrating.     
Mr B also said his wife was unable to make a payment to his account  on 23 June.  RBS have 
said they have  no record of any attempted payments on that day. Although  I can see this 
would have caused Mr B more frustration, I havent  seen enough evidence to say RBS did 
anything wrong  on this point. 
Mr B was also unhappy RBS continued  to provide pre-paid envelopes he couldnt  use. RBS 
have apologised  for the inconvenience caused  and reimbursed Mr Bs postal costs. 
 
Id like to reassure Mr B that Ive looked at everything hes said about the service hes 
received from RBS. I appreciate that RBS  actions have caused considerable distress and 
inconvenience to him. And much of that could have been avoided if RBS had told him they 
were planning  to send him the bank  cards.  
But its not our role to punish businesses. Where something has gone wrong, we look at the 
impact its had and whether what the business  has done to put things  right is fair and 
reasonable. Ive thought carefully  about Mr Bs view that RBS should pay significantly more 
compensation. But overall, I think their latest offer to pay Mr B an additional  £150  in 
compensation - bringing the total to £250 - is fair and reasonable. 
I realise this wont be the decision Mr B was hoping for, but I wont  be asking RBS to do 
anything more.
Ref: DRN57533233my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold Mr Bs complaint against  
The Royal Bank of Scotland  Plc.  
The Royal Bank of Scotland  Plc should pay Mr B an additional £150 in compensation  
bringing the total to £250  for the distress and inconvenience caused to him. This is in 
addition to the postage  and call costs theyve already paid.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 February  2019.
Matthew Young
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5753323