K820x#14complaint
Mr M and Miss W say Santander  UK Plc (then  trading as Abbey National) mis-sold them a 
mortgage payment  protection insurance (MPPI) policy.
background
Mr M and Miss W took out an MPPI policy with a mortgage in 2006. They  paid a monthly  
amount for the policy.
Santander says it wasnt responsible for the sale of MPPI, because this was sold by an 
independent financial  adviser (IFA) belonging to another  financial business  Business A  
at the same time as the mortgage.
Mr M and Miss W say Business A only sold them the mortgage. And because the MPPI
premiums were paid to Santander, they think  Santander is responsible  for the sale.
I previously issued a provisional  decision,  in which I said that I didnt think  Santander was 
responsible for selling the MPPI. Mr M and Mrs W said that Santander was charging them  
premiums, which  they think isnt right when  if they didnt sell the policy.  Santander had 
nothing further  to add. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont think Santander is responsible for selling the MPPI. This is because I think
Santanders records show that:
Business A submitted  Mr M and Miss Ws mortgage application and confirmed that it was 
also providing  insurance  including MPPI.
Business A was due some commission in relation to the MPPI.
Ive taken into account Mr M and Miss Ws comments, including what theyve said about 
Business A only selling  the mortgage, and what they said about Santander and the 
premiums. But these points dont  change my conclusion. The MPPI was an Abbey National 
branded product, which is why the premiums  were paid to Santander. But the thing I must 
decide is who sold the MPPI  not who the premiums were paid to. And Im satisfied that 
Business A most likely  applied for the MPPI for Mr M and Mrs W, so Santander wasnt doing  
anything wrong  in charging  the premiums. 
I appreciate that Mr M and Miss W dont recall  the MPPI being sold by Business A. And 
thats understandable  given how long ago it was. But Im satisfied that the evidence is 
sufficient for me to conclude that Santander didnt sell it. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr M and Mrs Ws complaint.
Ref: DRN58975242Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 9 June 2019.
Phillip Lai-Fang
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5897524