K821x#15complaint
Mr S complains that RCI Financial Services Limited  refused to let him a reject a new car he 
had bought with hire purchase funding.
background
Mr S bought a new car in October  2017 and later he identified it didnt have several  features  
which he had believed  were included. One was a particular entertainment system and the 
other was an automatic  braking feature.  The dealer said that the entertainment system had 
been introduced  in May 2017  and the car Mr S had chosen had been  built before that date. It 
also said that the braking system  wasnt available  on UK models.
Mr S also identified some faults such as an intermittent Bluetooth connection,  a rattling 
sound and a blemish in the paintwork. I gather these issues  were remedied by the dealer. 
However, Mr S was concerned that he had been misled and complained to RCI. It asked the 
dealer which  said it hadnt told Mr S that the car was fitted  with the two disputed features. 
Therefore it rejected his complaint.
It was then considered  by one of our investigators who recommended the complaint be 
upheld. Mr S explained that he had been  told the original  car he had ordered hadnt  been 
available and he was then offered a replacement model. He said he had been led to believe 
it was the latest  model and that this contained  the two features which he had seen on the car 
he test drove. He said he was unaware  that his car had been manufactured some five or so 
months before he bought it.
He also supplied a lengthy email exchange with the dealer in which  he was told it would  fix 
the two issues  and it implied that both were  fitted to the car, but werent working.  It was only 
later that it came  to light that they werent  fitted and couldnt be retrofitted. The investigator 
was persuaded  by Mr Ss testimony and the email  trail that the car had been 
misrepresented. As it wasnt  possible to retrofit the features he suggested Mr S be allowed  
to reject the car.
RCI didnt agree and suggested Mr S had received a significant price reduction.  Mr S 
provided further information which  showed that the car he was sold was only £533 cheaper 
than the original which was a top of the range model. RCI also wondered why it could be 
considered reasonable for Mr S to have paid for one specification vehicle, but receive a 
better one. It also referred to an email exchange in which the dealer  confirmed Mr Ss car 
didnt have the key features and it was simply trying to assist him with his queries. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators  rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what  I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.  
The finance  agreement, that is the hire purchase  agreement, in this case is a regulated  
consumer credit agreement. As such this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. 
Ref: DRN57186142RCI Horse is also the supplier of the goods under this type of agreement, and responsible 
for a complaint about their quality.
The relevant  law says that under a contract to supply goods,  there  is an implied  term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory .
The relevant  law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person  would consider satisfactory taking into account  any description of 
the goods, price  and all other relevant circumstances. So it seems likely that in a case  
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might  
include things like the age and the mileage  at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods  includes their general state and condition and 
other things  like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects  of the quality of the goods.
This model  like many  cars comes in a multiple  of variations and of course various  extras can 
be fitted. It isnt always made  clear  to the customer  what  the model they have ordered  
includes. In this case Mr S was told there  was model available  in the UK that met his 
requirements. Shortly after this he was told it was no longer available. 
Having been left without a possible new car he was later called by the dealer to say they had 
found another model which wasnt quite the same and he was told of the differences.  For 
example it didnt have  leather upholstery. Thus I believe it reasonable to presume that he 
trusted the dealer to have  told him that this one didnt have the two features he was 
expecting. 
I also suspect that he would have liked to have  been  told that the car was some five months  
old and the manufacturer had introduced a newer version which  I believe was the model  he 
had test driven. I understand one of the features isnt available in this country, but Mr S is 
adamant that he was told about it by the dealer. The other  is available on the new model.
The email  exchange  indicates the dealer  was surprised that the car didnt contain the two 
features and sought to find a means of fixing/activating them. It was only after consulting  the 
manufacturer that he told Mr S they werent  available. This suggests he too though  the car 
should have the feature which supports the view that Mr S was misled.
Therefore I believe the car was misrepresented to Mr S and that he should  be allowed to 
reject it as it is impossible to retrofit the missing features.
 
Ref: DRN57186143my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct RCI Financial Services Limited  to:
 Unwind  the agreement;
 Remove any record of the agreement  from Mr Ss credit file;
 Refund  the deposit  paid; including the value of his part exchanged car, assuming there was 
no outstanding  finance on it)
 Arrange collection of the car at no cost to Mr S;
 Pay £100 for the inconvenience caused.
Mr S has had use of the car and therefore I dont consider RCI need refund his monthly 
payments. Under  the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  8 May 2019.
Ivor Graham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5718614