K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs T have  complained about  investments  they were recommended  by HSBC UK 
Bank Plc (HSBC).  It accepted the investments had not been suitable and made an offer of 
compensation to put things right, but Mr and Mrs T are unhappy  with that offer.
background
Mr and Mrs T were  recommended to put £75,000 in medium risk investments  for a five year 
term in 2011.   Mr and Mrs T say they were told the investments were  low risk and they could 
expect to receive a return of 12.8%  over a 12  18 month period.
Mr and Mrs T complained to HSBC in 2017.  They were unhappy they hadnt  received any 
update about their Investment Review, and that the investments hadnt provided  the level of 
return theyd expected.
HSBC offered Mr and Mrs T a total of £300 to reflect the lack of response  in relation to their 
Investment Review.  It also looked  into the investments theyd been recommended and 
concluded they hadnt met Mr and Mrs Ts needs at the time.  It accepted that their money 
was tied up for a period longer than was suitable,  and the level of risk was higher than they 
had wanted.
To put things right HSBC offered compensation based upon the returns  Mr and Mrs T would 
have received if theyd  made what it considered to be more suitable investments.  Mr and 
Mrs T didnt  accept the offer and referred the complaint to our Service for review.
One of our investigators  looked into the complaint  and recommended that it shouldnt  be 
upheld.  He concluded that the offer HSBC made was fair and reasonable.  In summary,  he 
said that the offer was based upon  what our Service would recommend in such 
circumstances.
Mr and Mrs T disagreed. They explained that they only invested because  they were  told that 
the investments  were  low risk and they would receive 12.8% returns.  They believe that the 
adviser had lied for his own benefit  and HSBC  should take responsibility for that, and honour 
the returns they were  promised.
As no agreement could be reached, Ive now been asked to review  everything afresh and 
make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusion as the investigator, and for broadly the same reasons.
I understand the point Mr and Mrs T make with regard to what  they were told they could 
expect and their expectations as a result.  But when our Service upholds  such  complaints, 
our approach is to put a customer into the position  they would have been in were it not for 
unsuitable advice.
Ref: DRN50091592Im satisfied the £300 HSBC offered to reflect the poor service  it provided in relation  to 
updates and responding to the Mr and Mrs Ts correspondence about their Investment  
Review is fair in the circumstances.
HSBC has accepted that the investment advice originally given to Mr and Mrs T was 
unsuitable.  So I havent had to consider the suitability  of the investments themselves, but 
the issue for me to decide is whether  the offer HSBC has made is a fair way of putting  things 
right.
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs T feel they were told they could expect around 12.8% growth, 
but as the investment was higher risk than they were led to believe, it never produced that 
level of return.   But considering they had wanted  a low risk investment, and believed thats 
what they were getting, its appropriate  to make a comparison  with what  a genuine low risk 
investment would have  provided them.  I dont think its fair and reasonable to say HSBC 
should pay 12.8% returns, as that would never  have  actually been what  was available  from a 
low risk investment.
In circumstances  such as this, where we are considering what Mr and Mrs T mightve 
invested in after the event, its difficult to say exactly what they wouldve done.  So our 
Service uses investment benchmarks  which reflect the typical  type of return  someone  would  
have received for the level of risk they were  willing to take.   
In making an offer to put things right, HSBC compared Mr and Mrs Ts position  with what  it 
would have been if theyd invested their cash on deposit with interest at Bank of England 
rates plus 1%.  This rate was applied until 2013 when the funds  were  disinvested, and from 
that time a compensatory rate of 8% simple per annum was applied for loss of access  to 
those funds.  This is in line with what I would have recommended and so Im satisfied its fair 
and reasonable in this case.
Im aware Mr and Mrs T have queried  why offers of different amounts were provided  to each 
of them  separately.   But having looked  at the calculations provided to them,  I can see its 
because they each had slightly different investment portfolios held in their individual names.   
So the amounts  are based upon the same redress principles being applied to each of their 
investments respectively.
I realise that Mr and Mrs T are likely  to be disappointed with my conclusions,  but given that I 
think HSBCs  offer is fair, it wouldnt be right for me to ask it to do anything  more now.  So  I 
leave it for Mr and Mrs T to decide  whether to accept the offer HSBC  has already made.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold  Mr and Mrs Ts 
complaint against  HSBC  UK Bank Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  14 April 2019.
Ross Hammond
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5009159