K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains about the actions of Bank of Scotland Plc (BOS) when  he was the victim of a 
scam in which he was tricked into buying a stolen car.
background
The detailed background to this complaint  is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
an overview of some  key events here.  
On 13 March 2019 Mr S bought a car from a private  seller that hed seen  advertised  online. 
Mr S split his payments  between two accounts  that the seller provided  (both  were  sent from 
his account with BOS). In each case he also first sent a £1 test payment. Mr S then sent 
two payments for £11,800   one went to a bank Ill refer to as N the other  to an account that 
was also with BOS. 
Mr S returned home with the car and initially all appeared well. On 23 March 2019, N let 
BOS know that they had concerns about  their customers account  activity following the 
payment Mr S had sent. Theyd asked their customer questions but wanted some  clarity 
from Mr S as to the purpose of the payment. They said theyd placed a block  on their 
customer withdrawing those funds whilst seeking further information. 
Upon receipt of this information from N, BOS checked the account held with them into which  
Mr S had paid half the money. But by this point,  Mr S funds had already been  withdrawn. 
BOS also contacted Mr S and shared  what N had said. Mr S confirmed that he had paid the 
money towards the purchase price  of a car, which he had in his possession.  But he 
explained he was yet to receive the original  log book and was concerned that something 
might be amiss. He asked  BOS  to tell N not to release the funds to their customer.
A couple of days later Mr S had made further enquiries with the DVLA about the outstanding 
logbook. He says the seller  had told him theyd  contacted the DVLA, but the DVLA  had no 
record of this. On that basis, he asked  BOS to report this as an authorised  push payment 
scam (APP). BOS  initially  reported  this to N (and took steps  in relation to the account held 
with them). But they later withdrew the APP notification, concluding that Mr S had the vehicle 
hed paid for and there was (at that time) no evidence it was stolen or that any other scam or 
fraud had taken place.  So on that basis they couldnt  report this as a case of fraud, Mr S had 
parted with money and had a car in return.  
Around this time Mr S had done even  more to try to clarify the situation  with the car. This 
included taking it to his local police station. They didnt examine his vehicle but checked it 
against their database and told him all appeared to be ok. 
Around a month later,  the police seized the car from Mr S home address. It had come to 
light that the car was stolen, and it was a clone of a genuine  vehicle, this is why the 
extensive previous  checks had appeared  in order. 
BOS notified N of the update but by this time the funds  had been released to their customer 
and withdrawn. Mr S complained. He was unhappy that hed specifically  asked for the funds 
to be held and they hadnt.  He feels that between  BOS and N, someone should take 
responsibility for his loss. 
Ref: DRN55266102One of our investigators  considered this complaint and in summary didnt think BOS had 
done anything  wrong. So, she didnt recommend that they ought to refund  Mr S. Mr S 
disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review  his complaint. In March 2021  I issued a 
provisional decision in which  I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
I accept that Mr S has been the victim  of a cruel and sophisticated  scam  and that hes acted 
in good faith throughout.  What I need to consider is not whether Mr S has been a victim of 
crime  I accept he has. But whether (in the context of our services jurisdiction) BOS are 
responsible for any acts or omissions  that mean they ought to reimburse his loss.
On the morning of the payments Mr S contacted BOS to inform  them  of his intent to make  
large payments from his account later that day. He explained he was travelling by train to 
purchase a car that hed then be driving  home. He didnt want the payments stopped,  
leaving him stranded. And in further  conversations Mr S had with BOS,  he explained in 
detail, all the checks hed done to satisfy  himself that the car he was purchasing was 
genuine. 
It isnt in dispute that Mr S himself instructed these payments through his online banking and 
I consider these to be authorised payments. And whilst BOS  do have the ability  to stop 
payments where  they have grounds  for suspecting  fraud or the misappropriation of funds, I 
dont think they had reason to do so in this case. Mr S provided a valid reason for the 
payments and given  the extensive checks hed made, I dont think that even if BOS had 
intervened that they could have said anything at that point that would have resulted in the 
discovery that the car he was buying,  was actually stolen. The car was later checked with 
the police, and the true status of the car still wasnt discovered. So overall, I dont think BOS  
were at fault for allowing  these payments to be made.
Once N had contacted BOS, they spoke  to Mr S to confirm the nature of his payments. This 
was 10 days after the payments had been made. BOS noted that the money  paid into the 
beneficiary account with them, had already been  withdrawn. BOS initially  reported this to N 
as APP fraud, shortly afterwards they withdrew  this and said that Mr S had received  goods 
(the car) for his payments.  And despite Mr S suspicions, there was no evidence (at that 
time) that the car was stolen or that hed been a victim of fraud.  
I dont think these actions  by BOS were  unreasonable  or unfair based on the information 
available to them at that time. There can be serious consequences for one bank telling 
another that a payment has been  made as a result  of fraud  or a scam. So, a bank must have 
good grounds for believing this. The money  that was sent on 13 March 2019 arrived  in the 
beneficiary accounts the same day. The transactions  had already taken place. So, this isnt a 
case of trying to stop a pending payment or similar. It was a case where N had placed a 
temporary hold on that money (that was already in that account) until they were satisfied 
their customer was entitled to it and were checking  with BOS why the payment had been 
made.  
So whilst I can well understand  Mr S frustration that his gut feeling (which was later proven 
to be correct) that something was wrong, wasnt acted upon.  There  simply wasnt  enough 
objective evidence  at that time to support that a genuine transaction  had not taken place and 
to justify BOS reporting to N that the payment  was as a result  of a fraud or scam. Mr S was 
in possession of the car, the car registration  was even  checked with the police and initially 
Ref: DRN55266103found to be ok. Even though Mr S had said the DVLA  had confirmed theyd not heard from 
the seller, this isnt sufficient to show that hed been  a victim of fraud. Ultimately, Mr S had 
sent money and had received a car. And I appreciate he took all the reasonable steps he 
possibly could have  done, but at that time he was unable to evidence that fraud  or a scam 
had taken place  or that more than a delay in receiving the original log book was what  was 
happening. 
Once the car was confirmed by the police as stolen,  BOS  acted  promptly  by informing N. But 
as already mentioned by the time this happened, all of Mr S funds  had already been  
withdrawn from both accounts. 
Mr S has also questioned whether BOS did all they should in allowing  the beneficiary  
account with them to be opened by a scammer. And whilst  I cant share the detail  of the 
evidence provided  by BOS or the third partys information with Mr S, I am satisfied  that there 
was nothing surrounding the opening of the account  that could have prevented his loss. I 
dont believe  BOS  missed  an opportunity to prevent the fraud in this way. 
Im sorry  to hear Mr S has been  a victim  of crime in the way he has. But as I dont think  BOS 
are responsible for his loss, I cant fairly ask them to reimburse all or part of it.
Mr S acknowledged  receipt of my provisional decision but didnt provide any further  
comments. BOS didnt respond to my provisional  decision. Now both sides  have had an 
opportunity to comment, I can go ahead with my decision. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As neither party had any further 
comments or evidence for my consideration, I see no reason to deviate from the outcome 
set out in my provisional decision. 
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above, my final decision is that I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 May 2021.
Richard Annandale
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5526610