K821x#15complaint
Mr R complains that a car that was supplied to him under a hire purchase agreement with 
BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited  wasnt of satisfactory quality.
The details of this complaint are well known  to both parties and have been  set out by the 
adjudicator so I wont repeat them again  here. Instead Ill focus on giving  the reasons for my 
decision. 
BMW Financial Services, as the supplier of the car, was responsible  for ensuring  that it was 
of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr R. Whether or not it was of satisfactory 
quality at that time will depend on a number of factors,  including the age and mileage of the 
car and the price  that was paid for it. The car that was supplied  to him was a used car but it 
was less than six months  old and had only been  driven for 51 miles so I consider that it was 
reasonable for him to expect that it would  be free from even minor defects. The price of the 
car was £33,942. Satisfactory quality also covers durability which  means that the 
components within the car must be durable and last a reasonable amount of time  but 
exactly how long that time is will depend  on a number of factors. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
conclusions reached  by the adjudicator for these reasons:
Mr R reported an issue with the cars fuel injectors about  eight months  after the car 
was supplied to him and the fuel injectors were replaced;
the issue recurred so he returned the car to the dealer for further repairs but the 
issue has recurred again - which has been confirmed by a manufacturers dealer;
he complained  to BMW Financial Services and said that he wanted to reject the car 
or to be provided with a replacement  but it said that he first experienced an issue 
with the injectors  after eight  months so it was unable to accept rejection and offered 
to refund one monthly payment of £471.96 to him for those issues;
the adjudicator  recommended that Mr R should  be allowed to reject the car (and for 
his deposit to be refunded) or that it should be replaced and that BMW Financial 
Services pay him the £471.96  that it had offered to him;
those recommendations were  sent to BMW Financial Services in September 2019 
and the adjudicator advised it in October  2019 that Mr Rs complaint had been 
passed to an ombudsman for a decision and that it could send any further points or 
information by the end of that month  but no response has been  received;
I dont consider that its reasonable to expect a car that was so nearly new when it 
was supplied to Mr R to have such significant and recurring issues with its fuel 
injectors that started eight months  after the car was supplied to him  so I consider 
that the car wasnt  as durable as it was reasonable for him to expect it to be and, for 
that reason,  that it wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was supplied  to him;
Ref: DRN54980292Im not persuaded that replacement of the car is likely to be an effective solution  so I 
consider that it would be fair and reasonable in these  circumstances  for BMW  
Financial Services to allow Mr R to reject  the car  so it should  collect  the car and 
end the agreement;
the agreement  shows that Mr R made an advance  payment of £1,800 for the car but 
the invoice shows  that he paid a deposit of £1,000  and Mr R has been  able to use 
the car;
BMW Financial Services has offered to refund one monthly payment of £471.96 to 
Mr R as compensation for the issues that hes experienced   and I consider that to 
be fair and reasonable compensation for the distress and inconvenience that hes 
been caused; and
in addition to that payment, I consider that it would  be fair and reasonable for BMW 
Financial Services to refund to Mr R any deposit  that he paid for the car (with 
interest) but that it should keep the other monthly payments  that hes made  under the 
agreement as payment for the use that hes had from the car.
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I uphold Mr Rs complaint and I order BMW Financial 
Services (GB) Limited to:
1.End the hire purchase agreement and collect the car from Mr R  both at no cost to 
him.
2.Refund to Mr R any deposit that he paid for the car.
3.Pay interest on that amount at an annual rate of 8% simple from the date of payment 
to the date of settlement.
4.Refund to Mr R one monthly payment of £471.96 to compensate him for the distress 
and inconvenience  that hes been  caused.
HM Revenue & Customs  requires BMW  Financial  Services to deduct tax from the interest 
payment referred  to above. BMW Financial Services must  give Mr R a certificate showing 
how much  tax its deducted if he asks it for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 June  2020.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5498029