K820x#14complaint
A, a limited  company, complains that Elavon Financial Services Designated Activity 
Company failed to inform  him of fraudulent transactions in time to take appropriate action to 
prevent him releasing the goods and avoiding chargeback  claims.  A is represented in this 
complaint by Mr S, a director. 
background
A opened a Merchant Acquiring  Account with Elavon on 19 December 2011. 
In November 2018 Mr S, on behalf of A, processed three credit card transactions, totalling 
£5,200, from the same  customer by telephone. He said the transactions  were authorised by 
his business credit card terminal fully in the normal way. The goods were collected  the 
following day. 
Five weeks later Mr S said he found out the transactions were fraudulent. He said the bank  
which issued the credit card, N, had completed a security call to the card-holder within 
minutes of the last transaction  being placed. The card-holder had denied any knowledge of 
the transactions. N suggested that the card had been cloned and had immediately rejected 
the transactions and cancelled the card.  
Despite the goods having been collected  Mr S said Elavon had debited As account for the 
transactions plus chargeback fees.  Mr S said the card issuer had been aware before the 
goods were collected that the transactions were  fraudulent. He complained to Elavon. He 
believed that had he been informed  by Elavon as soon as N knew  the transactions were  
fraudulent he could not only have  refused to release the goods  but its possible the police 
would have been able to act in time. He said that instead the goods were collected  and 
Elavon had debited his account for the transactions plus a chargeback fee for each of them. 
In its final response Elavon said A was liable for any Customer  Not Present (CNP)  
transactions, as these  were, should  they be reported as fraudulent. It said CNP transactions  
represent the highest risk level in payment processing. It added  that A accepted  CNP 
transactions entirely at its own risk and is liable for those transactions should they become 
chargebacks. Mr S did not accept this and brought  his complaint to this service.  While the 
complaint was with this service Elavon refunded the third transaction, £3,500.  
Our investigator thought that Elavon had dealt with As complaint fairly. He said Elavon had 
adhered to its terms and conditions. He also said Elavons operating  guide,  which  Mr S 
agreed to when signing the contract,  explained the risks and liabilities with CNP  
transactions. 
Mr S remained dissatisfied and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman. He said that 
the fact Elavon had refunded the third transaction was an admission of liability and that they 
were duty bound to refund  the other  two transaction chargebacks also.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I realise this will come as a 
disappointment to Mr S and A, but having  done  so I wont  be asking Elavon to do anything 
further. 
Ref: DRN58003682Id like to reassure Mr S and A that Ive read all the information on the file. If I dont refer to 
every point Mr S has raised this isnt because I havent carefully  considered it but because I 
dont believe  I need to mention it in order to come  to what I believe is the right outcome.
When A entered into an agreement with Elavon for an account Mr S signed the agreement 
form on behalf of A and accepted its terms and conditions. Both of which Ive seen a copy of. 
In the terms it says:
The merchant further understands and acknowledges that the acceptance of 
Card Not Present Transactions is done entirely at their own risk. 
It goes on to say:
It is very important  that you read this Merchant Application, the TOS, the Schedule 
of Fees  and the Merchant Operating Guide before you sign below. 
I have also read the Merchant Operating Guide. There is a section on Fraudulent  
Transactions including a subsection on Card Not Present  Acceptance.  It says:  
You must take the necessary  precautions  to safeguard any such Transaction and 
help reduce the risk of a Chargeback arising.  Most  losses  are generally experienced 
by Customers as a result  of Card  Not Present Transactions. Mail Order/Telephone 
Order Transactions  are high risk, and you retain  full liability should a Transaction  
prove to be fraudulent or not authorised by a Cardholder.
The guide  goes on to explain what to look out for in order to identify fraudulent transactions 
including multiple  transactions  from the same  card number and multiple  use of the same 
card number in a short time span. 
This is followed  by a section on tips to help prevent fraudulent transactions.  Included  in 
these are that goods should never be given to couriers at the request of the cardholder and 
goods should be delivered  to the cardholders address. It said care should be taken if 
delivering to a different address other  than that of the cardholders  billing address. I 
understand the goods were given  to a courier/driver.
In the tips to prevent fraud  it advises merchants to verify the address for high-value 
transactions. It suggests taking a telephone number, address, and check  details against  an 
electronic register or telephone directory. Its not clear  to me what steps  were  taken to verify 
the customers address.
Mr S said the purchases were for a vehicle repair and the purchase of a bike on one day. 
Then the following day three more bikes were purchased by the same person using the 
same card over the phone during one transaction call. He said the transactions were all 
authorised fully, in the normal way.  But Mr S hasnt said if the precautions advised by 
Elavon were  followed by A concerning multiple  and high value purchases.  
It appears to me that these transactions of significant value in quick  succession  over the 
telephone would be a red flag, per the terms and conditions, and prompt  reasonable caution 
and risk evaluation. Im not persuaded A implemented  any risk assessment with these 
telephone transactions. 
Ref: DRN58003683I can deviate from the terms and conditions where  I believe it fair and reasonable to do so 
but in this case Im satisfied they are clear  and unambiguous about As responsibility with 
higher risk telephone transactions. And I consider  A ought reasonably  to have been aware of 
them in this situation and acted accordingly.
I do understand Mr Ss anger that N did not inform  Elavon immediately of the fraudulent  
discovery. And I agree, as Mr S has said, had it done so this may have allowed swifter fraud 
action to be taken  by the authorities. But this complaint relates to Elavons actions and I 
cannot hold Elavon responsible as that responsibility was with N.
Mr S has said there needs to be a legal procedure in place that requires a card issuer to 
inform the retailer  of fraudulent transactions as soon as it is aware.  Unfortunately  its not my 
role to look at a businesss processes so Im unable to comment  on that. 
Mr S has also said that as Elavon has refunded one of the chargebacks,  this means  it has 
accepted liability.  Elavon  has said that this refund was due to the cardholders  bank making 
a formal error. It said rather than taking  the chargeback to pre-arbitration  the bank  accepted 
Elavons position.  Elavon also said this doesnt change  the fact the transactions were 
fraudulent and Im satisfied with this explanation.
Mr S believes that as his contract is with Elavon and Elavons contract is with N then the law 
dictates he needs  to claim compensation from Elavon and it in turn must claim from N. We 
are an informal dispute  resolution service  and an alternative to the courts.  As such I must 
take account of relevant law but my role is to determine what I believe to be fair and 
reasonable. 
I understand that this must be very frustrating for Mr S and A and he has my sympathy.  A is, 
of course, entitled to reject my decision and pursue action through the courts,  which comes 
with its own risks and costs. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 November 2019.
Maxine Sutton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5800368