K820x#14complaint
Mr F complains that Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc, previously Bristol & West Building Society,  
mis- sold him a payment  protection insurance  (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  Mr F took out in 1990 alongside a mortgage.  It protected 
Mr Fs mortgage  monthly repayments  in the event  of accident, sickness  and unemployment.
For ease of reference, Ill refer to Bristol & West Building Society as Bank of Ireland 
throughout this decision.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr F disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, so 
the complaint  has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Fs case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Fs complaint.  Ill explain why below.
Theres limited  information available from the time the PPI was sold to Mr F in 1990, which  
isnt unusual given  the sale took place almost 30 years ago. As a result, Bank  of Ireland 
hasnt been able to provide us with copies of Mr Fs actual paperwork from the time of sale.  
So, Ive based  my findings  on the information I do have and what I think is most likely to 
have happened  at the time of sale.
Mr F says he was told he had to have the PPI because he was self-employed. And I accept 
that (nearly 30 years on) this is how Mr F might remember the sale.  But its also possible 
Bank of Ireland  pointed out the difficulties Mr F might have repaying the mortgage if he 
wasnt able to work and explained why it thought he needed the PPI. I dont have enough to 
say Bank  of Ireland crossed the line and told Mr F he had to have the PPI when this wasnt 
the case. Overall,  I think its more  likely  that Bank  of Ireland gave Mr F a choice about  the 
PPI. And that he chose  to take it.
Mr F says Bank of Ireland recommended that he take out the PPI. Bank of Ireland on the 
other hand doesnt know whether any recommendations  were  made  as it holds very limited 
information from the time of sale. So Ive thought about what  both parties have said and I 
dont think Ive seen  enough to say either  way. But even if I were to agree that the PPI was 
recommended to Mr F, I dont  think Bank or Ireland were wrong to recommend it to him. Ill 
explain why.
Ref: DRN55281352While Bank  of Ireland  hasnt been  able to provide  us with a copy of the policy  wording from 
1990, it has referred us to a PPI brochure from 1991  and an insurance schedule from 1992   
which Bank of Ireland  says is the only available  documentation from around the time of sale. 
Because of this, I dont know exactly what terms and conditions  applied to Mr Fs policy.  But 
based on what Ive seen and using what I know about these  types of policies  generally,  I 
think its likely Mr F would have been eligible for the cover. And I cant  see he would have 
been affected by any of the main things  the policy didnt cover  such as pre-existing 
medical conditions.
Mr F has told us he was self-employed at the time of sale, so Ive looked at whether this 
means the policy wasnt suitable for him. Having reviewed the closest literature we have to 
the time of sale, I think its more  likely  than not that self-employed policyholders  would have 
been covered  under  the policy  terms and I havent seen anything to suggest  that it would 
have been more difficult for Mr F to claim than an employed policyholder.  So, I dont think  
Mr Fs employment  status meant that the policy wasnt right for him.
Mr F has told us that he had some savings  which he could have used to cover  his mortgage 
repayments. In the event  of a successful claim for accident, sickness or unemployment, the 
PPI would have  paid out a benefit,  which would have enabled Mr F to use his savings for 
any other financial commitments he may have  had. The PPI also would have meant he didnt 
have to worry about his mortgage repayments.  So I dont think this would have meant  that 
the policy wasnt suitable for him.
In addition to making  sure the policy was suitable for Mr F, Bank  of Ireland also had to give 
him clear enough information about the PPI. I think its possible that Bank of Ireland didnt 
give him all the information it should have. But, even if the information wasnt as clear  as it 
should have been, for the reasons Ive already explained, I dont think better information 
about the PPI would have  stopped  Mr F buying  it.
Based on what Ive said above, I dont think its likely  the PPI was mis-sold.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 October  2019.
Margaux Stride-Noble
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5528135