K820x#14complaint
Ms S complaint is about the service she received when she made a claim under  her 
buildings insurance  policy in the autumn of 2018.  She is unhappy  at how the claim was 
handled given  her floor tiles contained  asbestos.
Ms S policy is with Fairmead  Insurance Limited, but it was operated  under  a different 
business name in the past. I will refer to Fairmead throughout this decision,  even where  
actions were undertaken under the previous company name or on its behalf.
background
In mid-October 2018 Ms S contacted the out of hours  home emergency service  on her 
insurance policy after discovering a water  leak.  The home emergency service  was provided 
by a different  insurer. A plumber was appointed. The leak was accessed  and repaired. This 
involved digging a hole in the floor. Ms S was charged £600 for accessing  and repairing the 
pipe. 
The following  day Ms S called Fairmead  to make a claim under the main buildings and 
contents policy. It was explained to Ms S that the insurer would only cover the cost of 
repairing the damage caused  by the escaped water, but not any damage  that was caused in 
accessing the leaking pipe or the cost of the actual  repair. 
Ms S wasnt happy that the insurance  policy would not cover the costs of the repair to the 
pipe and that needed for the damage  in accessing the pipe. The issue  was discussed with a 
manager at Fairmead;  the result of which was that Ms S said she would contact the other 
insurer to see what it could do. It was left that the claim  would remain  open and Ms S would 
get back to Fairmead  to confirm whether she wanted to move  the claim forward  and whether 
she wanted to pursue  a complaint about the level of cover provided by the policy.
On the evening of 17 October 2018,  Ms S called  Fairmead again and asked about the policy 
excess. She asked if she could dispose of the carpet and was told not to as it might be 
restorable. The tiles under the carpet were mentioned and the agent  explained  there was a 
risk that they contained asbestos.  Ms S confirmed  she wanted Fairmeads surveyor  to attend 
and then she would review her options. Fairmead commissioned its surveyor to assess the 
property. 
A few days  later Ms S made a formal complaint about the cover provided by the policy.  
Ms S home was assessed  by Fairmeads  surveyor on 24 October 2018. The claim for 
damage caused by the water was accepted and samples from the floor were taken to test for 
asbestos that day. Ms S has said she was told the results would be received by the Friday  
two days later. The results were  received on 26 October  2018,  but Ms S wasnt told until 
31 October 2018. Ms S has said she was told there was only asbestos  in the bitumen layer 
beneath the floor tiles. However, the test report confirms there was low grade asbestos in 
the floor tiles and the bitumen. Fairmead told Ms S the floor tiles would need to be removed 
and the bitumen sealed.
A contractor  was appointed to arrange the works that needed to be done. It spoke to Ms S 
about the works needed and asked her to confirm if she was able to move and store the sofa 
elsewhere in the home or if it needed to make  arrangements. Ms S told the contractor  on 
1 November 2018 that she couldnt move the sofa herself and there was nowhere to store it 
Ref: DRN56772732inside the property. However, if the weather was okay, she was happy for it to be placed  
outside during  the works with a plastic sheet over it. It would appear the contractor  didnt 
update Fairmead  with this information.
On 6 November  2018 Ms S called Fairmead  and asked for an update on her claim.  The 
amount of the contents claim was confirmed,  that the excess would be deducted from it and 
the amount Ms S would receive. She was advised to speak to the contractor about the 
removal of the tiles and sealing of the floor. When doing so, Ms S was also asked to answer 
the question the contractor had asked her about the sofa. Following  the conversation 
Fairmead chased the contractor about the asbestos works and paid the contents claim.
A moving  company was appointed and asked to quote for the sofa removal and storage on 
9 November 2018. The quote  was received  a few days later and approved by Fairmead on 
13 November 2018. Both the asbestos  removal and sofa storage were arranged.
On 16 November 2018 the sofa was removed from the property  and the floor works  were 
completed. Ms S vacuum cleaner was disposed of by the company  that completed  the 
asbestos removal. She has said she was told this was because she had said shes hoovered 
the floor.  Fairmead paid for a replacement vacuum  cleaner. 
In early November 2018 Fairmead responded to the complaint about the plumbing costs 
Ms S incurred. It said it was satisfied that it had provided a fair and consistent service.  It 
explained that it was not responsible for the decision of whether to cover the cost of the 
plumber as that was a matter for the other insurer, which had appointed the plumber.  In 
addition, it said it had forwarded Ms S concerns to the other insurer. Ms S was given referral 
rights to this service, but didnt refer the complaint to us.
Fairmeads complaint  response wasnt accepted by Ms S. She reiterated her concerns about 
the service she had received initially and also complained about the fact that she and her 
family had been  left in their home with asbestos contamination for over a month.  She said 
she was very unhappy about how the matter  had been dealt with and was concerned about 
possible ongoing contamination risks because the remainder of the house hadnt been  
cleaned or tested.
The sofa was returned on 30 November 2018 and the claim closed. 
In early January  2019 Fairmead issued  its response regarding Ms S concerns about  the 
asbestos on her floor.  It set out the order of events  and accepted that it hadnt  provided the 
desired level of service.  As such, it offered  Ms S £100 compensation for any distress  and 
inconvenience she had suffered. 
Ms S didnt accept the compensation and referred her complaint to this service.  She 
considered the service  was inadequate  and despite  her calling the parties involved in the 
claim several times  a day, she said there was no organisation  or urgency shown in dealing  
with her claim. During  that time Ms S says the tiles were drying out, shrinking and cracking,  
which caused dust. Although she did what she could to cover  the area the family walked on, 
she believes  asbestos fibres were being released into the air and were  transmitted all over 
the property by her vacuum cleaner. As such, she considered her family  had been exposed 
to asbestos for over a month and she is concerned the exposure continued because the 
property wasnt tested  and cleaned.
 
Ref: DRN56772733In relation to the compensation offered by Fairmead,  Ms S says it is not proportionate as it 
doesnt compensate  them  for the loss of peace  of mind about their health, future associated 
health conditions,  loss of earnings  and suffering. She feels that other  customers shouldnt be 
treated in the same way and Fairmead  should review its procedures.   
One of our investigators  considered Ms S complaint. Whilst he understood why Ms S was 
worried about the situation, he wasnt persuaded Fairmead has done anything  wrong  in 
relation to the asbestos removal. It took around a month for the removal, which given the 
removal had to be done by specialists, was not unreasonable. He thought  the £100 was in 
line with what he would  award in circumstances where there  were  some minor delays and 
insufficient updates were  given.
Ms S didnt accept the investigators  opinion. She pointed out that she and her family  were 
living with damaged tiles containing  asbestos, which could potentially  release asbestos 
fibres into the air. As such,  the tiles should have been removed as soon as possible and 
there was no need for her and her family  to have been exposed  for as long as they were.  In 
addition, Ms S said it took Fairmead  19 days to arrange for the sofa to be removed  to allow  
the asbestos removal to be done.  Ms S believes it is 100% likely that we breathed in 
asbestos fibres 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint was passed to me for consideration.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Before I go into the detail of my consideration of the complaint, I think it would be appropriate 
to explain to Ms S the role of this service. We consider individual  complaints and, if 
appropriate, award redress for the individual circumstances of a particular case. We do not 
make punitive awards to punish financial business  nor are we able to make a business  
change its processes or procedures. That is the role of the industry  regulator,  the Financial 
Conduct Authority.  
An insurance claim and damage to a consumers home will always  cause  inconvenience  to 
the consumer  and often distress  and upset. This is a natural result of the fact a claim 
happened and not the fault of the insurer, so we cant  ask the insurer  to compensate for it. 
Where we will require an insurer to compensate is where its actions or errors have caused  
additional upset  or inconvenience. 
Ms S complaint is about the time it took for her claim to be dealt with, so I have looked at 
what happened and when. When doing  so I have to take into account that sometimes  
immediate arrangements and appointments cant always  been  made  because  there  are finite 
resources available  to do things and there will be multiple demands on those resources. 
Once Ms S confirmed she wanted  to go ahead  with the claim a surveyor was appointed and 
the asbestos test arranged.  Whilst the test results  had been known for a few days before 
they were confirmed to Ms S, that didnt delay the actual claim handling. A contractor was 
appointed and the only delay caused  due to an error  on the part of Fairmead  or its 
representatives I can see is that between Ms S answering the contractors question about her 
sofa and a removals company being approached for costings. 
Ref: DRN56772734I can understand Ms S concern that the floor tiles in her lounge  contained asbestos and I 
accept this would have added worry to the normal inconvenience of having had her home 
damaged. However,  that worry is something  that came about  from the claim itself.  The only 
period I can require Fairmead to compensate Ms S for is the short period of delay it caused. 
Fairmead has already  offered to pay Ms S £100  compensation for the short delay and not 
communicating as effectively as it could have. I know this will disappoint Ms S, but I think 
that is an appropriate amount. 
I cant make  an award for something that might happen in the future, but is not a certainty. 
I note that Ms S believes  that it is inevitable that she and her family breathed in asbestos  
fibres while they were waiting for the works to be done. I have seen many risk assessment 
reports for insurance claims where  there  have  been  damaged tiles that contained asbestos. 
I know this will probably not satisfy Ms S, all of those reports  have confirmed the type of 
asbestos contained in her tiles is low grade and the overall risks to health were low. As such, 
it wouldnt be appropriate for me to require Fairmead to take further action,  such  as provide 
medical insurance, when  there is no conclusive evidence  there  will be future  problems.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint as I consider the offer made  by 
Fairmead Insurance Limited is appropriate  in the circumstances. Under  the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  I am required to ask Ms S to accept or reject my decision 
before 22 June 2020.
Derry Baxter
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5677273