K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1998. Mr D says Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold  him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Mr Ds postal credit agreement  had a section for PPI. It briefly explained what it was for, 
and there were two boxes to choose from: one to buy PPI and one to turn it down.  The 
boxes were equally prominent. Mr D signed  the box to take out PPI, separately to signing 
for the agreement as a whole. So I think that Bank of Scotland made it clear Mr D didnt 
have to take out PPI and that he chose to take it  though I can certainly  understand why 
he might  not remember this after so long.
Bank of Scotland didnt recommend the PPI to Mr D, so it didnt have to check  if it was 
right for him. It did have to make sure Mr D got the information he needed to decide if it 
was right for him. 
Its possible the information Bank of Scotland gave Mr D about the PPI wasnt  as clear  
as it shouldve been. But he chose to take out the policy  - so it looks like he wanted  this 
type of cover. Based on what  Ive seen of his circumstances  at the time it doesnt look 
like he was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI. While Mr D had 
some sick pay, the PPI covered him for longer and paid out on top, and he doesnt seem 
to have had any other  protection in case he lost his job. So the policy  would have been 
useful for Mr D if something went wrong. And so I dont think  better  information  about the 
PPI would have  put him off taking out the cover. 
This means  Bank of Scotland doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr D.
But Bank of Scotland has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr D because: 
Bank of Scotland got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr D about that. Because Bank  of Scotland  didnt 
tell him, that was unfair.  
To put that right, Bank of Scotland has paid back the amount of commission and profit  
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think  that is fair in this case.
Ref: DRN58212882my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland  plc does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr D.
But Bank of Scotland plc does have  to pay back to Mr D any commission  and profit  share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand  it has already done this, so 
I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 March  2019.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5821288