K820x#14complaint
Mr N complains that HSBC Bank  Plc (HSBC) unfairly declined  a claim under section 75 of 
the Consumer  Credit Act (CCA) 1974.
background
Mr N arranged for a company, K, to supply and install solar  panels. Mr N says he was asked 
to pay for the solar  panels  over the phone, which he did through  a combination of his HSBC 
credit card and a debit  card.
Mr N says he was mis-led about  the price of the feed in tariff he would receive from the 
panels. He later had an independent report which showed numerous  issues with the 
installation of the solar  panels.
Mr N contacted HSBC  and asked it to refund the money he had paid under section 75 (s75). 
HSBC didnt agree to the refund. It said that the necessary conditions for a s75 claim werent 
met.
Unhappy with this Mr N brought his complaint to our service. One of our investigators looked  
into the complaint  and felt that HSBC  had fairly  declined the s75 claim as the relationship  
required under  s75 didnt exist. This was because the payment made  by Mr N was to a 
different company, S.
Mr N disagreed with our investigator and asked for an ombudsman to review  his complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and I know this will be disappointing to Mr N, I wont be asking HSBC to 
take any further steps to resolve the complaint. Ill explain  why.
S75 provides protection for consumers for goods and services bought using credit. This 
means that if Mr N has a claim for misrepresentation or breach of contract  against  a supplier 
of goods or services,  in this case K, he can also bring that claim against HSBC, as long as 
certain conditions  are met. One of those conditions is that there  must  be a debtor-creditor-
supplier (d-c-s)  relationship.
Mr Ns contract  was with K to supply and install solar panels.  But he used  his credit card to 
pay S. I know  that Mr N says there is a relationship between K and S but I havent seen any 
evidence of this. Based on this Im satisfied that Mr N paid a separate company. This means 
there isnt a valid d-c-s relationship as he didnt use his credit  card to pay K, who he was 
contracted with to supply and install his solar  panels.
Ive also considered if there was a particular type of relationship, known  as an associate  
relationship, between K and S. If there  were then there would still be a d-c-s link. Any 
relationships that would qualify as associates are defined  in the CCA. And although  they did 
have some form of relationship as S took the money on Ks behalf, they arent  associates  as 
defined by the CCA.
Ref: DRN59129862I can understand that my decision will be frustrating  for Mr N but based on the above  Im 
satisfied that HSBC fairly declined his claim under s75.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint against HSBC Bank Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 February  2019.
Michael Fisher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5912986