K821x#15complaint
Mr B complains that Bank  of Scotland plc trading as Birmingham  Midshires (BM) failed to 
provide him with a redemption figure on his mortgage at the beginning of 2018. Mr B says 
that as a result he lost out on the sale of his house and should be compensated for that.
background
Mr B or his solicitor phoned requesting a redemption figure at the beginning of 2018. This 
was followed by letter dated 21 February 2018, but BM doesnt appear to have responded to 
that. Mr B again asked  for the redemption figure on 5 August 2018 and again on 20 August 
2018. After further  correspondence BM sent the redemption  statement to Mr Bs solicitor on 
20 September 2018. Mr Bs solicitors say that they didnt receive it.
BM accepted  that in regard to this that there  was poor customer  service  and offered 
compensation of £75. Our investigator  felt that the delay in sending the redemption figure 
hadnt caused any financial loss but that BM should increase the level of compensation to 
£150 due to the customer service issues. Mr B disagreed and asked for a review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note that Mr B has a number of issues with BM but this complaint solely  relates to the 
request for a redemption figure in 2018.  It has been accepted by BM that there were a 
number of delays  in producing the redemption figure. A redemption  figure  wasnt produced  
when asked for in January/February 2018.  A redemption statement was issued in response 
to Mr Bs request in August but that statement doesnt seem  to have got to Mr Bs solicitor.
I will firstly  look at what financial impact it had on Mr B. Mr B suggests  that he lost the 
opportunity to sell his house because of it. Unfortunately there is no evidence  to support this. 
In its letter  of 29 January  2019 Mr Bs solicitors say that there was an issue in the previous 
proposed sale that there was no building regulation completion certificate  but no mention in 
any correspondence from the solicitor that the lack of a redemption  statement caused a sale 
not to ahead.
 If a redemption statement  was the only issue holding up the sale,  I would have expected to 
see a number of urgent phone calls and emails from the solicitor looking that statement but I 
dont see these. So, I cant  fairly uphold Mr Bs claim for financial loss.
I do agree  that Mr B will have suffered some  unnecessary frustration by the delays in 
providing the statement. I note that a statement was sent to Mr Bs solicitor  in September 
which was properly addressed. Its unfortunate it didnt reach Mr Bs solicitor but that doesnt 
appear to be BMs fault. I agree with our investigator that because of the service issues  BM 
should increase  its compensation  to £150. As it has already paid £75, it should  now pay the 
balance.
Ref: DRN51287642my final decision
My decision  is that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Birmingham Midshires should  pay Mr B 
£75.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 June  2019.
Gerard McManus
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5128764