K822xcomplaint
Ms W complains about her treatment in relation to her mortgage with Progressive Building 
Society (PBS).  She gave up work through ill-health in 2006 and has experienced various 
difficulties since then.  She says that PBS has discriminated against her and failed to make 
reasonable adjustments to cater for her needs. She thinks her mortgage account has been 
mis-managed by PBS  in particular, that it shouldnt be on interest only terms, and her 
interest rate should be lower.
background 
Ms W has had a mortgage with PBS for many years. Since 2006, when she was hospitalised 
for around  a year, shes been unable to work. At times shes  been able to manage  her own 
affairs, and at others shes either been too unwell or unable to face up to things, or has had 
support from a third party in dealing with PBS.
While she was in hospital unwell in 2006, she wrote to PBS asking it to switch  her mortgage 
 then on repayment terms  to interest  only. It did so. Ms W now says that this shouldnt  
have happened. She says she didnt have capacity  to make decisions at the time,  and in any 
case although she was in hospital she wasnt in financial difficulty and there  was no need  to 
make the change. PBS says it wasnt aware of her illness at the time, and acted on the 
instructions it was given.  It says shes benefitted because the payments have been lower  
and more affordable  as a result. And it cant be switched back without a full assessment of 
whether Ms W could afford to make capital  repayments.
Ms W accepts PBS didnt  know  about  her illness at the time.  But in 2007 she wrote  again, 
explaining her situation as she was about to leave  hospital but still unable  to work. She told 
PBS she would have  no income for the next few months while  her claim for benefits was 
resolved.
PBS agreed that Ms W didnt need to make any payments  until the end of 2007. And it 
agreed that it wouldnt record her as being  in arrears  so there  would be no impact  on her 
credit file. It says that both of these concessions went beyond its usual policy and show  the 
lengths it went to support  Ms W once it knew of her condition.
In early 2008, as it hadnt heard from Ms W, PBS wrote to her again. By this point, the 
mortgage was around  £1,100 in arrears.  Soon  after, support for mortgage interest (SMI) 
benefit started contributing to Ms Ws mortgage,  but it wasnt  enough to pay each months 
payment in full. Although the level of SMI reduced at the end of December  2008,  Ms W was 
paying the extra. And she paid a lump sum towards  the arrears in late 2008.
By this point, the mortgage was on PBSs standard variable rate (SVR). The SVR fell over 
2009 and 2010, and by 2011 SMI was paying  more to the mortgage than the interest which  
was being charged, so the balance began to fall. Ms Ws SMI claim came to an end in 2014 
and ever since shes been paying the mortgage out of her own resources  it appears shes 
resolved separate issues with income replacement insurance and her employer pension for 
early retirement, so no longer needs  to claim the benefit.
Over the years, Ms W, and others on her behalf,  have written  many letters to PBS. 
Sometimes she has asked for specific information  about her mortgage, including  calculations 
about what she has and might have paid. At other times, shes asked for specific forms of 
help or asked for her interest rate and payments to be reduced.  And shes asked for 
Ref: DRN50948992reasonable adjustments to be made to accommodate her disabilities, though she hasnt 
always specified what adjustments she considers she needs.
In 2011, Ms W asked for a lower interest  rate. PBS wrote to her and said that its policy  was 
not to offer new interest  rates to customers in receipt of SMI. It said much  the same  in later 
letters, including to our investigator in 2018   though by then Ms W was no longer in receipt  
of SMI.
In 2013, in dealing with Ms Ws complaint  about  her treatment  including  the lack of a lower  
interest rate  PBS offered  to reduce Ms Ws interest rate by way of a 1% discount on the 
SVR. It offered to backdate the reduction  to 2011, and also refunded a £50 arrears  fee. And 
it reduced Ms Ws balance by £1,000.
Ms W didnt  accept that and continued  to write to PBS. She also contacted our service.  
Because of her health issues and her difficulties in providing us with information,  its taken 
some time for her complaint to be dealt with. But in 2018 it was reviewed by one of our 
investigators, and now its come  to me for a final decision to be made.  
Our investigator noted that PBS had agreed to Ms Ws request to transfer the mortgage to 
interest only in 2006, and had no reason to know she was unwell at the time. She thought  it 
had acted fairly in agreeing not to collect payments in 2007, and she didnt think it should 
have advised  her to switch back to repayment  at that time.  And she thought  PBSs offer to 
reduce the interest rate by 1%, backdated to 2008,  was reasonable. But she thought  Ms W 
had had considerable difficulty  in getting basic information about her mortgage  from PBS,  
difficulties which  given  her health  problems   had had a substantial impact on her. She 
recommended PBS pay an additional £1,000 compensation.
PBS accepted the investigators recommendation. But Ms W didnt. She wanted PBS to 
reduce her mortgage  balance by £40,000 (just under half the balance) and compensate  her 
for all the expenses shes incurred over the years, as well as pay higher compensation for 
her distress  and upset.
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision setting out my thoughts on the case. I said:
introduction
Ill start by saying how sorry I am to hear of the troubles  Ms W has had. I know the 
last thirteen or so years have been  very difficult for her, both because of her illness  
and because of family  bereavements. I hope she will accept my condolences on her 
losses.
Ive considered everything that has been  said in this case, and all the evidence  both 
parties have provided,  very carefully.  It may help if I start by saying what  I think  my 
role is.
My role is to decide whats  fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. Ms W has 
referred me to the law on disability discrimination, including the obligation to make 
reasonable adjustments. Im aware of the law, and I take it into account in this 
decision. 
Ref: DRN50948993Its not my job to decide whether the law has been  broken  thats for the courts.  So I 
wont make  any formal  findings about  whether Ms W has been  discriminated against. 
But Ill take PBSs legal obligations into account  when I decide whether  I think its 
treated her fairly.
The same is true of the obligation  to make reasonable adjustments. PBS has that 
duty  but its the courts job, not mine, to say whether its breached that duty.  But I 
will take that duty into account when  thinking about whether PBS has treated Ms W 
fairly.
reasonable adjustments
Ms W has repeatedly asked for reasonable adjustments. As Ive said,  its not my role 
to say whether  PBS has breached this legal  duty.  Reasonable adjustments, in the 
context of disability  legislation, mean  changes  to PBSs processes and procedures to 
allow her to use its services. As Ive said, its not for me to make findings on matters 
of law, but I dont  think its likely a court would consider a lender has to make  
adjustments to the mortgage balance  or reduce the debt. I cant see that Ms W has 
asked PBS to make  specific changes to the way it deals with her, though it has dealt 
with her representative on her behalf  as well as with her directly.  If she does make 
future requests for PBS to adjust  how it deals with her, it will need to consider  those  
requests and, where reasonable,  act on them.
the change to interest only in 2006
Ill start with the change  to interest only in 2006. Ive seen a copy of Ms Ws letter.  Im 
satisfied that she wrote to PBS to ask it to change her mortgage to interest only. The 
letter didnt say anything  about her illness or hospitalisation. 
It seems  clear  to me that the letter was a follow up to an earlier  discussion,  perhaps 
by phone. I dont have  any evidence  about that earlier discussion. But I think  its likely 
that at this point  PBS didnt know about  her illness  as Ms W now accepts.
PBS switched the mortgage over to interest only. This was at Ms Ws request. PBS 
had no reason to refuse the request, based  on what it knew about Ms W and based 
on the mortgage rules  at the time. I dont think it did anything wrong by granting it.
should PBS have changed it back in 2007?
PBS did know about Ms Ws situation  when she wrote again  in 2007  because she 
told it in the letter. 
But I dont agree with Ms W that this meant it should  have changed the mortgage 
back. In the same letter, Ms W told PBS that she would have no income  for the next 
few months while  she sorted  out her finances and benefits claim. PBS agreed that 
she didnt have to make any payments until the end of the year.  
This was the right thing to do to help Ms W through this time  and I think changing 
the mortgage back to repayment, increasing  her payments, instead would have been 
the wrong thing  to do. So I dont agree that the mortgage should have been changed 
back at this point.
Ref: DRN50948994the interest rate
Later on, Ms Ws finances  seem to have  stabilised  and the arrears  were cleared. By 
2014, her SMI claim ended and she was paying the mortgage entirely from her own 
resources. But I think PBS has acted fairly in saying it will only convert  the mortgage 
back if Ms W can afford to commit to the higher payments that would result. 
It wouldnt have been right for PBS to tie her in to higher monthly mortgage 
repayments without  being sure that it would have been affordable  for her. Thats  part 
of PBS  duties as a responsible lender. And as Ms W has never made a full 
application, or given PBS details about  her finances, PBS couldnt have been sure of 
that. Shes  sent us her bank  statements,  showing a healthy balance.  But she doesnt 
bank with PBS, and I dont know that it has ever seen  them.
However, I do think PBS should have done  more about the interest rate. Its said its 
policy is not to offer rates to borrowers on SMI. When I asked it why, it said that 
wasnt in fact its policy and it looks at each individual case  on its own merits. But 
thats not what the evidence suggests  it did in this case. It said this was its policy  at 
the time.
Once Ms W was clear of arrears and her payments stabilised, I dont think it was fair 
to refuse  her a new interest rate. I can understand why PBS didnt want  to tie her into 
an early repayment charge while she was in arrears  in case  she was forced to sell, 
or was repossessed,  and the charge increased the debt. 
But once the arrears were  cleared there was no more risk of that than there  would be 
with any other borrower. Its never been  a requirement of the mortgage rules  for a full 
affordability assessment  to be carried out before a product switch  and in any case 
Ms W was able to afford the higher payments on SVR,  so could afford  the lower  
payments that came  with a rate switch.
PBS told me it would like to offer Ms W a lower rate, which  was why it offered a 1% 
reduction on SVR, and to backdate it. It now says it will backdate  it to 2008. But it 
says Ms W hasnt  engaged with it or agreed  to the reduction, so the reduction hasnt 
been implemented.
This might be a reduction  on the SVR.  But its not an interest rate product, of the sort 
PBS offers its other customers. It would still leave her paying a higher rate than those 
customers.
I see no good reason  why, once she was free of arrears, PBS couldnt  have  
responded to Ms Ws many requests for a lower interest rate by sending her its 
current product range  and inviting her to apply for one  as, acting fairly, it should 
with any borrower who makes a similar  request. 
Ive taken into account the mortgage rules  which  say that offering borrowers who 
cant move  their mortgage higher interest rates  than those  who can is likely to be 
evidence of unfair treatment. That specific provision has only been  in the rules since  
2012. 
But in my view the regulator included it in the rules at that time, following 
consultation, to address  what  it saw as existing unfair treatment in the market. I think  
Ref: DRN50948995it represents the regulators view of what it expected good industry practice  to be 
even before 2012  which  had to be codified because  it wasnt always  happening. 
And the provision Ive referred to isnt a rule; its evidence of what may constitute  
unfair treatment. Fair treatment has always been a requirement.
I dont know exactly when  Ms W first took out her mortgage. It may have been before 
mortgage regulation was introduced, in 2004.  But even if this was an unregulated 
mortgage, that wouldnt change my view. I can take into account  what I consider to 
be good industry practice. And I would include the rules of mortgage  regulation  under 
that heading  even  if they didnt (until  2016)  apply  to pre-2004 mortgages,  in my 
view they represent  good industry practice for all residential mortgages.  And PBS 
itself, as a regulated firm, has the obligation  to treat its customers fairly in all its 
dealings with them.
As I say, PBS didnt at first agree to offer Ms W a product, or to reduce her interest 
rate on a discretionary basis. Instead, it simply told Ms W she wasnt  eligible for a 
product. And, once  she complained, it only offered a 1% discount on the SVR. I dont 
think this amounted to fair treatment. 
As a borrower with an interest only mortgage  and in receipt of SMI, I think  Ms W was 
unlikely to have  been able to move her mortgage  elsewhere. As a result, she was 
treated differently to other borrowers whose mortgages had similar characteristics  
interest only, and not in arrears  by being  required to pay a higher interest rate.
putting things  right
To put things right, I think PBS should  offer Ms W the rates she should  have been 
offered at the time.  It says it will backdate the SVR reduction to 2008. That appears 
to be the point at which  the mortgage  was no longer in arrears. I dont think  that goes 
far enough. Instead, I think  it should implement a full rate switch,  backdated  to the 
same point.
I think a fair way to resolve this part of Ms Ws complaint is for PBS to give Ms W the 
lowest fee-free five year fixed rate it had as at 1 January 2009. It should  then do the 
same in 2014 and 2019. In response  to this provisional decision it should send me 
the lists of rates it had available at those  three  times, indicating  the ones it has 
selected each  time.
It should re-calculate Ms Ws mortgage as if those  rates had been applied since 
2009. This means that Ms W (supported  in part by SMI) has made overpayments to 
the mortgage since 2009. In response  to this provisional decision,  PBS should make  
two calculations:
The current balance on Ms Ws mortgage  if those  three  fixed rates  had been 
applied and the extra amounts Ms W has paid each month  had been treated 
as overpayments  to reduce  the balance; and
The current balance on Ms Ws mortgage  if those  three  fixed rates  had been 
applied and the extra amounts Ms W has paid were not treated as 
overpayments but instead are refunded  to Ms W. For this calculation  PBS 
should also say how much the refund  would  amount to, adding  simple annual 
interest of 8% to each  monthly overpayment running from the date of the 
overpayment to the date of calculation.
Ref: DRN50948996Once I have received those figures,  I will share  them with Ms W. She will then have 
the choice of those two options  using the overpayments to reduce her balance, or 
having them  refunded to her. 
I agree  with the investigator that PBS has caused  Ms W trouble and upset over the 
years by not providing  her with the information  shes requested in a clear  and timely  
way. PBS accepted the investigators recommendation that it pay her £1,000 
compensation for the upset this caused.  
I think thats fair  and to recognise  the additional upset Ive found was caused by Ms 
W having to pay more  each month for the last ten years than she needed to, despite 
repeatedly asking for a new deal, and despite  her clear distress  as set out in her 
correspondence, I think the compensation should be increased  to £2,000.
the responses to my provisional  decision
Ms W said she didnt  agree with my provisional decision. But she didnt feel able to explain 
why and asked  for an extension  of several  months to give her time and space to do so, and 
to arrange for alternative representation and legal advice.
I didnt think it was appropriate to allow several months  this complaint has been ongoing 
for several  years already  and Im conscious  of the impact it has had on Ms W up to this 
point. I thought fairness to all parties  required me to bring matters to a close  sooner rather 
than later, in the hope that Ms W and PBS can move forward with the mortgage without this 
complaint hanging over them. Once  PBS had provided the calculations Id asked for I sent 
them to Ms W, and extended time for a few weeks to allow her to consider them. Ms W didnt 
respond, other than to request a further  extension  which I didnt allow.
PBS accepted my provisional decision.  It explained  that it didnt have five year rates 
available in 2009. It provided  me with a list of the rates it did have available  from time to 
time, and I selected the best match with what I had set out in my provisional  decision. The 
rates selected were:
4.74%  from January  2009 to March  2011
3.29%  from March 2011  to March 2013
3.29%  again  from March 2013 to April 2016
2.99%  from April 2016 to April 2020
PBS calculated the overpayment and balance reduction options I had requested.
PBS also said that it would like to convert  Ms Ws mortgage to repayment  terms as it didnt 
think she had a means of repaying the capital  at the end of the term. It set out what  her 
monthly payments  would be going  forward, both on interest only and repayment  terms, for 
each of the two redress  options. I gave all that information to Ms W.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN50948997I do understand Ms Ws situation and I have carefully considered  why she hasnt felt able to 
respond substantively  to my provisional decision.  Having considered the additional  evidence  
in support of her extension request, and taken into account what she has said,  I think its in 
both parties  and especially Ms Ws  interests  to have this complaint resolved. Im 
concerned at the impact worrying about the complaint is having on her. I also bear in mind 
that she has previously sent us extensive material setting out her views  on the complaint, so 
I think I have the information  and evidence  I need to be able to make a final decision  and 
that I can fairly do so.
I note the complaint has been ongoing  for several years already,  in large part because  of 
previous extension requests Ms W has made. I have a statutory duty to resolve complaints 
quickly. And I also have to be fair to all parties; I think  PBS needs certainty in the future 
management of what will be  whatever I decide   a mortgage  with several years still left to 
run.
In all the circumstances, I think the time has now come to bring this complaint to a close.  
Neither party has made any substantive arguments regarding my provisional decision or the 
outcome I proposed.  Ive thought carefully  again  about everything I said,  and all the 
evidence and arguments made  throughout.  Having done so, I havent changed my mind 
about what I think would be fair resolution to this complaint.
Ms W hasnt  specified which of the two redress options she would prefer. Unless she 
accepts this decision, it wont be binding on her or PBS, and PBS wont  be obliged to provide 
either option. If she accepts this decision, Ms W should specify  which option she prefers at 
the same  time. 
PBS has said it wants to convert the mortgage to repayment terms. I welcome  that, and 
indeed its something  Ms W said earlier in this complaint that she wanted to happen. 
However, I dont think it should  be something I prescribe as part of the resolution of this 
complaint, and I dont  think  Ms Ws acceptance  of either option should be conditional  on the 
mortgage being switched. Thats because converting to repayment would significantly 
increase the monthly payments, and I dont think it would be right to do that without being 
sure Ms W could  afford  it. But if she can, its likely  to be in her best interests  to do so, 
meaning the mortgage will be repaid by the end of the term.
PBS has now said its willing to make the switch  so I leave it to Ms W to contact PBS and 
discuss it, if its something she still wants  to do. 
Finally, the interest  rates selected expire  in April 2020. As long as Ms W maintains her 
monthly payments   as she has now been  doing  for many years  there  should  be no reason 
why PBS should  not grant her a new rate to follow on. Given Ms Ws health and difficulties in 
managing her affairs, I would expect PBS to take active  steps to contact her before the rate 
expires and work with her to select a new one  not simply sit back and wait for her to apply.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I uphold this complaint. My final decision is that Progressive 
Building Society should re-work Ms Ws mortgage, implementing the interest rates  Ive set 
out above. It should make the calculations  Ive set out above, and either  as selected by 
Ms W:
Ref: DRN50948998Backdate new interest rates to 1 January 2009  and use the overpayments  to reduce 
Ms Ws mortgage  balance; or
Backdate new interest rates to 1 January 2009  and refund the overpayments  to 
Ms W, adding simple  annual interest  of 8%*.
In addition, it should pay Ms W £2,000 compensation.  It should also discuss  converting the 
mortgage to repayment terms if Ms W still wishes to do so and can afford the increased 
payments. And PBS should contact Ms W  bearing  in mind her circumstances  in the way it 
does so  in good time before the expiry  of the current interest rate in April 2020 to discuss 
and agree a new rate to follow on.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 December 2019.
Simon Pugh
ombudsman
* If PBS considers it should  deduct income tax from the 8% interest element of my award, if applicable, it may do 
so. But it should  give Ms W the necessary  paperwork,  if she asks for it, so that she can reclaim the tax from 
HMRC if shes  entitled to do so.
Ref: DRN5094899