K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains about how Bank of Scotland plc trading  as Halifax has dealt with the direct 
debit payments for his loan account.
background
Mr P says he has had problems making  his loan repayments as Halifax  has made  a mistake 
with the direct debit  for the repayments.  He says the mistake has had an impact  on his credit  
file and would like that amended as well as compensation  for the mistake  and letters  Halifax  
has sent him.
Halifax accepts that Mr P received poor service from it when he complained and has paid 
£25 compensation.  It doesnt accept making  a mistake with the direct  debit but says Mr P 
didnt have enough money  in his account  for the direct  debit  to be made. It also says Mr P 
had previously made manual payments towards  the loan which  meant it would still attempt to 
take the direct debit.
Mr P brought his complaint to us but our adjudicator didnt uphold it. The adjudicator thought  
the direct  debit payments had failed as Mr P didnt have enough money  in his account. And 
thought the previous manual payments didnt count as the monthly payment but as 
additional payments.  The adjudicator thought Halifax had previously dealt with that under a 
different complaint and had explained  that, as well as making sure there wasnt  any adverse 
information recorded on Mr Ps credit  file.
Mr P doesnt  accept that view and maintains  Halifax made a mistake  with the direct debit. He 
says its not relevant that there may have  been insufficient money in his account at the time 
of the direct  debit.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall view as the adjudicator for the same reasons. I realise Mr P will be disappointed by 
my decision.
I have looked  at Mr Ps account statements and can see that there have been a number of 
failed direct debit payments for his loan repayment. Im satisfied that those payments failed 
because Mr P didnt have enough money  in his account to cover the direct debit payments. 
So I dont  think in those  circumstances Halifax made  a mistake or acted unfairly.
I appreciate that Mr P has in the past made manual  payments  towards the loan which  were  
counted as additional payments and not as the main monthly payment. But I can see that 
Halifax has previously dealt with that issue and explained what  Mr P needs  to do as well as 
amending Mr Ps credit file. 
Overall Im satisfied that the recent problems have been caused  by insufficient money in Mr 
Ps account and not due to any problems  when the direct debit was set up. If Mr P is in 
financial difficulties then I would expect Halifax to deal positively and sympathetically with 
him but that of course means Mr P would need  to tell it about any such  difficulties. As I dont 
think Halifax has acted unfairly or made a mistake  then I cant fairly order it to pay Mr P any 
compensation. I also cant fairly order it to amend Mr Ps credit file as I  think Halifax has 
Ref: DRN51624702previously done  that and in any event Mr P hasnt  provided evidence  of any adverse data on 
his credit file.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 January 2020. 
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5162470