K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains that National Westminster Bank  Plc should have done  more to stop him 
losing money to a scam.
background
The detailed background to this complaint  is well known to both parties, so Ill provide only 
an overview of the key facts here.  
In August  2015,  Mr W received an email purporting to be from a barrister in Malaysia. 
The barrister  explained he had a client that had passed away and that the clients  relatives 
had been on board the missing Malaysian  Airlines flight MH370  and were  presumed 
deceased. The barrister  suggested his clients assets, worth $15.5  million USD, would now 
be confiscated.  The barrister proposed that Mr W should present himself as the next of kin 
and beneficiary  as he shared the same  last name as the late client. The barrister proposed 
that they could  then share the proceeds between them. 
The barrister  explained that he knew all of the loop holes [sic] involved and will handle them 
with great  professionalism. He said he would provide all of the necessary legal documents.  
Mr W says the emails  and documents the fraudster  sent to him looked genuine and in good 
order. Mr W was told that he needed  to pay taxes and other legal fees,  but once the claim 
had been processed, he would receive  a large sum of money. Mr W has told us that at this 
time, he was going through a divorce and had debts. He thought this was a way out of a 
difficult financial situation. 
Unfortunately, Mr W was in contact with a fraudster. Between 11 August 2015 and 
15 March 2016,  Mr W made six online international payments to the fraudster, amounting to 
over £71,000. In May 2016, Mr W had doubts  about  the situation  and raised a scam claim 
with the bank. The bank tried to recover the funds hed sent but was unsuccessful. 
Mr W was contacted by the fraudster  again.  Mr W explains  that he continued to make 
payments because the individual  he was in contact with insisted he was a barrister.  As such, 
Mr W considered  him to be a genuine individual and not trying to scam him. 
Mr W explains that he wrote to the Malaysian Embassy in London  to check the barristers 
credentials but did not receive a reply.  Mr W also says that he challenged the individual due 
to the amount of money hed already transferred,  but his response  indicated all was above  
board and nothing fraudulent. Mr W recalls that the individual raised concerns over why he 
didnt believe him and sent him a copy of his identity card. Mr W says that at this point, he 
didnt doubt him and saw no reason not to continue  with payments. 
Mr W made a further 13 online international payments, amounting  to almost £42,000 
between 13 July 2016 and 5 February  2019. 
Mr W has told us hed lost £80,000  from his savings and pension and borrowed a further  
£65,000 in credit and from family to make  payments  to the fraudster. He explains that he 
sent some  money  to the fraudster  using a money  transfer service  but suggests most of the 
payments were made  from NatWest. In this complaint, I am only considering the 
transactions I have  previously referred to, which  total approximately £113,000. I am not 
considering any other  payments Mr W made.  
Ref: DRN51129732On 7 February 2019, Mr W was in contact with the bank  and explained hed lost £175,000 in 
total as a result of the scam. NatWest says it asks Mr W to state  clearly  what transactions  he 
was disputing. The bank  raised a scam claim to see whether  it could recover any funds on 
11 February 2019 when Mr W called it back with further details. 
Mr W also raised a complaint. He was concerned  that the banks fraud  prevention measures 
did not flag any of the transfers and felt the bank should have done more  to protect him. 
He asked the bank if it could  assist  with the repayment  of the loans hed taken out to pay the 
fraudster. 
NatWest issued its final response on 25 April 2019.  It said there was nothing further the bank 
could do. It suggested Mr W should contact the banks financial difficulties team to discuss  
the best course of action in relation to debt management. 
Unhappy with the banks response, Mr W complained to us. He said the banks final 
response was based on assumptions  that he understood his actions. He pointed  out that he 
raised a scam case in 2015 and then recommenced  making payments the following year. He 
thinks the bank  should have done  more to clarify why he had restarted transferring money 
and checked that he understood his actions. He explained that hed had a difficult time 
personally, losing his mother in December 2016  and his father less than a year later. 
He thought it was possible  this had impacted  his thought processes. 
Initially our investigator raised concerns that the payments  Mr W made  were  large  and out of 
character. He suggested NatWest should  have looked into things more  at the time Mr W was 
making the payments and that doing  so would  have uncovered an obvious scam. 
NatWest disagreed. It said Mr W had been willing to enter  into an arrangement with a third 
party in circumstances  when he knew  he had no entitlement to any funds. It felt Mr Ws 
position represented a moral hazard.
Our investigator reviewed  his position. He pointed  out that the inheritance situation  ultimately  
wasnt real and a fraudster was taking advantage of Mr W. He still thought the bank would 
have found out the situation was a scam  if it had discussed the payments with Mr W. He 
suggested that Mr W wouldnt have  taken out loans  with the bank if the scam had been 
prevented and suggested NatWest should take this into account.
Our investigator then suggested Mr W and NatWest should share some responsibility for 
what happened. He thought the bank  should have done more and identified  the payments 
Mr W was making  as suspicious. But he also thought Mr W knew he wasnt related to this 
person and that this was money he wasnt entitled  to. He thought a fair position  would be for 
the bank to refund half of the money  Mr W had lost. 
He also asked Mr W about  his wider financial situation and established that Mr W had now 
been able to reach repayment plans with his creditors with the assistance of a debt advice 
charity. 
Ref: DRN51129733NatWest responded  to say that it was concerned  about the situation. It said that a 
reasonable person exercising an average  level of skill and care would have recognised  that 
an unsolicited email  offering the chance  to gain a share of a large foreign inheritance was 
highly suspicious.  It thought Mr W must  have  known  the scheme was dishonest. It felt the 
situation was implausible and Mr Ws actions, by engaging  and hoping  to personally gain 
from a dishonest act, could not be overlooked. It pointed out that as Mr W was willing  to 
mislead Malaysian authorities, it seems likely he would have chosen to hide his actions from 
the bank too. 
NatWest explained  that it had looked closely at the borrowing it had offered Mr W. 
It explained that it had extended borrowing of approximately £30,000 to Mr W before the 
scam happened, of which approximately £17,000 remained outstanding. It said across  the 
almost four-year period  that the scam  took place over, it only gave Mr W four balance  
transfers from his credit  card. It advanced £1,544  in September 2016, £2,000 in March  2018, 
£500 in June 2018 and £439.52 in October  2018. 
Our investigator was persuaded by some of what the bank had said. He explained that he 
could see no clear  link between the lending NatWest had given Mr W in the past and the 
scam. So he didnt  think it would be fair to ask the bank  to write the current outstanding  
balances off.
He still believed that the bank should  have discussed the payments Mr W was making. He 
felt they were significantly out of character, both before  and after Mr W reported the scam. 
But he did not think the scam  would have been stopped  even if the bank had acted. He 
concluded, on balance,  that even if the bank had intervened  as it should have done, it would 
not have made a difference and Mr W would  have continued to make  the payments to the 
fraudster. He said this because Mr W had continued  to make payments despite serious 
concerns it was a scam. The inheritance hadnt  materialised,  but Mr W was prepared to take 
a risk and continued  to send money to the fraudster. He thought that even  if NatWest  had 
told him this was a scam, Mr W would likely  have  continued regardless. In summary, he felt 
Mr W was under the fraudsters influence  to such a degree there was nothing  the bank could 
have done to prevent his loss. 
Mr W was disappointed with the position  our investigator ultimately reached. Mr W pointed  
out NatWest never contacted him, so he considered any actions he may or may not have 
taken in response to the bank raising concerns  to be immaterial and nothing  more than 
speculation. He felt the bank had been  negligent and explained that he found it hard to 
accept that NatWest has no responsibility for the difficult  financial situation he now finds  
himself in.
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint  has been  referred  to me. 
Ref: DRN51129734my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at what I think is the heart  of the matter here, being; should NatWest have 
recognised Mr Ws payments as being  suspicious and intervened,  and if it had done so, 
would it have made a difference  to what happened. If theres  something  Ive not mentioned,  
it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent.  Im satisfied I dont need to comment  on every 
individual point  or argument to be able to reach what I think  is a fair and reasonable 
outcome. Our rules allow me to do this. This reflects  the informal nature of our service  as a 
free alternative to the courts.
Having considered whether NatWest could, or should, have done more  to stop Mr W making 
the payments  he did, I dont think I can fairly  or reasonably ask NatWest to take 
responsibility to refund  the money Mr W has lost. I can understand this will be a very 
disappointing outcome for Mr W so I will explain why.
I accept that Mr W has been the victim  of a protracted and cruel scam.  Its clear that losing 
such a large amount of money  to the scam has had a significant impact on Mr Ws life. Hes 
told us that his lifestyle has changed beyond  recognition and it will take him many  years to 
repay the debt hes currently  in. I dont underestimate the emotional burden  he now carries. 
But that alone doesnt mean he is entitled  to be reimbursed by the bank. That all depends  on 
whether the bank did anything wrong   that is, could it have done any more to prevent the 
scam from taking place or intervened  so that Mr W would have realised what was happening 
and stopped sending money.  
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected  to process  payments 
and withdrawals that its customer authorises it to make. Mr W used his security credentials 
to set up and request  the payments. This means that at the time he sent the money, he 
authorised the payments and wanted  them to be made. Although  he did not intend for the 
money to go to a fraudster, under  the Payment Services Regulations 2009 and the Payment 
Services Regulations 2017 which apply to the payments he made,  and the general terms 
and conditions of bank accounts, Mr W is presumed  liable for the loss in the first instance.
But, taking  into account the law, regulators  rules and guidance, any relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the relevant  times, 
I consider NatWest should  fairly  and reasonably:
Have  been monitoring  accounts and any payments  made or received to counter various  
risks, including anti-money  laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, and 
preventing fraud  and scams.  
Have  had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs  that might  
indicate that its customers  were at risk of fraud (amongst other things).  This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks  are generally more familiar with than the average customer.  
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment  channel  used, have taken additional  
steps, or made  additional  checks, before processing a payment, or in some  cases 
declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers  from the possibility of 
financial harm  from fraud.
Ref: DRN51129735NatWest should  have been on the lookout  for unusual and out of character transactions. 
Looking at the way Mr Ws accounts  typically ran, when he began making payments to the 
fraudster those payments  did stand  out. He was sending money internationally which  is not 
something he would normally do. The payments grew larger  in size and were increasing  in 
frequency. So I think the spending on the account  initially should have prompted NatWest  to 
get in touch with Mr W to question the payments he was making. There  were  indicators that 
Mr W might  have been at risk of financial harm.  Im also mindful that a bank should seek  to 
prevent its bank accounts from being  used to further  financial  crime and Mr W was making 
large payments internationally to various accounts in Malaysia without being questioned.  
Ive also thought about the payments Mr W made after hed become aware that the situation 
was a scam.  These  payments were for similar amounts of money to what  Mr W had paid 
previously and they were  being sent to accounts  in the same country as before. At this time, 
NatWest was fully aware that Mr W had made  a scam report, so there were indications  that 
could have given  NatWest cause for concern that Mr W might still have been  at risk of 
financial harm. But I am also mindful  that there  were  often gaps of up to eight months in 
between some of the further payments to the fraudster,  which  can make it more difficult  for a 
bank to spot emerging spending patterns which are clearly indicative of financial  harm. 
I acknowledge there is a balance to be struck between identifying payments that could 
potentially be fraudulent and minimising disruption to legitimate payments. But having  
thought about everything  in the circumstances of this particular case,  I consider  NatWest 
ought reasonably  to have intervened to explore the payments Mr W was making-  both when 
he first started to make  them  and when he recommenced payments after hed told the bank  
hed been sending money in connection  with a scam. 
Although I consider NatWest ought  to have intervened, this in and of itself isnt enough for 
me to say that NatWest should  refund some  or all of the money Mr W has lost. I also need  to 
be persuaded that its intervention would  have made  a significant difference and ultimately 
prevented the payments from being  made.  Mr W has said it is speculation  to say what may 
have happened. But when  making  my decision,  I have  to base my findings on the balance  of 
probability  that is, what I think is more  likely  to have happened,  taking into account what 
I know from the information that is available to me.
Ive thought about whether interaction  with NatWest would have uncovered the underlying 
situation or broken the spell of the scam for Mr W. And, on balance, Im not persuaded 
interaction with the bank  would have been  enough to stop Mr W from sending  the money,  
even if the bank had been able to identify that Mr W was making payments that were most 
likely part of a scam.
Mr W has reflected  on the scam  and said:
At the time I believed  in what I was doing and kept going and thought  it was in the best 
interest for me and my family.
So even if Mr W had told the bank  the full picture,  and the bank had voiced its concerns 
about the payments he wanted to make,  or even blocked the payments, I dont think that 
would have been enough to ultimately deter him from the temptation  of the scam. In saying 
this, I am mindful that Mr Ws overall losses to the fraudster encompass  more than the 
transactions that are currently in dispute  as part of this complaint. Hes told us that he also 
made payments using  a money transfer  service. 
Ref: DRN51129736By making  other payments, it seems more likely than not to me that Mr W would have  found  
an alternative way to send  money to the fraudster even if NatWest had prevented him from 
doing so. At the time, these were payments Mr W wanted  to make.
Im also mindful that Mr W restarted making  payments to the fraudster after reporting the 
payments hed already made  as being  connected to a scam. When Mr W proceeded making 
payments, hed had the opportunity to reflect on the situation he was in and he was well 
aware it was a scam. He understood something was amiss, but he still wanted to take the 
risk that the situation might ultimately  turn out to be legitimate - even though  there were 
warning signs that the arrangement was not credible or above board. Mr W has told us that 
he borrowed  money from family and withdrew money from his pension  pot to make 
payments to the fraudster, which I think demonstrates his commitment to the scam  and the 
importance he placed on making  the payments requested. I dont think it would be fair and 
reasonable to place  responsibility for the consequences that flow from that decision on the 
bank in these  particular circumstances. 
When Mr W referred his complaint to this service, he said:
Yes, I am a responsible [sic] for accepting this very appealing scam but all looked very 
genuine when  presented  with the various documents
Mr W does recognise  that his actions have  contributed to the difficult situation  he now finds 
himself in. I have concerns about how readily Mr W willingly handed over a considerable 
amount of money  to the fraudster based  on the plausibility of what he was being  told. It was 
not reasonable for Mr W to think he had a legitimate entitlement to funds in the 
circumstances the fraudster described.  I am also not persuaded Mr W should  have taken  
confidence from the documentation he was sent,  and I have concerns particularly about the 
ongoing correspondence purporting to be from the international bank. The correspondence 
stands out as not striking the professional tone reasonably expected of a dialogue between 
a multinational investment bank and a client:
You must understand that i am not here to play fool ok, if you don't wanna  take my 
instruction i will better stop contacting you ok. I have  enough  money to live and comfortably.  
I hate if someone try to help other  instead he or she will be appreciated but he will be
disappoint inself in future. [sic]
In addition to this, at points  Mr W did identify that the situation did not feel right,  such  as 
when he first reported the scam because the promised inheritance had not materialised. But 
sadly, the lure and appeal of the scam was just too strong for him to resist. 
Mr W has my considerable sympathy. Fraudsters are masterful  at playing on a victims 
emotions to obtain what they want and hes lost a life changing amount of money as a result.  
But in all the circumstances  of the complaint, I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to 
find the bank missed the opportunity to stop what ultimately unfolded. I think, on balance,  
Mr W would  have made the payments regardless and against  his own better  judgment.  It 
follows that Im not asking  the bank to reimburse  the transactions  I have  considered, and 
I make  no award against it.
Ref: DRN51129737my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 July 2021.
Claire Marsh
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN5112973