K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains Clydesdale Financial Services Limited trading as Barclays  Partner Finance 
(BPF) have treated  him unfairly  after failing to intervene in what he considers a 
misrepresentation of a holiday home he purchased with finance from them. 
background
In August  2016,  Mr C acquired a holiday home financed through a conditional sale 
agreement with BPF. Mr C feels the holiday park misrepresented the pitch  on which  his 
holiday was to be sited. He says the holiday park said he would have uninterrupted views for 
at least a year but this wasnt the case.  Mr C raised a number of complaints with the holiday 
park directly  but didnt  get a satisfactory outcome.
Mr C says there was an agreement with the holiday park to hold the pitch fees whilst the 
matter was investigated but later they requested payment. Mr C then asked BPF to intervene 
on his behalf.  Mr C wasnt satisfied  with the outcome  of his complaint to the holiday park nor 
BPFs failure to intervene and investigate his concerns. He says he only entered into the 
agreement as BPF were  in partnership with the holiday park and this made it a credible 
purchase. He stopped making payments for both the pitch fees and his loan agreement  as a 
result. 
BPF say the last payment  they received from Mr C was in February 2018. This resulted in 
arrears accruing on the account and missed  payment markers noted  on his credit file. On 11 
June 2018, BPF issued  its final response. They explained  a Notice of Default had been 
issued in May 2018, advising Mr C what action he needed to take to bring  his account up to 
date. The notice went on to say if Mr C failed to bring his account up to date it could result in 
repossession proceedings and a default registered  on Mr Cs credit file. BPF said they 
understood Mr C was in dispute with the holiday  park but he was still obligated to maintain 
his loan repayments under the terms of the agreement. The letter  said they couldnt  
comment on the dispute but they had forwarded  Mr Cs concerns to the holiday  park for its 
consideration.
Mr C brought his complaint to this service  in December 2018. An investigator looked into his 
concerns. She concluded BPF are a separate entity  to the holiday park.  It was responsible  
for the quality of the holiday home itself but not the pitch  on which it was sited. She didnt  
agree BPF could  be held responsible for the issue Mr C was experiencing with the pitch.  She 
looked at the agreement, found  BPF had acted  in line with the terms and conditions,  and so 
she didnt ask them to do anything further.
Mr C disagreed. He feel the crux of this complaint lies in the reluctance of BPF to respond to 
his request to intervene after he believed his holiday home had been sold without his 
permission whilst BPF continued to levy the loan charges  and interest. He asked for an 
ombudsman review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive looked at all the information from both 
Ref: DRN55773482parties afresh. Having  done so, Im in agreement with the investigators view. I appreciate 
this will be a disappointment to Mr C. Please allow  me to explain why. 
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think  I need  to comment on it in order  to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Ive looked at the finance agreement that Mr C entered  into with BPF in August 2016. The 
agreement was for a holiday  home with a total purchase price of £43,874.80  with 
repayments of £296.04  over 118 months.  Mr C has signed the agreement  and Im satisfied  
that he has agreed to the terms and conditions.
I appreciate Mr C feels there is a relationship between BPF and the holiday park and as 
such, he argues  BPF should have  intervened  in the dispute and responded to the issues  he 
raised with BPF about his access to the holiday home and indeed,  whether it had been sold 
without his permission.  
BPF are the finance provider and as such they are responsible for the quality of the goods 
Mr C acquired  with the finance they provided, the holiday home itself. As far as Im aware,  
Mr C hasnt raised any concerns about the quality  of the holiday home or the conditional sale 
agreement itself. In some of his email exchanges  Mr C refers to the pristine condition  of the 
holiday home and so he doesnt seem  to have any complaint about the quality of the goods.
Mr Cs initial  complaint was about the redevelopment-taking  place  on the holiday park and 
the effect this had on his pitch.  I have  no doubt this left Mr C very disappointed and maybe  at 
odds with what he understood  when  he accepted  the pitch. But the pitch itself doesnt form 
part of the financial  agreement between Mr C and BPF. That means  BPF are not responsible  
for the information  the holiday park gave  Mr C about the pitch and so I cant  reasonably hold 
them liable for it.
From the information, Mr C has provided its clear he has had an ongoing and escalating 
complaint with the holiday park.  Whilst I can understand his frustration in not being able to 
resolve this matter the issues  surrounding  the pitch  and the site fees charged  by the holiday 
park are not part of the finance  agreement  with BPF.  I understand Mr C wanted BPF to 
intervene on his behalf  but this isnt within BPFs remit.
BPF are the legal owners  of the holiday home. Mr C has the use of the holiday home 
providing he meets his legal obligation  to make the required monthly payments but 
ownership only passes  to Mr C when he makes his final payment. So, neither Mr C nor the 
holiday park can sell the holiday home. But this also means if Mr C fails to make his 
contractual monthly payments,  BPF have the right commence recovery action subject to 
issuing all the required legal  notices.
The dispute  with the holiday park regarding  the payment or non-payment of the pitch  fees is 
a separate matter and one between Mr C and the holiday park,  not BPF. Im afraid I dont  
agree that in supplying Mr C with a financial agreement to allow  him to acquire the holiday 
home BPF has in some way provided  credibility  nor has any responsibility for the customer  
service provided by the holiday  park.  
BPF explained to Mr C in their final response  in June 2018, he must  continue to maintain his 
contractual monthly payments,  as per the terms and conditions of the agreement. They  
Ref: DRN55773483pointed out they couldnt place a hold on his account  while he was in dispute  with the holiday 
park. 
I appreciate Mr C feels his account  may have been  passed to a third party for collection but 
having seen the responses from BPF I can see they have made it clear Mr Cs account 
remains in-house. Our investigator has clarified  this remains the position and that all 
recovery action has been put on hold pending the outcome of this decision. BPF have 
confirmed they will contact Mr C to discuss his options, which include voluntarily terminating 
the agreement  and/or a repayment plan.
So whilst I sympathise  that Mr C hasnt got the pitch he felt he was promised and remains in 
dispute with the holiday company about this I dont agree that BPF have treated Mr C 
unfairly and I wont be asking them to do anything further.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 November  2019.
Wendy Steele
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5577348