K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that TSB Bank plc wont refund him for spending made using his debit card, 
which he says he didnt  make.
background
Mr H went abroad  on holiday with his son. While he was away, Mr Hs debit  card was used 
to spend nearly  £13,000 at various bars and clubs. He says this spending wasnt  done  by 
him or his son.
When Mr H realised what had happened, he contacted TSB. But it said it wouldnt do 
anything. Its records  showed all that spending was done using Mr Hs genuine card and the 
correct PIN was entered each  time. TSB told him to contact  the local police. But they werent 
interested. And Mr H says the police in the UK werent interested  either when he got home  
they said they couldnt help as the problems  had happened abroad.
As well as the genuine card being used  and correct PIN being entered  at the first attempt, 
TSB said Mr H had given three  very different versions of what had happened. There  didnt  
seem to be any point at which somebody  would have  been able to take Mr Hs card  or get 
to know his PIN. So TSB said it wouldnt refund  the money.
Mr H got in touch with us. Hes explained  he has difficulty in remembering things at times. So 
I dont think it serves  much purpose  in setting out the different versions TSB has referred to 
and just summarise the main points.
Mr Hs card was used  over a 15 hour period. He was clear the card had always been with 
either him or his son. Mr H had given the card to his son for safe-keeping. And Mr H had the 
card when he got back to his hotel.
During the 15 hour period,  some  spending had been declined. TSB blocked Mr Hs card.  But 
the bank says he got in touch and confirmed he was abroad and wanted  to carry on using 
his card.  He said he was using the card in some bars and clubs.
Our investigator didnt  think it was right to ask TSB to refund the money.  She agreed it was 
most likely Mr H had authorised the spending. There wasnt  any obvious point where  Mr Hs 
PIN could  have become known to somebody  he didnt know.
And in concluding that Mr H had most  likely authorised the spending, the investigator  had 
considered the requirements of the Payment Services Regulation (PSRs)  as these  set out 
whats needed for a bank  to hold a customer liable for spending in circumstances like this.
Mr H didnt agree with the investigator. He still thought TSB should  refund the money. So his 
complaint has been passed to me to make a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see Mr H feels very strongly about  whats happened here. Thats  clear  from what hes 
said to TSB and to our investigator. And thats  not surprising. After  all, a large amount of 
Ref: DRN59230782money has been spent.  So Mr H is bound to be concerned.  By all accounts, whats 
happened will have spoilt what was meant to be an important holiday for Mr H and his son.
And Im sorry to hear about Mr Hs situation,  which had led to the problems he has with his 
memory. This wont  have  made dealing with this matter any easier  for him. Ive allowed for 
there being some differences in what Mr H may have told TSB.
But Im afraid I have to tell Mr H that I agree with the investigator. Indeed,  there isnt a great  
deal I can add to what shes  already  said. I think the investigators set out in some  detail  the 
various things shed had to consider.
That said,  its important I reassure Mr H that Ive considered his complaint afresh,  and 
independently of what the investigator  has done.
Ive looked at the information TSB has sent.  And it shows Mr Hs genuine card was used  
and the PIN was entered correctly at the first attempt. Given Mr H has said the PIN is known 
only to him and his son, its difficult to see how somebody else could have spent  the money.
I think its very unlikely somebody unknown  to Mr H or his son would have been able to take 
the card, use it to spend money and then return it to Mr H or his son so many times over the 
15 hours without either of them  realising.
And when  some spending was declined, TSB says Mr H got in touch and confirmed  he had 
the card with him. So, with the genuine card being  used  and correct  PIN being entered, the 
bank would reasonably assume he was authorising the spending that followed.
Ive considered carefully the requirements  of the PSRs, and the guidance of the Financial  
Conduct Authority,  around  authorisation of spending. And, on this occasion, Im satisfied 
TSB can hold Mr H responsible for it.
All of the available evidence points to it being  most  likely that Mr H or his son spent the 
money. I realise thats a difficult message to give. Mr H has said his son knows  his PIN  but 
wouldnt use the card without Mr Hs permission. Im sure thats right  even if (as TSB has 
said) its not allowed by the terms and conditions of Mr Hs account.
Im aware Mr H has said at one point when  his son was about  to use the card, he decided  
not to as he was concerned staff in the bar in question  might not be honest. But his son 
didnt enter  the PIN at the time.  So there doesnt  really seem to be any point at which  an 
unknown person would have been  able to get Mr Hs card and know (or guess) his PIN.
I accept its possible members of staff in the bars and clubs might have tricked Mr H (or his 
son) into spending  more than he thought he was. Unfortunately some  places like these take 
advantage of people like Mr H (and his son) all too often. But the available evidence doesnt 
point in this direction.
I realise Mr H will be disappointed with my decision.  But it brings to an end what  we, in trying 
to resolve his dispute with TSB informally, can do for him. Im sorry we cant help Mr H any 
further on this.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Ref: DRN59230783Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 September  2019.  
Andrew Davies
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5923078