K821x#15complaint
Mr C complains that Curtis Banks Limited (CB) delayed the transfer of his pension  which  led 
to him missing out on a particular annuity  rate.
background
Mr C wanted to transfer his pension held with CB to Legal and General (L&G) in order  to buy 
an annuity with them. Mr C was assisted by his financial adviser Fidelius. 
L&G issued an annuity quote on 28 January 2019 offering an annuity  rate of 5.035%  which 
was guaranteed until 4 March. The funds from Mr Cs pension were  received by L&G after 
this date, so Mr C lost out on the offered annuity rate. The annuity rate he eventually  got was 
4.842%.
Mr C says the transfer was unnecessarily delayed, so he wants  to be compensated for the 
difference in his annuity income.
Our investigator considered the involvement of all three parties (CB, L&G and Fidelius) to 
see whether they were  responsible for Mr Cs loss. She found that both CB and L&G had 
caused delays  which in accumulation led to Mr C missing  out on the higher annuity rate. She 
held them jointly responsible for Mr Cs losses and asked CB to pay 50% towards the overall 
compensation.
CB disagreed, so the complaint was passed  to me for a decision. Ive issued provisional 
findings in which I explained that I thought  all three parties contributed  to Mr C losing out on 
his annuity rate. I felt it was fair that each  of the three  parties involved paid a third of the 
compensation recommended.
CB responded to my findings and said they hadnt made an error and didnt think  they 
caused any delays.  They feel its unfair  that they are being  asked to cover an equal share of 
costs and losses which directly resulted from failures of other  parties. CB says all costs 
should be met by L&G and Fidelius.
My findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Im still satisfied the 
outcome I reached in my provisional  findings is fair and reasonable. 
The parties are familiar  with the background of the complaint and the timelines  are not in 
dispute, so Im not going to repeat everything in detail.
 
L&G sent CB an incorrect transfer request  via the Origo systems on 12 February 2019. CB 
set up the transfer  on 14 February. It was then passed on internally for a check. On 22 
February CB noticed L&Gs  error  and asked  for the transfer request to be amended. I 
appreciate that the original error was made by L&G, but still think  CB caused unnecessary  
additional delays.  I think L&Gs  error  should have ideally been spotted  during the set up 
process on 14 February, but Im willing to accept that a detailed check might only have 
occurred in the second stage. 
Ref: DRN50304782However, I think there was an unreasonable delay  between  the set up and the second check 
which was six working days where it seems  nothing happened. The funds were ready and 
CB havent been able to demonstrate that there were any unusual circumstances here. I 
think reasonably  the second check should have happened within another two working days, 
i.e. by 18 February. So CB in my opinion is also responsible  for an avoidable delay of at 
least four working  days.
This delay  on its own didnt lead to Mr C losing out on his annuity  rate. I understand that if 
L&G hadnt  made an error, there  would have  been sufficient time to transfer Mr Cs funds on 
time. And if CB had been informed of the deadline of 4 March, I agree it likely could have 
been met. However,  as I explained  above  I think CB caused  unnecessary  delays on their 
side. And equally, without these  delays, L&Gs error  or Fideliuss failure of not informing 
them of the deadline wouldnt have mattered. 
Its clear that neither  party on their own caused  Mr Cs losses.  However, I remain satisfied 
that CB contributed to unnecessary delays in the process which in turn led to Mr C losing 
out. Im not holding  them liable for the failure of others. Im holding them responsible  for their 
own delays in this process. 
putting things right
In summary  I think every  party made mistakes or caused delays which in accumulation 
caused Mr C to miss out on his annuity rate. I think its fair that they share  responsibility  in 
equal measures  in these particular circumstances  when it comes to compensating Mr C.  
All parties  work should work in collaboration to put Mr C in the position he would  be in had 
the transfer taken  place  as it should have. As explained above I think the delays caused by 
L&G and CB were about 8 working  days in total, so I think  the transfer  could have happened 
on 20 February 2019. 
 
To avoid  uncertainty of how to proceed,  Ive asked L&G as the current annuity provider take 
a lead on calculating  the losses. They should:
 
A.Calculate what Mr Cs annuity  would be had the transfer taken place on 20 February 
2019 (assuming  the annuity was set up on the same basis as Mr Cs current annuity). 
 
B.Work  out Mr Cs past losses  the difference between the net annuity payments Mr C 
did receive and what  he should  have received since the annuity was set up to date.  
Add 8% simple interest p.a. to each monthly payment from the date it was due to the 
date of this decision.  
 
C.Work  out future losses  calculate  the cost of setting up an annuity (on the same 
basis of Mr Cs current annuity) for the difference in annuity which he lost out on. The 
purchase price of the annuity is Mr Cs gross future  loss. This should be paid directly 
to Mr C as a lump sum after making  a notional reduction to allow  for income  tax that 
would otherwise have been paid presumed  to be 20%. 
 
D.To acknowledge  the trouble and upset  caused to Mr C, Im recommending  an 
additional payment of £200 in compensation. 
 
Ref: DRN50304783E.B+C+D is the total compensation payment. This divided by three is what  CB has to 
pay Mr C. L&G should inform CB of their calculations.  CB should then pay Mr C as 
soon as possible.
  
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold Mr Cs complaint. I request Curtis Banks Ltd to pay Mr C the 
compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 July 2020.
Nina Walter
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5030478