K820x#14complaint
Mr H is unhappy that Fresh Insurance Services Group Limited (FISG) charged  him a 
cancellation fee when it cancelled his policy.
background
In January 2019, Mr H bought a car insurance  policy  (the policy) through an online 
aggregator website.  FISG acted as the broker and the policy  for Mr Hs car was with an 
insurer Ill refer to as Z. 
When he completed the online aggregator screens,  Mr H, said that hed had two previous 
claims which were  both now settled. FISG wrote to Mr H asking him to contact it to discuss 
the previous claims. On the same day it also sent a text message, asking him to contact it.
Mr H called FISG to discuss  the policy. During  this call he explained that the claim from late 
2018 was still ongoing and hadnt  been settled.  Because of this FISG updated his details. Z 
was no longer able to offer him the policy and FISG had no other insurers  on its panel that 
would provide Mr H with cover. Because of this he was given 7 days notice that the policy  
would be cancelled. FISG did arrange  a refund of premium that he had paid, minus any cost 
for the time the policy was on-risk  and a cancellation fee. He said that he shouldnt be 
charged the cancellation fee as the online aggregator website didnt allow him to enter that 
the claim was still ongoing  and it was FISGs decision to cancel  the policy and not his.   
There was a further issue with the refund of the premium. The garage,  where Mr H had 
purchased his vehicle, had arranged  for the payment of the policy.  This meant that FISG 
could only refund the payment back to the garage rather than direct to Mr H. It explained to 
him that he would need to speak to the garage to have the money paid to him. 
Mr H complained to FISG. It looked into what had happened but maintained that it had acted 
correctly when applying  the cancellation fee and the refund of the outstanding premium. 
Unhappy with this Mr H referred his complaint to our service.
One of our investigators  looked into what had happened. She thought FISG had treated     
Mr H fairly.  He disagreed  and in summary  said:
FISG had misinformed him that he could contact Z direct,  but when he did it was unable  
to help him.
FISG hadnt raised a complaint when he had originally  complained.
The refund  of the premium hadnt  been  processed as quickly  as it should have been.
He maintained that the online aggregator  website hadnt given him the option  to enter 
that the claim was still ongoing.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be asking FISG to take any further steps  to resolve this complaint. 
Ill explain  why.
Ref: DRN53543752Ive been provided  with the Terms of Business that apply to a car insurance policy taken  out 
through FISG. Under  the heading fees & charges there are a number of fees that apply 
depending on a variety of scenarios. One of these is if the policy  is cancelled  within  the first 
14 days or before the policy starts. This then goes  on to show  that the fee would be £55. 
Therefore, Im satisfied  that the cancellation fee has appropriately been applied.
Ive then gone on to consider whether the online aggregator website wouldve allowed Mr H 
to record that there was an ongoing claim with his old insurer.  He has said there wasnt  an 
option to do this. He has said the only options  available to him were  to record a fault or non-
fault accident. And he selected non-fault as he felt that this is how the ongoing  claim would 
be recorded. 
FISG have  sent a screen shot of the options Mr H wouldve  been  presented  with when he 
recorded his previous claims  history.  The second option on the dropdown  list is Accident  
not settled. And based on this, I think Mr H did have the option to select that he had an 
ongoing claim that was waiting  to be settled. And this meant  FISG could no longer arrange 
Mr Hs car insurance.
Ive listened to the call that Mr H had with a supervisor after hed been told the money  
couldnt be refunded on to a bank card of his choice. The call was transferred to the 
supervisor as Mr H was unhappy the policy was being cancelled. During this call the 
supervisor explained  the next steps in arranging  the refund and how long this process may 
take. I can see that it did send a request  through to Z to arrange  the refund. They also 
explained that if Mr H contacted Z directly it was more likely than not that it would refer him 
back to FISG. And my understanding is broadly this is what  happened. 
I can appreciate Mr Hs frustration with how long the refund took to process. Especially as he 
had to pay for another car insurance policy. But as soon as Z had returned the premium  to 
FISG it arranged to transfer the money back to where it had been  paid from. And this was 
done within its service  level agreement.
Ive seen that FISG sent its final response  letter to Mr H on 15 February 2019. And within  
this it looked into his concerns about the cancellation of his policy and the length  of time to 
arrange a refund. Therefore, FISG  did raise  a complaint and addressed Mr Hs concerns.
For the reasons  explained above I wont be asking FISG to take any further action to resolve 
this complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is not to uphold this complaint against Fresh Insurance Services Group 
Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 June  2019.
Michael Fisher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5354375