K821x#15complaint
Its agreed that Financial  Insurance  Company  Limited (FICL),  as the insurer, should accept 
responsibility for this complaint. To keep things simple, Ill just refer to FICL in my decision.
Mrs C says FICL mis-sold  her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background
This complaint is about a store card PPI policy Mrs C took out in 2003. 
I sent Mrs C and FICL a provisional decision on 30 March 2019  to explain why I think  
Mrs Cs complaint should be upheld. And I said Id consider anything else anyone  wanted to 
give me  as long as I received it by 20 April 2019. But neither Mrs C nor FICL have 
anything else for me to consider,  so I still think Mrs Cs complaint should  be upheld.  Ive 
explained my reasoning  again below.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Cs case.  
Ive decided to uphold Mrs Cs complaint.  Ill explain why.
Mrs C has told us she was a student  at the time of the sale, but that she was working  at least  
16 hours a week.  
FICL didnt  recommend the PPI to Mrs C, but it had to give her enough information about it 
to make an informed decision.  But I dont think FICL gave her enough  information  about the 
policy. I say that because FICL have given me a copy of Mrs Cs store card application and 
on it there is a separate section for the PPI called Protecting your Account. Theres some  
wording after this, that says Yes, I would like to protect my Account with Account Cover.. 
Account Cover is what the PPI was called. But there isnt any wording here that sets out 
what the cover is for  in other words what its benefits are. 
I note that above  this section, and the top of the right-hand side of the agreement theres 
some other wording about the PPI. But this too doesnt set-out what  the cover and its 
benefits are. It does  however  despite  its limited  legibility  seem to direct  Mrs C to other  
documents related to the policy. 
Im mindful that this was a sale that took place  in a retail store. And because of that any 
literature related to the PPI including what it provided cover for was most  likely sent to Mrs C 
after the sale. Nor have I seen  anything that makes  me think  anything about  the policys  
cover was given to her at the point of sale. 
So given Mrs C was a student at the time,  and as it appears she wouldnt have been  
presented with information at the sale which showed  her it covered her for unemployment,  I 
dont think shed likely have taken  out the policy. Thats because if shed have known the PPI 
covered her for unemployment,  and knowing she only worked part-time and was otherwise a 
Ref: DRN52798072student, shed  have likely questioned whether the policy wouldve have covered at all her for 
what is an important benefit.  
If FICL had given Mrs C clearer information  about  this, then I dont think  its likely she 
wouldve thought  that she had a need  for the policy  and she wouldnt have likely bought  it. 
So I think Mrs C has lost out because  of what FICL  did wrong. 
putting things right
FICL should put Mrs C in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI.
A.FICL should find out how much  Mrs C would  have  owed  when she closed her store card 
account if the policy hadnt  been  added.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges. 
FICL should then refund  the difference between what  Mrs C owed when she closed her 
account and what  she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Mrs C made a successful claim under the PPI policy, FICL can take off what  she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her.  
B.FICL should add simple interest on the difference between what Mrs C would have 
owed when she closed her account  from when  she closed it until she gets the refund. 
The interest rate should  be 8% a year.*
C.If  when  FICL works out what Mrs C would have owed each month  without PPI  Mrs C 
paid more than enough  to clear  her balance, FICL should  also pay simple interest on the 
extra Mrs C paid. And it should  carry on paying  interest  until the point when Mrs C 
wouldve owed FICL  something on her store  card. The interest rate should be 8% a 
year.*
D.FICL should tell Mrs C what its done to work  out A, B and C
FICL can deduct from the redress shown any commission redress paid to Mrs C by the 
lender if the commission  redress relates  to this PPI sale.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires  FICL to take off tax from this interest.  FICL must give
Mrs C a certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mrs Cs complaint.
Financial Insurance  Company Limited should  put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs C to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 June 2019.
Ref: DRN52798073Ketan Nagla
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5279807