K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that MYJAR Limited lent him money  that he couldnt afford to repay.
background
Mr H took out three instalment loans with MYJAR  as follows:
Loan one in February 2017 for £400 to be repaid by six monthly instalments the 
highest of which  was £124;
Loan two in August 2017  for £550 to be repaid by three monthly instalments the 
highest of which  was £273;
Loan three in November 2017  to be repaid by three monthly  instalments, the highest 
of which  was £446.
. 
Mr H says he was caught in a spiral  of debt, taking on more loans to repay others. Mr H says 
he fell in to arrears with priority payments such as his mortgage and council tax. Mr H 
explains that this caused his health to suffer. Mr H says that his credit file wouldve shown he 
was in financial difficulty during this time.
Before agreeing to lend each time MYJAR recorded  a net monthly income of £3,000. It says 
that Mr H declared monthly  outgoings to include mortgage and credit repayments of between 
£1,050 and £1,200.  MYJAR also carried out credit checks which  it says didnt reveal  
anything of concern.
The adjudicator didnt recommend that Mr Hs complaint be upheld.  She thought MYJARs 
checks before loans one and two went far enough. And that based on the information 
MYJAR had, it was reasonable to agree loans one and two.
The adjudicator thought  that before agreeing loan three, MYJAR shouldve also asked about 
Mr Hs other  short term lending  commitments. But that even if it had, loan three  wouldve  still 
appeared affordable.
 
Mr H disagrees  with the adjudicators recommendation.  He doesnt think MYJAR carried  out 
adequate checks. Mr H says he owed money on multiple loans at the same  time. Mr H 
points out that this service has upheld at least one of his other complaints.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
conclusions of the adjudicator.
MYJAR was required to lend responsibly. It needed to make  checks to see whether Mr H 
could afford  to pay back each loan before it lent to him. These checks  needed to be 
proportionate to things such as the amount Mr H was borrowing, the length of the agreement  
and what he told it about himself. But there wasnt  a set list of checks MYJAR  had to do.
Ref: DRN54020392loans one and two
MYJAR has given us evidence that it asked Mr H to estimate how much  he was spending 
each month  on housing, credit and other expenses. And it checked  Mr Hs credit  file. As it 
was early on in Mr Hs lending history and the maximum repayment on both loans 
represented a fairly  modest proportion of his declared monthly income, I think that MYJAR 
carried out proportionate checks.
It looked to MYJAR  that after housing costs, regular  credit commitments and other expenses 
Mr H was left with between £1,800  and £1,950  of disposable income. MYJAR also factored 
in a minimum income standard of £556.  This still left Mr H with more than enough disposable 
income to be able to afford the highest  monthly repayment  on each loan. 
I cant find that MYJAR was wrong to agree loans one and two based  on the information that 
it held about Mr H.
loan three
Mr H took out loan three immediately on repaying  loan two. I agree with the adjudicator  that 
by now MYJAR shouldve been doing a bit more  to make sure that Mr H hadnt become 
reliant on short term lending.
Even though  I think that MYJAR  shouldve been  prompted to dig a bit deeper  and ask about 
Mr Hs other  short term loans  before agreeing loan three, it doesnt make  a difference  to my 
decision. 
This is because as far as I can see, Mr H had to repay three other payday lenders around 
£600 at the same time as he was due to make  his first repayment on loan three.  If I add this 
to Mr Hs declared expenditure and include the minimum income standard of £556,  it 
wouldve looked as though Mr H had around £690  of disposable  income. So it wouldve still 
appeared to MYJAR that Mr H had enough  disposable income to afford his monthly 
repayments of £446.
I appreciate that Mr Hs financial situation  was worse than he disclosed to MYJAR. But I 
dont think MYJAR wouldve reasonably  been  aware of this because I dont think  it was 
proportionate to expect MYJAR  to independently  verify the information Mr H gave by asking 
to see bank statements  for example. 
I need to consider each complaint on its own merits. This means that even if weve upheld 
some of Mr Hs other complaints, it doesnt  necessarily mean that I must do the same. I have  
however looked  at the other complaints to try and make sure that Ive included all of Mr Hs 
short term lending commitments  around  the time of loan three.  As a result,  I found  an extra 
short term loan that didnt appear  on Mr Hs credit file. Ive reflected  this additional loan as 
part of the increased short term lending commitment  figure of £600.  
The adjudicator also asked Mr H whether  he had could  give us information  about any other 
short term loans around the time of loan three. Mr H didnt reply, so Ive made my decision 
based on the information we already  have.
As I dont think it was wrong  of MYJAR to agree any of the loans I dont require it to pay any 
compensation or remove the loans from Mr Hs credit file. 
Ref: DRN54020393my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 April 2019.
Gemma Bowen
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5402039