K821x#15complaint
Mrs W complains that American Express Services Europe Limited (Amex)  wont refund two 
payments she made, using her Amex credit  card,  for goods which turned out to be faulty. 
She brings  this complaint  under section 75 of the Consumer Credit  Act 1974.
background
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 15 January 2019, a copy of which is 
attached to, and forms part of, this decision.
Mrs W accepted my provisional decision. However Amex responded to say, in summary,  that:
P wasnt  acting as a merchant acquirer on behalf  of Amex in this case, but instead  was 
giving the supplier of the goods  (S) the ability to accept Amex payments through  Ps 
service, an aggregator service;
the merchant account number which Amexs payments were submitted  to was for Ps 
account, not Ss;
S wasnt  an Amex merchant, and so Amex had no means of paying it direct;
it considered P was its merchant, but P wasnt guilty of any breach of contract  or 
misrepresentation in this case for which Amex could  be liable under section 75;
it still considered there was a clear breach in the d/c/s chain in this case  as four parties 
were involved  in the transaction; and
whether or not Mrs W knew she was using Ps account wasnt  relevant.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although Mrs W had an account herself with P, she deliberately chose not to use it when 
paying S, and indeed  told S this was her decision. Ive seen the emails that were exchanged 
on this subject between  Mrs W and S.
Ive noted Amexs further responses. However I remain  of the view that the fact that Amex  
chose to use Ps payment aggregation services to pay S isnt sufficient to break the d/c/s 
chain between Mrs W/Amex/S. So Amex is equally liable with S under section  75 for Ss 
breach of contract in supplying faulty  goods, and its fair and reasonable that Amex should 
compensate Mrs W by paying her £725.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint, and order American Express  Services  Europe 
Limited to refund Mrs W £725.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 March 2019.
Lennox Towers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN57470432copy of provisional decision
complaint
Mrs W complains  that American Express Services Europe Limited  (Amex)  wont refund  two 
payments she made, using  her Amex credit card, for goods which  turned out to be faulty. She brings  
this complaint under  section  75 of the Consumer  Credit  Act 1974.
background
Mrs W made two payments  in February 2016 and March 2016, of £100 and £625 respectively  for 
goods she had bought.  She used her Amex credit card to make the payments. Unfortunately the 
goods were  faulty and had to be disposed of. Mrs W asked Amex to reimburse what  she had paid 
under section 75.
Amex wasnt  willing to do so. It pointed out that in a purchase of goods,  the price of the goods had to 
exceed £100  for section 75 to apply.  So it said the February 2016 payment for £100 wasnt covered 
by section 75.
It didnt think the second payment was covered by section  75 either. It said that:
an additional party,  a payment facilitator whom Ill call P, had been  involved in processing 
the payment;
the payment for the goods had been made by Amex to P, who then passed the payment to the 
supplier of the goods  S; and
this was shown be the reference to the payee on Mrs Ws Amex statement as:
P *S.
So the direct debtor/creditor/supplier (d/c/s) relationship  required for a claim to succeed under  
section 75 had been  broken, and Amex had no liability  to Mrs W under  section 75.
our investigators view
Our investigator recommended that this complaint should be upheld in part. She accepted that the 
claim for £100 fell below the limit in section 75 and so shouldnt succeed.
She agreed that Mrs W did have an account with P, but no transactions  with S were shown  on the 
statements for that account. So she thought P was merely acting as a payment gateway  or facilitator  
assisting the payment  directly from Amex to S. This meant the d/c/s relationship  required to support a 
claim under  section 75 wasnt broken. She was satisfied that the goods in question had proved  faulty. 
So she recommended that Amex compensate Mrs W by paying her £625.
Amex responded to say, in summary, that all merchants accepting Amex credit  cards were  assigned  a 
unique merchant  number. Ps unique number was shown  as occurring in Mrs Ws two transactions. It 
thought this meant  the payee was P rather than S.
The investigator didnt agree. She said the presence of the unique merchant number wasnt conclusive.  
What was conclusive was that the payment from Mrs Ws Amex  account went directly to Ss bank 
account. It didnt go from Mrs Ws Amex to her account with P, and then to Ss bank account. If it had, it 
would have appeared  on Mrs Ws account with P, and it didnt. So the d/c/s relationship  between  Mrs W/ 
Amex/S wasnt  broken, and Amex should compensate  Mrs W under section 75.
Amex acknowledged that Mrs W hadnt in this case used her account with P to pay S. However it 
said that the payment services provided  by P in this case amounted  to what was known as an 
aggregator service.
Ref: DRN57470433The use of Ps unique merchant number in the transactions  meant,  in its view,  that the payments went 
from Amex to P, which passed them on to S. It considered this meant the required d/c/s relationship  
wasnt present, and it had no liability to Mrs W under  section 75.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
I asked the investigator to check with Mrs W exactly  what the goods were  that she bought and paid 
for using her Amex credit  card. Mrs W has produced an email chain showing that she bought one item 
 a bed costing £725.  She paid a deposit  of £100, and then the balance  of £625, in each case  using 
her Amex credit card.
Section 75 doesnt apply to a claim .so far as the claim  relates  to any single item to which  the 
supplier has attached a cash price not exceeding  £100 or more than £30,000..
In this case there was only one item  a bed costing £725.  The fact that it was paid for in two 
payments is not relevant.  So Amex  was wrong  to dismiss the deposit of £100 as being  outside the 
ambit of section 75.
Like the investigator, I dont agree that the fact that P provided payment aggregation services to Amex 
is sufficient to break the d/c/s relationship  between Mrs W/Amex/S. The relevant  point is that Mrs W 
didnt use her account with P to pay S for the goods  the transaction doesnt appear on her the 
statement of her account with P.
So I conclude that Amex is equally liable with S under section  75 for Ss breach  of contract in 
supplying faulty goods. Its therefore fair and reasonable that Amex should  compensate   Mrs W by 
paying her £725, not £625 as the investigator suggested.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, but subject to any further comments and evidence I receive from 
either Mrs W or from Amex by 29 January 2019, I intend to uphold  this complaint, and to order 
American Express Services Europe Limited to refund Mrs W £725.
Lennox Towers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5747043