K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains he was mis-sold a term assurance policy by The Royal  Bank of Scotland  Plc 
(RBS) taken out to protect two business  loans  that he wasnt solely  responsible for. 
background
In September  1996, Mr D was sold a decreasing term assurance policy  in respect  of two 
business loans,  with a £62,500  sum assured for a fixed monthly premium, for a period of 15 
years. The policy matched  the loan amount and term of the loans. 
Mr D says the policy was to protect  the loan he used  to fund a limited  company with two 
others. Therefore  the policy shouldnt have covered him as a sole trader, but as one of the 
three directors of the new business venture.   
One of our investigators  considered the complaint but didnt think  it should be upheld. In 
summary, she said:
On balance shes unable to say the policy was mis-sold. 
Theres nothing to suggest from the point  of sale documentation that Mr D was going 
to be a one third company director of a limited  company or what  the business loans 
were specifically  intended for. 
The direct  debit  mandate simply confirmed that the premiums would be collected  
from Mr Ds business  account. 
So whilst the business loans mightve  been  intended for the setup of this limited 
company, this was unlikely to have been communicated to the adviser.  
The recommendation was suitable as it provided cover for two business loans which  
were unprotected. And matched the term and amount of the loans, and was a 
condition of RBS lending the money. 
The level of cover would also go down over time as the business loans were  paid off.
Mr D accepted the policy on the basis that it was recommended.  Despite what Mr D 
now says, shes unable to say RBS was made aware of the specific  purpose  of the 
loans.
Mr D disagreed with the investigators view and asked  for an ombudsmans  decision.  In 
short he feels RBS failed  to show where  the loan funds were paid and disputes that it was 
paid to the limited  company.
Our investigator having considered the additional points wasnt  persuaded to change her 
mind. In summary, she said:
She still doesnt agree that the adviser was aware Mr D wanted protection  for a new 
business venture  or that he was going  to be a company director.
Whilst its possible this was Mr Ds intention, shes not satisfied the adviser was 
made aware. 
RBS made  the following  key observations:
It doesnt think that its relevant whether or not it was known what  Mr D intended to 
use the loans  for. 
Ref: DRN55312562The life cover  covering the amount of the borrowing  was a condition of RBS 
lending to Mr D. It doesnt matter whether the loans  were made to the limited 
company or to him as a sole trader.
RBS was entitled to set the conditions of its lending  including the requirement of 
assignment of the policies on the life of directors where lending  was made to a 
company. 
In the event the loans were eventually made to the limited  company its fair to 
assume this was considered by the lending unit.  
The adviser wouldnt have been  responsible for negotiating  the terms and conditions 
of lending to Mr D.
Mr D made  the following  key points:
The issue regarding the business  loans being  provided prior to the inception  of the 
limited company is explained by the fact that all three directors  of the company set up 
a joint account  with the RBS prior to the company formation.
Each contributed  £20,000, and the loans were lent to all three jointly, before the 
limited company was formed, which then became the legal owner  of the business  
and the debts.
As no agreement has been reached the matter  has been passed to me for review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusions for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint.  
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what  Mr D says, Im not persuaded the 
decreasing term assurance policy, sold in respect of two business loans was mis-sold or 
unsuitable. 
But before I explain  further why this is the case,  I think its important for me to note I very 
much recognise Mr Ds strength of feeling about this matter.  Im also very sorry to hear 
about his recent ill health. 
Mr D has provided detailed  submissions  to support the complaint, which  Ive read and 
considered carefully.  However, I hope  he wont take the fact my findings focus on what  
I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail,  as a discourtesy. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address  every  single point raised under a separate  
subject heading,  its not what Im required  to do in order to reach a decision in this case. My 
role is to consider  the evidence presented by Mr D and RBS,  and reach  what  I think  is an 
independent, fair and reasonable  decision  based on the facts  of the case.  
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation  and best 
industry practice, but perhaps unlike a court or tribunal  Im not bound by this. Its for me to 
decide, based on the information Ive been  given, whats more likely  than not to have  
happened. 
Ref: DRN55312563On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what  Mr D now says Im not persuaded 
that the adviser was made  aware of the wider context within which  the decreasing term 
assurance was sought. So the adviser could only advise on the face of the information  
provided. 
I appreciate RBS doesnt think  the purpose  of the loans is relevant or the deciding factor in 
this case. Given that life cover was a condition  of the loans  regardless of whether it was for 
Mr D or his limited company  I would agree its not a deciding factor.  
I also think RBS is entitled  in the exercise of its legitimate commercial  judgement   to set 
the conditions  of its lending. Its not for us to tell it how to run its business. So if Mr D wanted 
the loans  for whatever  purpose  he would have  to inevitably comply. 
But despite  Mr Ds final submission I agree with the investigator that whilst the business 
loans mightve been  intended for the setup of the limited company, this was unlikely to have 
been communicated to the adviser  who was unlikely to have been aware of wider context of 
his circumstances.   Im mindful the adviser wasnt  a part of the loan negotiations.  
Im aware Mr D isnt specifically complaining about  the suitability of the policy,  but for the 
record I agree with the investigator that it was suitable and for substantially  the same 
reasons as set out in the background.  
I appreciate Mr D will be thoroughly unhappy Ive reached  the same  conclusion as the 
investigator, and I realise my decision isnt what he wants to hear. Whilst I appreciate  his 
frustration, Im not going to ask RBS to do anything.  
On the face of the available evidence, Im unable to uphold this complaint and give Mr D 
what he wants. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 January 2020.
Dara Islam
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5531256