K821x#15complaint
Mr G says Elevate Credit International Limited trading as Sunny irresponsibly lent to him.
background
This complaint is about six payday loans  Sunny  provided to Mr G between December 2015  
and January 2016. Mr Gs borrowing history  is set out in the table below as follows:
LoanDate TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments AmountHighest 
Monthly 
Repayment
Amount
1 13/12/2015 17/12/2015 24 £250.00 £84.90
2 22/12/2015 outstanding 24 £700.00 £186.64
3 26/12/2015 28/12/2015 24 £250.00 £271.54
4 29/12/2015 04/01/2016 24 £350.00 £309.29
5 06/01/2016 25/04/2018 24 £300.00 £291.14
6 09/01/2016 outstanding 24 £350.00 £309.10
In its final response Sunny said it would not uphold  Mr Gs complaint. It told Mr G it had 
assessed the affordability of each loan. It thought the checks  carried out were  proportionate 
and sufficient and the amounts advanced  were affordable over the term of each  loan.
Our adjudicator upheld  Mr Gs complaint and thought  loans 4,5 and 6 shouldnt  have been 
given. Sunny reviewed  its position and later said it would write off the outstanding balance  
on loan 6 of £142.24 in full and final settlement. Mr G did not accept this offer and as the 
parties are not in agreement the complaint was passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Sunny needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Mr G could  
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Sunny  should fairly and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
Ref: DRN50530242the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Sunny was required to establish 
whether Mr G could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether  the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course,  the loan payments being  affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Gs complaint.  Ive decided to uphold this complaint 
from loan 4 onwards.  I will explain why.
When Sunny  gave Mr G loan 4, he still had loan 2 outstanding. He took out loan 4 within one 
day of repaying his previous loan. Loan  4 was taken out just over two weeks  after taking out 
his first loan and it was for a larger amount. Mr G had borrowed over £1500  in total over this 
period. And the repayments he had to make increased at each loan.
Loan 5 was taken out with loan 2 still outstanding and only two days  after Mr G had repaid 
loan 4. Similarly, loan 6 was taken out three days after taking out loan 5 and at this point 
Mr G still hadnt repaid loan 2. Mr G was also repaying some of the loans early  which  
suggests he wasnt using  these loans in the way they were  intended  but more like payday 
loans.
All of these circumstances  suggest  that Mr G wasnt managing his money and was likely  
having financial problems  resulting in him juggling credit and taking  new loans to fill the gaps 
left by repayment of earlier loans. 
So Im upholding  the complaint about  loans 4,5 and 6 Sunny should  put things right.
putting things right  what Sunny needs  to do;
Sunny shouldnt have given Mr G loans 4,5 and 6.
I understand that loan 6 is outstanding. If that is the case and Sunny has sold this 
outstanding debt, it must buy it back and then take the following  steps.  If it is unable  to buy 
back this debt, it must liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results set out below:
Ref: DRN50530243a)Sunny  must add together  the total of the repayments Mr G made towards  interest, fees 
and charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance,  not including anything it 
has already refunded;  
b)Sunny  must calculate 8%* simple interest on the individual payments made by Mr G 
which were considered as part of paragraph  (a) above. Interest must be calculated  from 
the date Mr G originally made  the payments to the date the complaint is settled;
c)Sunny  must remove all interest,  fees and charges from the balance on any upheld  
outstanding loans and treat any repayments  made by Mr G as though they had been 
repayments of the principal on all outstanding loans. If this results  in Mr G having made 
overpayments, Sunny should refund those overpayments  with 8% simple interest* 
calculated from the date the overpayments  would have arisen to the date the complaint 
is settled. It must  then refund the amounts  set out in paragraphs (a) and (b) and then 
move to step (e); 
d)If there  is still an outstanding balance on loans  2 and 6, then the amounts calculated  in 
(a) and (b) should be used to repay any balance remaining on the outstanding loans and 
any principal Sunny has already written-off. If this results in a surplus, then that surplus  
must be paid to Mr G. If there is still an outstanding balance, Sunny must  agree an 
affordable repayment plan with Mr G. It must  not pursue an outstanding balance  of 
principal it has already written off. 
e)Sunny  should  remove any adverse information  recorded on Mr Gs credit file in relation 
to loans 4,5 and 6. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to deduct  tax from this interest. It must give Mr G 
a certificate showing how much tax has been deducted, if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mr Gs complaint. Elevate Credit  
International Limited should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 May 2020.
Nicola Woolf
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5053024