K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a credit 
card in 2004. Mr P says Canada Square Operations Limited mis-sold him the PPI.
The card and policy were  originally sold by Egg, but Canada Square  has taken 
responsibility for the sale, and for this complaint, so Ill refer to Canada  Square in my 
decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ps case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
Mr P applied for his credit card and PPI online  he says that he had no idea the PPI had 
been added  to his account,  so it mustve been  added without his knowledge.  
Canada Square  provided information about  its online  sales  process, which  has shown that 
Mr P wouldve  been  presented with two options  - to take PPI or to decline it. Both were  
equally prominent, and Mr P wouldve had to select an option  before he could complete his 
application. Neither option was presented in a way that would  suggest  that taking or not 
taking PPI would influence being approved for the credit card,  and I havent seen anything  to 
show that Canada  Square did anything differently with Mr P. 
So taking everything in to account,  I think Canada Square made it clear that Mr P didnt have 
to take out the PPI and he chose  to take it out  although I can understand why he doesnt 
remember this as it was so long ago.
Canada Square  didnt recommend the PPI to Mr P so it didnt have to check if it was right for 
him. But it did have  to make sure Mr P got the information he needed to decide  if it was right 
for him.
Its possible the information Canada Square  gave Mr P about  the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But as I think he chose to take out the PPI - it looks  like he wanted  this type 
of cover.  Based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it doesnt look like he was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it could have been useful 
for him if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont  think  
better information about the PPI would  have put him off taking out the cover.  
This means  Canada Square doesnt have  to pay back the cost of the PPI to Mr P.
Ive thought about everything Mr P has said, including what  hes said about  his wife making 
his repayments  if he wasnt  able to, and having a car and equity  in his home. While I 
understand that Mr Ps wife may have been keen to help out, peoples  circumstances  can 
change, and the PPI couldve prevented  Mr P from needing to take drastic measures such  
as re-mortgaging  or selling his car. So these points dont change my decision, and for the 
reasons set out above, I dont think the PPI was mis-sold.
Ref: DRN52647252my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 October  2019.
Claire Pugh
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN5264725