K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that AXA Insurance UK Plc unfairly  declined his claim for storm damage 
under his buildings insurance policy. 
background
On 15 March 2019, the area Mr C lives in experienced severe gale-force winds. Mr C says 
these high winds caused damage to the guttering and roof of his property,  so he raised a 
claim with AXA. 
AXA accepted that there  had been a storm on that day and began investigating the claim. It 
appointed a surveyor to assess the damage and an inspection took place on 27 March  2019. 
The surveyor found that the guttering  needed to be repaired, along with other work to mend 
the roof of the property.  However, the surveyor also found that the joints in the guttering  
were rusting, which he deemed  to be due to a lack of maintenance.  There  was a lot of mould 
growth on the roof and the damage  reported  seemed inconsistent with high winds. Overall, 
the report concluded that the cause of the damage  was wear and tear  and not caused by 
the storm itself. 
On that basis, AXA turned down Mr Cs claim.  It said that he wasnt  covered according  to the 
terms of the policy, so it wouldnt be paying the cost of repairs.  Because  a claim had been  
raised and investigated, it applied  the £100 policy excess. 
Mr C made  a complaint,  as he disagreed  with the inspection report. He submitted that the 
guttering was structurally sound and, in any event, it was unrealistic  for him to keep checking 
its condition. He also thought it was unfair that his excess was still charged, because  the 
costs AXA incurred in inspecting the property  were relatively cheap.  
AXA maintained that it had made a fair decision to decline the claim and explained that the 
excess was still payable,  according to the policy. Unhappy  with this, Mr C brought the 
complaint to our service and one of our investigators looked into it. She thought that AXA 
had made  a fair decision on the claim and was acting  within  the policy  terms in applying the 
£100 excess. So, she didnt recommend the complaint be upheld.  AXA accepted this 
recommendation. 
Mr C didnt agree. He reiterated that it was unfair of AXA not to cover the cost of repairs,  as 
he thought the damage had been  caused  by the storm.  
Because Mr C didnt agree, the complaint has been  escalated to me to decide.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with our 
investigator that AXA has acted fairly here.  Ill explain why.  
Mr Cs policy  covers his property  against the risk of loss or damage  caused by a number of 
insured perils, including storm.  
Ref: DRN51423392AXA agrees  that there were abnormally violent winds at the material time,  and have  
evidenced this by referring to weather records. So, its not in dispute that storm conditions 
occurred on 15 March  2019 in the area of the risk address.  Accordingly,  this dispute is purely 
about causation : was the storm the proximatei.e. dominant and effectivecause of the 
damage claimed for  or was it due to some  other  (uninsured) cause? The test is but for, 
overlain with the application of common sense. In other words, would damage of this nature 
and extent have  occurred but for this storm?  And to answer that we must examine the 
available expert  evidence. 
The claim was declined  because AXA has said the following policy exclusion applies: Your 
insurer will not pay for: Loss or damage to property that happens gradually over a period of 
time, such as corrosion or rusting, sulphate reacting  with any material  from which  the 
property is built. 
And if it were argued that this were  accidental damage rather  than storm damage,  AXA also 
pointed to the exclusion under that peril which says: Your insurer will not pay for: Damage 
caused by wear and tear, depreciation, rot, fungus, insects, vermin, atmospheric or climatic 
conditions or other damage that happens gradually  over a period of time. 
The onus is on AXA to show,  on balance, that the exclusions probably apply to Mr Cs claim. 
That is to say that its for AXA to show that the damage claimed for happened gradually  
and/or due to wear,  tear, lack of maintenance  rather than as a result  of an insured peril. 
The key piece of information that AXA relied  upon  is the inspection  report, so Ive thought 
carefully about its conclusions. 
Its common in the insurance industry  for an insurer  to appoint  a surveyor to inspect the 
damage. In this claim, the surveyor completed an on-site inspection of both the guttering  and 
roof of the property. We know that the surveyor physically viewed the property  over a matter  
of days. So, it strikes  me that his expert  opinion  on the likely  cause is credible  and 
persuasive. He concluded,  amongst other things, that:
There  is a lot of mould growth on the roof, it has been noted  that the damaged tile 
appears to have split along the line of the overlapping tile and where  this is missing, 
there is a large  patch  of mould  growth. 
Mould, which grows gradually, is a reasonable indicator of lack of maintenance and/or 
gradual deterioration. For me to find otherwise and agree with Mr Cs position, Id need to 
see comparable expert evidence to support that it was in fact high winds that caused  the 
damage to the roof. However, no such evidence has been provided. On the contrary, the 
report for AXA concludes  that The damage which has been reported  to us is not consistent 
with high winds as no other tiles have  lifted. And this corroborates Mr Cs version of events, 
in terms of what damage is being  claimed  for, i.e. only one roof tile that is damaged. 
Ref: DRN51423393Mr C has argued  that the guttering  on his property is structurally  sound, so it must have been  
the storm that caused the damage  being claimed  for. But the report  found that the joists  in 
the guttering were beginning to rust, causing  the gutter to drop away  from the property. 
Again, similar  to mould, the nature of rust is that it occurs when a material  is exposed  for a 
long period of time, which causes the material to weaken. I am not persuaded, therefore, 
that the storm would  have  caused  such damage  but for the pre-existing condition of the 
property. It was the state of the property  which the weight of the available  evidence  indicates 
was the dominant  and effective cause of the damage. Even  if the storm were a contributory 
factor, there is Court of Appeal authority which  indicates that an insurer has no liability  to 
indemnify if there is more  than one proximate cause   but one of those is uninsured or 
excluded: Midland Mainline Ltd v Eagle Star Insurance Co Ltd [2004] EWCA Civ 1042. 
The inspection took place less than two weeks  following AXA first being notified  of the loss. 
So, Im not persuaded that the mould or rust could reasonably have built up between          
15 March 2019  and 27 March 2019. The expert  appears to be suitably  qualified  and 
experienced; and there are no obvious  mistakes or inconstancies contained in the report. 
So, in the circumstances, Ive seen no compelling  argument that makes me doubt the 
evidential value of the report. In light of this, I cant  safely  conclude that its unfair for AXA to 
rely upon it. Indeed, Mr C has produced  no comparable expert  evidence  to contradict it, 
which he would need to do now that AXA has overcome the initial evidential burden of 
proving the exclusion(s).     
Although Mr Cs claim has been turned down by AXA, its still an incident  of loss or damage 
which AXA had to investigate. The policy excess is defined as The amount you must pay 
towards each and every incident of loss or damage.  So, irrespective of the outcome of the 
claim, the parties  agreed  in the contract  that the policyholder would pay the first £100 of a 
claim. And I am satisfied that costs were incurred by AXA over and above  its administration  
of the claim, e.g. the cost of the inspection report.  Therefore,  I dont find it unreasonable  that 
it has applied the excess for this claim  especially as the cost of the inspection is greater 
than £100. 
Overall, AXA is liable for repairing property damaged as a result  of an insured  peril. But, 
based on the evidence available, Im not persuaded storm conditions were  the dominant  and 
effective cause of the damage that Mr C has claimed for. Rather, its more likely than not that 
the damage occurred  gradually due to wear,  tear and natural depreciation. And, I have to 
bear in mind  that a contract of insurance is not a contract for maintenance. 
So, Im satisfied that AXA has handled Mr Cs claim fairly and has not unreasonably rejected 
it. For this reason, I dont  require it to do anything differently for this complaint. 
Ref: DRN51423394my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 February  2020.
Matthew Belcher 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5142339