K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
2004. Mr T says Santander UK Plc mis-sold  him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ts case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
I think Santander made it clear that Mr T didnt have  to take out the PPI and he chose  to take 
it out. 
Mr T on his initial application for the mortgage was asked if he wanted to take out PPI and he 
declined to do so. This shows  that Mr T knew he could choose  not to have PPI at this point.
After this a phone call occurred, when Mr T took out a further  advance. Unfortunately we dont 
have a recording of the call which isnt surprising given the time that has passed.  Ultimately I 
dont know what was said in this call but at this point Mr T knew he could  have the mortgage 
without the PPI. So I think its more likely than not that Mr T chose to take out the PPI. And Im 
not aware of any issues with how Santander  sold PPI over the telephone  in 2004.
Santander recommended  the PPI to Mr T so it had to check that the PPI was right for him  
and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For 
example he wasnt  affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover  and he 
seems to have had a need for the cover.  
Its possible the information Santander gave  Mr T about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But he chose to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover.  And 
it seems like it would have  been  useful for him if something went  wrong.  It also looks  like it 
was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put him off 
taking out the cover.  
Ive thought about everything Mr T has said but for the reasons explained,  I dont think the 
PPI was mis-sold.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained, I do not uphold Mr Ts complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2019. 
Simon Hollingshead
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5493792