K821x#15Complaint
Mr G has complained that Indigo  Michael  Limited (trading as Safety Net Credit (SNC)) didnt 
complete enough  affordability checks before approving him a Safety Net facility. Mr G says 
SNC should have  realised  from the number of times  he borrowed, that his debt problems 
were getting  worse and that he was in a vicious cycle with payday  loans. 
Background
The background to this complaint was set out in my provisional decision I sent on 3 March 
2020. An extract from this is attached  and forms part of this final decision, so I will not repeat 
that information here.
In my provisional decision I set out why I was minded  to partly uphold the complaint. I invited 
both parties to let me have any further  comments and evidence. SNC  has told us it doesnt 
have anything further to add. Mr G accepted the findings  made  in the provisional  decision 
and so didnt have anything further to add. 
My findings
Ive once more  considered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party had any further comments or evidence, they wanted me to consider, I see 
no reason to depart from the findings that I outlined in my provisional  decision. 
In summary,  while I think SNC  hadnt made an error  in providing the facility to Mr G, , I did 
think that SNC shouldve  prevented Mr G taking any further drawdowns after 2 December 
2015 because  he wasnt using the facility  as SNC  had intended. 
what SNC  should do to put things  right
To put things right for Mr G, SNC should:
remove any unpaid interest fee and charges and then refund all the interest  and 
charges applied to Mr Gs facility from 2 December 2015 onwards;
add 8% interest per year simple on the above  interest and charges from the date 
they were date to the date of settlement*
 
remove any adverse information  recorded  on Mr Gs credit file as a result  of not 
stopping the facility from 2 December 2015.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires SNC to take off tax from this interest. SNC must give
Mr G a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Ref: DRN57129152My final decision
For the reasons  given  above and in my provisional  decision, I partly uphold Mr Gs 
complaint. 
Indigo Michael Limited should put things right for Mr G as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 April 2020.
Robert Walker 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN57129153EXTRACT FROM PROVISIONAL DECISION
Complaint
Mr G has complained that Indigo Michael  Limited  (trading  as Safety Net Credit (SNC))  didnt complete  
enough affordability checks  before approving him a Safety Net facility. Mr G says SNC should  have 
realised from the number  of times he borrowed,  that his debt problems were getting worse and that he 
was in a vicious cycle  with payday loans. 
Background
Mr G approached  SNC for a Safety Net facility in July 2015. This was a running credit account where 
a consumer could either request funds up to their credit limit, or funds  would be deposited into their 
bank account once their account balance  fell below a safety net amount of the customers choosing.
Mr G was initially given a facility with a £300 credit limit in July 2015.  His limit was then increased to 
£320 in August 2015.  Mr G stopped  using  his facility in December 2015.  But then started borrowing  
again in November 2016.
The information provided by SNC suggests a repayment plan for the outstanding  balance was put in 
place in March 2017, with the facility  being repaid in April 2018.
One of our adjudicators  looked  at Mr Gs complaint.  He thought the checks SNC carried out before 
granting this facility were  proportionate. Also, that the information SNC gathered about  Mr Gs 
circumstances suggested  he would be able to afford the repayments. Our adjudicator didnt think  the 
way Mr G used his facility was concerning.
Mr G disagreed with our adjudicator and asked for his complaint to be looked  into again. As no 
agreement could be reached the complaint  has been passed to me for a final decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules 
and good industry practice at the time the loans were offered.
Having carefully thought about everything Ive been provided with, Im intending to partly uphold  Mr 
Gs complaint and Ive explained my reasons for doing so below.
the relevant regulations in place at the time Mr G was given his Safety Net facility
I think  it would be helpful for me to start by explaining that SNC gave Mr G this facility when it was 
regulated by the Financial  Conduct Authority  (FCA). And the relevant regulatory rules in place at the 
time were set out in the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) section of the FCA Handbook of 
rules and guidance.
Section 5.2.1(2) of CONC set out what a lender needed to do before agreeing  to give a consumer a 
loan of this type. And it says a firm had to consider the potential  for the commitments  under the 
regulated credit agreement to adversely impact  the customers  financial situation as well as the 
ability of the customer to make repayments  as they fall due over the life of the regulated  credit 
agreement, or for such an agreement which  is an  open-end agreement  (like Mr Gs Safety Net 
facility), to make payments within a reasonable period.
CONC 5.2 also includes  some guidance on the sorts of things a lender needs to bear in mind  when 
considering its obligations under CONC 5.2.1. Section 5.2.4(2)  says a firm should consider what  is 
appropriate in any particular circumstances dependent on, for example,  the type and amount of credit 
being sought and the potential risks to the customer.
Ref: DRN57129154The risk of credit not being sustainable directly relates to the amount of credit granted and
 he total charge  for credit  relative to the customers financial situation.
And CONC 5.3 contains  further guidance on what a lender should  bear in mind  when thinking  about  
affordability. CONC 5.3.1(1)  says In making the creditworthiness assessment or the assessment 
required by CONC 5.2.2R (1), a firm should take into account more than assessing the customers 
ability to repay  the credit..
CONC 5.3.1(2)  then says The creditworthiness assessment and the assessment required by CONC 
5.2.2R (1) should include  the firm taking reasonable  steps to assess the customers ability  to meet 
repayments under a regulated credit  agreement in a sustainable manner  without the customer  
incurring financial difficulties or experiencing significant adverse consequences.
Ive kept all this in mind  when thinking about whether SNC did what it needed to before  agreeing to Mr 
Gs Safety Net facility. As explained, Mr G was given what  was an open-ended credit facility.  Mr G 
didnt need to repay all of what  he borrowed plus the interest due when he next got paid. Instead, 
there was an expectation that hed repay what he borrowed plus the interest due within a reasonable 
period of time. CONC doesnt set out what a reasonable period of time is. So I think  its important to 
note that a reasonable  period of time will always be dependent on the circumstances of the individual 
case. But at the start of the facility the minimum  payment Mr G wouldve  been expected to make  was 
around £20 per month
SNC carried out credit  checks  before  the facility was provided, and it has provided us with the results. 
At the time of the facility being approved it was aware  that Mr G was not insolvent, had no County 
Court Judgements and there were no recent defaults. It was aware that Mr G had opened  38 short  
term loan accounts but only 8 new accounts  had been  opened  in the last 12 months.  So there doesnt 
appear to be anything in those results which wouldve  led SNC to automatically decline  the facility.   
SNC also says it reviewed  Mr Gs bank transaction data for the 90 days  prior to the facility being 
approved. And having  done so, it says it was satisfied Mr G wasnt having trouble  meeting  his existing 
commitments. So therefore, it was likely  he would be able to afford the payments he was committed 
to making.
Ive taken a look at all the information SNC was aware  of prior to granting Mr Gs facility.  As Ive 
explained above, Mr G wasnt contractually obliged to completely repay  the facility  in full when he next 
got paid and the amount  of interest hed have  to pay was capped.  So I dont agree it was unaffordable 
when it was first given  to him, indeed, based on the information SNC saw, the facility  appeared 
affordable.
However, I do have some  concerns about the results of the credit  checks compared to the information 
showing on Mr Gs bank statements. The results of the credit checks showed Mr G had opened  8 new 
accounts in the last 12 months. But Mr Gs bank statements showed  that in the three months leading 
up to SNC granting  his facility, he was borrowing  and repaying loans from a number of payday 
lenders, with 5 new accounts opened just within that period.  This is something that SNC should  have 
considered as part of its affordability checks - but I dont think this automatically  meant it shouldnt 
have approved the account.
I can also see Mr Gs income fluctuated between £1,210 and £2,246 in the 90 days  before the facility 
was approved. But I think  it was just about reasonable for SNC to believe that Mr G would  be able to 
make his repayments  over a reasonable  period of time. I say this because based on what Ive seen,  
Mr G did have  some  other credit commitments,  including what appears to be a large mobile phone  
bill, direct debits and a regular standing order. But, given the low monthly  repayment he couldve 
made to SNC, I think it was just about reasonable  for SNC to have approved the facility.
So, overall,  I think Mr Gs bank statements, in the period  leading up to the facility being approved, 
showed that he had enough disposable income  to both service and repay the facility within  a 
reasonable period of time.
Ref: DRN57129155what happened after the facility was granted
Even though  I think it was reasonable for SNC to provide Mr G with the facility, that doesnt mean  that 
it hasnt  done anything wrong. I do think it was wrong to have  allowed  Mr G to continue  to drawdown 
on the account from 2 December  2015.
As Ive explained above SNC needed to carry out reasonable checks before the facility was approved, 
but it didnt then have to carry out an additional affordability assessment each time Mr G borrowed 
money. However, it was required to carry out an assessment each time Mr Gs credit limit increased, 
and it also had to monitor Mr Gs repayment record to look for signs of financial difficulties. So, in 
effect it had to monitor how Mr G was using the facility.
Having reviewed  Mr Gs borrowing history, I think there were  signs that Mr G wasnt using his facility  
in a sustainable manner  and that a concerning pattern emerged in his use of the facility. And I think 
SNC should have been aware of this by 2 December  2015 and halted any further use of the facility by 
this point.
Shortly after Mr G received his salary  (at the very end of the month)  he was generally clearing his 
loan balance  in full. But within around a week, sometimes a couple of days  later,  he had requested 
further funds drawing up to his maximum credit limit. This is important, because  when SNC  approved 
the facility, it was entitled  to believe that Mr G would  repay what he owed  over a reasonable  period of 
time. But a few months into his borrowing, it was clear  this was not happening.
In addition to the way Mr G used the facility, SNC  would have seen that Mr G had continued to borrow 
from a number of other short-term lenders during this period. In November 2015,  Mr Gs bank 
statements show he was borrowing from four other lenders. This was not the actions of someone in a 
stable financial position.  And I believe  that Mr G was juggling his repayments,  using further loans to 
repay others.
By 2 December 2015, I think Mr G had used his account  in a way that showed his borrowing  had 
become somewhat harmful and unsustainable.  He was showing a potential  reliance on SNCs facility  
as he was needing to borrow each month,  borrowing up to his maximum  credit limit within  a few days  
of repaying what he owed in full. And his request on 2 December 2015 was the fifth time he had done 
this. So, although  this wasnt a payday loan, Mr G was in effect using the facility as such.  
So, whilst I dont think SNC was wrong  to have provided Mr G his facility,  there were  clear  signs that 
Mr G was having difficulties as he wasnt using the facility  as SNC intended. As a result, SNC  
shouldnt have allowed any further drawdowns after 2 December 2015.
I acknowledge that there was around 11 months after December 2015 in which Mr G didnt need to 
borrow from SNC but Im not persuaded that Mr Gs financial position  had improved when he returned 
for further borrowing.  
Whilst Mr G wasnt borrowing from SNC for 11 months, I can see his account was still active.  Ive 
looked at his bank statements for the three months leading up to the second part of his borrowing, 
and there  is information to suggest he was still struggling financially. He was continuing to borrow  
from other short-term  lenders and continued money transfers and deposits from another account. By 
this point, Mr G was also making repayments to a credit  card as well as a debt collection agency. This 
further suggests Mr Gs financial position had worsened to the point he wasnt able to meet his 
financial obligations.
Given how Mr G had used his facility  previously, I think there was a risk he would use the facility  in 
the same way. This is reinforced by the way he used the facility after it was approved - drawing down 
his full credit  limit within a few days of making  his repayments.
Ref: DRN57129156Overall, I think  SNC shouldve withdrawn the facility  from 2 December 2015  and not allowed Mr G to 
continue using it from this date. So I think Mr G has lost out as a result of SNCs actions.
Ref: DRN5712915