K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains that as a result of MBNA Limited  changing  their website his existing 
password no longer  works. To reset the password for his credit card account, he says that 
he has to compromise his integrity by clicking on the forgotten  password  link when he 
hasnt actually forgotten it.
background
In February 2019  MBNA made changes to their website. These changes meant certain types  
of existing passwords  no longer worked   Mr P had this type of password.
In order for passwords  to be reset to conform to the new standards, MBNA  have said their 
customers need to follow the forgotten  password link. 
Mr P has said this compromises his integrity, because hes not forgotten his password,  and 
wants MBNA to make  a small  wording change to their website. MBNA have said theyll feed 
this back to the relevant area,  but in the short term its unlikely to result  in any changes.
Unhappy with this, Mr P asked us to look into things, and our case  handler didnt uphold  his 
complaint. Our case handler said our service  cant tell financial businesses  how to word  their 
websites, so there wasnt anything we would  do. And he said he felt by Mr P having made 
this complaint his integrity would be intact  as it showed why he needed to use the forgotten 
password link. 
Mr P remained unhappy,  and said all hes asking MBNA to do is make a very minor change 
to the wording of their existing webpages.  Because of this, the complaint has been passed to 
me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I dont uphold  Mr Ps 
complaint, which  I know will come  as a disappointment to him, and Ill explain why.
As our case handler explained, we wouldnt generally interfere with a financial businesss 
processes, including how they choose to word  the password reset  option on their websites. 
MBNA have  said theyve taken on board Mr Ps feedback,  but cant  say that anything will 
happen any time soon.  I think this is a fair response from MBNA.
I understand Mr P feels his integrity  could  be called  into question  if he were to follow  the 
forgotten password  link when he hasnt actually forgotten it  but this appears  to be the 
only way in the short term for him to access his account online.  And I think  its been clearly  
recorded at this stage that Mr P hasnt forgotten  his password, so his use of this forgotten 
password mechanism would merely  be an acceptance there  is no other way to access his 
account  rather  than saying he forgot his password. MBNA have been clear about  how 
Mr P can regain online access, and I dont find I can fairly require them to do any more than 
that.
Ref: DRN53762152my final decision
It follows that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 September 2019.
Jon Pearce
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5376215