K821x#15Complaint
Mrs P complains that Lighthouse Advisory Services Limited (Lighthouse) unsuitably  advised 
her to transfer preserved occupational pension scheme benefits to a personal pension.  
Background
One of our investigators  considered the complaint. He set out the background in detail in his 
letter of 9 December  2019. I have summarised those details in this decision.
Mrs P met the Lighthouse adviser  in May 2018.  Mrs P had deferred benefits  in a defined  
benefit pension  scheme. I will refer to these as safeguarded benefits. The scheme 
administrator produced  a benefit  statement and cash equivalent transfer  value (CETV) on 
19 June 2018.  Mrs P held safeguarded  benefits arising from over 20 years service in the 
scheme. At the normal  retirement age of 60, the scheme was projected to pay a full pension  
of £7,669.29 or a reduced pension  of £5,951.64 and tax-free cash  of £39,677.62.  The CETV 
was quoted as £284,445.69, guaranteed  for three months.
The adviser didnt  receive the CETV  for around two months. Mrs P has said that she called 
him a few times to say she had it, and then emailed it to him. The adviser completed a fact 
find during a meeting on 28 August 2018.  Both Mrs P and her husband were present. 
Mrs P was 57 years old and employed,  earning £20,000. She intended to work  full 
time to age 60, then work part time for two to three years, earning around  £10,000.
Mr P was about the same age and employed,  earning £25,000 per annum. He 
intended to retire at the same time as Mrs P. 
Mrs P owned their home in her sole name and had a mortgage of £32,000 secured 
against it. The mortgage had a remaining term of seven years and a monthly 
payment of £400. The notes stated, She intends to use part of tax free cash  from 
transferred XXXX pension to repay  this mortgage.
Mrs P also held an ISA valued  at £8,000.
Their total monthly expenditure was recorded  as £1,000.
They required pension income  of £17,000 per annum from age 63.
Mrs Ps state pension age was 67. Both Mr and Mrs P expected to receive state  
pensions of around £8,000.
Mrs P also held personal pensions with a value of £20,000. Her employer was 
contributing to one of them.
Mrs Ps attitude to risk was assessed as five on a scale of one to ten, defined  as low 
medium.
The scheme administrator  produced a further benefit statement and CETV on 
20 September 2018. The CETV had fallen  to £260,964.85.
Lighthouse has provided a Supplementary Pension  Retirement / Decumulation 
Questionnaire. This stated that, in addition to releasing tax-free cash, Mrs P wanted  to 
secure the transfer value because the scheme was in deficit.
An illustration was produced on 7 November  2018,  based on investment of the residual sum. 
The advisers charges  were 3% initial and 0.5% ongoing.
Ref: DRN56774032A transfer  value analysis  system (TVAS) report was produced  on 21 November 2018.  This 
provided figures based on a transfer of £260,964.85  and retirement  at 60 and 63. The critical 
yields were 16.47%  and 12.32%  respectively (both  full pension). The critical yield is the 
return required in order to buy the same benefits.
A further  illustration and TVAS report were produced on 4 December 2018.  The critical 
yields were broadly similar. 
Lighthouse has provided a copy of the advisers  suitability  report.  Mrs Ps objectives were:
to retire at 63 with joint income of £17,000  to bridge the gap to state pension age;
for Mr P, and ultimately her family, to benefit  from the pension  in the event of her 
death;
to have as much  flexibility as possible for tax efficiency;
to avoid the danger of the transfer value being reduced in future due to the scheme 
being in deficit;
to take tax-free  cash to repay  her mortgage and make home improvements.
The report  noted  that:
Mrs P was entitled to a state pension of £8,575.55 from 67, and Mr P was entitled to 
£8,755.04 from 67;
she required a higher income  than the pension scheme  could provide in order to 
sustain a reasonable standard  of living;
they could  draw income  of £13,350 (Mrs P) and £6,637 (Mr P) in order  to bridge  the 
gap between 63 and 67. 
the transfer was justified  by access to higher tax-free cash, control  over income  and 
investment, death benefits not available from the scheme,  and the scheme funding  
deficit;
the critical yield was unlikely to be achievable;
her objective had never been  to beat the scheme benefits, but to gain flexibility.
Mrs P complained in December 2018 about the delay to the transfer. Lighthouse didnt 
respond to the complaint within eight weeks, so Mrs P referred  it to this Service. She said,  
when they originally met the adviser, they had been looking for advice on all their pensions.
Lighthouse responded  to the complaint  in April 2019. They thought  the adviser hadnt 
caused the delays. They said that the adviser had been given too little information  to trace  
Mr Ps plans,  and Mrs Ps pension had been the priority, as it was needed to repay the 
mortgage. They also said the adviser  had researched  the funds Mr P was invested  in, and 
established that they were performing poorly;  he had felt it best to wait for them  to recover.  
They offered  to refund the cost of the second  CETV (£215).
The investigator spoke  to Mrs P. Mrs P explained  the original complaint was about  both her 
and her husbands pensions. She felt the adviser had only been  interested in her pension, 
and hadnt provided the requested advice about her husbands plans. She confirmed  she 
had wanted to build an extension, at a cost of around £30,000, and potentially pay off the 
mortgage early although  not necessarily immediately. However, she confirmed that death 
benefits for wider family had not been particularly important for her.
Mr and Mrs P also spoke  to a new adviser.  Following  that conversation, she complained 
about the suitability of the advice to transfer her safeguarded benefits.
Ref: DRN56774033Lighthouse responded  to the complaint.  They said if the safeguarded benefits  had been 
retained, considerably less tax-free cash would have been  available. This would not have 
covered the cost of repaying the mortgage and home improvements. They felt that the file 
showed Mrs P was interested in being  debt free in 2018 rather  than waiting to 2021.  
Lighthouse also said the scheme  had been in deficit and Mrs P had wanted  to protect herself  
from potential negative  consequences.
Our investigator concluded the complaint should  be upheld as the advice to transfer  Mrs Ps 
safeguarded benefits was unsuitable. He explained the regulator had made it clear over a 
number of years that most clients would be best advised to retain their safeguarded benefits. 
Mr and Mrs Ps circumstances should  have been  considered together rather than just 
Mrs Ps safeguarded  benefits. 
The investigator did not agree Mrs P needed  to repay her mortgage early.  Other  options 
including borrowing to pay for home improvements  or using  Mr Ps pensions  did not appear 
to have been considered. 
The adviser identified  a shortfall in income between age 63 when Mrs P intended to retire  
and 67 when her state pension  benefits were due to start. But the investigator thought this 
gap could have  been met using Mr and Mrs Ps money purchase pension  benefits. Mrs P 
also said she does receive some money from relatives.
Lighthouse said the scheme was in deficit and Mrs P was concerned about this. The 
investigator concluded this was something Mrs P might have been concerned about, but the 
accounts showed there was a plan to deal with the deficit. 
The adviser also recommended  the transfer because of the improved death  benefits. Mrs P 
said she did not have  any wider family and the scheme provided a 50% spouses pension.  
The investigator did not think this was a good enough reason to justify  the transfer.
Lighthouse did not agree. The evidence indicated Mr Ps pensions were recorded  and 
therefore taken  into account. The suitability report also explained Mrs Ps intention was to 
repay the mortgage early. If she did not intend to do this, why didnt she query this at the 
time? It was not until the complaint was received at this service that Mrs P complained  about  
the advice. Some  of the information being given  now was not provided  to their adviser, 
including the money available  from relatives.
Lighthouse said that Mr Ps pension funds were in an historical  low position. It would not 
have been appropriate to access these  funds to repay the mortgage.  The suitability report  
also mentioned  the fund growth after transferring was unlikely to meet  the critical yield 
required to match the benefits being given up. The advice was suitable to meet Mrs Ps 
objectives including the flexibility of being  able to access her pension benefits. The suitability 
report set out Mrs Ps objectives  and the fact the PCLS was much  higher after transferring. 
Lighthouse also asked for an oral hearing.
The investigator replied  and explained  his view that the adviser should have considered Mr 
and Mrs Ps circumstances  together. If this had been done, the adviser  would have 
recognised their needs could have been  met without transferring Mrs Ps safeguarded  
benefits. He also thought  the existing mortgage  did not need to be repaid immediately. 
Ref: DRN56774034Although Mrs P wanted to do this, she was relying  on the advice. Suitable advice should 
have been not to transfer her safeguarded  benefits.
Lighthouse did not agree. They reiterated  that it was Mrs P driving her pension  review as 
she had missed out on one CETV. Mrs P only had one pension,  whereas Mr P had several. 
One of the priorities for the transfer was the higher PCLS. This was achieved. And Mr and 
Mrs P have been able to repay the mortgage and fund their home improvements using the 
pension transfer.  The full facts were presented in the suitability letter. Even if the adviser had 
advised Mrs P not to transfer, they thought  she would have done it to repay her mortgage. 
They again  asked for an oral hearing before the complaint was decided.
I reviewed the file and explained I did not require a hearing to fairly determine the outcome 
of the complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with our 
investigator that the complaint should be upheld and for the same reasons.
As our investigator explained, the regulator  has made it clear that when advising on a 
transfer of safeguarded benefits  firms  should  start by assuming a transfer  will not be 
suitable. This is set out in the regulators handbook  in COBS  19.1.6 G. The same  section of 
the handbook also explains an adviser  should only recommend a transfer when they can 
show on contemporaneous  evidence it is in the clients  best interests. It goes on to list 
factors which should be taken into account  when advising  a client.
Our investigator explained there  were  a number of reasons why he did not think the advice 
to transfer Mrs Ps defined benefit  pension was suitable. 
Need for the PCLS
The adviser did not establish details  of Mr Ps pension plans before giving advice to transfer 
Mrs Ps safeguarded  benefits. In my view, this should have  been  done to explore the options 
available to Mr and Mrs P at the time.  I accept  it was possible the guarantee of the CETV  
would expire. However, I think information about  Mr Ps pensions  was required before 
suitable advice  could be given.
Mr and Mrs P approached Lighthouse after a referral to them from Mr Ps union. It was only 
after the referral had been made that Mrs Ps safeguarded benefits  were considered. 
Repaying the mortgage early was an objective, but the monthly mortgage payments were  
being met and there does not appear to have been  any immediate need to repay the 
mortgage.
Lighthouse should also have explored the option of borrowing  to fund the home 
improvements. Although  Mrs P wanted  to repay  debt, this should not have been at the 
expense of the safeguarded benefits; unless Lighthouse could show  that was in her best 
interests. The critical yields  were high and Lighthouse acknowledged these were  unlikely  to 
be achieved. The advice should not have been  based on the critical yields alone, but they 
should have been taken  into account. They indicate the transfer  of benefits was not in 
Mrs Ps best interests.
Ref: DRN56774035I am not satisfied Lighthouse adequately explored  other alternatives to meet  Mrs Ps 
objectives.  
Was the transfer in the clients best interests?
I am also concerned  that Lighthouse said in the suitability report  that Mrs P required a higher 
income than the safeguarded benefits would provide. Taking £11,991  a year increasing at 
3% a year meant the fund would  be exhausted  by the age of 87. This used assumptions 
about the growth achieved in the pension fund. If those assumptions  were not met then the 
fund would run out sooner. In my view, this calls into question  the sustainability of the advice 
to transfer the safeguarded benefits.  
The investigator also explained the scheme  accounts showed the scheme was in surplus on 
an accounting basis in 2017 and 2018.  It was in deficit on a trustees  funding  basis. The 
trustees also had a plan in place to reduce the deficit. I do not accept the scheme deficit 
should have been an adequate reason to transfer.
What would Mrs P have done, if she had been  given  suitable  advice?
As I have said there does  not appear to have been  any urgent need to repay the mortgage.  
A higher PCLS was desirable, but suitable  advice should have  considered the financial 
benefit to Mrs P of the safeguarded benefits. In my experience, it is unusual for retail  clients 
to ignore the advice they are given by a regulated financial adviser. This is also the approach  
set out by the regulator to deal with insistent clients, that is clients  who insist on a course of 
action despite  being advised  not to do so.
In my view, there was no reason  why Mrs P would ignore  suitable  advice. Other  options 
were available, including using Mr Ps pensions and borrowing money, perhaps from 
relatives. There were no problems with meeting the mortgage repayments  at the time. Mrs P 
was also relatively close  to the point where she could take benefits from the pension 
scheme. I see no reason  why she would not have  waited for the benefits to be available.
In my view, suitable advice should have been given to Mrs P not to transfer her safeguarded  
pension benefits.  And I am satisfied Mrs P would have accepted that advice.
Fair compensation
My aim is to put Mrs P, as far as possible, into the position she would now be in if she had 
received suitable  advice.
Lighthouse must undertake a redress calculation  in line with the regulators pension  review 
guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in October 2017.
This calculation should  be carried out as at the date of this decision; using the most recent 
financial assumptions published (at the date of this decision). In accordance with the 
regulators expectations, this should  be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider 
promptly following receipt of notification of Mrs Ps acceptance of the decision. 
Ref: DRN56774036Lighthouse may wish to contact the Department  for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain 
Mrs Ps contribution history  to the State Earnings Related Pension  Scheme  (SERPS  or 
S2P). These details  should then be used  to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation,  
which will take into account the impact of leaving  the occupational scheme on Mrs Ps 
SERPS/S2P entitlement. 
The calculation should assume retirement  benefits would have been taken at age 63, with 
the uplift of 1.21 applied. The tax-free cash should be rolled up with interest at the rate 
specified in the methodology.
If the redress calculation  demonstrates a loss, the compensation should, if possible, be paid 
into Mrs Ps pension plan.  The payment  should  allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief.  The compensation  should not be paid into the pension  plan if it would 
conflict with any existing  protection or allowance.
If payment  into the pension is not possible or has protection or allowance  implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mrs P as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow  for 
future income tax that would otherwise have been  paid.  
Mrs P has taken  a tax-free  cash sum from the personal pension after the transfer  from the 
occupational scheme.  This should  be taken  into account in the payment for past loss in the 
calculation of redress. The remaining future loss is in respect of taxable  income.  Mrs P is 
likely to be a basic rate taxpayer in retirement.  So it would be appropriate  to make a notional  
deduction of 20% from the future  loss. 
Lighthouse should also pay Mrs P £300  for the distress and inconvenience caused to her by 
the advice to transfer her safeguarded benefits.
Where I consider that total fair compensation requires payment of an amount that might 
exceed £150,000, I may recommend that the business pays the balance.
My final decision
My decision  is that I uphold the complaint.  I require  Lighthouse Advisory  Services  Limited to 
pay Mrs P compensation as set out above, up to a maximum of £150,000. 
Simple interest must be added to the compensation amount  at the rate of 8% a year from the 
date of my final decision to the date of settlement.
Recommendation: If fair compensation exceeds £150,000, I also recommend that 
Lighthouse pays  Mrs P the balance. I further  recommend  simple  interest  is added  to this 
balance at the rate of 8% a year from the date of my decision to the date of settlement.
If Mrs P accepts  my determination,  the money  award is binding  on Lighthouse. My 
recommendation is not binding on Lighthouse.  
Ref: DRN56774037Its unlikely that Mrs P can accept my determination  and go to court to ask for the balance  of 
the compensation owing  to her after the money  award has been paid. Mrs P may want  to 
consider getting  independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept this decision.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 August 2020.
Roy Milne
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN5677403