K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs J complain that Santander  UK Plc gave them  the wrong information about the 
exchange rate it was using which led to them losing money on a foreign transaction.
background 
Mr and Mrs J were expecting a payment  of €57,434.84 into a UK account;  Mrs J arranged  
for her solicitor  to send the money  from abroad to her account.  
She called Santander on 7 December  2018  to find out where the money was and when it 
would arrive  in her account. She also asked what exchange rate it would use for transferring 
the money to her UK account. She was told on 7 December that Santander  would use the 
Mastercard rate of the day the payment was received  and she could access this 
information on the internet. 
Mrs J checked the Mastercard  exchange rate for the day of the transfer. The payment  was 
received and Mrs J received details on 10 December  of the amount paid into her account  
and the actual exchange rate used.  She realised Santander had not used the Mastercard 
exchange rate. She complains she could have  got around £1,000 more on the transaction 
from the Mastercard rate than from the rate used by Santander. Mrs J said if she had known 
Santander was using its own rate, she would not have carried on with the transaction  and 
would have converted the money  in a different way. So she concludes she lost money 
through Santanders actions.
Santander accepted that it gave her the wrong information about using the Mastercard 
exchange rate. However, it said it complied with the terms and conditions  of the account, 
which say it can use its own exchange rate for Mr and Mrs Js transaction; so it concludes it 
did not have to use the Mastercard exchange rate. It suggested a settlement of £100  as a 
goodwill payment because the rates quoted are indicative. Santander concluded it was 
unlikely Mrs J would have  taken  a different course  of action as the money  payment was 
already on its way.  
Our adjudicator thought Santander had suggested a fair way to settle this complaint. Mr and 
Mrs J disagreed with our adjudicators view and asked for the matter  to be looked at again.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 
Having done so, Ive decided the action and compensation suggested by Santander is a fair 
way to settle this complaint. I know this will disappoint Mr and Mrs J, so Ill explain why.
I accept Mrs J arranged for her solicitor to send €57,434.84 from abroad to her UK account. 
Ive listened to call recordings and I accept she called Santander on 7 December to find out 
where the money was as it had not arrived in her account when she expected. I also accept  
that Santander told Mrs J during  one of the calls that it would  use the Mastercard  exchange 
rate for the transaction. 
I dont need to decide if Santander did anything wrong because  it has agreed it gave Mrs J 
the wrong information about using the Mastercard  exchange rate. Santander  said the terms 
Ref: DRN59265062and conditions of Mr and Mrs Js account allow it to use its own exchange rate. Santander 
also points out Mrs J was told the rates are indicative  this is in line with the accounts terms 
and conditions which state she would not get a precise note of the exchange  rate used until 
the money had been transferred into the UK account. However, it accepts it should not have 
told her it would use the Mastercard  exchange  rate and it offered Mrs J £100 to settle the 
complaint.
Mrs J says she would have converted  the money in a different way if she had known 
Santander was using its own exchange  rate. However, by the time she called on 7 
December, the money  was already  on its way to her as she was checking to see why it had 
not yet arrived  in the account. So I dont think its likely she would have been  able to change 
the transaction as it was already underway.
Taking everything into account,  I think Santander has suggested a fair way to settle  this 
complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that Santander UK Plc should  pay Mr and Mrs J £100 in resolution of this 
complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision  before  30 June  2019. 
Amrit Mangra
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5926506