K821x#15complaint
Mr H complains about the advice he was given  by Economic Financial Solutions  IFA Limited 
trading as Torch  Wealth Management (Torch). He was advised  to transfer his pension  funds to a 
Self-Invested Personal  Pension (SIPP)  and to invest with a stockbroker using a discretionary fund 
manager. He feels the advice was unsuitable and the investments made  on his behalf  were 
inappropriate.
background
The circumstances leading to this complaint were set out in my provisional  decision dated 
19 December 2018, a copy of which is attached and forms part of my final decision.
My provisional view was that Torch  hadnt acted fairly and reasonably when  it advised  Mr H to 
move the funds from his Scottish Widows personal  pension plan to the SIPP  and to invest them in 
the stockbrokers Aggressive Model  Portfolio. My view was that, suitably  advised,  Mr H would have 
remained in his existing  plan. I thought fair redress should be based on comparing  the notional  
transfer value  of his previous plan with the notional transfer value of the SIPP  if the Aggressive 
Model Portfolio had been managed in line with its stated  objectives  and investment approach.  
I also thought  that had it not been  for Torchs actions, the funds from Mr Hs Aegon  plan wouldnt 
have been transferred to the SIPP and left there  as cash. If Torch had acted fairly and reasonably, 
I believe Mr H would  have remained in his Aegon plan
I also thought  Torch should pay Mr H up to £1,000 to enable him to take advice elsewhere  on how 
he should invest his pension funds, and £300 for trouble  and upset.
I asked the parties  if they wanted  to send me anything further in response to my findings.
Mr H didnt submit  anything  further.
Torch said it didnt agree with my provisional  conclusions. It made  these points, in summary:
Torch didnt advise  Mr H on the Aegon transfer. Torch  had no part to play.
Nor did Torch carry out the Aegon transfer  as an execution-only transaction. Torch has 
never received  any remuneration for this transaction.
The company  that sent the applications  for transferring the Aegon funds operates  on behalf 
of the SIPP  provider as administrators. This company has never  operated on Torchs 
behalf. The issues of potential losses need to be addressed  directly  to this company.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this complaint.
Torch has reiterated  that it didnt advise  on the transfer of the Aegon funds, or carry out the 
transfer. It says the administrators of the transfer  werent acting on its behalf. But these points  dont 
address the reasons why I thought it was fair and reasonable  for Torch  to compensate Mr H for 
any losses resulting  from the Aegon funds  being  transferred to the SIPP  and remaining in cash.
Ref: DRN57987232The reasons  in my provisional view were, in summary:
Id already concluded that the Torch shouldnt have advised  Mr H to establish the SIPP  to 
receive the funds  from his Scottish  Widows plan. And without the establishment of the 
SIPP, Mr Hs other  pension  funds  would have remained with Aegon.  
Even after the SIPP was established,  Torch still had an opportunity to prevent a further 
problem arising, with respect  to the Aegon  funds, when it learned about the existence of 
those funds. But it chose not to communicate  with Mr H. If Torch had contacted  Mr H in 
August 2015 on learning about  the Aegon plan, I think  its unlikely that his funds would have 
been transferred  to the SIPP to remain in cash.
Torch says it had no part to play  in the Aegon transfer.  But Mr H was Torchs client  and Torch 
became aware  there had been  a gap in its recommendation to him. Torch discovered that the fact-
finding information was incomplete and Mr H had further pension  funds which  hadnt been  taken 
into account in its recommendation.
In the circumstances, I dont think it was fair or reasonable for Torch  to have washed its hands of 
any engagement  with Mr Hs pension decisions as soon  as the Scottish  Widows  funds  had been  
transferred and invested. As I said in the provisional  decision, Torch knew  things had gone wrong 
but it declined  to communicate with Mr H about the problem, either  to query  the situation or to seek 
his instructions. I dont  think Torch  acted fairly  or reasonably when it decided not to contact Mr H. 
For the reasons  set out above, my final decision remains the same as set out in the attached  
provisional decision.
Theres one detail that I should  clarify regarding the redress calculations.  The FTSE UK Private 
Investors Stock Market Global Growth Index has two versions  a total income version  and a 
capital version. The redress  calculations should  use the total income version of the index.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Economic Financial Solutions IFA 
Limited to calculate  and pay redress  to Mr H as set out in the attached  provisional  decision.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or reject 
my decision  before 20 March 2019.
Colin Brown
ombudsman
Ref: DRN57987233COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr H complains about the advice he was given  by Economic Financial Solutions IFA Limited trading as Torch 
Wealth Management  (Torch). He was advised to transfer his pension funds  to a Self-Invested  Personal  
Pension (SIPP) and to invest with a stockbroker  using  a discretionary fund manager. He feels  the advice  was 
unsuitable and the investments made on his behalf were inappropriate.
background
Mr Hs introduction to Torch
In May 2015  Mr H was introduced to Torch for advice. Torch recorded that Mr H wanted to see if his existing 
pension plan was  still relevant and to see if there was any merit  in transferring to another provider . Torch 
also recorded  that he didnt  want a review of any other  areas of his finances and he asked Torch to 
concentrate on his pensions.
Mr H had an existing  personal pension  plan with Scottish Widows, with the funds  invested in the 71M 
Balanced D Acc fund.
Torchs assessment and advice
Torch reviewed Mr Hs circumstances. Fact-finding  documents recorded  the following  information about 
Mr H:
He was aged  46.
He lived with his partner and had a dependent daughter.
He was employed, with a gross income of £18,000.
He had an outstanding mortgage of £172,000.
Using a risk-profiling tool, Torch assessed his attitude  to risk as Profile 8 (on a scale of 1 to 10, where  
10 was the highest  risk). Profile 8 was categorised as High risk.
The investment term was expected to be 10 years  or more.
He had cash/deposits of £10,000.
He could  tolerate small/medium investment losses.
Torch recommended he should transfer his pension  funds to a SIPP.  Torch said Mr Hs existing  pension had 
higher charges than the recommended SIPP.  It also said his existing pension presented a level of risk that 
was lower than he was prepared  to accept. It advised Mr H to place  his funds  with a particular discretionary 
fund manager at a stockbroker. Torch would charge  Mr H 4% of the sum transferred as a fee, along  with 
0.75% a year for ongoing  advice.
Mr Hs SIPP
Torch arranged Mr Hs SIPP with a SIPP  operator.
£46,329.15 was then transferred from Mr Hs Scottish Widows pension  to the SIPP. Of this, £43,243.98 was 
sent to the stockbroker for investment in August 2015. Torch gave instructions to the stockbroker that the 
money should be invested  using its Aggressive Model  Portfolio.  This was one of a range of portfolio  models 
which would be managed  by a discretionary fund manager, who would invest the money in a number of 
separate assets.
Mr H also had funds in a group personal pension with Aegon. There was no mention  of the plan in Torchs 
recommendation report. Details of the plan were  sent to Torch  by Aegon in August 2015.
£29,900 was transferred by Aegon to the SIPP provider in September 2015.  The application forms for 
transferring the funds  were  sent to the SIPP provider by the company that dealt with Torchs administration 
Ref: DRN57987234and which had been involved in the transfer  of the funds from Scottish  Widows. The funds  transferred to the 
SIPP from the Aegon plan werent passed to the stockbroker for investment. They remained  in the SIPP  
cash account.
questions to the stockbroker
Soon after the transfer of Mr Hs funds  to the stockbroker, Torch  raised concerns  with the SIPP operator 
about the investments the fund manager had made. From October 2015 onwards there were email 
exchanges between Torch, the SIPP operator and the stockbroker about this matter.
Torch and the SIPP  operator  questioned whether  the stockbroker was managing Mr Hs funds  in line with the 
approach described in the Aggressive  Model Portfolio factsheet and whether  the assets were  sufficiently 
diversified. These exchanges continued  for over a year without resolution. My understanding is that Mr H 
wasnt a party to this communication.
Mr Hs complaint
In September 2016, Mr H complained to Torch about the advice hed received and the investments made  on 
his behalf.
In response, Torch told Mr H it still believed the flexibility offered by a SIPP was far superior  to a personal 
pension. And it said it had recommended a portfolio suited to a combination of Mr Hs attitude to risk as well 
as his capacity for loss. It said the stockbroker hadnt complied with the stated aims or the risk level of the 
published model  portfolio,  so the complaint  shouldnt  be directed at Torch.
Unhappy with Torchs response, Mr H referred his complaint  to this service, saying that over 98% of the 
pension fund investments were in penny shares and, because of the collapse in their value, hed suffered 
severe financial  loss.
the adjudicators opinion
Our adjudicator recommended  that Mr Hs complaint should be upheld.  He gave these reasons, in summary:
In his opinion, there was nothing in Mr Hs circumstances to support  the view that he was a high risk 
taker, or that he had the capacity to absorb such risks. He had modest pension  funds, limited deposit 
savings and a substantial mortgage commitment.
Based on Mr Hs circumstances, the adjudicator didnt think he would have wanted to take or accept 
substantial risk with his pension.  He thought Mr Hs existing investment  funds with Scottish Widows were  
appropriate. 
He also felt Mr Hs existing plan was more cost effective than moving to the SIPP when the total costs  
associated with following Torchs advice, including  Torchs  fees, were taken  into account. 
He didnt  accept Torchs argument that its advice  was suitable because  it gave Mr H more  flexibility. He 
didnt think Mr Hs needs  could  only be addressed by moving to the SIPP. In his view, Torch should have  
told Mr H his existing policy was suitable and there was no reason  to consider transferring.
The adjudicator thought the Aegon policy wouldnt have been transferred to the SIPP had it not been for 
Torchs advice, so he was satisfied  that Torch  was responsible for any losses resulting from the funds  
being in the SIPP. While there was no mention of the Aegon policy in its report, it was clear  that Torch 
looked into this as Aegon  sent it information on 12 August 2015. It was also evident the transfer was 
completed by the business that Torch used to transfer the Scottish Widows policy. 
Torchs response
Torch disagreed with our adjudicator and made the following points, in summary:
Ref: DRN57987235It had checked that all the information it had about Mr H was correct. It also discussed  the level of risk 
with Mr H. The client  responded to a simple question about losses with small to medium  and didnt 
want to give more detailed information.  So Torch questioned how it could  all be the advising firms  fault 
when things  went  wrong in the future.
It was clear the majority  of the investments made by the fund manager bore no resemblance to Torchs 
judgement of risk. Torch made efforts to address  the investment  anomalies at the stockbroker.  
Torch didnt agree  with the adjudicators analysis  of the effect of the respective  charges on Mr Hs funds. 
Torchs reasons for advising the transfer were based  on sound  research.
It isnt right to judge  whether a plan should be transferred based on cost. Cheapest  isnt necessarily the 
best. 
Just comparing plan and fund costs, the recommended plan was considerably cheaper than Mr Hs 
existing plan.  Adviser  fees are a separate issue. But even with cost of advice included,  the 
recommended plan only had to make  0.3% additional growth  to match the projected Scottish Widows 
benefits at 5.4%.
Torch received information about the Aegon plan after it had reviewed  and advised on Mr Hs Scottish 
Widows plan, and after it had commenced  the transfer.  When the Aegon funds were  later accepted into 
the SIPP,  Torch made it clear to the SIPP provider  that this had been without advice. Torch  phoned the 
SIPP provider to say it refused to give investment advice, hence the funds remained uninvested. Torch 
wasnt remunerated  on receipt  of this plan as it did no work to enact  its transfer.  
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. When considering  whats fair and reasonable,  Im required to take into 
account relevant law and regulations; relevant regulators rules,  guidance and standards, relevant  codes of 
practice; and where  appropriate,  what  I consider to have  been good industry practice  at the time.
Mr H also complained about  the actions of the stockbroker. Thats  been the subject of a separate claim  by Mr 
H which is now with the Financial Services Compensation  Scheme (FSCS). Although I need to take into 
account the interaction between Torch and the stockbroker, to avoid any doubt  I should stress that my 
decision here concerns Mr Hs complaint about Torchs actions and the extent  to which  they have contributed 
to any losses Mr H may have incurred.
In my view,  there are three  specific questions I must answer in order to determine  whether Torch acted fairly 
and reasonably when it advised Mr H to move his pension funds to the SIPP  and invest them in the 
stockbrokers Aggressive  Model Portfolio. This also assists me in determining  whether the transfer was in Mr 
Hs best interests  and if not, what I consider he ought to have been advised to do instead:  
first, was the level of risk of the recommended  investment the correct one for Mr H? 
secondly, was the new arrangement more expensive  or less expensive than Mr Hs previous  pension 
arrangement?
thirdly, what alternatives  were open  to Mr H to meet  his objectives? 
was the level  of risk of the recommended investment suitable  for Mr H?
Torch assessed Mr Hs attitude to risk using  a risk profiling tool based on a series  of questions. The answers 
were used to arrive at the conclusion  that his attitude to risk was Profile 8 (on a scale  of 1 to 10) which  was 
categorised as high risk. It isnt clear  to me how the rating was arrived  at. The questions  didnt include a 
Ref: DRN57987236description of the risks Mr H would be taking or how they might be relevant  to him and his specific 
circumstances and objectives. Nor was there any attempt to illustrate how much Mr H could lose and what  
this might mean for his pension  fund and retirement planning. Where a customers pension  funds and other 
assets are relatively modest, the importance of this in my view becomes  greater. 
Torch suggested Mr H didnt provide enough detailed information  he responded  to a simple question about 
losses with small to medium  and didnt  want to give more detailed information. In my view,  it was Torchs 
responsibility to ask the questions in a way that Mr H could appreciate how any losses could affect him. But 
in any event, if Mr H didnt give Torch the information it needed, then Torch  should have known it couldnt 
give suitable  advice. I dont think it can avoid responsibility for its recommendation by saying it didnt have 
enough information.
Torch advised Mr H to invest in the Aggressive Model  Portfolio. Torch still regards this investment (as it was 
advertised, rather than as it was later implemented  by the stockbroker)  as suitable for Mr H.
The stockbrokers factsheet for the Aggressive Model  Portfolio said it would primarily  invest in ETFs 
[Exchange Traded Funds], quality corporate  bonds, cash and other passive investments. The stockbroker 
used a risk scale of 1 to 10 and said it would anticipate the collection of funds  within  the portfolio  to expose 
an investor to a level of risk in the range  of 6-7. It said the actual asset allocation as at May 2015 was 90% 
international equities and 10% UK government debt.
In my opinion,  an investment  subject  to this level of risk wasnt suitable for Mr H. He may have been 
prepared to accept some risk, as he said he could  tolerate  small to medium investment losses. But a portfolio  
invested by a discretionary fund manager, intended  to focus on ETFs and corporate bonds  (with 90% 
actually invested  in international  equities),  anticipating a risk level of 6-7 out of 10, was too risky for Mr Hs 
financial and personal circumstances.
Mr Hs gross earnings were  well below the national median for full-time workers.  He had an outstanding  
mortgage (possibly  jointly  with his partner) of over £170,000.  He had only £10,000 on deposit,  jointly with his 
partner, and no investments other than his pension provision. He was 47 at the time the suitability  letter  was 
issued. He therefore had limited time in which to make  up any losses incurred.  Given these  circumstances, I 
agree with the adjudicator that Mr H didnt have the capacity to absorb the losses that might arise from 
holding investments  with the risk level of the Aggressive Model Portfolio.
For these  reasons, I think the level of risk of the investment portfolio  recommended by Torch was unsuitable 
for Mr H, and it represented a higher risk than he was in a position to take,  or was prepared  to take. 
was the new arrangement more expensive or less expensive than  Mr Hs previous pension?
Torch advised Mr H that moving to the SIPP would mean paying lower  charges than on his existing plan, but 
I conclude this wasnt  the case.  If I consider the total costs of the move to the SIPP, including  Torchs fees, 
then Im satisfied that the new arrangement  was more expensive than Mr Hs previous pension.
Torch argues that adviser charges are an entirely separate issue.  But as far as I can tell, the advisers  fees 
would only be paid if the transfer was made. So as the advice appears to have been paid for on a contingent 
basis, I think its right to make the comparison including the adviser charges in the figures  for the SIPP. If the 
transfer hadnt  been  made  which of course was an option  then the adviser fees wouldnt  have been 
incurred. In my view,  the only fair comparison  to be made should  include  all of the charges Mr H would pay 
for each option.
The illustration supplied by Torch showed  that at all three levels of growth used in the comparison,  the 
benefits from the Scottish Widows plan were greater than those from the proposed SIPP invested in the 
Aggressive Model  Portfolio  when adviser charges  were included. I also note the annual charge by the 
stockbroker used by Torch in its analysis was 0.65%, while in fact the charge  was 0.85%. This means the 
illustration underestimated  the impact of charges  on the proposed SIPP.
Ref: DRN57987237My understanding is that moving  to the SIPP meant Mr H would pay more  in overall charges  than he would  
pay if he had stayed with his existing  pension  arrangement. But even if Im wrong on that and there was 
broad equivalence or even a marginal  saving within the SIPP, my view is that this wouldnt  justify the move 
from the existing plan for all the other reasons set out in this decision.
what alternatives were open  to Mr H to meet his objectives? 
I note the alternative of Mr H staying with his existing pension plan was set out in the suitability letter.  Torch 
discussed the risk level that would be appropriate for Mr H and compared the costs of Mr H staying with his 
existing plan and moving to the SIPP invested in the Aggressive Model  Portfolio. Torch recommended  the 
new arrangement on the basis that it was cheaper than Mr Hs existing plan and his investment  aims were  
most suited to the Aggressive Model Portfolio.
For the reasons  Ive given and on the basis of the available information, I dont believe the new arrangement 
was cheaper than Mr Hs existing  plan and I dont think the level of risk of the Aggressive  Model Portfolio was 
suitable for Mr H.
Ive considered the actual funds in which Mr H was invested with Scottish Widows, according  to the portfolio 
report Torch  obtained at the time. It seems nearly half the 71M AP Balanced D Acc fund was invested in 
equities (international and UK), balanced out by investment amounts in other asset classes such  as fixed  
interest and money  markets.  I dont think these fund characteristics would have been particularly  inconsistent 
with Mr Hs attitude to risk. So it isnt clear to me why Mr H needed  to do anything at all with his existing  
pension funds  at the time of the advice. Therefore my view is that his objectives  could have been satisfied by 
simply staying where he was.
the transfer of funds  from the Aegon plan
I agree with the adjudicator that had it not been for Torchs actions,  Mr Hs funds  from his Aegon plan 
wouldnt have ended up sitting as cash in the SIPP.
Clearly something went wrong during  the fact finding  process   Mr H had a further pension plan which hadnt 
been recorded or taken into account in the advice.  Its not clear  how that happened.  But Torch became  
aware of the omission during August 2015, a few days after the Scottish  Widows funds had been transferred 
to the SIPP. And things  continued to go wrong  the Aegon  funds were  later transferred  to the SIPP but 
werent invested.
Torch says the actual transfer  of the Aegon funds was made  without its advice. But Torch  has also told us 
that it didnt contact  Mr H about the Aegon plan, either on first learning about it or later when the funds  were 
transferred to the SIPP. Torch knew  things  had gone wrong but it declined  to communicate  with Mr H about 
the problem, either to query the situation or to seek his instructions. I dont think  Torch acted fairly  or 
reasonably when it decided not to contact Mr H.
Ive explained above why I think Torch was wrong  to have advised  Mr H to set up the SIPP  and transfer his 
funds from the Scottish Widows plan. Without the establishment of the SIPP, Mr Hs other pension  funds 
would have remained with Aegon. Even after the SIPP  was established,  Torch still had an opportunity  to 
prevent a further problem arising with respect to the Aegon funds.  But it chose not to communicate  with Mr 
H. If Torch  had contacted Mr H in August 2015 on learning about the Aegon plan, I think its unlikely that his 
funds would have been transferred to the SIPP to remain  in cash. For these  reasons, I think  Torch should  
compensate Mr H for any losses resulting from the Aegon funds  being transferred to the SIPP and remaining  
in cash.
in summary
For the reasons  set out above, I dont think Torch acted fairly and reasonably when it advised  Mr H to move 
his pension funds from his Scottish Widows plan to the SIPP and to invest them in the stockbrokers 
Aggressive Model  Portfolio.  My view is that, suitably advised,  Mr H would  have remained in his Scottish  
Widows plan.  I also conclude  that had it not been for Torchs actions,  the funds from Mr Hs Aegon  plan 
Ref: DRN57987238wouldnt have been transferred to the SIPP  and left there as cash. If Torch had acted fairly and reasonably, I 
believe Mr H would have  remained in his Aegon plan.
fair compensation
Mr H has complained that the stockbroker didnt actually  invest  the funds  in line with the instructions it was 
given, and as a result  he suffered further losses. Torch too has said the majority of the investments the 
stockbroker made bore no resemblance  to Torchs judgement of the type of investment that was suited to Mr 
H. As I said above, theres a separate claim  against the stockbroker and its now in the hands of the FSCS. I 
make no findings on the stockbrokers actions in this decision.
My provisional  conclusion here is that the transfer to the SIPP and subsequent intended investment in the 
stockbrokers model portfolio, as recommended by Torch, wasnt suitable for Mr H in the first place. In my 
view, Mr H should have remained in his existing plan with Scottish Widows. So fair redress would  be based 
on comparing the notional transfer value  of the Scottish Widows plan with the notional transfer value of the 
SIPP if the stockbroker had managed the model portfolio in line with its stated objectives  and investment 
approach.
The stockbrokers stated benchmark for the Aggressive  Model Portfolio was the FTSE UK Private Investors  
Stock Market Global Growth Index. I therefore consider this index  to be a fair and reasonable method for 
determining likely investment performance had the stockbroker followed the portfolios stated objectives and 
investment strategy.
I note some of the funds  from Mr Hs Scottish Widows  plan werent transferred to the stockbroker and 
instead remained in cash in the SIPP.  Fair compensation requires that Torch put Mr H in the position  he 
would have been in if those funds had remained in his Scottish Widows plan.
In my view,  Mr H should also have  remained in his existing plan with Aegon. Those funds  remained in cash  
after they were transferred to the SIPP. Fair compensation  requires that Torch  put Mr H in the position he 
would have been in if those funds had remained in his Aegon plan. 
Subject to my final decision remaining the same, Torch should therefore undertake the following:
Establish, as at the date of my final decision, the notional value (A) of Mr Hs Scottish  Widows 
pension plan that was transferred to the SIPP,  had that pension  plan remained in place.
Establish, as at the date of my final decision, the notional value (B) of Mr Hs Aegon pension plan 
that was transferred to the SIPP,  had that pension plan remained  in place.
Establish, as at the date of my final decision, the notional value (C) of the proportion of Mr Hs 
Scottish Widows  pension plan that was transferred in August  2015 to the stockbroker  for investment, 
had the same proportion been invested in the FTSE UK Private Investors Stock Market Global  
Growth Index.
Establish the actual  value  (D) of the total cash amount  in Mr Hs SIPP, as at the date of my final 
decision.
The sum of A and B is what Mr Hs Scottish Widows and Aegon pension funds  would be worth today  if they 
hadnt been transferred to the SIPP. The sum of C and D is what  Mr Hs pension  funds would be worth today 
if, after the funds from both previous plans were transferred to the SIPP, the stockbroker had managed the 
funds it received in line with the stated objectives and investment approach of the model portfolio. If the sum 
of A and B is larger than the sum of C and D, then Mr H has suffered a loss that should  be compensated.  
Torch should therefore pay (A +B)  (C+D)  to Mr H if the result of this calculation is positive.
An inherent property of this calculation is that it offsets any gain against any loss. For example, if the FTSE  
UK Private Investors Stock Market Global  Growth Index has performed  better  than the Scottish  Widows  plan, 
Ref: DRN57987239then that gain will be offset against the loss resulting  from the cash  in the SIPP  growing  less than the Aegon  
plan.
In this respect, my provisional decision differs from the adjudicators recommendation,  which  made no 
provision for offsetting  gains against losses. 
In this complaint, the result of the change in the calculation method may be that the compensation  due to Mr 
H is less than that proposed by the adjudicator. The calculation may even show no loss. I realise this will 
come as a disappointment to Mr H but, in my view, it wouldnt  be fair or reasonable for losses from one part 
of the assessment to be compensated while at the same  time gains in the other part of the assessment were 
ignored.
If compensation is due, the amount should if possible  be paid into Mr Hs SIPP.  The payment should  allow 
for the effect of charges  and any available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt  be paid into the SIPP if it 
would conflict with any existing  protection or allowance.
If the payment into the SIPP isnt possible  or has protection or allowance implications, it should be paid 
directly to Mr H as a lump sum after making a notional deduction of 15%. The payment would otherwise  have 
been used to provide pension  benefits,  25% of which  would be tax free and the rest would  have been taxed 
according to Mr Hs likely income tax paying status  in retirement  presumed to be 20%. And so the 15% 
deduction adequately reflects this.
Any loss should be paid within 28 days of Torch  being notified of Mr Hs acceptance of my final decision.  If 
its paid later, Torch  should add simple interest at 8% from the date of my decision to the date of payment.
The adjudicator recommended that Torch should additionally  pay £300 to reflect the trouble  and upset  
caused to Mr H. I think thats fair and reasonable, given the events that have transpired and the uncertainty 
over his financial future which had its genesis in the unsuitable transfer to the SIPP.
As a result  of these events, Mr H is likely  to find himself with some of his pension  funds on deposit in his 
SIPP, receiving no investment return and without an investment strategy. To put him, as closely as possible, 
into the position  he would  be in now if he hadnt transferred to the SIPP,  provision should be made for advice 
to enable him to invest the funds appropriately.  I cant tell with any accuracy  how much it will cost, so I need 
to award a reasonable  sum. I think it would be fair and reasonable to award up to £1,000 for this purpose.  Im 
therefore minded to require Torch to pay Mr H up to £1,000, upon the production of an invoice  if required, to 
enable him to take advice elsewhere  on how he should invest his pension  funds.
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that Im minded to uphold this complaint and to require Economic Financial 
Solutions IFA Ltd to pay Mr H the amounts set out above.
Colin Brown
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5798723