K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs H says Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold them a payment  protection  insurance 
(PPI) policy.  
background and summary to complaint
Mr and Mrs H bought  the policy in 2010  at the same  time as taking out a mortgage. They  
applied for the mortgage and PPI policy in branch.  
The policy provided  cover  for Mr and Mrs H for accident, sickness, and unemployment  
subject to its exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay £275.47 a month towards Mr and 
Mrs Hs mortgage balance in the event of each of them  making a successful  claim.  At the 
time, it cost £38.30  a month. 
At the time,  Mr H was employed  as a warehouse assistant.  He has told us he was entitled to 
up to six months sick and redundancy pay. Mr H has said he was in good health at the time 
of the sale. Mr H had broken his fingers  in 1990 and missed three months work but was in 
good health at the time the PPI was sold.
Mrs H was employed as a care assistant.  She has told us she was entitled to three  months 
sick pay and six months  redundancy pay. Mrs H has said she was in good health at the time 
of the sale. She had some medical issues  relating to pregnancy some years before  the sale.
Mr and Mrs H say they had savings worth between three-  and six-months salary. 
Bank of Scotland has sent us screenshots to show that the mortgage account started in 
1986 and Mr and Mrs H took out a further advance in 2010. 
Mr and Mrs Hs representative has made lengthy  and substantial  representations on their behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr and Mrs Hs representative says:
Bank of Scotland failed  to meet the sales standards  which applied at the time.  In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance  for businesses  on handling 
PPI complaints under DISP App 3, it should  be presumed Mr and Mrs H wouldnt have 
taken out the policy  and the complaint should  be upheld. Mr and Mrs Hs 
representatives believe there  to be no evidence to rebut  that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress, which are some of the 
most common  reasons  people are off work. This significantly  reduced  the value of cover;
The true costs  including  interest and the fact it was unlikely you could make a 
successful claim meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good faith means Bank of Scotland should 
have told Mr and Mrs H about  the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost  good  faith also means  Bank of Scotland should have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mr and Mrs H and 
the impact they would have had on their chances of making a claim;
Ref: DRN55353112The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage  is generally 
someones biggest ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the time it would  
be most  needed; and
The information Mr and Mrs H received was misleading. These policies were promoted 
as providing peace  of mind, but the number of exclusions  and limitations on the scope of 
the cover meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr and Mrs H disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion for several  reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Hs. I dont intend to set that 
out in much detail  here, but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Hs complaint.
Mr and Mrs H arranged a further  advance on their mortgage after mortgage lending became 
regulated in October 2004  this led to the whole  mortgage becoming  an FCA regulated 
mortgage. That means the unfair  relationship provisions set out in s.140A of the Consumer 
Credit Act, the Supreme  Court judgment in Plevin about s.140A of that Act and the rules and 
guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission in light of the Plevin judgment, arent  applicable.
This sale took place  in 2010 after the sale of general  insurance  products like this became 
regulated by the Financial Services Authority (FSA) in January 2005 and after the FSA 
renewed its insurance conduct  rules in January 2008. So, the FSAs and the FCAs 
overarching principles for businesses and insurance conduct rules  (ICOBS) are applicable to 
this complaint.
Its also relevant to note that there  have for some  time been codes governing the sale of 
insurance products  such as PPI. There is much in common between  the present statutory 
regulatory regime and the non-statutory provisions that preceded  it (and, indeed, the 
position at law). 
Although the non-statutory provisions no longer apply as specific requirements on those 
selling insurance,  I consider they still represent a helpful guide to good  industry  practice. 
As a result, its appropriate for me to take them into account along with the relevant 
ICOBS rules and the other relevant considerations.
Ref: DRN55353113In the period immediately before statutory regulation in 2005, there was a period of industry 
self-regulation by the General Insurance  Standards  Council (GISC). It published  The 
General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance Code for private customers   the 
GISC Code. This set out minimum  standards of good practice for its members  to follow 
when selling  insurance, including PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
Bank of Scotland, selling insurance  at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice  for all 
intermediaries (Including Employees  of Insurance Companies) other  than Registered 
Insurance Brokers   The ABI Code.  
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance  on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone  Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries 
The sale took place  after the sale of mortgage products became regulated by the FSA. So, 
the mortgage conduct of business rules  (MCOB)  are applicable to this complaint. Prior to 
regulation subscribing  lenders and mortgage intermediaries followed a voluntary mortgage 
code. While predominantly about mortgage  related matters, it also included  some insurance-
related commitments.  As with the sale of general insurance, there is much in common  
between the pre and post-regulatory position.
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. The sale took place after insurance mediation became  a regulated  activity  in January 
2005, so Bank of Scotland was required to take into account the provisions in DISP  App 3 
when considering Mr and Mrs Hs complaint.
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If Bank  of Scotland gave advice,  whether it advised Mr and Mrs H with reasonable care 
and skill  in particular, whether the policy was appropriate  or suitable for them, given 
their needs and circumstances. 
Ref: DRN55353114-Whether Bank of Scotland  gave Mr and Mrs H sufficient,  appropriate and timely information  
to enable them to make an informed choice about whether to take out the policy,  including  
drawing to their attention and highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading  way  the 
main provisions  of the policy and significant  limitations and exclusions. 
-If, having considered these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr and 
Mrs H, I must then go on to consider whether and to what  extent Mr and Mrs H suffered 
loss or damage  and what  I consider  would  amount  to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr and Mrs H 
and Bank  of Scotland, Ive decided  not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Hs complaint. Ive set out my 
reasoning below. 
did Mr and Mrs H know they had a choice?
Bank of Scotland had to make it clear that the PPI policy was optional.  
Mr and Mrs H completed  an application  form specifically  for the PPI 
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely Mr and Mrs H knew the policy was 
optional and they agreed to take it out without undue pressure. 
did Bank of Scotland provide advice?
Both Bank of Scotland and Mr and Mrs H agree  that advice was provided  during this sale. 
This means  Bank of Scotland had to advise Mr and Mrs H with reasonable care and skill, in 
particular whether the policy was appropriate  or suitable given their needs and circumstances.
the advice
While I dont know what was discussed  in the meeting, the documentary evidence suggests  
that Bank  of Scotland took some steps to establish  whether the policy was a suitable 
recommendation for Mr and Mrs H. The adviser  had information about some of Mr and 
Mrs Hs financial  circumstances  as part of the mortgage application. But although Mr and 
Mrs H were asked  some  questions about their employment and health   I dont think Bank of 
Scotland did enough to ensure the PPI was suitable. 
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded Bank of Scotland  did all it should have 
done to determine whether the policy was suitable for Mr and Mrs H given their circumstances. 
So, Im not persuaded Bank  of Scotland advised with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded Bank of Scotland did all it should have done to make sure the policy 
was suitable for Mr and Mrs H, I do think its more likely than not that the policy  was 
ultimately suitable for them.  In reaching  that conclusion Ive taken into consideration:
-Mr and Mrs H met the eligibility criteria  for the policy.
Ref: DRN55353115-Mr and Mrs H had a need for the policy  it seems likely that Mr and Mrs Hs ability to 
continue to meet their mortgage repayments  would have been put under strain if one of 
them was not working for an extended  period of time  even allowing for the 
employment benefits and savings they had at the time.
-The monthly cost of the policy appears to have been affordable for Mr and Mrs H. 
-The exclusions and limitations  didnt make the policy unsuitable for Mr and Mrs H. There 
was nothing  about Mr and Mrs Hs employment or occupation  which would have made  it 
difficult for them to claim. And they didnt have any pre-existing medical  conditions  that 
could affect their ability to claim.  The issues theyve told us about appear to have been 
acute conditions,  so I dont think they made the policy unsuitable. 
-While  the policy would only pay benefits for a maximum  of 12 months for each claim for 
disability and unemployment, it still provided  useful cover given Mr and Mrs Hs 
circumstances.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Bank  of Scotland  gave Mr and Mrs H 
sufficient information  about the cover provided  by the policy  to enable them to understand 
what Bank of Scotland was recommending to them and make an informed decision about 
whether to follow that advice and take out the policy.
the information
Mr and Mrs H were given a quotation  which in my opinion  clearly set out the cost and 
benefits of the policy.  But the evidence from the time of sale doesnt  tell us whether Bank of 
Scotland gave  sufficient  information about the about  the exclusions  or limitations  before  Mr 
and Mrs H agreed to take out the policy. 
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr and Mrs H Im not persuaded 
Bank of Scotland did enough to present information  about the policy  it was recommending  in 
a way that was fair and reasonable to them. Im not persuaded Bank of Scotland gave Mr 
and Mrs H all of the information they needed  about the policy  to make  an informed decision 
about whether  to follow the recommendation and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr and Mrs Hs representative has raised a 
number of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr and 
Mrs Hs. Ive considered these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost  good  faith means the business should have explained 
the low claims ratio  what Mr and Mrs Hs representative considers to be poor value  
and the fact that much of the premium went to the business rather than the insurer.  
-The common law duty of utmost  good  faith means the business shouldnt have just told 
Mr and Mrs H about the limitations  and exclusions, it should have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to them.  
Ref: DRN55353116Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Hs representatives views on this. The duty of utmost 
good faith in insurance law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose 
material facts and not to make material misrepresentations.  While I cant be certain what a 
court would say  I think its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer  
having to disclose the claims ratio information or explaining the significance of the limitations 
and exclusions in the way Mr and Mrs H have suggested. And taking into account  the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude that Bank  of Scotland ought to have done either. 
what effect did Bank of Scotlands shortcomings have on Mr and Mrs H? To what 
extent did Mr and Mrs H suffer loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that Bank of Scotland didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy  to 
Mr and Mrs H. So, I have gone on to consider  whether it would be fair and reasonable to 
conclude Mr and Mrs H suffered loss and damage as a result.  To answer  this, I must decide 
whether or not Mr and Mrs H would have still taken out the policy,  had Bank  of Scotland 
done things properly. 
While Im not persuaded Bank of Scotland took the steps it should  have done to establish 
whether the policy  it recommended was suitable  for Mr and Mrs H, I have found that the 
policy was ultimately suitable for them.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr and Mrs H have suffered loss 
or damage  in this case primarily  depends  on whether, if Bank of Scotland had explained 
things properly, Mr and Mrs H would have  acted differently, or whether they would have  
taken out the policy  in any event.
Mr and Mrs H say they wouldnt  have  taken it out and believe I should presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. Ive considered the representations of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mr and Mrs H had some  interest  in taking out 
payment protection insurance. By this I mean when Bank of Scotland advised  them  that 
there was a suitable product they could buy that would  protect  their mortgage payments in 
the event they were  unable to work because of accident, sickness and unemployment, they 
concluded they wanted that product. But they made that decision based  on incomplete 
information, meaning what they thought  they were getting is not exactly what they got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr and Mrs Hs circumstances at 
the time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally  wrong  or unsuitable  for them.
As Ive also already explained, the information Mr and Mrs H were given about  the cost and 
benefit was clear. But the information about other aspects of the policy, such as the 
limitations and exclusions  werent as clear as it should have been.  
Ref: DRN55353117In addition, Im not persuaded  Bank of Scotland made clear  exactly what  Mr and Mrs H 
would get back  in return in the event they made a successful claim. But I think its unlikely Mr 
and Mrs Hs expectations about what the policy would pay in the event of a claim (an amount 
sufficient to meet their mortgage  payment) was significantly  different to what  the policy 
actually did  if anything, it is more likely than not that the policy actually  paid more  in the 
event of a claim than they would have expected as there was an additional  cash payment.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr and Mrs H thought they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical conditions and symptoms  that Mr and 
Mrs H knew about  or ought  to have known about  before  the start date of the policy,  
unless they had been symptom free for 24 months  prior to claiming;  
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health conditions  
placing more onerous evidential requirements to support a claim on those  grounds;
The policy limited,  and in some situations,  excluded unemployment cover if Mr and 
Mrs H werent permanent employees;
The requirement that in order to be eligible  for a disability claim  Mr or Mrs H be unable  
to do their own job, a similar job or any paid work which  their experience,  education or 
training reasonably  qualified them to do;
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, rather than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Mr and Mrs H pause for thought  and may well have caused them to conclude the policy wasnt  
as good as they thought,  and they might have  decided  not to proceed. The limitations  on the 
cover, when  coupled  with the other shortcomings in this sale, might  have  dissuaded some  
consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs H from taking out the policy.  
But, the evidence  about Mr and Mrs Hs circumstances at the time of sale shows  that the 
policy wasnt fundamentally wrong  or unsuitable  for them.  Mr and Mrs H were eligible for its 
benefits and it provided cover that, despite  its limitations and exclusions,  couldve proved 
valuable to them should the insured risks have become a reality. I also havent  seen any 
evidence to suggest Mr and Mrs H wouldve been  caught by any of the significant exclusions 
 Mr and Mrs H didnt have any pre-existing medical  conditions (the issues theyve 
mentioned being acute  conditions) and were  in permanent employment. So, I still think  they 
had some good reasons to take the policy out.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were  more onerous than Mr and Mrs 
H might  reasonably have  expected. But its unlikely they would have  expected to be able to 
make a disability claim without having  to provide some  evidence to support that claim. And 
while this limitation  might  have dissuaded  some consumers in slightly  different 
circumstances to Mr and Mrs H from taking out the policy, Mr and Mrs H, in their 
circumstances, still had some good  reasons to take it out.
Ref: DRN55353118If Mr and Mrs H had known they could only claim for disability if one of them was unable  to 
do both their job and any similar job which in the insurers view they might reasonably 
become qualified for, it might have played into their thinking about  what  they would have 
done. And I accept it may have given them pause  for thought   although its possible they 
may not have been overly concerned given that if Mr and Mrs H were unable  (through 
disability) to carry on their own occupation the chances that they would be able to take up a 
similar occupation would also, in all probability, be limited.
Bank of Scotland may not have told Mr and Mrs H that any claim they made would be limited 
to a 12-month period. This may have differed from what they expected  and might have hoped  
for  but 12 months was a longer  period than Mr and Mrs H would have received full sick pay 
for, and their redundancy  entitlement was also significantly less than 12 months  income.
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mr and Mrs H would still have thought a policy that 
paid up to 12 monthly mortgage  payments  would  have been of benefit to them and would 
help them manage the consequences  should Mr and Mrs H be unable to work  in the 
circumstances covered by the policy. The policy allowed for multiple claims to be made, it 
could help reduce their outgoings at a difficult and uncertain time and ensure their home was 
not placed at risk and might potentially help preserve  Mr and Mrs Hs sick pay or redundancy 
money for other use.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs H would still have taken out the policy. The policy was suitable for them, 
was sufficiently close to what  its likely  they thought they were getting  and provided  benefits 
that would  help them manage  the consequences  if Mr and Mrs H were  made redundant,  or 
unable to work through accident  or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs H would have taken out the policy  in any event notwithstanding  the 
limitations on cover.
Mr and Mrs Hs representatives say the rules  about  how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP 
App 3) make it clear that, where a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration, so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr and Mrs H would not have bought the PPI they bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr and Mrs Hs 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr and 
Mrs H found themselves in as a result of the sale was the same position  they would have 
been in had the breach  or significant failings not occurred. 
Ref: DRN55353119Mr and Mrs H believe the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs H in the position they would have been in if 
they had not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that they would not have taken  out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that they would still have 
taken out the PPI had they been  given clear, fair and not misleading information about the 
policy they were buying. So, Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude Bank  of Scotland should  pay Mr and Mrs H compensation, as 
that would  put them  in a better position  than they would have been in if everything had 
happened as it should have done. 
Im also aware that Mr and Mrs H think Bank of Scotland misrepresented the terms of the 
policy in how it described the PPI. While  I accept there is a possibility a court might conclude 
some of Bank of Scotlands statements misrepresented  the contract, in my opinion  the 
reason why Bank of Scotland failed to act fairly  and reasonably was not because  of what it 
did or didnt  say in the information  it provided   but because the overall information Bank of 
Scotland gave  Mr and Mrs H, in the way it did, was insufficient to meet the standards  I 
consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to have met in 2010 when providing  information 
about an insurance policy. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs Hs representative says a court  might  take 
if it were to find Bank of Scotland  negligently  misrepresented the contract to Mr and Mrs H 
and about the remedy a court might  award  if it were  to find that Bank of Scotland had been 
in breach of its duty of utmost good  faith.  But this doesnt persuade  me to alter my 
conclusions about  what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of the complaint  
including what I think is fair compensation in the circumstances of this case. For the reasons 
Ive already set out I dont think it would be fair and reasonable  to put Mr and Mrs H in a 
better position than if everything had happened  as it should have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  20 May 2021.
Phillip Lai-Fang
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5535311