K820x#14complaint
Ms N on behalf of the estate of Mr D complains that Santander UK plc irresponsibly  allowed 
Mr D a loan and also allowed him to withdraw  a large amount of money without challenge.
background
Ms N says Santander allowed Mr D to take out two loans that were  unaffordable and that the 
lending was irresponsible. She says Mr Ds income  at the time was £175  a week  pension  
and Santander  ought to have checked  that figure  as it was clear he was a vulnerable 
pensioner. Ms N says Mr D also emptied his savings account  by withdrawing large amounts 
of money which  Santander  should  have challenged. She says she later discovered Mr D was 
the victim of a scam.
Santander says it had lent to Mr D on a number of occasions and he manged  his loan 
accounts appropriately. It said it approved the two later applications  which were for a car 
purchase and home improvements and carried out appropriate checks. It also says Mr D 
declared an income of £1,200 a month and that he made regular payments until he became 
unwell. Santander  says it was unaware  of the health problems until told about them by Mr 
Ds family.
Ms N brought the complaint to us and our adjudicator thought  that Santander hadnt made a 
mistake or acted unfairly.  The adjudicator  thought Mr D had applied  for the loans and had 
given the income  details  but in any event the applications had been assessed.  The 
adjudicator thought Mr D had appeared to be able to afford the repayments  as he did make 
them for some time after the loans were taken  out. The adjudicator didnt  think there was any 
evidence that Santander could have  been aware  of Mr Ds health or vulnerability issues  until 
it was told about  them and that he was entitled  to withdraw his own money.
Ms N doesnt accept that view and says in summary  the income declared by Mr D was 
fictitious and he shouldnt  have been  allowed to withdraw £1,000  at a time from his account 
without questioning. She says Santander had a duty of care towards  Mr D and that it should 
write off the last loan.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall view as the adjudicator and for similar reasons. I realise Ms N will be disappointed  by 
my decision.
I have looked  at Santanders  records of Mr Ds accounts and can see that he was a 
longstanding customer and had taken out a number of loans in the past. I think that Mr D 
managed those loan accounts  appropriately  and made the required payments. Im satisfied 
that he applied  for the last two loans  and signed  the agreements  and appears  to have used 
the money from the first loan to buy a car. I appreciate that Ms N says Mr D exaggerated  his 
income on the application form. But I have  no way of knowing if that was the case without 
questioning Mr D about that point  and or why he may have done so. But Im satisfied that the 
important point is that the loan applications were assessed and it appears  that they were 
affordable as Mr D made regular payments  for some time after they were  taken  out. So on 
that basis I cant fairly conclude the loans were unaffordable and so irresponsible
Ref: DRN51256632I think it likely that Mr D was unable to continue making the repayments due to his health 
problems. And I dont think Santander could  have been aware of those health difficulties or 
any vulnerability issues until it was told about them, which was some  considerable time after 
the loans were taken  out.
I have not seen any evidence that suggests  Santander made a mistake  in approving Mr Ds 
cash withdrawal requests. I appreciate that many  of these withdrawals were  for relatively  
large amounts. But I also think  that this was Mr Ds money and he was entitled to spend it as 
he saw fit. I also dont  think it possible to know what if any discussions did take place when 
Mr D withdrew  the money and what he may have said to Santander  staff.  I have already said 
that I dont  think Santander could reasonably have been aware  of any health or vulnerability 
issues unless it was told about them. I cant see that Mr D or his family ever told Santander 
about those issues  until some time after the events complained  of. I would have expected  Mr 
Ds family if they were  aware of any vulnerability or health concerns to have taken steps  to 
have helped him and informed Santander about  them as soon as they were  aware  of them.
Overall Im satisfied that Santander hasnt made a mistake or acted unfairly. I accept  that the 
estate of Mr D is unlikely  to accept my decision but I think  that brings an end to what  we in 
trying to sort out this complaint can do. I am very sorry to read that Mr D may have been the 
victim of a scam but I cant fairly hold Santander responsible  for allowing Mr D to withdraw  
his own money in these  circumstances.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask the estate of Mr D 
to accept or reject my decision before 1 March 2020.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5125663