K820x#14complaint
Ms G is unhappy with the way Zurich Insurance PLC (Zurich) dealt with her claim after her 
car was involved in an incident. 
Background
On 27 February 2019 Ms Gs car was involved  in an incident. Ms Gs vehicle was taken to a 
garage within Zurichs repair network for repairs to be completed,  and Ms G was provided 
with a courtesy car. Zurich arranged for an engineer to inspect Ms Gs car. 
On 4 March Ms Gs car was declared  a total loss. Ms Gs insurance policy explained If your 
car is subsequently  deemed to be a total loss by a Zurich motor engineer, you may retain  the 
courtesy car for 4 days. Ms G has explained that she had calls from the garage asking her 
to return the courtesy  car before expiry of the 4 days. 
On 5 March Zurich told Ms G that her car had been declared a total loss. Ms Gs insurance 
policy had a £100 policy excess.  The base retail  value provided by the engineer was £944.  
The engineer also noted that there  was some pre-accident damage, and so £220 was 
deducted because  of this. This reduced  the engineers final value to £724  (less policy  
excess). 
Ms G was unhappy with this. She didnt agree with the valuation.  Ms G was told a copy of 
the engineers  report would  be requested for Ms G to review.  Ms G was told she would need 
to return the courtesy  car as her policy only provided  for 4 days  entitlement  once a total loss 
decision had been made. 
Ms G arranged to meet  a representative  from the garage (garage  rep) on 8 March to return  
the courtesy car. The garage rep told Ms G that her car had been scrapped.  Ms G was given 
her personal  belongings that had been  taken out of her car. Ms G was also told by the 
garage rep that there was damage  to the courtesy  car. Ms G says the garage  rep also 
threatened to call the police.  
Ms G complained to Zurich about  the garage  rep, and what shed been told about her car 
being scrapped. A representative  from Zurich apologised to Ms G for the way shed been  
spoken to, and confirmed this would  be investigated. Ms G was also told that her car had not 
been scrapped- it was being kept in a storage facility.
Zurich received a copy of the valuation summary which provided further details  about  how 
the value of Ms Gs car had been calculated following the total loss decision.  This showed 
that the base retail  value of £944 recorded  by the engineer was the highest  of the valuations 
provided by three motor  trade guides.  
A representative from Zurich contacted Ms G to discuss the engineers findings, and Ms Gs 
complaint about  the service received from the garage rep. While Ms Gs complaint was 
being investigated Ms G was offered  use of a courtesy car for free for 7 days.
On 11 April Zurich issued  a final response  to Ms Gs complaint. It apologised for the way Ms 
G had been treated by the garage  rep, including the incorrect information shed been told 
about her car getting scrapped, and her belongings being handed to her unexpectedly.  
Zurich offered £350 in recognition of the trouble and upset caused to Ms G. Zurich also 
explained that although the engineer had deducted  £220 due to pre-existing damage, it 
Ref: DRN54510752would pay the valuation of £944 (less  policy excess), in recognition  of the inconvenience  
caused to Ms G. Zurich  also explained that itd settled the issue with damage to the courtesy 
car directly with the garage, and Ms G wont be charged for this. 
Ms G wasnt  happy with this response, saying  that the impact on her was much greater than 
what Zurich had described. She brought her complaint to this service  for investigation. The 
investigator found that the service provided  by Zurich fell short  of what wed expect,  but 
thought its offer was fair, and didnt recommend any further compensation. Ms G didnt  
agree. As the complaint couldnt  be resolved, its been passed to me for decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having reviewed the evidence  I agree 
with the investigators  findings on this complaint for broadly the same reasons. I can 
understand this is likely to come  as a disappointment to Ms G  but I hope my findings go 
some way in explaining why Ive reached this decision.  
Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent  commented on any specific  
point its because I dont  believe its affected  what I think  is the right outcome.
Collection of courtesy car
Ms Gs insurance policy allowed for her to keep the courtesy car for four days  after her car 
was declared a total loss. The total loss decision  was made by the engineer on 4 March  
2019. Ms G met the garage rep on 8 March. But she says she had continual calls from the 
garage before this time,  asking her to return the courtesy car. 
The case  notes show that on 5 March Zurich was in contact with the garage to explain that 
Ms G was entitled to an additional 4 days hire once  a total loss decision is made.  The 
garage advised they normally collect it within 24 hours once declared a TL. I think  its more  
likely than not that Ms G was asked to return the courtesy car when the total loss decision 
was communicated  to her by the garage on 4 March. As Ms Gs policy allowed for her to 
keep a courtesy car for an additional  4 days,  being asked for this to be returned  sooner 
wouldve caused frustration to Ms G. 
The case  notes show that on 7 March several attempts were made by the garage to contact 
Ms G to try and arrange collection of the courtesy car. As Ms G was entitled  to 4 additional 
days use, I think it was fair for the garage  to contact  her on 7 March to arrange for collection 
to take place the next day. 
When Ms G arranged  to meet the garage  rep she was provided with a box containing items 
from her car. She was also told that her car had been scrapped. Ms G had been told earlier  
that week that her car had been  declared a total loss. But she hadnt  been told that her car 
had been scrapped. She wasnt expecting  to meet the garage rep and be provided with a 
box full of her things. 
I think Ms G wouldve  been caused a great  deal of upset and stress in being told that her car 
had been scrapped. Ms G hadnt  made  arrangement to carry a box of items away with her. 
Because of this, she had to call for a cab to help her carry the unexpected  box back  with her. 
Ms G says that she had asked to use the courtesy  car to take her belongings home. But the 
garage rep threatened to call the police  if Ms G attempted to leave with the courtesy car. 
Ref: DRN54510753In response to this complaint Zurich apologised  for the way Ms G had been treated. It 
acknowledged that the garage rep couldve handled things a lot better. Ms Gs car had not 
been scrapped- it was being held in a storage facility. The garage rep shouldve  known this 
before communicating incorrect information  to Ms G. Zurich  also recognised that Ms G 
shouldve been  contacted  beforehand and told that her belongings would be returned  to her. 
She couldve have  then planned  to carry her things back without having  to call a cab. This 
wouldve also avoided the shock and upset caused  to Ms G after being handed her things in 
a box. 
Ms G has explained that she believes she was discriminated  against.  I can appreciate Ms 
Gs frustrations with what happened.  But I havent seen any evidence  to say that Ms G was 
discriminated against in the way she has described. I agree the service provided by Zurich 
couldve been better. 
Zurich couldve taken  positive steps like updating Ms G on her belongings  being  returned to 
her at the same time as drop off of the courtesy car, and providing accurate  information 
about the storage of her car, instead of telling her it had been scrapped. The standard of 
service provided was below what wed expect. So I think its fair that it pays  compensation 
for the impact on Ms G because of these  service failings. 
Zurich offered £350 in recognition of the trouble and upset caused by the way the garage rep 
handled collection of the courtesy  car. I think this amount is broadly in line with what this 
service would recommend. I appreciate Ms G feels like the compensation offered should be 
much higher  because of the stress caused  to her by these events. I dont doubt that Ms G 
was caused a lot of stress and upset  because of the way Zurich handled collection of the 
courtesy car. But I think the £350 offered is fair, so I wont be recommending further 
compensation. 
Scratch on courtesy car
When Ms G returned the courtesy car, the garage rep said that there  was a scratch on the 
courtesy car. Because of this, a dispute  was raised with Zurich.  Ms G was told by the garage  
rep that she was responsible for the scratch. Instead  of investigating  the cause of the 
scratch, Zurich made a business  decision to settle  this dispute directly with the garage.  It has 
explained this decision was because of the trouble and upset caused to Ms G by the garage  
rep at the time of the courtesy car drop off. I think the actions taken by Zurich here were fair. 
Use of courtesy car
Ive seen that following return of the courtesy  car on 8 March,  Ms G logged a formal  
complaint about  the way shed been  treated on 11 March. Ive seen that Zurich made several 
attempts to contact  Ms G in different ways- through phone and email.  Some  of these  
contacts were successful, others  went unanswered. On 22 March,  a rep from Zurich  emailed  
Ms G saying:
Im aware that you will not have  a vehicle at present and due to your vehicle now 
being a total loss there is no further  entitlement on the policy for a replacement  
vehicle however I would be happy  to arrange  a vehicle  for you for 7 days, by way of 
compensation until I have reviewed all your concerns and issues.  Please let me know 
if this would help and I will organise this asap for you.
Ref: DRN54510754Ms G says this wasnt offered properly, and so she should be compensated for the value of 
the courtesy car for the 7 day period instead. Its evident that Ms G was going through  a 
difficult time as she was in and out of hospital  awaiting  an operation, and didnt have  
frequent access to her phone and email. But I think the email from Zurich  about the offer to 
make use of a courtesy car was clear  and fair. I appreciate Ms G says that Zurich should pay 
the equivalent of 7 days hire, as she didnt utilise the offer for a hire car. 
Because of everything that had happed,  Zurich provided Ms G with the option to use a 
courtesy car, which  was more than what her insurance policy allowed for. Zurich didnt have 
to offer this. So I dont  think it would be reasonable to ask it to pay compensation equivalent 
to this offer. 
Total loss valuation 
When Ms Gs car was declared a total loss on 4 March 2019, a rep from Zurich contacted 
Ms G the next day to explain this decision. Ms G was unhappy with the amount offered, and 
the rep agreed  to get the valuation summary  from the engineer. The valuation summary is a 
document which provides a breakdown of the different trade guides used to find out selling 
prices of a car of similar  make  and model.   
Weve also checked  the three trade  valuation  guides Zurich used. Trade  guides are based  
on extensive nationwide research of likely (but not actual) selling prices. They use advertised  
prices and auction prices  to work  out what likely  selling prices wouldve been. We expect 
insurers to use trade  guides  when valuing a car for claims purposes, and based  on the 
circumstances of Ms Gs complaint, I think its fair that they used the trade guides here.
The engineer found that because of damage to Ms Gs car, including  dented panels, a 
deduction of £220 should be applied to value provided by the trade guides. Wed  expect  an 
engineer to provide an independent, professional  opinion. Generally wed say its fair for an 
insurer to rely on an engineers professional  opinion when deciding on the valuation  to pay a 
customer following a total loss decision.  In this case, Zurich chose not to apply the deduction 
found by the engineer. I think these actions  were fair. 
The valuation offered by Zurich following the total loss decision on Ms Gs car is the highest 
of the three values  returned by the trade  guides. Because  of this, I think  Zurichs decision on 
the valuation to pay Ms G for her car was fair. So I wont be asking it to reconsider this.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. The compensation offer from Zurich 
Insurance PLC is fair and reasonable. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 April 2020.
Neeta Karelia
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5451075