K820x#14complaint
Miss G complains  that Barclays Bank UK PLC affected her credit file after she missed  
payments on her accounts.
background
Miss G suffered  an injury  and wasnt able to work. So she contacted  Barclays  about her loan 
and credit card. Although  Barclays agreed to reduce her payments it impacted on her credit 
file. A default was applied and it affected  her application for a mortgage.  Miss G said 
Barclays didnt make her aware that would happen.
Barclays said Miss Gs account had fallen into arrears in February 2018. After speaking  to 
her the bank agreed to hold her payments for two months. It said it would  stop any interest  
or fees but it still had to report the situation  to the credit reference agencies.  Barclays  
apologised if it hadnt been fully explained  when she spoke to the bank. And it credited her 
account with £25 for any inconvenience. But Barclays  said the information about any impact 
on her credit  file was also on her monthly statements. 
Barclays said itd explained about  the impact when theyd discussed  a reduced payment 
plan a month later. Although she wouldnt be charged any interest the reduced  payments 
would be reported  to the credit agencies. So Barclays  didnt  think itd made any mistakes.
Miss G wasnt satisfied  with Barclays response. So she contacted  our service and our 
investigator looked into the matter. She listened to Miss Gs call to Barclays when she said 
she was unable to work.  And she felt the banks adviser had made  it clear  on a number  of 
occasions Miss Gs credit  file would  be affected  if she wasnt  able to make her minimum 
payment. When Barclays had written to Miss G about her accounts itd also said how the 
situation might affect her rating. So she couldnt  say Barclays had done  anything wrong.
Miss G didnt  agree. Barclays  hadnt  explained  what the impact on her credit file actually 
meant. So shes asked  for an ombudsmans final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When the bank  became  aware of Miss Gs financial difficulties I would expect it to respond 
positively and sympathetically. But Miss G says Barclays didnt make her aware it would  
have an impact on her credit file. So Ive looked  very carefully  at whats happened  and 
whether Barclays did anything wrong.
Miss G spoke  to Barclays in January 2018.  Her next minimum monthly payment of £267  was 
due in February. But she wasnt able to afford it. So the direct debit was cancelled  and a 
short term hold was put on the account. 
The hold stopped any further  interest charges or fees being applied.  And Barclays said it 
would put a note on Miss Gs credit file to say why the payments had been missed. Miss G 
contacted Barclays  again in March  2018.  She was still in financial difficulty. And she agreed 
to make reduced payments towards  her account.  
Ref: DRN59171732After listening to the calls I do think Barclays explained that if Miss G didnt make  her 
minimum monthly payments or if she entered into a reduced payment plan then it would 
need to report  the situation to the credit agencies. Barclays,  like all banks, has a 
responsibility to report  accurately how accounts are managed. 
From what  Ive heard I think  Barclays explained  the impact on Miss Gs credit file clearly and 
on more than one occasion. And it also sent a number of letters and monthly statements 
which confirmed her credit rating  would  be affected.  The letters and statements also showed 
what payments had been missed.
I realise Miss G says Barclays  didnt explain properly what that meant. But having looked at 
the correspondence I do think Miss G shouldve been aware  that missing payments would 
impact on her rating.  For example the monthly  statements  warn  that failing  to make your 
minimum payment can mean  that you have broken the terms of this credit agreement  and 
could result in us taking  legal  action  against you. It could  lead to you having  to pay additional 
costs and make it more difficult for you to obtain credit in future.
Based on everything  Ive seen I think Barclays responded positively and sympathetically 
when Miss G was unable to work. After reviewing Miss Gs finances and payments Barclays  
agreed to waive  interest and charges  for two months. And the bank agreed  a reduced 
payment plan to help her through the difficult  period.  
And I think Barclays made it clear to Miss G that if she missed her minimum monthly  
payments  or if she agreed a reduced payment plan  then it would have to report the 
situation to the credit  agencies. And her credit rating would be affected as a result.  I realise 
Miss G will be unhappy  with this outcome. And I do sympathise with the situation she finds  
herself in. But I cant really say Barclays has done anything  wrong.  And I wont  be asking it 
to do anything more.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 August 2019.
Andrew Mason
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5917173