K820x#14complaint
Mr J complains about issues  hes experienced when  he voluntary terminated  an agreement 
with BMW Financial  Services  (GB)  Limited.
background
In May 2016  Mr J was supplied with a new car and entered into a hire purchase agreement  
with BMWFS.
In April 2017 Mr J experienced an issue with the EGR. A replacement valve was fitted under 
warranty.
In September  2018 Mr J asked about voluntary terminating his agreement.  BMWFS told him 
this would cost £2,218.01.
On 14 September  2018 BMWFS issued a recall notice due to issues with the EGR valve.  Mr 
J asked BMWFS if he could reject  the car because of the ongoing  issues  with the EGR valve  
on his car.
In early October 2018 the EGR valve was replaced  again as part of the recall programme. 
BMWFS told Mr J it declined his request to reject because there  was no evidence  that the 
EGR fault had recurred following the first replacement  under warranty.  It said the second  
replacement had been as part of the recall and not because of a further  problem.
Mr J asked BMWFS for a settlement  figure.  On 11 October 2018 BMWFS told Mr J it would 
cost £21,800.63 to settle the agreement.
Mr J didnt settle the agreement so BMWFS continued to take monthly repayments.
Mr J then asked BMWFS about  voluntary  termination again. He says he was provided  with 
conflicting information about the amount required from him. This was resolved when Mr J 
spoke to customer services who apologised for the incorrect information and confirmed the 
correct figure.
Mr J returned the voluntary termination paperwork on 18 January 2019 and made a payment 
to settle the account on 23 January 2019.
On the same  day BMWFS made  arrangements  for the car to be collected. Mr J says that the 
arrangements were unfair because he was only offered collection on a weekday  which  didnt 
fit in with his working  pattern.
Following collection of the car an inspection found  damage which  went  beyond fair wear  and 
tear. BMWFS advised Mr J that as a gesture of goodwill it would waive  these charges. It also 
told Mr J he had no further obligation  under the agreement and that a neutral marker had 
been placed on his credit file.
Mr J says he felt worried  because he didnt  know what a neutral marker meant. He says he 
never missed a payment under the agreement  and didnt expect anything  to be reported on 
his credit file.
Ref: DRN52294852Mr J complained to this service about  the incorrect information provided to him during the 
voluntary termination  process, the problems  he experienced arranging  for the car to be 
collected and the effect  of the marker on his credit  file. He also feels that the car wasnt  of 
satisfactory quality because of the issues with the EGR and says he shouldve been allowed 
to reject it.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. He said there wasnt enough  evidence  to show 
that the car wasnt  of satisfactory quality at the point of supply. He also said that BMWFS 
had provided Mr J with a clear quote when he asked about  voluntary termination and that it 
couldnt be held responsible for the operating  hours of the agents who collected  the car.
Mr J didnt agree. He said the EGR  valve wasnt the only issue  hed experienced with the car 
and that it had been returned to the garage  after the first EGR  repair  with a coolant issue.  Mr 
J says the coolant  issue  was resolved when  the EGR was replaced the second  time so it 
must have  been  related to the initial EGR issue.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because BMWFS has supplied the car under a hire purchase agreement theres an implied  
term that it has to be of satisfactory quality. Cars are of satisfactory quality if they are of a 
standard that a reasonable person would expect, taking into account all of the relevant 
circumstances such as (amongst other  things) the age and mileage  of the car and the price  
paid. In order to uphold this complaint I would need to be satisfied that the car wasnt  of 
satisfactory quality at the point of supply due to an inherent defect rather  than general wear  
and tear.
Mr J and BMWFS disagree  about  whether there  was a fault with the EGR at the point of 
supply which  wasnt successfully repaired. In order to reach a decision,  I need to look at all 
of the available evidence and determine, on the balance of probabilities, whether I think the 
car was of satisfactory quality at the point of supply.
Mr J experienced problems with the EGR  valve approximately 11 months after the point of 
supply. The EGR  was replaced under  warranty. Mr J says he continued to experience issues  
including excessive coolant consumption. The car was returned  to the dealership  but it was 
unable to diagnose a coolant leak or find any fault codes.  The EGR was replaced again as 
part of a recall. Mr J says this rectified  the issue with the coolant.
Under the Consumer  Rights Act 2015,  its generally  the responsibility  of the business to put 
things right if a fault arises  in the first 6 months.  The business is allowed  one opportunity to 
repair the fault. After  6 months its up to the consumer to show  that the fault was present or 
developing at the point of supply.
In this case the fault arose after the first 6 months.  So its up to Mr J to show that the fault 
was present at the point of supply  and/or  that the repair wasnt  successful. Given  the length  
of time and the mileage covered before the fault presented itself,  and in the absence of an 
expert report stating that the fault was a point of supply fault, I cant  safely conclude that the 
car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of supply.
Ref: DRN52294853I appreciate that following the first replacement of the EGR  Mr J experienced a coolant 
issue. But theres no evidence that Mr J experienced further problems with the EGR after the 
first replacement. And although  he experienced issues with the coolant, theres nothing to 
show that there was a fault with the coolant, or that a coolant issue  was connected to the 
EGR. If the first repair hadnt been  successful I would  have  expected Mr J to experience 
continued issues with the EGR and I would have expected the garage to find fault codes. 
Without conclusive evidence that the EGR  issues continued after the first repair and that the 
coolant issue was directly related to the EGR,  I cant conclude  that the repair wasnt 
successful.
For these reasons Im unable to say that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of 
supply. So I dont think BMWFS acted unreasonably  in declining to accept  a rejection of the 
car.
In relation to the other complaint points,  Im satisfied that BMWFS  provided adequate  
information to Mr J about the voluntary  termination  process. I appreciate that Mr J was 
unhappy about the arrangements  for collection of the car. Collection was arranged  by a third 
party so Im unable  to hold BMWFS responsible for the third partys operating hours.  In any 
event, I can see that the car was collected within a week of the agreement being terminated  
which I think is a reasonable time.
BMWFS has explained  that a neutral marker  has no impact on a credit file  it simply records 
that the agreement has been  settled. I hope this allays Mr Js concerns.
Taking all of the circumstances of the complaint into account, Im satisfied  that BMWFS has 
acted fairly  and I wont be asking it to do anything further.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 September  2019.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5229485