K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
1996. Mr and Mrs P say AIB Group (UK) Plc mis-sold them PPI.
background and summary to complaint
The background and circumstances leading  up to this complaint, which includes Mr and 
Mrs Ps circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy  benefits, limitations 
and exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information  here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the mis-sale  complaint,  but they thought AIBs offer to pay 
back some  of the cost of the PPI because of the non-disclosure of high commission and 
profit share Mr and Mrs P paid, was fair in the circumstances.
Mr and Mrs Ps representative disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion   they didnt raise 
any new or additional points but repeated the same complaint  points and arguments theyd 
previously made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations;  regulators  rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.  
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and published 
some example final decisions that set out in detail how these  relevant  considerations may 
apply to PPI sales  like Mr and Mrs Ps. I havent set out that detailed information here but Ive 
taken into account  all relevant considerations in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ps complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale complaint. Ive also considered  the 
issue of non-disclosure  of commission. 
And Ive decided AIB should have disclosed the commission it received - but that AIBs offer 
to refund some of the cost of PPI to compensate for the unfairness caused is fair in the 
circumstances. Ive summarised my reasons for each of these conclusions  below.  
In summary,  my reasons for not upholding the mis-sale part of this complaint  are:
I think AIB likely made it clear that Mr and Mrs P didnt have to take out the PPI and they 
chose to take it out. I say this because AIB has provided a copy  of Mr and Mrs Ps 
mortgage application from the time. Looking at this I can see there is no reference  made  
to PPI here  so I find it unlikely  Mr and Mrs P wouldve been under the impression that 
they had to have PPI or that it was an integral part of the mortgage.
Ref: DRN52809132AIB says Mr and Mrs P would have had to complete a separate  application to take out 
PPI. And while it no longer has a copy of their application, it has provided an example, 
which it says represents what  Mr and Mrs P would have likely seen and completed. This 
shows the applicant  would have had to indicate the level of benefit they wanted and how 
they wanted the cover i.e. sole or joint cover. A direct debit mandate to allow the 
premiums to be taken was also required.
So taking everything into account, and in the absence of persuasive evidence  to the 
contrary, I think Mr and Mrs P likely chose to take out PPI by completing the required 
application and did so without undue pressure.
AIB says it didnt recommend the PPI to Mr and Mrs P. And Ive not seen anything  to 
persuade me that it did. So AIB didnt have  to check that the PPI was right or suitable  for 
them. But it did have to give Mr and Mrs P enough  clear  and timely information so they 
could decide for themselves if it was right for them.
Its possible the information AIB gave Mr and Mrs P about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Ive found that they chose  to take it out - so it looks  like they wanted 
this type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong  for Mr and Mrs P  for example 
they werent affected by the significant exclusions on or limits to the cover such  as those 
for existing medical conditions. And they said they didnt have any enhanced sick pay or 
savings they could use to make  the repayments  on their mortgage if they werent  able to 
work. It also looks  like the policy was affordable  so it seems  like it would have been 
useful for them if something went wrong. Because of this I dont think Mr and Mrs P 
would have declined  the cover had AIB done anything more.
While  the policy contained a limitation  for claims relating to back problems and an 
exclusion on claims for mental  health  conditions, in light of Mr and Mrs Ps 
circumstances at the time of sale and despite its limitations and exclusions, the policy  
wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for them. So I think  they would have  still 
thought they had some good reasons to take the policy  out.
Overall, I consider that Mr and Mrs P would have  still taken out PPI. I think  the policy was 
sufficiently close to what its likely they thought  they were getting based on the information I 
think they were probably given at the time, and I think  the policy could provide a useful 
benefit in a difficult time, given their circumstances at the time. And in those circumstances, I 
think that they would have  taken  out the policy in any event.
Mr and Mrs Ps representative has raised  a number of what  I consider  to be general  
complaint points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These  general  points include:
a claim that the Financial  Ombudsman Service is not correctly  applying the regulators rules and 
guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because  of the number 
of significant exclusions and limitations  of cover coupled with the low claims ratio;  and the duty of 
utmost good  faith meant AIB should have disclosed the poor value and explained the significance of 
the limitations and exclusions  and the impact it had on the chances  of making a claim.
But Mr and Mrs Ps representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts  and 
circumstances of Mr and Mrs Ps individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
Ref: DRN52809133I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr and Mrs Ps particular  
case. But these  points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions  about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint   for the reasons Ive set out above I 
dont uphold the mis-sale  element of this complaint. 
This means  AIB doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs P.
non-disclosure of commission
As I said above, Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission,  including  
whether the non-disclosure resulted in an unfair  relationship under section 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act  and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy  that unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided AIB should have disclosed the commission it received and that 
AIBs offer to refund some  of the cost of PPI to compensate for the unfairness caused is fair. 
My reasons  are set out below.
was there  an unfair relationship?
AIB didnt tell Mr and Mrs P about the high levels of commission and profit share  paid in this 
case. So taking  into account: 
-The Supreme  Court judgment in Plevin1 and the conclusion in that case  that the non-
disclosure of commission could  lead to an unfair relationship;
-The FCAs rules and guidance for handling  complaints about the non-disclosure  of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment  in 
Plevin - which requires a business  to presume that the failure to disclose commission  
gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission  and profit 
share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy; and 
-the likelihood, in my view, that a court would determine that the relationship between AIB 
and Mr and Mrs P was unfair  under section 140A  of the Consumer Credit  Act because 
AIB didnt tell them  about the high levels of commission and profit share in this case  
I dont think AIB acted fairly  and reasonably  in its dealings with Mr and Mrs P because it 
failed to disclose  the high commission  and profit  share.
redress to remedy that unfair  relationship
Im now required to consider what is fair compensation in all the circumstances to remedy  
the unfairness I have  identified.
Mr and Mrs Ps representative has made  a number of representations about this part of the 
complaint including the impact of the Plevin  judgment and sections  140A and 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act on their complaint.
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finan ce Limited [2014]  UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship
Ref: DRN52809134In summary  they have  said Mr and Mrs P should  get back all the money they paid for the 
policy because:  AIB failed to tell Mr and Mrs P about  the high commission and profit-share 
rates paid, the low claims ratio and the restrictions  and exclusions on cover. Because they 
say that meant the policy was poor value, I should  find that Mr and Mrs P wouldnt have 
taken out the policy  had they known about  the level of commission and they should  receive  a 
refund of all the premiums  they paid.
But I dont agree. Im mindful of the following:
-The Supreme  Court judgment in Plevin  made no specific finding about  whether the 
consumer in that case would or would not have bought the PPI policy  had the 
commission been disclosed; 
-A court would have a range of powers available under section  140 B to remedy  the 
unfairness caused by the non-disclosure  of commission  it does not follow that a 
court would automatically order  a return of all the premiums  paid or conclude that a 
consumer would  not have purchased the policy had the commission  been  disclosed; 
and
-The FCA considered  the matter and decided that it wouldnt be appropriate to merge  
the considerations about undisclosed commission in the existing rules  and guidance  
about mis-selling (hence the two-step  approach for firms handling PPI complaints) 
and that the impact  of any undisclosed  commission and any remedy  caused by it 
should be considered at step 2.
Taking into account relevant law and the FCAs rules and guidance,  my role as an 
ombudsman is to determine what redress, if any, would represent fair compensation for 
Mr and Mrs P in order to remedy the unfairness caused by AIB not disclosing the high 
level of commission to them before they purchased  the policy.
So, taking into account: 
-The FCAs guidance usually  requires a business to refund the amounts paid by the 
consumer in commission and profit  share  above 50% of the policys  cost, plus interest in 
order to remedy the unfairness caused  by the failure to disclose the level of commission;
-refunding some  of the money  paid for the PPI policy  in this way is an order  which, in my 
view a court could, in the exercise of its discretion, make  under section 140B of the 
Consumer Credit  Act in order to remedy any unfairness; and
-I am not, as Mr and Mrs Ps representative  suggests, driven to conclude that they 
wouldnt have  purchased  the policy but for AIBs failure to disclose the level of 
commission for the reasons  Ive given above.
I think it was fair for AIB to calculate compensation in line with the FCAs guidance and 
return some  of the money Mr and Mrs P paid for their PPI policy.  
I consider this fairly removes the source  of the unfairness. This is because  it leaves Mr and 
Mrs P with the policy Ive concluded above they would  still have  taken out if AIB had done  
everything it should have done   but with lower commission and profit  share levels.
Ref: DRN52809135So I consider that AIBs  payment of an amount equivalent  to the commission and profit share  
paid in excess of 50% of the policy costs (plus  associated  interest  where applicable) in line 
with the FCAs guidance  to firms is fair in all the circumstances.
 
As AIB has already  paid Mr and Mrs P compensation on this basis, I dont consider it should 
do anything further.  
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  the mis-sale element  of Mr and Mrs Ps complaint or make  any 
award in favour of them for this part of the complaint.
But because of the non-disclosure of commission  and profit  share, Ive decided  that AIB 
Group (UK) Plc should pay Mr and Mrs P an amount equivalent to the commission and profit  
share paid in excess of 50% of the policy cost (plus associated interest where applicable.)  
As I understand that AIB Group (UK) Plc has already paid compensation on this basis, I do 
not consider that it should do anything  more. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 October  2021.
Paul Featherstone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5280913