K822xcomplaint
Mr M complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold him four separate  single premium 
payment protection insurance (PPI)  policies alongside four loans he took out in October 
1999, January  2002, February  2004  and March 2009.
  
background 
Mr M took out various  loans. Lloyds upheld complaints about PPI sold with the loans ending 
7419, 7605 and 2086 which  Mr M originally complained about and told Mr M in its final 
response letter that the loan ending 4103 had no PPI. These  loans are mentioned as a 
background to this complaint but are not part of my final decision.
To be clear, I am looking at four separate loans-  ending 6861, 6130, 6915  and ending  0827 
which Mr M took out. At the same  time he bought single premium PPI policies.
In October  1999 Mr M took out a loan (ending  6861)  for £5000 for a period of five years.  At 
the same  time Mr M bought a single premium PPI policy for which he paid £1,075 up front by 
borrowing more. He would also have paid interest  on the PPI of £336.36  if the loan ran to 
term. This policy would  have covered Mr M for up to 12 months  if he lost his job and for the 
remaining loan term if he couldnt  work  because of an accident or sickness.
Mr M then took out another loan for £10,000 (ending  6130) in January 2002 over a five year 
term. Mr M also took out a single  premium PPI policy. This policy would have  cost him 
£2,121.32 together with interest  payable on the premium of £553.04.It would have covered 
Mr M for accident and sickness  for the remaining  loan term and for up to 12 months  if he lost 
his job.
In February 2004  Mr M applied for a loan (ending 6915) for £11,300 over a period of five 
years. This time the PPI he took out at the same time cost him £2,448.34 which was added  
to the cost of the loan. The interest  cost £704.37. This policy would  have paid Mr M on a 
successful claim  for up to 12 months per claim for unemployment and for the remaining loan 
term if he couldnt work through sickness or an accident.
Mr M had a history of refinancing loans which meant he might have wanted to pay off these 
loans early and cancel the PPI policies. And although hed have received refunds these 
wouldnt have covered the amounts hed still have owed  for the PPI.
For the policies  ending 6861,  6130  and 6915,  Lloyds told Mr M that it would uphold  his 
complaint about  the three policies. It said it shouldnt have  sold Mr M single premium  policies 
where the cost was added  to his loans  and interest was charged.  But it said that monthly 
premium policies would have been  suitable  instead. So it told Mr M it would refund the 
difference between  what  he paid for the single premium PPI and what he would have paid if 
hed taken out regular premium policies  instead.
In March 2009 Mr M took out a further loan (ending 0827) for £5,000 to be repaid over 18 
months. At the same  time he chose a PPI policy  to go with the loan which  was paid for by a 
regular premium. This time the PPI cost him £41.67  per month. The policy would have 
covered him if he lost his job for up to 12 months  per successful claim  or if he couldnt work  
for the remaining term of the loan. Lloyds didnt  think  this complaint should be upheld.
Ref: DRN57252922Our adjudicator told Mr M that he thought the offers made by Lloyds for the policies ending 
6861, 6130 and 6915 were fair. And he said that he didnt think the policy ending 0827  was 
mis-sold. But he told Mr M that Lloyds had made  an offer for unfair  commission  on this policy  
which he thought  was fair. Mr M disagreed  with this view and asked that his complaint be 
referred to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account here.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ms complaint.  Ill explain why.
PPI policies with loans ending 6861, 6130  and 6915.
I think Lloyds made  Mr M aware that he had a choice  about buying the policies, and that he 
chose to take them out. For the loan ending 6861,  Lloyds no longer has the original 
agreement Mr M signed. This isnt unusual given how long ago the sale took place and 
businesses arent  required to keep records indefinitely. But it has sent a sample  of the form 
Mr M would likely have seen. I think  this reflected the application he completed.  On this form 
there is a section which is headed  optional  loan repayment protection And Mr M would have 
had the opportunity of saying yes or no to taking out the PPI. So I think  he more likely  
chose the PPI in 1999 knowing he could refuse  it if he didnt want it.
Lloyds has provided  copies of the loan agreements signed and dated by Mr M for the loans 
ending 6130, 6915. Under the heading The Loan on both the agreements, the financial 
information details  the main  loans. Under the column Optional  Loan Protection Insurance 
loan the costs of the PPI and the monthly repayments are listed  separately.  There is also a 
section on both the loan agreements  which says optional loan protection? and asks 
whether Mr M wanted to take out the premium  along with the loan. The boxes  are crossed  to 
say Mr M wanted the PPI. And Mr M has signed the agreements and dated them. The loans 
and PPI were arranged during branch meetings, and I think  its likely the PPI was discussed  
during the meetings and the agreements reflected that discussion. Overall I think  its more 
likely Mr M knew he had a choice and agreed to take the PPI on these  loans.
It seems  as though Lloyds  recommended  all these policies. That put more responsibility  on 
Lloyds for how it sold these policies and meant it had to take reasonable steps to make sure 
it was suitable  for his circumstances as well as giving Mr M clear  enough  information  so he 
could decide for himself  whether or not to take out the PPI.
Based on what Ive seen  of Mr Ms circumstances at the time I think  it was suitable. Mr M 
was eligible for all the policies  ending  6861,  6130  and 6915. It looks like he was in good 
health and working so I dont think hed have been  affected by any of the main exclusions 
and limitations set out in the terms and conditions which might have made it more difficult to 
make a claim.
These policies would have paid out for up to 12 months if he lost his job and if he couldnt  
work because of an accident  or sickness it would have paid out for the remaining term of the 
loan or until his disability ended. So it would have paid out for potentially longer than his sick 
pay would  have lasted  if he couldnt work through illness or an accident. And if Mr M lost his 
job it would  have been paid out in addition to any savings he had and would have meant he 
Ref: DRN57252923could have used  these to cover  important living expenses which he might have needed to do 
if he wasnt working. And although I appreciate  close  family  would  have wanted  to help this 
type of help cant always be relied  on as and when its needed.
The cost of the policies was shown  on the loan agreements - so I think  overall the costs 
were likely clear. But its possible  that not all the information Lloyds should have given to 
Mr M about the PPI policies was as clear as it could have been. But as Ive found  its likely 
Mr M chose  the PPI policies  so it looks like he wanted  this type of cover. And for much  the 
same reasons as Ive set out above  as to why I think the PPI was suitable for Mr M, I dont 
think he would have  done things differently and not taken  out any PPI policy at all, even if 
hed been given better or clearer information.
But Mr M wouldve only got a limited refund of the premiums  if the policies were cancelled  
early. And his borrowing history would  suggest that this was likely.  Because  of this I think  the 
single premium policies  were mis-sold to Mr M. 
The offers Lloyds made for these particular  PPI sales are known as alternative redress  
(AR). This is when a business thinks the consumer  wouldve have bought  a regular premium 
policy instead of a single premium one. And the redress  puts the customer  in the position 
they wouldve  been in if this had happened. 
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) writes the rules about how businesses should  deal 
with complaints about PPI. The FCA considered the type of offer that Lloyds made in this 
case and they thought  the type of offer was fair to make in some circumstances. And the 
FCA said once this type of offer was made, a business didnt have to do anything else to 
fairly resolve  the complaint.  It says a business  can offer AR when the business:
recommended a policy, that didnt offer a proportionate refund of the single premium,  
without considering if the consumer might want to repay  or refinance the loan early 
or;
didnt tell the consumer they wouldnt receive  a proportionate refund of the single 
premium amount if they repaid or refinanced the loan early or;
didnt tell the consumer the premium would be added to the loan, that it would  attract 
interest and what that interest would be or;
didnt tell the consumer the term of the policy  was shorter  than the term of the loan 
and; 
there was nothing else wrong  with how the PPI was sold that would mean the 
consumer wouldnt have bought a regular  premium policy.
Having looked  at what happened  with these three  sales, I think the only mistake Lloyds 
made when  it sold these policies was covered by the AR guidance.  Apart from that, I think 
the policies were right for Mr M. So I think Lloyds offer is fair in relation to the policy numbers 
6861, 6130 and 6915.
PPI policy  with loan ending 0827
Ive next gone on to look at the PPI sold to Mr M with his loan ending  0827 in 2009. This PPI 
policy was paid for by a regular premium of £41.67 monthly.
Ref: DRN57252924The first thing Ive thought  about  was whether Mr M was given a fair choice about buying  it. 
Mr M says this PPI policy was automatically  added to the loan and when he questioned  it he 
was told the loan wouldnt be agreed  without  him taking out the PPI. Lloyds has provided  me 
with a copy of the loan agreement and a copy of the demands and needs statement from the 
time. The key financial  information sets out the cost of the loan and the monthly repayments 
and in a separate section at the bottom of the paperwork theres a separate  section about  
the PPI. There is a tick to show Mr M wanted  to buy the PPI and Mr M has signed  and dated  
this part of the application. He also signed separately for the loan. I think its likely  he read 
the form he was signing  and I think the information in it reflected  the discussion hed had 
with the Lloyds representative. The demands  and needs statement shows  that  a discussion 
took place and Mr M told the Lloyds representative that he had no means  that hed want to 
use to meet  his loan repayments if he lost his job or couldnt work. Overall,  I think  Mr M 
chose the PPI and knew  he could leave  it if he didnt want it.
I think a tailored recommendation was made for this PPI policy.  So that meant  Lloyds 
needed to take reasonable steps  to make sure it was suitable for Mr M as well as giving him 
clear enough  information  so that he could decide whether or not he wanted to take out the 
PPI.
Looking at Mr Ms circumstances I think the policy was suitable  for him.
Mr M was eligible for the policy and as he was working and he has told us he was in good  
health, he wouldnt have  been affected by any of the main  exclusions and limitations that 
might have made it more  difficult to make a claim.
Mr M says he would have received 12 months  sick pay from his employer and his family  
could have helped  him if things went wrong  but the policy would have paid out in addition  to 
any sick pay he got from his employer and would have covered him for the full term of the 
loan if he couldnt  work.  And if he lost his job it would have paid out on top of any 
redundancy pay he was entitled  to. And although  I appreciate family would have wanted to 
help if things went wrong, this type of help cant always be relied on as and when necessary.
Mr M says he wasnt given information either written or verbal before or after the loan was 
agreed. And I cant say what Mr M was told so its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr M 
about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve been.  But he chose to take it out - so it looks  
like he wanted this type of cover. And it seems like it would have been useful for him if 
something went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information 
about the PPI would have  put him off taking out the cover.  
 Which means Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr M.
But Lloyds will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr M because: 
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit  share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr M about  that. Because  Lloyds didnt tell Mr M, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Lloyds has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission  and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this 
case.
Ref: DRN57252925Ive thought about everything Mr M has said. But these points dont change  my decision.
what the business needs  to do for policy number ended 0827
Lloyds has to pay back to Mr M any commission and profit  share it got that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium. Lloyds should  also pay back to Mr M any extra  interest he paid 
because of that.
Lloyds should  pay back to Mr M the extra  he paid each  month  because  the commission and 
profit share it got was more than 50% of the cost of PPI. Lloyds should  also pay Mr M 8%* 
simple interest on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr M can claim back  the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Ive decided the offers made by Lloyds Bank PLC for the PPI 
sold with the loans ended 6861, 6130  and 6915  are fair and I dont uphold this complaint.
If Lloyds bank PLC has not already paid the offers to Mr M it should  bring  its calculations  up 
to date and make payment.
And for the reasons set out above, Ive decided the PPI policy  ended  0827 wasnt  mis-sold  
so Lloyds Bank PLC does  not have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr M.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have  to pay back to Mr M any commission  and profit share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 May 2019.
Nicola Woolf
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5725292