K820x#14complaint
Mr S has complained that Mobile Money Limited lent to him irresponsibly and that it has
treated him unfairly in several other  ways.
background
I issued a provisional decision about this complaint  in November 2020 that I summarise 
below.
Mr S was given a loan of £1,300 by Mobile  Money in April 2018. This was due to be repaid
in 36 monthly instalments  of around  £125.  The total amount payable, including  interest,  was
just over £4,526.  The loan was secured against  a vehicle that Mr S owned.  I understand the
loan is outstanding.
I explained the basis on which I would decide the complaint, in particular the checks  that 
Mobile Money needed to do such as the amount  being lent, and the consumers income and 
expenditure. 
I considered some overarching questions in order to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this particular complaint:
Did Mobile Money complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Mr S would be able to repay his loan in a sustainable way?  If so, did it make  a fair 
lending decision? If not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have  
shown at the time?
Did Mobile Money act unfairly  or unreasonably in some  other  way?
I said that Mobile Money needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't  lend to Mr 
S irresponsibly. This means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to satisfy  
itself that he could repay the loan in a sustainable  way. 
These checks could take into account  a number of different things, such as the loan amount,
the repayment amounts and Mr Ss income  and expenditure.  But there was no set list of
checks Mobile Money had to do.
I carefully considered  all the evidence, arguments and information Id seen about  this
matter and what it means for Mr S.
Mobile Money carried out some checks before it lent to Mr S. This included  asking for details
of his income and expenditure  and carrying out some credit checks. The lender  also
requested Mr Ss salary  with a weekly payslip. Mobile Money  assessed  Mr Ss disposable
income and it says the loan was affordable for him.
I reviewed a summary of the information gathered by Mobile  Money at the time, including Mr
Ss credit report and the budget planner  that it completed at the time. The credit  report notes
17 active accounts, 9 settled accounts and 4 defaults which appear to have happened
between 2013-2015. I thought it would have  been  reasonable for Mobile  Money to consider
these defaults  to be historic as they took place some years  before Mr S applied for his loan.
Mr S had made some late payments  but given the type of lending involved, I thought its
Ref: DRN53741652reasonable to expect  to see some adverse information in a consumers  credit  history.
Mr S disputes the information on the credit  report.  He says he had taken  over 10 loans from 
different providers and that each loan had increased  the amount borrowed.  He also says that 
when Money Mobile issued its loan, he had late payments on the majority of his loans, and 
he had significant  debts. Mr S thinks that Mobile  Money should have realised from his credit  
report that he couldnt afford the loan.
I thought carefully  about this.
The credit report that Mobile Money  acquired at the time doesnt show  a significant amount  
of adverse information but it does show that Mr S had 5 credit card balances  that were  either  
near or over the card limit; one open  loan, a hire purchase agreement with a balance  of 
around £9,832  and an overall existing credit  balance in excess  of £18,000. I accepted  that 
Mobile Money did produce the Budget Planner,  but it seemed to me it relied heavily on the 
information that Mr S gave about his financial position.
Mr S was applying to Mobile  Money  for a costly loan, and he would  have to maintain his 
repayments every month for three years. Given this and the overall picture being presented 
about Mr Ss existing credit commitments, I would  have  expected  Money Mobile to want to 
take further steps to gain a thorough understanding of Mr Ss true financial position - to 
ensure that he could  sustainably repay  his loan over the whole loan term.
Having considered everything  Id seen, I didnt think the checks that Mobile Money carried  
out in this instance before agreeing to the loan were reasonable and proportionate.
But even if those checks werent proportionate,  it doesnt automatically follow that Mobile 
Money was wrong  to provide  Mr S with the loan.
Mr S provided bank statements from his current account from around the time he applied for 
this loan. I reviewed these carefully.  Of course,  different  checks  might show different things. 
But from what Id seen,  even if Mobile Money  had carried out more thorough checks at the 
time, such as requesting  a bank statement, I couldnt fairly say that it ought  reasonably  to 
have concluded  that it should  decline Mr Ss application for the loan.
In the 2 months leading up to his application  Mr Ss bank account  remained in credit; there
are no significant signs  of financial distress such as frequent returned requests for payment,
or high bank charges for an unarranged  or arranged overdraft.  Nor are there any indications
of regular or frequent borrowing from multiple  short-term lenders, which might have signalled
severe financial difficulties. I could see that Mr S had borrowed  from at least one other short-
term lender. But I didnt think there was enough evidence that his borrowing from other
lenders was such that it ought to have  led Mobile  Money to decline his loan application.
Mr S was regularly transferring sums  in and out of other accounts  and he may have been
spending more  than he had estimated with Mobile  Money. But in the circumstances, I 
couldnt fairly say that Mobile  Money ought reasonably to have concluded that Mr S was
having severe difficulties managing his finances. Overall, I hadnt  seen enough  evidence  for 
me to fairly say that Mobile Money  lent irresponsibly to Mr S. 
Did Mobile Money act unfairly  or unreasonably in some other  way?
Ref: DRN53741653Mr S told us hes unhappy about several issues. He says that he wasnt  given the paperwork 
for his loan,  and it wasnt explained properly to him. But the Loan  Agreement  and Bill of Sale 
have both been signed so I think its likely  that Mr S was given the appropriate paperwork 
when he took out the loan. And I thought  its likely that he was made  aware that he was 
taking a long term, high cost loan.
Mr S thinks  that Mobile Money didnt do enough  to help him when he told it about his
financial difficulties and that it has failed to respond  adequately to his complaint.  He also
thinks Mobile Money took advantage of his vulnerable position and that it hasnt 
communicated with him. I reviewed Mobile  Moneys  customer contact records  and the 
emails that Mr S sent. From what Id seen,  I think Mobile Money did try to contact Mr S to 
discuss his loan when  he found it difficult to meet the repayments. I think it also responded in 
a timely  way to his complaint by sending its Final Response Letter - although I accept  that 
Mr S thinks  he didnt  receive it.
Overall, Id not seen  anything which  made me think that Mobile Money treated Mr S unfairly  
or failed  to treat him positively or sympathetically  when he ran into difficulties repaying his 
loan. Nor did I think that Mobile Money  took advantage of Mr S in some way.
I invited both parties to send me any further comments or evidence. 
Mobile Money told us it had nothing further  to add to my provisional decision. Mr S says he 
disagrees with my provisional  decision and hes provided some  further  evidence.
Mr S has sent us some email correspondence  he had with Mobile Money. He says the 
lender only requested payslips and the logbook which demonstrates  it didnt complete 
appropriate checks at the time. He has also sent us his credit  report. Mr S says he think 
Mobile Money took advantage of his vulnerability  and placed him a position where his debts 
crept up and he had no means to pay. He also says he made a complaint to Mobile Money  
directly and several emails explaining  his circumstances and received no response.
Id like to thank both parties for all the information  that has been provided about  this matter 
and for responding to my provisional decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive carefully considered  Mr Ss additional  comments and the further evidence  hes provided 
but they havent changed my view of his complaint.
Mr S thinks  Mobile Money didnt carry out appropriate checks before it provided him with the 
loan. 
Mr S has provided a copy of his credit report. However, generally, the information a 
consumer might see, when they request a copy of their credit  file, might be very different to 
that seen by a lender. A lender might only see a portion of the credit file, or some  data might 
be missing or anonymised, or the data might not be up to date. So, this may explain any 
Ref: DRN53741654differences between  the information provided by Money Mobiles credit check and the 
information Mr S says it should  have seen.
But in any event, as I explained in my provisional decision, I agree that Mobile Money  ought  
to have carried out more in-depth checks before it gave  Mr S the loan. However, even 
though I think  Mobile  Money should have  carried out better checks  at the time (such  as 
requesting bank statements from Mr S), I cannot  fairly say that better  checks  ought to have 
led Mobile Money to decline  his loan application.  
This is because from what Ive seen, if proportionate  checks (such as reviewing Mr Ss bank 
statements) had been carried out at the time, I dont think Mobile Money  would reasonably 
have reached the conclusion  that Mr S was having  such serious problems managing  his 
money that it would  be irresponsible  to lend to him.
Ive also not seen anything to suggest  that Mobile Money was aware at the time that Mr S 
might in some way be a vulnerable consumer. And as I explained in my provisional decision, 
I havent seen  anything which makes me think that Mobile Money  did take advantage of Mr 
S in some way. Mr S might not be happy with the way he feels  hes been treated by Mobile  
Money when he had difficulties repaying his loan or when he wanted to complain. But from 
what Ive seen, I think Mobile Money  did try to contact Mr S when he ran into financial 
difficulties and I think it did respond to his complaint by sending  its Final Response Letter  
even though Mr S says he didnt receive it.
I understand that Mr S feels strongly  about his complaint  and I am sorry that he finds  himself  
in a difficult situation. Id like to reassure Mr S that I have carefully  considered everything that 
both he and Mobile Money  have told us and all the information  that has been provided about  
this matter. But having considered all the evidence, including Mr Ss further  evidence,  I 
confirm the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. 
Taking everything into account,  I cant fairly  say that Mobile Money ought reasonably to have 
concluded that it was inappropriate to lend to Mr S. Nor do I think that Mobile Money has 
acted unfairly or unreasonably towards  Mr S in some other way. So, I do not uphold Mr Ss 
complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold the complaint or make  any award against 
Mobile Money Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 February  2021.
Sharon Parr
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5374165