K820x#14complaint
Miss B says she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.  Financial 
Insurance Company Limited  (FICL), as the insurer, have  taken  responsibility  for the sale.  To 
keep things simple, Ill only refer to FICL in this decision, rather than any other business.
background
Miss B bought  the policy  in 1996,  some time after she took out a store  card. It covered her 
card in case she was off work sick or lost her job.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Miss B disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion,  
so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Bs case.
While I know this will disappoint Miss B, I dont think this PPI policy  was mis-sold  Ill 
explain why.
When Miss B first took out her store card, she didnt buy PPI, and her card was approved 
without it. She had the card for a number of months before she was then sold the insurance 
over the phone. So by the time of the phone call, she wouldve known she didnt have to buy 
the policy. There isnt still a record of the call, which is understandable given just how long 
ago it was. But I havent seen any evidence which shows that FICL misled Miss B here, nor 
have I seen any wider problems with its sales process from the time. So I think  its most 
likely that Miss B wouldve been aware she had a choice  about buying the PPI, and that she 
chose to take it at the time  though  I can understand if she no longer remembers  doing  so.
FICL didnt  recommend the PPI to Miss B, so they didnt  have  to check  if it was right for her. 
They did have to give Miss B enough  information to decide  if the PPI was right for her.
Its possible that the information FICL gave Miss B about PPI wasnt  as clear  as it shouldve 
been. The question, then,  is whether I think better information was likely to have changed  
her mind. Based on what Ive seen of Miss Bs circumstances at the time,  it doesnt look like 
she was affected  by any of the policys main exclusions or limitations. And while  she said 
she had some good sick pay and limited  savings, the PPI gave her more comprehensive 
cover and paid out on top. And she doesnt  seem to have had any other  protection  in place 
in case she lost her job. I understand Miss Bs family  mightve  been  happy to help, but there 
was always the chance theyd be unable  to help when needed. And the PPI meant she 
wouldnt have to ask her family to pay her store card.  So the policy  could have been useful 
for Miss B in case something  went wrong.  And so I dont think better information about the 
PPI was likely to have  put her off taking out the cover.
Ref: DRN58749232my final decision
For the reasons  I explained above, I dont  uphold Miss Bs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 April 2019.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5874923