K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs G say Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Birmingham  Midshires) mis-sold them a 
payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy  for a mortgage.
background
Mr and Mrs G took out a PPI policy with a mortgage in 1994. Mr and Mrs G paid for the PPI 
with a regular  monthly  premium, which didnt attract interest. It covered the mortgage 
payments in case either of them was off work sick or lost their job.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs G disagreed with the adjudicators  
opinion, so the complaint has been  passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Gs case. 
While I know this will disappoint Mr and Mrs G, Ive not found that this policy was mis-sold  
Ill explain  why.
This policy was sold well over two decades ago and the account  has long since  closed,  so 
its understandable that neither side have the documents  from the time. Indeed, under data 
protection regulations, Birmingham Midshires were required to dispose  of Mr and Mrs Gs 
data rather than hold on to it for too long. Ive thought carefully about whats most likely  to 
have happened, based on the limited information  I have.
It would have been a very serious  failing  for Birmingham Midshires  to have added the policy 
without Mr and Mrs Gs permission, or to have misled them  into thinking it was compulsory. 
But I have no evidence  which shows thats what Birmingham  Midshires did here.  And 
because the complaint has been made 25 years after the fact, Birmingham Midshires cant 
now produce evidence  to defend itself  nor can I reasonably expect it to be able to after so 
long. Further, I have  not seen any wider problems  with Birmingham Midshires  sales process 
from the time, or any evidence that it was routinely misleading customers. So I dont think 
I have any fair or reasonable  basis  on which to conclude that Birmingham Midshires misled  
Mr and Mrs G. I think its more likely that it followed a standard  process,  gave them a choice 
about buying PPI, and that they chose to take it at the time  though  I can understand if 
Mr and Mrs G no longer  remember  doing  so given all the time thats passed.
Its not clear whether  Birmingham Midshires recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs G or not. 
The requirements were  stricter on Birmingham Midshires if it did recommend it, so to be fair 
to Mr and Mrs G, Ive assumed it did. That means  Birmingham  Midshires had to check the 
PPI was right for Mr and Mrs G  and based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the 
time, I think it was.
Ref: DRN50174092For example, Mr and Mrs G dont seem to have  been significantly affected by any of the 
policys main exclusions  or limitations. While they said they had good benefits through work, 
the PPI wouldve paid out on top of those, and it offered them more comprehensive cover  
especially when their work benefits  reduced to just half pay: a serious drop in income. They  
may also have had some savings, though  its not clear how much those were, whether  they 
were readily  available, or whether they were needed  for other  things. I also understand 
Mr and Mrs G felt secure in their jobs, but redundancies can and do happen. Their mortgage  
was a very large,  long-term commitment, and there was no guarantee that their employment  
situation would stay the same, or that theyd still have  their benefits or savings in the many  
years to come. And its worth bearing  in mind  that if Mr and Mrs G fell behind  on their 
mortgage payments,  they risked losing their home.  Overall, it looks like the PPI couldve 
been useful for them  in protecting  their home and giving  some peace of mind.
Its possible that the information Birmingham  Midshires gave Mr and Mrs G about PPI wasnt  
as clear as it shouldve been. The question, then, is whether I think better information was 
likely to have changed their minds. But as I explained  above, Mr and Mrs G werent 
significantly affected by any of the main  things the policy didnt cover,  and it couldve been 
useful for them  in case something  went wrong. The policy was not bad value given how 
much it would pay out in a claim.  And the PPI was paid on a rolling monthly basis,  so Mr and 
Mrs G could cancel it at any time without a penalty. So all things considered,  I dont think  
that better  information  was likely to have put them  off taking out the cover.
Lastly, Mr and Mrs G mentioned that other  PPI policies had been mis-sold in other cases,  
and I understand  why they brought this up. But different PPI policies worked in different  
ways, covered different things, were  sold using different methods at different times, and so 
on. So even if one policy may have  been mis-sold, it doesnt necessarily mean that a 
different one was, too. Not all PPI policies were  mis-sold by any means, and we look at each 
case on its own merits. Ive explained  above why I dont think that this particular PPI policy 
was mis-sold.
my final decision
For the reasons  I explained above, I dont  uphold Mr and Mrs Gs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  10 July 2019.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5017409