K821x#15Complaint
Mr D complains HSBC  UK Bank  Plc failed to protect him from falling victim to a scam. He 
wants HSBC to refund him a payment he made out of his account.
Background
Mr D fell victim to scam.  He wanted to purchase  a car for his daughter.  Here  is what  he says 
happened:
- He saw an advert for a car on a well-known online market  place.
- Mr D contacted the seller to ask how he could arrange an inspection and whether a 
deposit was needed.  The seller responded and said no deposit was necessary. 
But the seller  explained  they lived in another country within the United Kingdom,  and 
the car was stored elsewhere in the UK. To inspect the car, Mr D needed to pay the 
full purchase price to the storage company. The storage company would be an 
impartial intermediary who would deliver  the car to his address for free, after which  
he would  have five days to inspect it. If he wasnt happy, the company  would refund 
his payment, but if he was happy,  the company would forward  the payment to the 
seller.
- Mr D undertook an HPI check which confirmed the car existed and wasnt reported 
as stolen. He also looked at the storage companys website  (which no longer  exists) 
and rang them.  He thought the company was genuine.  
- Mr D took out a loan with a third-party provider to pay for most of the cars purchase 
price. The loan credited Mr Ds account the day he made  payment to the storage 
company.
- Mr D expected the car to be delivered  on a Friday,  but it never arrived. He contacted  
the storage company, who said there had been a problem in transit, but the car 
would arrive  the following Monday. During  this time, Mr D spoke to a friend. The 
friend thought  Mr D had been scammed. Mr D tried to verify the storage company 
actually existed,  other than its website,  but couldnt find a reliable source to show it 
did.
- Mr D became concerned hed fallen victim to a scam, so rang HSBC to see what  it 
could do to try and retrieve his payment.
HSBC contacted the payees bank, but the payees  bank  said the funds had been spent. 
Mr D complained to HSBC. He thought it couldve done more  to protect him when he asked 
it to make the payment. HSBC disagreed. It said it wouldnt have known Mr D was being 
scammed at the time; and it had done what it could  to try and retrieve  the payment.
Mr D brought his complaint to our service. 
An investigator decided  to uphold the complaint.  They  found  HSBC ought to have  
recognised the payment was unusual  for Mr D and should have contacted him before it was 
processed. Had HSBC  contacted Mr D and asked sufficient questions  about the payment, 
Mr D wouldve realised he was falling victim  to a scam and he would not have gone ahead  
Ref: DRN51278522with the payment. HSBC should refund the payment, plus interest, and any overdraft 
charges he incurred as a result of the payment.
HSBC disagreed. It said the payment  wasnt by itself unusual. Contacting Mr D in these 
circumstances was unreasonable and would have interfered with HSBCs general 
responsibility to act on a customers  mandate. And had HSBC  contacted  Mr D, he wouldve 
still gone ahead with the payment because he thought  the storage company was genuine.  
Mr D ought to have  researched the company before deciding to make  payment. HSBC 
shouldnt have to make up for the loss he experienced  when culpability ultimately rested with 
the scammer.
HSBC asked for a final decision  from an ombudsman, so the complaint was passed to me to 
decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive decided  to uphold Mr Ds complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of a complaint, Im required to 
consider relevant: law and regulations;  regulators' rules, guidance  and standards; codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. 
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank  is expected  to process  payments 
and withdrawals that a customer  authorises  it to make, in accordance  with the Payment  
Services Regulations (in this case the 2017  regulations) and the terms and conditions  of the 
customers account. That was the case in July 2018, and remains so now,  and I have taken 
that into account when deciding what is fair and reasonable  in this case.
But that is not the end of the story.  Taking  account of the law, regulatory  rules and guidance, 
relevant codes of practice and good industry practice at the time, I consider HSBC should  
fairly and reasonably:  
-Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made  or received  to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
-Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other  signs that 
might indicate that its customers were  at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given  the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.   
-In some circumstances,  irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks,  before  processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make  a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud.  
-For branch transactions, those steps may include following the Banking Protocol 
where appropriate.
Ref: DRN51278523I am aware  that HSBC considers too high a standard  has been applied  to what is expected  
of it in terms of identifying payments that might  indicate a consumer is at risk of financial 
harm; and it has referred to the Quincecare  duty in support of its argument. I am mindful 
that the courts have interpreted Quincecare  narrowly and the circumstances of this 
complaint are different to that case.  Our fair and reasonable  remit also enables us to take 
account of regulatory and industry standards beyond the narrow  legal duties  considered in 
that and other court cases. 
In any event, I am not suggesting Quincecare  applies to this case. However, the broad legal 
position that a bank  is expected to process payments that a customer  authorises is not 
absolute  and Quincecare (along with regulators rules and guidance,  relevant codes of 
practice and good  industry practice  at the time) is an example of that.
I am mindful  that my fellow ombudsman and I have referenced  the relevant rules,  codes of 
practice and good  industry practice  at the time in many previous decisions,  both to HSBC 
and published  on our website.
Im satisfied HSBC ought to have picked up on the payment as unusual for Mr D. He hadnt  
paid a sum this size for at least six months prior to the payment. His expenditure is generally 
modest, and his largest outgoing is his monthly  mortgage payment, which  is less than 
£1000.
HSBC says a payment  of the size Mr D made shouldnt be considered unusual. It says many  
customers need to make large payments  they havent made before. And questioning a 
customer every time they want  to make a sizeable payment  is an unreasonable  expectation.
Im satisfied for some  customers, a payment of this size might  not be unusual, even if they 
havent quite paid an equivalent  sized payment before. But I dont  find this was the situation  
with Mr D. He hadnt  made any payments which came close to the size of the payment he 
asked HSBC to make.  So, HSBC ought  to have considered the payment unusual and have 
contacted him before  deciding whether to process  the payment.
Had HSBC contacted Mr D, it ought  to have asked Mr D questions  surrounding:
-What the payment  was for?
-Where and how was the car advertised?
-Why wasnt the payment being  made  via the online  market  place?
-Was the payee the owner of the car?
-What had Mr D done  to ensure he wasnt falling victim to a scam?
I dont find questions of this type are unreasonable. They wouldnt have taken  long to ask, 
and they represent reasonable measures HSBC  shouldve  taken  to protect Mr D from 
potentially falling victim  to a scam or financial  harm.
Unlike Mr D, HSBC are well placed  to understand scams, and the methods scammers  use to 
trick customers into making payments. Had HSBC asked Mr D questions of the type above,  
its likely  it would have been concerned.  It would  have  discovered the payment carried the 
hallmarks of a scam. HSBC would  have realised: 
-the payment  was to a third party  and not the owner of the car
-the payment  was being made outside  of the online market place the car was 
advertised on
Ref: DRN51278524-the payment  was up front,  and its customer hadnt had the chance to inspect the car.
Had HSBC contacted Mr D, it ought  to have at least warned him the payment sounded  like a 
scam. And it ought  to have at least asked him to verify the company existed, outside of the 
companys website, before proceeding. 
Mr D talked to a friend after he had made the payment.  They advised him the payment 
sounded like a scam. Mr D discovered  there was no information online to verify the company 
existed, and he realised  he had likely been scammed.  Im satisfied he would have  realised 
this sooner had HSBC  got in touch;  so, he wouldnt have  gone ahead with the payment.
HSBC says Mr D should  have done his own research  before agreeing  to the payment. But I  
understand why Mr D thought the sale was for a genuine car and he was dealing with a 
genuine owner and third party. I say this because:
-The emails Mr D received from the supposed storage company looked  like they 
came from a legitimate business versed in acting as an intermediary for car sales.  
They were worded professionally and referred to a guarantee program should 
anything go wrong.
-Mr D rang the company several times prior to making the payment, and the nature of 
the conversations he had didnt  give him cause  for concern.
-Mr D had run an HPI check on the vehicle,  which didnt flag concerns. One of the 
sellers emails referred to the vehicle being  HPI checked. But unlike HSBC, I wouldnt 
expect Mr D to have  known scammers often  use the details of genuine vehicles, 
which means HPI checks wouldnt show up concerns.
HSBC says Mr D wouldve still been  under  the spell of the scam even if it had contacted him. 
But the evidence  in Mr Ds case doesnt  demonstrate this would have been  the most likely  
outcome. As I said before,  the veil of the scam would most likely have lifted  had Mr D been 
told the transaction sounded like a scam, and if hed been asked to verify  the storage 
company existed, outside of the direct  contact hed had with it.
HSBC say the payment fell outside the online marketplaces recommendation to use one of 
its eligible payment methods.  But I cant  see a scam warning appears as standard on 
adverts on the marketplace.
Mr D says he didnt use an eligible payment channel because the marketplaces buyer 
protection scheme doesnt cover vehicle purchases. He is correct  that he wouldnt have 
been protected. The storage company offered a guarantee to refund his payment if he was 
unhappy with the car. So, I understand why Mr D used the payment method he did. I dont 
find he was negligent  in these circumstances.
The investigator recommended  HSBC refund Mr D the payment and add eight percent 
simple interest per annum on to that amount from the date of the payment to the date Mr D 
is refunded. But HSBC says a level of interest beyond two percent per annum is unfair and 
punitive.
HSBC ought to be well aware our service has for some time applied  eight percent simple 
interest on money awards where  appropriate. It reflects  the current statutory interest 
awarded by the courts  on judgement debts. But this isnt to say we dont sometimes make a 
Ref: DRN51278525different award  of interest  to reflect  the specific circumstances of a complaint. But I dont find 
any specific circumstances apply to Mr Ds complaint which  would make  the award of eight 
percent simple interest  per annum unfair.
Putting things  right
HSBC needs to:
-Refund the payment in full to Mr D.
-Refund any interest or charges Mr D incurred as a result of going into his overdraft 
because of the payment.
-Pay eight  percent simple interest  on the payment sum, from the time the payment 
was made, up until the date of settlement. If HSBC is legally required to deduct tax 
from the interest, it should send Mr D a tax deduction certificate  so he can claim it 
back from HMRC  if appropriate.
-Make  payment to Mr D within a reasonable time, and no later than 28 days from the 
date of settlement.
My final decision
Ive decided to uphold Mr Ds complaint  and I direct HSBC UK Bank Plc to pay redress 
according to the instructions Ive given  above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 April 2021.
Liam King
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN5127852