K821x#15complaint
Mr H complains about issues  hes experienced with a car purchased  with finance from 
FirstRand Bank Limited (trading as Motonovo).
background
In March 2015 Mr H was supplied with a car and entered into a finance agreement with 
Motonovo. 
In or around July 2016 Mr H noticed  that the paintwork on the bumper was different to the 
rest of the car and that the bonnet had a large  gap between it and the body panels. Mr H 
suspected that the car had been  in an accident  and complained to Motonovo.  Motonovo  
asked Mr H to provide evidence to show  that the car wasnt of satisfactory  quality at the point 
of supply. Mr H didnt  provide anything do his complaint was rejected and closed.
In October  2018, whilst changing  a bulb, Mr H noticed that one of the headlights had been 
manufactured in 2014, which was after the date of manufacture  of the car. This confirmed 
his suspicions that the car had been in an accident  and he complained  to Motonovo again.
In response, Motonovo said it wasnt sufficient  for Mr H to merely demonstrate that repairs  
had taken place  but he also needed to show that as a result or any accident or repair the car 
wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of supply.  Motonovo advised Mr H to obtain  an 
independent engineers report.
Mr H wasnt happy with Motonovos response so he complained to this service.
During the course of the investigation by this service, Mr H obtained an independent report.  
This said that there were uneven gaps where  the bonnet fitted to the left and right front wing.  
It said the left headlamp  had been  replaced  and the front bumper paintwork didnt match  the 
rest of the car. The report concluded  that the car had been in a collision which  caused 
damage to the front end and said that poor repairs had been carried out. The report 
recommended that further repairs be carried out including cleaning, adjustment,  touching up 
and colour coating  of the front bumper.
Our investigator upheld  the complaint. She said that based on an image provided by Mr H 
taken on the day he purchased the car, she was satisfied that the difference  in paint shade 
was present at the point of supply.  The investigator  said that although  the fault with the 
paintwork and bonnet alignment hadnt prevented Mr H from using the car, the cause of the 
fault was a poor repair following an accident.  The investigator thought that if Mr H had been 
aware of the previous accident he wouldntve purchased the car and entered into the 
agreement. The investigator said that Motonovo should pay for half the cost of repairs to the 
car in accordance with the quote  obtained  by Mr H.
Motonovo didnt  agree.  It said that despite being supplied  with the car in March  2015, Mr H 
hadnt raised a complaint until September 2-016. It said he had driven 22,000 miles over a 4 
year period  since he purchased the car which suggested it was fit for purpose. It said the 
independent report  didnt say that the accident happened prior to the point of supply and 
suggested that the images provided by Mr H were current images. Motonovo  said the issues  
were cosmetic and couldve been caused by Mr H after the point of supply.
Ref: DRN57552412my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because Motonovo has supplied the car under a hire purchase agreement theres an implied 
term that it is of satisfactory quality.  Satisfactory quality is what a reasonable person would 
regard as acceptable, taking into account  factors such as the price paid, age and mileage, 
fitness for purpose,  appearance and finish, freedom from minor defects, safety and 
durability. 
Under the Consumer  Rights Act 2015,  where a fault is found within the first 6 months,  its 
generally up to the business to put things right. After 6 months its up to the consumer to 
show that the fault was present at the point  of supply.
An expert report can help with deciding whether theres a fault and whether the car was of 
satisfactory quality at the point of supply. Ive looked  at the independent  report. This says 
theres an unacceptable difference in the colour of the front bumper paintwork as compared 
to the rest of the car. It says that further  repairs are necessary to bring  the car up to 
standard. The report concludes that the car has been in a previous accident which caused 
damage to the front end. It doesnt say when the accident or the repairs  took place.
Ive noted Motonovos  comments  that the report doesnt say when the accident took place,  
so it doesnt show  that the faults  were  present  at the point of supply. I agree that the report 
doesnt establish this. However,  Mr H has provided images of the car which were  uploaded 
to his social media account on the day of supply.  These images have been provided to 
Motonovo. The images clearly show that there is a difference in the colour of the paintwork 
of the front bumper as compared to the rest of the car.
Motonovo disputes that the images uploaded to social media show  the car at the point of 
supply (or on the same day). It says the images are current images  of the car. I disagree. 
The evidence shows that the images  were uploaded to social  media on 31 March 2015. I 
havent seen anything to suggest that the images  are current.
I appreciate that Mr H didnt provide these images  to Motonovo  when he first complained  in 
2016. However, at that time, Motonovo had asked Mr H to provide  evidence to show  that the 
car wasnt of satisfactory quality. Its possible that Mr H didnt realise that the images hed 
uploaded would be acceptable  evidence.
Based on what Ive seen,  Im satisfied that there was a fault with the paintwork on the car 
which was present at the point of supply.  This goes to the appearance  and finish  aspect of 
satisfactory quality.
Motonovo has said that Mr H shouldve complained sooner than he did. Mr H has explained 
that he didnt notice the fault with the paintwork immediately.  In any event, I dont think  it 
matters that Mr H didnt complain immediately, because the Consumer  Rights Act 2015 
allows a  period of 6 years from the point  of sale for a consumer to request a  repair  
(provided that it is shown  that the fault was present  at the point of supply).
I understand that from Motonovos perspective, Mr H has used the car for over 4 years. But 
a paintwork fault and a bonnet alignment  fault isnt likely to affect the day to day use of a car. 
Mr H has said he isnt looking to reject the car; he just wants  the paintwork and bonnet 
Ref: DRN57552413alignment repaired. I dont think this is an unreasonable  request, given that the faults  were  
present at the point of supply.
Im satisfied, based on the independent report that the car has been in an accident. And Im 
persuaded by the images provided by Mr H that the accident occurred prior to the point of 
supply. However, I havent seen  any evidence that Motonovo was aware of the accident at 
the point of supply, so I cant  say theres been a misrepresentation.
Taking everything into account,  Im satisfied that the paintwork fault and bonnet  
misalignment was present at the point of supply.  This is a fault which goes  to the finish and 
appearance of the car and makes  it of unsatisfactory quality. Under the Consumer Rights 
Act the business  is allowed  one opportunity to repair the car.
my final decision
I uphold the complaint. FirstRand  Bank  Limited must  either:
Arrange for the car to be repaired at no cost to Mr H. Repairs should be in line with 
those recommended in the independent  report ; or
Pay Mr H £500 towards the cost of repairs and Mr H can arrange the repairs himself
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 January 2020.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5755241