K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that Lloyds Bank PLC didnt  treat him fairly when he was in financial 
difficulties and couldnt pay his mortgage payments.  He wants  a payment holiday and 
compensation.
background
Mr S had three mortgages with Lloyds and got into financial difficulties in 2018.  He said that 
he told Lloyds about his problems and asked  for a payment holiday for three months  for one 
mortgage to pay other  debts. Lloyds refused as Mr S was unemployed, but agreed to accept  
a lower monthly payment for two months  (warning him that his credit records might be 
affected). It also refused to lend him more money. Mr S felt that Lloyds hadnt treated him 
fairly as hed been a good customer for 30 years. He also got a new job.
Mr S complained to Lloyds. It said that Mr S contacted it when he didnt have any income, 
which meant under its lending policies it couldnt agree a payment holiday,  but it agreed  to 
accept less than full payment for two months. This meant that Mr S got into arrears,  so when 
he did get a job, he wasnt able to have a payment  holiday due to the fact hed been in 
arrears in the last twelve months. Lloyds paid £30 for giving conflicting information about  an 
issue which hadnt been brought to this service  by Mr S.
Mr S complained to us. The adjudicators  view was that Mr S didnt have a contractual right 
to a payment  holiday and Lloyds lending policies didnt allow  consumers to have one if they 
were in arrears or didnt  have a start date for a new job. She noted that Lloyds did agree to 
accept less than payment  in full for two months, and Mr S was warned about  the impact  on 
his future  ability  to get a payment holiday when he had a new job of the arrears. The 
adjudicator thought that Lloyds had acted fairly  and reasonably in the circumstances.
Mr S disagreed, but he didnt give any reasons.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im going to focus on the core of this 
complaint which  is about  Lloyds  refusal  to give Mr S a payment holiday.
Lenders are required to treat those in financial difficulties fairly, but that doesnt  mean  they 
have to do what the consumer wants.  Lenders also are required to look at the situation as it 
exists at the time and ensure that any repayment plan agreed is affordable. 
In Mr S case, Lloyds  did treat him fairly  in my view. While I appreciate the difficult  
circumstances with which he was dealing, Lloyds wasnt  responsible  for the situation and 
Mr S was required  to pay in full each  month  the payments for his mortgages. He had no 
contractual right to a payment holiday under the terms  and conditions  of the mortgage for 
which he sought a break.  Lenders are able to have lending policies and apply their own 
commercial judgement; such policies ensure all consumers  are treated consistently, though 
they must  be applied  fairly and reasonably.
Ref: DRN50014422Lloyds own policy about payment holidays mean that those who were  unemployed without a 
start date for a new job cant have a payment holiday. Payment holidays are limited to two 
months only. But I note that Lloyds  offered  to consider Mr S not paying  anything for two 
months under a nil arrangement according to the notes written at the time. Mr S thought 
about it and decided to agree to pay less than the contractual  monthly payment for two 
months, rather than nothing. Mr S had been  warned  about the possible effects on his credit  
records and made that decision. Lloyds listened  to what Mr S had to say about his situation, 
which is fair.
Lloyds also warned Mr S in advance that if he got into arrears, even if he then got a new job, 
he wouldnt  be able to get a payment holiday for 12 months. This is because  this is what  its 
policy says. Mr S went ahead with paying  less in that knowledge.
Having looked  at all the evidence available to me, Im satisfied that Lloyds did treat Mr S 
fairly when  refusing him a payment holiday. It was also fair to refuse to lend a person in 
financial difficulties more  money.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or reject my decision before 
15 April 2019.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5001442