K820x#14complaint
Mr M says Elevate Credit  International Limited - trading as Sunny - irresponsibly lent to him.
background
This complaint is about three instalment  loans  Sunny provided  to Mr M between       
November and December  2016. A summary  of Mr Ms borrowing history  is as follows:
Loan Date Taken
Date Repaid
Instalments Amount Repayment
1 07/11/2016 01/05/2017 6 £400.00 £106.79
2 29/11/2016 01/05/2017 6 £100.00 £134.41
3 07/12/2016 01/05/2017 6 £50.00 £149.49
Mr Ms complaint was reviewed by one of our adjudicators and they didnt think  it should  be 
upheld. They thought there  wasnt anything  in the information Sunny had asked  Mr M to 
provide that should have prompted Sunny  to do more  checks.  So, the adjudicator  couldnt 
say Sunny was wrong to have given  the loans to Mr M.  
Mr M disagreed. He said he was struggling to repay the loans and was struggling financially. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it was passed to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all the relevant rules,  guidance  and good  
industry practice - on our website. 
Sunny needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Mr M could 
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could consider several different 
things, such as how much was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers 
income and expenditure. In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough  
checks might be reasonable  and proportionate.   
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Sunny  should fairly and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ref: DRN57599582Ive carefully considered  all the arguments, evidence and information provided  in this context 
and what this all means for Mr Ms complaint.  Having done this, Im not upholding the 
complaint. Ill explain  why. 
Mr M disagreed with the adjudicators view because he thought  Sunnys  checks didnt go far 
enough and it should have been aware that he was struggling financially and had other 
borrowing from short-term lenders as well as other debts. So, it shouldnt have lent to him.
Sunny has told this service about the checks it carried out before approving  any of the 
borrowing. It has said it asked Mr M about  his employment status and he confirmed he was 
employed and had a monthly income of £1,100.  Sunny also checked  Mr Ms normal  monthly  
living costs.  Mr M declared these to be between  £225 and £343 a month. Sunny says it also 
searched Mr Ms credit file and it has provided the results of its search. There  werent  any 
recent adverse  entries like defaults or county court judgements (CCJs) recorded on it at the 
time the loan was taken out. 
Mr M has also provided a copy of his bank  statements from the time the loans were taken 
out and these show he was borrowing from other short-term lenders  which can sometimes 
be an indication that someone is juggling their finances due to trying to make  ends meet.  But 
a lot of this borrowing doesnt show on the credit report Sunny has provided. I can also see 
that Mr M took out a couple  of short-term loans around the time he took out loan 3 from 
Sunny  but these wouldnt yet have shown up on any checks Sunny would have done 
before it lent to Mr M. 
Mr M borrowed three loans within a month,  and he had no history  of borrowing previously 
from this lender. So, he was very early on in his lending relationship with Sunny. Even 
though he had to make monthly repayments,  the highest repayment would have appeared 
affordable based  on the information  he declared to Sunny. And there wasnt anything  in the 
information Mr M provided at the time which  would have  given  Sunny  cause  for concern, so I 
think it was reasonable  of Sunny to have relied  on what  Mr M gave it. 
I think these factors had an impact  of what level of checks would have been appropriate for 
Sunny to carry out. Given these, I think the checks Sunny  did before lending the loan went  
far enough and I wouldnt  have expected it at this stage to undertake any more  in-depth 
checks. 
The information Mr M declared to Sunny at the time of the loans may not have been an 
accurate reflection of his financial circumstances, but I think Sunny was entitled to rely on 
that information. At this stage of the lending relationship, and what  Sunny knew about Mr M, 
I wouldnt have expected Sunny to verify the information Mr M gave it. This therefore means, 
I cant say that Sunny  done something wrong in lending  Mr M these loans.
I appreciate that my findings  are likely  to disappoint Mr M, but I hope my explanation will 
help him understand why Ive reached this conclusion.
Ref: DRN57599583my final decision
I do not uphold  Mr Ms complaint and make no award against Elevate Credit International 
Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 May 2020.
Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5759958