K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in
2001. Ms A says Bank of Scotland  plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account  in 
deciding Ms As case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
Ms A says she doesnt recall discussing PPI and wasnt  aware  it had been  added.  I 
cant know what was discussed in the branch. This sale took place a long time ago. So, 
I dont think I can fairly  rely just on what Ms A remembers from the time of sale.  
Memories can fade over time. To decide  this complaint Ive looked at Bank of Scotlands 
records made at the time. I can see that the PPI was added  at the same  time as the 
credit card was taken out, in a branch.
Bank of Scotland  has sent in a copy of Ms As credit card application  form. On it, theres  
a section about PPI. To take out PPI, the customer had to select the box saying they 
wanted PPI. The box couldve  been  left blank if they didnt want  PPI. There  is a cross  in 
the box on Ms As application selecting PPI. I think it likely that Ms A wouldve understood 
from this form that PPI was optional  it said if you want these services please  mark the 
relevant boxes . So, I think it more  likely  she opted to take PPI, completing the paperwork 
and signing  the form to say she wanted it. I can understand  why she may not remember  
that now,  given how much time has passed.
As this policy was sold in the branch, I think  it likely  that Bank  of Scotland  did 
recommended the PPI to Ms A. So, it had the added responsibility of considering whether 
the policy was suitable for her needs. It also had to give her information that was clear, fair 
and not misleading,  so that she could decide for herself if the PPI was right for her and if 
she wanted to buy it.
I think the policy was suitable for Ms As needs,  Ill say why.
Ms A was eligible  to take out the policy and it appeared affordable.
Ms A said she wouldve got six months worth of sick pay from her employer if she was off 
work sick. She said she wouldve also got redundancy pay and death in service benefit also. 
The policy wouldve paid out for up to 12 months per successful claim on top of her work 
related sickness benefits and redundancy pay. So, I still think  the PPI couldve been useful 
to her in her circumstances, to ensure her credit card repayments were met.
I cant see that Ms A wouldve been affected  by any of the main  limitations  or exclusions  in 
the policy. As she couldve benefitted from everything the policy  offered, I dont think  having 
better information about the things the policy didnt cover wouldve affected  her decision to 
take out PPI.
Ref: DRN56125682Its possible the information Bank  of Scotland gave Ms A about the PPI wasnt as clear as 
it shouldve been.  But I think  she chose to take it out - so it looks  like she wanted  this type 
of cover. And it seems  like it would have  been useful for her if something went wrong. It 
also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think having better  information  about the
PPI would have put her off taking out the cover.
Ive thought about everything Ms As said, including that the banks already 
refunded the PPI premiums on a different policy taken out with a loan. We consider 
each case on its own facts and merits, so this doesnt change my decision. 
I cant see that Ms A has lost out because of anything  that Bank of Scotland  did 
wrong.
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  I dont uphold Ms As complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms A to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 December 2019.
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5612568