K822xcomplaint
Mr G complains about the poor service he got from AXA Insurance UK plc when he claimed  
on his motor insurance policy. Mr Gs mother,  Mrs P, represents him.
 
background 
Mr G told AXA about the theft of his car on 5 August 2018.  Shortly afterwards it was 
recovered, damaged.  AXA had it taken  to a garage whilst the claim was validated.  AXA 
didnt tell Mr G it was declining  his claim until February 2019.  Meanwhile, on 5 October  2018,  
it noted Mrs Ps complaint  about  its service.  AXA accepted that Mrs P had faced long hold 
times on calls, that it hadnt made  calls back to her and that it hadnt replied to her emails 
promptly. It offered £150 compensation. It said it wasnt to blame for the time taken to 
resolve the claim, as it had to liaise  with the police and couldnt control their response times. 
One of our investigators  considered Mr Gs complaint. She thought  it was fair for AXA to 
decline the claim. Mr G left the keys in his car unattended, with a person he didnt know well. 
She thought  AXA had compensated  him fairly for the service issues  he and Mrs P raised. 
The investigator noted that Mr G had to wait a long time for a decision on the claim. She said 
part of the delay was due to Mr G not having sent in correct details. AXA had to ask for them 
again, so it couldnt request the police report until 1 October 2018. AXAs last contact with 
the police  wasnt  until 23 January 2019.  She thought  it had no control over that.
Mr G said hed faced a great deal of upset. He thought AXA should have had his damaged 
windscreen repaired. The investigator  pointed  out that by leaving the car unattended, with 
the keys in it, Mr G had breached a policy term. The policy said that in these circumstances, 
no damage caused by a theft would be covered. Mr G said AXA had taken  a ridiculous 
amount of time to make a decision, and hed been without his car for months.  He said he 
wanted his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
I issued a provisional decision as follows:   
I can see from the file that Mr G caused  minor  delays at the start of the claim by giving AXA 
the wrong crime reference number, plus the wrong  code for it to check  his licence details 
with the DVLA.  But it took AXA 16 days to ask Mrs P for the correct  code. She replied 
immediately. It then took AXA a further eight days to check  the licence details. Despite these 
delays on its part, AXA was still able to request the police report  by 1 October 2018. It had 
received the report  by 25 October 2018. 
AXA emailed  the police  on 8 November 2018 to say if the relevant officer  wanted to contact 
it, he could do so by phone or email. I dont think the police would have realised from AXAs 
message that it wanted the officer to contact it. In my opinion that only became clear  when 
AXA contacted the police  again in January 2019. At that point, AXA said it had been hoping 
for contact. It asked the officer  to get in touch, which he did within a few days. 
By 8 November 2018, Mr Gs claim was already  three  months old and hed been  without a 
car for that whole period. So if AXA thought  it needed to speak to a police  officer,  I think  it 
should have made that clear. I think it should  also have pursued a reply from the police by 
contacting the police again shortly afterwards and sending regular reminders if necessary. In 
fact, the police officer responded as soon as AXA directly requested contact  from him  but 
that was over two months later. 
Ref: DRN59435962It isnt clear from the file why AXA waited until it had spoken to the police officer before 
instructing an investigator to interview Mr G. That added another month to the claim. If AXA 
wanted a full statement from Mr G, I think it could have instructed the investigator much 
earlier. I havent seen  anything that explains why that wouldnt have been possible.
Mr G wanted his car back, repaired.  That was never going to happen,  but if AXA had 
declined the claim  earlier, he could have had it repaired himself. As Mr G lost his licence in 
November 2018,  it seems likely he would have wanted to sell it as soon as possible to pay 
back the finance owed on it. In the end, the finance company repossessed the car.
Mr G couldnt understand  why it took AXA so long to make a decision when the facts  leading 
to it were known to AXA so many  months earlier. We asked AXA to comment on that point, 
but it didnt do so. Given the nature  of the claim, I think  AXA had to carry out its usual 
enquiries, and I think it was reasonable to decline the claim. In my opinion,  the amount of 
compensation it offered for poor service alone  was reasonable. But I think AXA could 
reasonably have reached a view on the claim several months earlier  than it did. 
I think the time it took AXA to make a decision  caused Mr G a good deal of extra  worry, 
distress and inconvenience that could  have been  avoided. So I think it should pay him a 
further £250 compensation. 
I asked the parties  to comment on my provisional view. Mr G accepted  it. AXA didnt reply.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As Mr G accepted  the decision and AXA 
made no comment, I dont  think theres any reason to depart from my provisional view.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require AXA Insurance UK plc to pay 
Mr S a further £250 compensation for distress  and inconvenience. Under the rules  of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  I must  ask Mr S to accept or reject  my decision before 
8 November 2019.
Susan Ewins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5943596