K821x#15complaint
Mr H complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) mis-sold him a payment
protection insurance (PPI) policy in 1997 when  he took out a credit card.
background
Mr H took out a credit card. At the same time he applied for PPI. This policy cost no more
than £0.79 per £100 of Mr Hs outstanding  balance on his credit  card.  It would have paid up
to 10% of that balance for up to 12 months per successful claim if Mr H was off work  through
accident or sickness or if he lost his job.
Our adjudicator who first of all looked at this complaint thought  it should  be upheld.  In March 
2019, I issued  my provisional decision.  In it I explained why I was not intending to uphold  this 
complaint. My provisional decision is attached  and forms part of my final decision.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding
this case.
I asked both parties to come back to me with any further information they wished me to 
consider before I made  my final decision.  RBS told me it had nothing  further to add but it 
confirmed that it has paid compensation for undisclosed commission due to Mr H. Mr H 
hasnt sent any further information for me to look at. So I see no reason to reach  a different 
conclusion and I dont  uphold this complaint.
Which means RBS doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr H.
But RBS has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr H because: 
RBS got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr H about that. Because  RBS didnt tell Mr H, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, RBS has paid back the amount  of commission and profit share  that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ref: DRN53473612my final decision
For the reasons  set out above and in my provisional  decision  I dont  uphold  this complaint - 
so The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc does not have  to pay back  all of the cost of the PPI to 
Mr H.
But The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc does  have to pay back to Mr H any commission  and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  I understand it has already 
done this, so I dont  award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 May 2019.
Nicola Woolf
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN53473613copy of my provisional decision
complaint
Mr H complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS)  mis-sold him a payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy in 1997 when he took out a credit card.
background
Mr H took out a credit  card. At the same  time he applied  for PPI. This policy cost no more than £0.79 
per £100 of Mr Hs outstanding balance on his credit card. It would have paid up to 10% of that 
balance for up to 12 months per successful claim if Mr H was off work  through  accident or sickness or 
if he lost his job.
Our adjudicator thought that this complaint  should be upheld.  He said that he didnt think  RBS had 
given Mr H clear enough information about the costs and benefits of the policy. And in view of Mr Hs 
circumstances he didnt think he would have taken out the PPI if hed been given clearer  information. 
RBS disagreed with this view and asked for the complaint to be referred to an ombudsman for a final 
decision. 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of 
PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Im not intending to uphold this complaint  about the mis-sale. I will explain why.
The first thing Ive looked at is whether the PPI was optional. RBS has provided a copy  of the credit 
agreement Mr H signed  when he took out his card and the PPI. Theres  a section on the application 
form which Mr H has signed and dated to say he wanted the cover.  He could have left it blank if he 
didnt want it and Mr H has also signed the paperwork at the bottom. And I can see hes made various 
choices about other optional products. I also think the PPI would  have appeared on his credit card 
statements - if he didnt  know he had it he could  have  questioned it with RBS at any time.  I havent 
seen that he has done so. Overall I think he more likely chose the PPI and realised he could decline it 
if he didnt want it.
I dont think this was a recommended sale. Mr H says he was given a leaflet to complete. And the 
application form looks like it had to be sent back to RBS completed. So I dont think a tailored 
recommendation was made. That meant  RBS didnt  have  to take reasonable steps to make sure it 
was suitable for him. But it still needed  to give him clear enough information so he could decide  for 
himself if he wanted the policy.
Its possible not all the information RBS gave to Mr H was as clear as it could have been. For 
example, I cant see where the information about the costs  of the policy is presented on the 
application form. I also cant say Mr H would have understood or it would have been clear that he 
would have had to pay interest on his premiums if he didnt clear  the balance on his credit card every 
month.
I next need  to think whether  better or clearer information would have changed  Mr Hs mind  about  
buying the cover.
Our adjudicator thought this complaint should be upheld. Having taken into account  Mr Hs 
circumstances in 1997  he didnt think Mr H would have thought the policy would  have been good 
value for him if the cost and benefit  had been made clear.  The adjudicator thought  this as Mr H had 
Ref: DRN53473614told us about other resources  he could  rely on to pay the credit card if he became unwell. In other 
words if RBS had given  clearer information Mr H wouldnt have bought the PPI.
RBS responded to our adjudicators view. It said it disagreed with it as there wasnt sufficient  
information about Mr Hs circumstances in 1997 to assess  Mr Hs need for the PPI. It also referred  to 
Mr Hs original questionnaire and said that at some point in his initial questionnaire Mr H had 
suggested he had no other provision and could  only have  relied on family and friends. So it said the 
information Mr H provided was inconsistent.
Ive looked at Mr Hs personal circumstances at the time of the sale.  Mr H has told us he would  have 
received three months sick pay but less than six months sick pay from his employer if he couldnt 
work. In one questionnaire he also said he could  make his repayments with help from family  and 
friends. In another  questionnaire to this service he has said he would  have had 12 months saving or 
insurance which could have assisted him in making  his payments. Mr H has said he had a riding 
insurance policy on which  he made a claim.
Weve asked  Mr H for details about what hes told us about his savings and the insurance policy. But 
we havent been able to obtain any further information about his savings in 1997.  Its understandable 
if he hasnt got all the details  now after such a long time.  But Ive thought  about  what  hes said and it 
could be that Mr H was referring to the riding insurance when he has ticked to say he had savings or 
insurance. But I dont think this was the same thing as the PPI policy. For example it might have 
covered him for a riding accident but its not likely it would  have covered him if he was off work 
because he was too ill or for a different type of accident. And I dont think  I can say it was more likely  
that he had the equivalent  of 12 months salary  in his savings account or that the other insurance 
policy covered the same thing as the PPI so there was no need for him to have it. And although  I 
appreciate and dont doubt his family  and friends would have wanted to help, theres  no guarantee 
that this type of help would have been available  for such a long time and as and when he needed  it if 
things went wrong.
This policy would have  covered 10% of Mr Hs credit  card balance and would have paid out on a 
successful claim  for up to a maximum of 12 months for each claim.  So I think the PPI offered  him the 
protection of the cover in addition to his sick pay and likely for longer than any other available means 
he had. So I think it could have been useful if he fell into difficulty and I dont think he would have 
changed his mind  about  buying it. 
Ive also thought  about  whether if all the other information  was given to Mr H  he would  have been 
put off buying the PPI.
I can see Mr H was in good health at the time of the sale and that he didnt have any unusual  
employment circumstances  at the time. So I dont think he would have been affected by any of the 
policy exclusions or restrictions which might have made it more difficult  to make a successful claim if 
hed needed to.
In summary I think  Mr H chose the cover   so it looks like he wanted it. And I think  it could have been 
useful if he fell into difficulty. Thinking about everything I dont think Mr H would have acted any 
differently if hed had clearer or better information. It follows that I dont intend to uphold this 
complaint.
This means  that RBS doesnt need to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr H.  
But RBS will pay back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr H because: 
RBS got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it 
should have told Mr H about that. Because RBS didnt tell Mr H, that was unfair. 
To put that right, RBS has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think  that offer is fair in this case.
Ref: DRN53473615what the business needs to do
If it hasnt done so already,  RBS has to pay back to Mr H any commission  and profit share  it got that 
was more than 50% of the PPI premium. RBS should also pay back  to Mr H any extra  interest he paid 
because of that.
RBS should re-work the credit card account and pay back to Mr H the difference  between  what  Mr H 
owes and what he wouldve  owed if the commission and profit share it got hadnt been over 50% of 
the cost of the PPI. RBS should also pay Mr H 8%* simple interest if he paid off their credit card at 
some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr H can claim back the tax if he doesnt pay 
tax.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  set out above, but subject to both parties responses to this provisional  decision, Im 
intending to find that I dont think  the PPI policy was mis-sold  so The Royal Bank of Scotland  Plc 
does not have  to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr H.
But Im intending to find The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc does have to pay back to Mr H any 
commission and profit share it got that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium if it hasnt already 
done so. 
Nicola Woolf
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5347361