K820x#14complaint
Miss A complains  about her mortgage  with Bank  of Scotland  plc; in particular, about the 
customer service  she received in April and May 2018.
background
Miss A has three mortgages with Bank of Scotland. Shes already complained about one of 
the mortgages, and another ombudsman has issued  a decision on that complaint. He 
referred to the three mortgages as 31N, 25K and 97F, and for consistency Ill do the same. 
The previous  decision was about  31N; this complaint is about  97F, which is the property 
Miss A currently lives in.
All three mortgages  were in arrears.  There had been a possession  order  issued on 97F and 
in April 2018 BoS was planning  to return to court to enforce the order  (and another 
possession order on 31N).
Miss A says she contacted BoS on 9 April 2018.  Following an income and expenditure  
assessment, a payment arrangement was agreed  subject  to Miss A making a lump sum.  
Miss A made a lump sum payment which was originally credited  to 31N, then at Miss As 
request split between  31N and 97F. Unfortunately when the payment was first made it 
wasnt credited to either mortgage, because BoS couldnt find it. It advised Miss A to check 
with her bank and find out some details that would allow BoS to trace the payment. Then  the 
wrong amount  was credited,  and had to be corrected. 
Miss A complained about this, and about  how her complaints and requests for information  
had been handled. She said BoS had agreed to put a hold on the account, but despite that 
had referred it back to its solicitors who were  taking further action. BoS had failed to note its 
systems or instruct its solicitors that a payment arrangement had been agreed and a 
payment made. She said BoS misled her about  what was happening with the court case.  
And it failed  to respond to her complaints adequately or at all. 
Our investigator didnt  recommend upholding the complaint, so Miss A has asked for it to be 
considered by an ombudsman.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked carefully  at all the evidence here, and I can see that Miss A feels  very strongly 
about what has happened. And its fair to say that things havent been  helped by BoS 
insisting to our investigator that certain  call recordings  couldnt  be found  only to disclose 
them later to Miss A in a subject access request. As a result resolution  of this complaint has 
been significantly delayed, and thats  unfortunate.
Miss A has made her complaint with great care and in great detail, and Ive considered 
everything she has to say. Having done so, it seems to me that the heart of this complaint is 
what happened in April and May 2018.
Ref: DRN50580822At that time,  this mortgage  was in arrears and had been so for some  considerable time. BoS 
had already obtained a suspended possession  order. But that hadnt  resolved matters, and 
the arrears continued.  So BoS was at this time contemplating  applying  for a warrant  of 
eviction.
Miss A, and her partner on her behalf, was in regular and frequent contact with BoS 
throughout this time. That contact related to all three of her mortgages  all three  were  in 
arrears  and involved  discussions  with several different departments  of the bank.
Its fair to say that in early  April the most  pressing mortgage was 31N  that was the one on 
which the banks  steps towards  repossession were furthest advanced. Miss A agreed to 
make a lump  sum payment with a view to stopping repossession action.  Miss A made a 
payment  which, although it was a single payment, she intended to be split between 31N 
and 97F. 
The payment was made from her account  with another bank. At first, BoS couldnt trace the 
payment. It looked in its records. But still couldnt trace it. It asked  Miss A to make enquiries 
of her other bank to find out what might  have happened to the payment.
Eventually, the payment  was found. At first BoS applied all of it to 31N,  but later agreed  to 
split it so that part went to 97F.
During this time Miss A was in frequent contact with the bank. She became frustrated with its 
attempts to track the payment. And she understood that the bank had agreed to put a hold 
on 97F while  it was located.
However, there was some confusion about that. By on hold, BoS meant that it wouldnt 
contact her  but it didnt  mean it would cease  all steps towards  instructing its solicitors  and 
moving to repossession.  But Miss A thought  it did mean that. 
In any case, the payment was found and applied to 97F. And Miss A complained about the 
service shed received  and what shed been told. BoS therefore  took no further steps  
towards repossession of 97F.
Ive looked carefully  at everything that happened over this time. And I do understand that 
Miss A was frustrated about how the bank  handled  things. There  were times when it fell 
short of what she expected. She had to explain things more  than once to different people 
and different departments.  She thought it should be more pro-active in tracing her payment. 
She thought  it had agreed to suspend  moves towards repossession  not just hold off 
contacting her.
And I agree that there was some confusion and misunderstanding  here.  But I dont think  that 
confusion and misunderstanding was enough to cross the threshold into unfair treatment.
Miss A has high expectations of what she considers to be good customer service,  and the 
bank didnt meet those  expectations. 
I do think, though,  that this was a complex  situation.  There were  three  separate mortgage 
accounts. Miss A was dealing with the banks legal team, its external  solicitors, its collections 
department, its complaints department  and the mortgage centre. There wasnt a single 
dedicated point  of contact or case handler through whom everything went.
Ref: DRN50580823And it was a fast moving situation. There were  developments and discussions  across the 
three accounts.  
In the circumstances, I dont think its surprising that Miss A had a better picture of what  was 
going on in the moment than individual members  of the banks staff that she spoke to from 
time to time. They were working  from notes  left by other members of staff,  sometimes  in 
relation to very recent  contact with other  departments. 
Its therefore not surprising that Miss A was on occasion given out of date information, or 
information that didnt match what shed recently  been told by another department. Or that 
she had to give the same information more than once to separate  departments.  
Miss As complaint is, as Ive said, very detailed. She has carefully analysed and commented 
on all the banks contact  notes and call recordings.  And looked at closely in that way, there  
will be discrepancies  and imperfections.
But Ive stood back and looked at things  in the round.  Where there was confusion, or 
misunderstanding, Im satisfied BoS took reasonable  and prompt steps to resolve it. The 
overall outcome  was what Miss A wanted  the payment was applied  to her account, and no 
further legal  action was taken. And while the process by which  that endpoint was reached 
was not what  Miss A wanted it to be, I dont think how BoS handled  things amounted to a 
significant failure of customer service.  This was a stressful  and difficult  time for Miss A  but 
being in arrears and faced  with losing ones home is a stressful  situation, and Im not 
persuaded that BoSs actions made  that substantially worse than it would always have  been.  
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 April 2021.
Simon Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5058082