K820x#14complaint
Mr R says he suffered a financial loss of £30,996.46 when he transferred the value of his 
accrued pension benefits in a former employers pension scheme to Integrated Financial 
Arrangements Limited (trading as Transact). Mr R says Transact should make good  that 
loss. 
background
In 2018 Mr R was looking  into transferring  his deferred benefits in his former employers 
pension scheme  (the ceding scheme). A cash equivalent transfer value (CETV)  was issued 
by the ceding scheme  on 20 February 2018, guaranteed until 20 May 2018. Mr R had to take 
financial advice about the transfer  and engaged a firm of financial advisers. Mr R was 
advised to transfer to Transact. He met with his adviser  on 15 May 2018 to complete the 
transfer paperwork. 
Coincidentally two of Transacts Adviser Support  Managers (ASM) were visiting the advisers 
office on that day for a pre-arranged training session. Its agreed that a conversation took 
place between the ASM and the advisers  administrators  about an urgent transfer. Im not 
sure if Mr Rs name was mentioned. As referred  to further below, exactly what  was said isnt 
agreed. Or whether  both ASMs were  present   the advisers administrators said one ASM 
had already left. 
Mr R signed the transfer paperwork  on 15 May 2018. It was sent to Transact the same day 
by special delivery. Transact  received  it the next day, 16 May 2018. Transact started  
processing the transfer paperwork that day. One letter to the administrators of the ceding 
scheme was prepared with some  relevant  paperwork. A second letter was prepared on 17 
May 2018 with the rest of the paperwork. Both letters  were  posted on 17 May 2018. They 
were sent by ordinary  first class post and not by recorded  or special delivery.  
The ceding  scheme received one of the letters (the one dated 17 May 2018) on 18 May 
2018. The other letter (dated 16 May 2018) wasnt received until 24 May 2018. As the 20 
May 2018 deadline hadnt been met the transfer  value was recalculated.  The new transfer 
value was almost £31,000  lower.
The transfer went ahead. A complaint was then made to Transact about its failure to ensure 
the transfer paperwork was with the ceding  scheme by 20 May 2018.
Transact didnt  uphold the complaint. In its response  to Mr Rs adviser Transact said the 
documentation was processed as soon  as it was received and both sets of forms were sent 
to the administrators  of the ceding  scheme  the next day. Transact accepted that the forms 
werent sent by special  delivery. But the financial  advice confirmation document that was 
received by the ceding schemes administrators  the next day included  a covering letter 
showing a clear intention  to transfer.  If the administrators had contacted Transact  upon  
receipt it would  have resent the missing documents  straight away.  
Transact added that the CETV  was issued on 20 February 2018 and was guaranteed  for 
three months. Transact only received the transfer instruction on 16 May 2018,  which  just left 
two business days for the ceding  scheme to get the documents. Transact processed the 
documents as promptly as it could. But receipt of the forms by the ceding scheme wasnt  
followed up until after the guarantee  had expired.  Transact wasnt  informed  by any party 
involved with the transfer that the forms hadnt  been received until it was too late. 
Ref: DRN57074682Transact suggested that Mr R might  be able to ask the ceding scheme to reverse  the 
transfer. 
Mr R didnt accept Transacts response. He wrote to Transact. In response Transact  said it 
had managed to process and send out the documents in time  by the end of the business  
day following receipt. But if it hadnt been  able to do that until 18 May 2018 that would still 
have been a reasonable turnaround  time (three working days including  the date of receipt)  
even though theyd then have been  received after the deadline. Because  the documents had 
been sent so late there  was a risk that Transact  wouldnt  be able to process and send them  
in time. No time had been allowed for contingencies  such as processing or postal delays or 
queries. The delay in forwarding the forms to Transact was the fundamental reason why the 
deadline wasnt met. 
Transact was aware of the deadline.  But processing  and turnaround times arent guaranteed 
and theres no obligation  to accelerate  normal processing times if documents  are sent close 
to a deadline  although in this case Transact  did manage to complete the processing by the 
end of the next day after receipt. 
Transact noted what had been  said about  the conversations that had taken place between  
the advisers administrators and Transacts ASM about processing  times and postage  
method. But it couldnt  verify that a guarantee to process the documentation immediately 
and send it by special delivery was given. The advisers covering letter enclosing the transfer 
documentation highlighted  the guarantee date but there was no explicit request to send the 
forms by special delivery. 
Transact reiterated that the ceding  scheme  would have known from the documents  it did 
receive that Mr R wanted to transfer  and could  have contacted Transact  and possibly 
accepted emailed documents. Delivery of the transfer document  was delayed by the postal 
service and Transact didnt hear until after the expiry  of the deadline when  it was too late for 
Transact to offer any further help. 
Mr R referred  his complaint to us. It was investigated by one of our adjudicators.  He issued  
his assessment on 10 April 2019. 
He accepted that what had happened  on 15 May 2018 was an important consideration. 
There was no dispute thered been a conversation between Transacts ASM and the 
advisers administrative staff about  the paperwork for Mr Rs proposed transfer.  But exactly 
what was said wasnt agreed. The advisers  staff said that Transacts ASM had said there 
was no need to worry as everything was sent by guaranteed next day delivery. But 
Transacts ASM and her colleague  maintained  theyd said documentation could be sent by 
special delivery  as long as Transact was told to do so  this had to be requested  in the 
covering letter. 
The adjudicator had also considered recordings of conversations between  the advisers 
administrator and Transacts ASM at around  the time the paperwork was submitted, together 
with a copy of the advisers activity log. Again what had happened  wasnt  agreed. The log 
included a telephone call made  by a member of the advisers staff to Transact on 18 May 
2018. She was checking if the paperwork had been  sent to the administrators of the ceding 
scheme and asked for the special delivery tracking  number.  Transact  couldnt  immediately 
find that. Transacts ASM called back and said she couldnt find a special delivery number 
and that shed spoken to the ceding scheme whod confirmed only one part of the 
Ref: DRN57074683documents had been received. Transact  said that call didnt take place on 18 May 2018 but 
on 22 May 2018, after the deadline  had expired.  
The adjudicator pointed to some other uncertainties. Overall he didnt think he could safely 
say Transact should  compensate Mr R. There was no documentary or audio evidence to 
show Transacts ASM gave the assurances suggested. And, in a wider  context,  there were  
only four days until the deadline expired, including a weekend, by the time Transact got the 
documentation. There was always  a risk this sort of situation could occur. Transact  didnt 
automatically send  paperwork by special delivery. The deadline was made clear in the 
advisers covering  letter but that didnt  mean  Transact had to use special delivery. 
What had happened was unfortunate  one letter had taken  a long time to get to the ceding 
scheme. But occasionally there can be vagaries with the postal  system.  The adjudicator said 
he didnt know if another party might be at fault  he was just reaching  a conclusion  as to 
whether Transact  had caused Mr R the loss he was claiming. It might  be that no party was at 
fault. The adjudicator thought it would be unfair for Transact to have to make good  Mr Rs 
loss. 
Mr R said he was disappointed but he understood the adjudicators logic.  He suggested that 
Transact should have checked with the adviser why special delivery hadnt been  requested,  
especially when Transact was aware of the deadline. He thought Transact  might  have been 
aware of the deadline and the special delivery request but was now hiding behind its 
procedure. He said hed be raising  a complaint against his adviser  and requesting 
compensation. 
When the adjudicator  issued  his assessment to Transact hed invited Transact to provide 
evidence of the ASMs mobile phone log. In particular  the adjudicator wanted to see if there 
was a call to the adviser on 18 May 2018. Transact produced the bill for the mobile phone 
with itemised outgoing  calls.  
The adjudicator shared  some of the details and discussed them  with Mr R. The adjudicator  
didnt agree that Transact must have thought it odd that there  was no special delivery 
instruction. Transacts ASMs  arent office based  and wouldnt automatically  have phoned  the 
office to tell it to expect  paperwork on a specific application. The ASMs  say they left it with 
the adviser to request special delivery  for Mr R. The adjudicator  agreed  that, even without a 
special delivery  request,  given the deadline, Transact could have sent the paperwork by 
special delivery, but he thought it would be unfair to hold Transact to account on that basis.  
Mr R still wasnt  convinced that Transact hadnt  overlooked special delivery. So the 
complaint was referred for an ombudsmans decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
All Ive considered  is Mr Rs complaint against Transact. Mr R has mentioned a complaint 
against his adviser.  Usually where  complaints have been made against more than one party 
involved in the same transaction, wed try to consider both complaints together. But as no 
complaint against  the adviser has been  referred  to us Ive just considered  Mr Rs complaint 
against Transact on its own. 
Ref: DRN57074684Having done so, I agree with the conclusion reached  by the adjudicator  that Mr Rs 
complaint against  Transact cant be upheld. And Im broadly in agreement  with the reasons 
given by the adjudicator. 
I can understand Mr Rs disappointment.  He was paid a substantially  reduced transfer value 
 some £31,000 less than he was expecting  because the paperwork wasnt received by 
the ceding scheme before the guaranteed CETV deadline of 20 May 2018 expired. If 
Transact had sent the documentation  to the ceding scheme on 17 May 2018 by special 
delivery it should have been received the next day, 18 May 2018, and so before the CETV  
expired. 
I can see why Mr R considers Transact is responsible  for the fact that he received a lower  
transfer amount.  Theres no dispute that Transact  knew the CETV expired in a matter of 
days. Regardless of any dispute as to whether Transact had indicated that the transfer 
documentation would be sent to the ceding scheme  by special delivery, Mr R might  expect  
Transact to do that anyway and to ensure that the fast approaching  deadline  was met. 
But I think its important to look at what Transact  did (or didnt do) in context.  As Transact  
has pointed out, it got the paperwork late on in the process. I agree there was always a risk 
that something might go wrong. If Transact hadnt  been able to process the transfer 
documentation as quickly as it did, it might have been difficult  to say that Transact  was 
responsible for the deadline  not being  met. 20 May 2018 was a Sunday so I assume the 
ceding scheme would have needed  to have had the documentation by Saturday 19 May 
2018, which would have cut down further  the time available to Transact  it would have 
needed to have sent the paperwork off by Friday  18 May 2018  at the latest.  Three clear 
working days to process the documentation  might  not have been  unreasonable  and which 
would have taken  Transact to the Monday (21 May 2018) and past the deadline.  
Given that time was very tight anyway, I think it would have been prudent  for things to have 
been followed up. Theres a dispute about  whether the advisers staff chased  things  up with 
Transact on 18 May 2018. Transact says no enquiries were made of it until 22 May 2018 
which was after the deadline passed. But, if the call did take place on 18 May 2018, that 
would have meant Mr Rs adviser knew then,  and before the deadline had expired, that the 
ceding scheme hadnt received all the necessary  paperwork. That could have then been 
followed up with the ceding scheme.  Regardless of whether the documentation should  have 
been sent by special  delivery, if the ceding scheme  hadnt received it, something needed to 
be done to retrieve  the position   email copies of the documentation  or, perhaps less likely,  
see if the ceding scheme could extend  the deadline by a day or so. But, if the call didnt take 
place until 22 May 2018,  it was by then too late anyway. 
I think Transact did what was reasonably  expected  of it. It processed the transfer 
documentation quickly  and in line with its usual procedure and, in the absence  of any 
specific request to use special delivery, posted  the documents  to the ceding scheme. In 
normal circumstances both packages  would have been received by the ceding scheme the 
following day and before the CETV expired. I dont think Transact is responsible  for any 
difficulties with the postal system. As Ive said, I recognise the problem would have been 
avoided if Transact  had used special delivery.  But I dont think  thats enough to make  
Transact responsible.   
I might  have  reached a different conclusion if I was satisfied  that Transacts  ASM had 
confirmed that special delivery  would be used, either  in all cases  or in this particular case. I 
know thats what the advisers staff recall was said. But Transacts  ASMs dont agree. And 
Ref: DRN57074685theres nothing in writing  to confirm exactly what was discussed. Its very difficult to be 
certain that an assurance that special delivery  would definitely  be used and in the absence  
of any specific instruction. The advisers  covering  letter  didnt refer to any confirmation 
having been given that special delivery would  be used, nor did it include any request  for 
special delivery. I think that would have been prudent given that time was pressing. 
Given the amount  at stake and the fact that what was said is disputed and thats there  no 
corroborating evidence, I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to proceed on the basis 
that a categorical  assurance was given that special delivery would be used.  
I realise that Mr R is going to be disappointed.  But taking everything into account I dont think 
it would  be fair to say that Transact is responsible for the fact that Mr R received a lower  
transfer value  than hed have got if the deadline  in the CETV had been met.  
my final decision
I dont uphold the complaint and I dont make  any award. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 September  2020.  
Lesley Stead
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5707468