K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about Mr Ks attempts to buy a property at auction with a mortgage from 
Lloyds Bank  PLC. He says Lloyds promised  him the mortgage, and encouraged him to bid at 
auction, but then refused him the mortgage leaving him with a £20,000 of non-refundable 
costs.
background
In August  2018,  Lloyds issued a mortgage promise to Mr K; that is, a document  indicating 
the maximum amount  it would be willing to lend him, subject to a formal application. In his 
case, the amount was just over £143,000.  Mr K then attended a property  auction  where  he 
made a successful bid on a property.  This committed him to buy the property and he paid a 
non-refundable deposit of £16,400, plus an auctioneers fee of £3,600.
Soon after, Lloyds assessed Mr Ks mortgage application and decided it wasnt willing to 
lend to him after all. Initially, it said it would lend a lesser amount, but then corrected  that to 
say it wouldnt be lending  to him at all.
Mr K complained saying  hed told his mortgage  advisor he was looking at auction  properties 
and was told he was free to bid. Lloyds denied this, and directed Mr K to a section of the 
mortgage promise that warned him not to enter into a legally binding  agreement unless hed 
received a full mortgage offer and was happy with the terms of it. 
Lloyds acknowledged  it shouldnt have told Mr K he could borrow  a lesser amount  when  in 
reality, it had decided  not to lend to him at all. But it pointed out that this didnt change Mr Ks 
position, as it was after the fact. Lloyds offered Mr K £500 compensation for his time and 
trouble; it later said this was too generous but having made the offer, agreed to honour it.
Mr K didnt accept the banks offer and brought his complaint here instead.  Our investigator 
didnt think Lloyds had caused Mr K to incur the loss and so didnt recommend the complaint 
be upheld. Mr Ks asked for his complaint  to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should start by making clear I wont be making  any finding about  Lloyds decision not to 
lend to Mr K once it made a full assessment of his application. Its a lenders commercial  
judgement who it lends to, and its not up to me to substitute my judgement in Lloyds place. 
My focus is on whether  Lloyds misled Mr K into thinking he had a guarantee of mortgage 
funds such that it was appropriate  for him to enter into a binding contract to buy a property. 
Based on the available evidence, Im not persuaded thats what happened.
The starting point  here is the mortgage promise, and the warning it contained. That said:
You should not enter into a binding legal commitment to buy a property until you have 
received, and are happy with, the full mortgage  offer.
Ref: DRN57252752Thats pretty  unambiguous,  and leaves very little room for doubt. Ive then considered  the 
likelihood that Lloyds advisor would  have said something on the phone that contradicted  
that. 
Theres no dispute Mr K and the advisor  spoke on the phone about Mr K going in search  of a 
property to buy, armed with the mortgage promise. What is in dispute is whether the advisor 
knew or should have  known  Mr K was talking about bidding  at auction rather  than making  an 
offer on the open market. The distinction is that the latter isnt legally binding but the former  
very much is.
Mr K says he specifically talked about  auction properties, the advisor says he didnt,  and 
theres no call recoding to verify either  way. Where theres a lack of corroborating evidence, I 
have to decide whats most likely  to have happened on the balance  of probabilities. 
To uphold  Mr Ks complaint, I have to be satisfied that his account of events is more likely 
than Lloyds version, not just as likely. With nothing else to go on, and mindful  that for the 
advisor to have told Mr K it was safe to bid at auction would have directly contradicted the 
written warning in the mortgage promise, I dont find it more  likely than not that the advisor 
was aware Mr K was planning to bid at auction.
Its unfortunate that Lloyds briefly misled  Mr K by saying it would lend a reduced  amount 
when it had actually  decided it wouldnt lend at all. But its right when it says this didnt 
change Mr Ks position of having made  a binding offer at auction that required him to pay the 
non-refundable fees. That had already happened. Lloyds has made an offer of 
compensation for this; Ive considered that and agree with the bank that its generous. If 
Mr K now wishes  to accept that offer, he can do so by contacting  Lloyds directly. But theres 
no award for me to make here.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold  this complaint, or make  
any order or award against Lloyds Bank  PLC. My final decision concludes this services  
consideration of this complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further consideration 
or discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 31 August 2019. 
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5725275