K820x#14complaint
Mr P is unhappy that The Prudential  Assurance  Company Limited  is not allowing him to 
access his pension in the way he wants.  
background
A brief summary of the circumstances  leading to this complaint, and my initial  conclusions,  
were set out in my provisional decision, a copy of which is attached and forms part of this 
final decision. 
In short,  Mr P was declared  bankrupt in 1998.  He had a pension at that time with another  
provider, which Prudential  is now responsible for. Prudential  says the pension had a 
forfeiture clause which meant Mr P gave  up his pension benefits when he became bankrupt.  
This was to prevent his pension  being claimed by his creditors.  
Mr P is now looking to retire. He wants to draw  on his pension as and when he needs to 
along the lines of an income drawdown  plan. Prudential  says the forfeiture clause means  it 
cant pay benefits directly to Mr P which means certain options, such  as a transfer to another  
provider and income drawdown,  arent  available to him. Prudential  says it will still pay Mr P a 
pension, but any payments  have to be made to a third party (a spouse for example) and not 
directly to him. It says Mr P would still have some  flexibility (for instance, it says the whole 
pension could be taken  as a taxable  lump sum) but Mr P cant have complete freedom with 
regards to his pension. Mr P doesnt think this is fair, and he says he was given conflicting 
information by Prudential.
Prudential paid Mr P £200  because it thought the information it provided  to him about his 
pension options  could have been  better. But it didnt reverse its decision on the payment of 
Mr Ps pension.  Mr P referred  his complaint to us. 
In my provisional decision I explained  why I wasnt intending to uphold  Mr Ps complaint. I 
invited both parties to provide further  comments.  Prudential didnt have anything further to 
add. Mr P made  a number  of comments, which  I address  below.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided to not 
uphold Mr Ps complaint.
First of all I think  it worth  reiterating here that the forfeiture clause means control of Mr Ps 
pension was (ultimately)  transferred  to Prudential. And the forfeiture clause doesnt require 
Prudential to transfer control back to the policy holder  at some later date. All the clause 
requires Prudential to do is consider  paying  some (or potentially all) of the pension  in support 
of the policyholder if theyve run into financial difficulty:
If, through the operation  of this Clause, a benefit ceases to be payable, the Society may, in 
case of hardship apply all or any part of it for the support and maintenance of the person 
who would  have been the recipient had the benefit  not ceased to be payable
  
Mr P confirms he is in hardship,  so theres  no issue on that front.  Prudential  has also agreed 
to pay the entire pension,  so theres no issue here either. The issue is Prudential  wont pay 
Ref: DRN51114022benefits directly to Mr P, which reduces his flexibility. I understand Mr Ps frustration, but Im 
satisfied Prudentials decision  is in line with the clauses requirement  to pay in support and 
maintenance of the policy holder. 
Mr P says Prudential has agreed  to pay the pension in its entirety.  He says he can choose 
whether payment is as a lump  sum or a partial  lump sum. He says any tax liability would be 
based on his own particular circumstances. And he says paying the whole fund to him (via a 
third party) is no different  to transferring the entire fund to another  provider.
I understand the points Mr P has raised.  He is saying Prudential (and HMRC) are, 
effectively, treating the pension as Mr Ps. And he is saying there doesnt appear  to be a 
substantive difference between what Prudential is willing to do for Mr P and what it isnt 
willing to do (and theres  no obvious  cost either way to Prudential).  However,  the simple fact 
is control of the pension  has passed to Prudential  meaning it now has discretion on how 
(or if) it is paid.  And theres nothing in the forfeiture clause directing Prudential  to act in the 
way Mr P wants. So Mr P has very little leverage  here, and little in the way of contractual  
rights. Theres also a broader point which is that Prudential is trying to minimise  the 
possibility (however remote) of Mr Ps bankruptcy arrangements being  compromised. I 
recognise this might  come across  as being overly cautious and its approach  might  seem 
arbitrary. But I dont  think Prudential is acting unreasonably given whats at stake and given 
Mr P can still receive his entire pension. 
Mr P says he wasnt told about the forfeiture clause. This may well have been the case. But 
that doesnt mean Mr P lost out as a result. My view was  and remains  that Mr P would 
have kept the policy  even  if he had been  informed of the forfeiture clause at the time. After  
all, it was designed to protect  his pension in the case of bankruptcy, which  I can only 
assume would  have been seen as being  beneficial.  
Mr P also points out that the change in law means the forfeiture clause wouldnt have been  
needed shortly after Mr P became bankrupt. But the issue here is that the forfeiture clause 
was needed in Mr Ps case, meaning  he did give up his pension and he is subject  to the 
forfeiture clause. Mr Ps situation has to be seen in this light,  rather than what  would have 
happened had he became  bankrupt  at a later date.  
Mr P goes on to say he will lose out financially because his fund is too small to pay a 
reasonable pension but taking the pension as a lump sum would result in it being heavily 
taxed. So he says he will lose out unless he can draw on his funds as and when he wants  to 
in a tax efficient way. This is a crucial point because if the forfeiture clause does financially 
penalise Mr P then it would be difficult to see what purpose it served.  However, I dont think  I 
can reasonably  say thats the case here. Yes, Mr P is losing  some  flexibility.  But I think it 
would be a stretch to say he will suffer a financial loss given his pension was sheltered from 
his creditors and he can now benefit  from that pension in full. 
As Mr P points  out, all the above does give Prudential  discretion in relation to the paying of 
his pension. And that could result in an unfair outcome for Mr P. But, for the reasons given  
above, and in my provisional decision, I dont  think that applies here. 
Finally, Prudential has paid Mr P £200 because it says the information it gave him could 
have been better. I think this is fair and reasonable so I wont  be asking Prudential  to pay 
him more.  
It follows that I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint.
Ref: DRN51114023my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is to not uphold  Mr Ps complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 April 2019.
Christian Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN51114024COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr P is unhappy  that The Prudential  Assurance  Company Limited is not allowing him to access  his 
pension in the way he wants.  
background
In 1998 Mr P was declared bankrupt. He had a pension at that time with another  provider, which 
Prudential is now responsible for. Prudential  says the pension had a forfeiture clause which meant Mr 
P gave up his pension benefits when he became bankrupt. This was to prevent his pension being 
claimed by his creditors. 
Mr P is now looking to retire.  He wants to draw  on his pension as and when he needs to along  the 
lines of an income drawdown  plan.  Prudential says Mr P cant  do this because it would mean 
transferring his pension assets back to him and it cant do this under the terms of the forfeiture clause. 
It says it will still pay him a pension,  but any payments have to be made to a third party (a spouse for 
example) and not direct  to him. It says Mr P would  still have some flexibility (for instance, Prudential 
says the whole pension could be taken as a taxable  lump sum) but, because  his pension cant be 
transferred back to him, certain options are precluded  such  as income  drawdown or a transfer to 
another provider. Mr P doesnt think this is fair, and he says he was given conflicting  information by 
Prudential. 
Prudential paid Mr P £200 because it thought that the information it provided to Mr P about his 
pension options  could have been better. But it didnt reverse its decision on the payment of Mr Ps 
pension. Mr P referred his complaint to us. 
Our investigator upheld the complaint. She didnt think there was any reason why Prudential couldnt  
be flexible on the payment of Mr Ps pension. Prudential  disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans 
decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Having  done so, my provisional decision is to not uphold Mr Ps 
complaint.
I think  its useful first of all to recap what the forfeiture clause was intended  to do. By giving  up  
forfeiting  his or her pension, a person was able to protect  their pension benefits from being  
claimed by their creditors during bankruptcy. I dont have  much detail  on Mr Ps situation at this time. 
But I can only assume  that the forfeiture worked as intended because  Mr Ps pension hasnt  been 
claimed by his creditors. And I can only surmise that protecting his pension in this way was beneficial  
to Mr P. Not all pensions had this in place  at that time and, as Mr P rightly  points out, the law didnt 
change to protect  pensions in bankruptcy until later.  So I think Mr P did benefit  from the foresight of 
his pension provider. 
Mr P now wants  to be able to draw cash from his pension as and when he needs to. To do this, his 
pension assets need to be transferred back to him. I can understand why he thinks  this shouldnt be a 
problem. His Trustee in Bankruptcy  has written  a letter  to say it no longer has an interest in Mr Ps 
pension. Prudential has said it will still pay Mr P a pension, albeit to a third party. And, as far as I can 
tell, there would be no cost to Prudential (beyond its normal costs)  in granting  Mr Ps request. 
Ref: DRN51114025Our investigator made similar  points. She also referred to the scheme rules which are silent on how 
pension benefits  following  bankruptcy  could  be paid. So she saw no reason  why Prudential shouldnt 
pay Mr Ps benefits to him directly. The relevant forfeiture clause in the scheme rules say the 
following:
If sequestration of a Members estate is awarded or a trustee in bankruptcy  appointed in respect of a 
Member after 20 December 1995,  the Members Total Fund and entitlements under the Scheme shall 
not vest in the trustee in bankruptcy.  If, through the operation of this Clause, a benefit ceases  to be 
payable, the Society may, in case of hardship  apply  all or any part of it for the support  and 
maintenance of the person who would  have  been  the recipient  had the benefit  not ceased  to be 
payable, or his spouse children  or remoter  Issue (but In no case shall any payment be made  to an 
assignee or purported assignee)
I agree that the clause  doesnt provide  much detail on what happens to pension  payments following  
bankruptcy. But it does say benefits could  be paid for the support and maintenance  of the 
policyholder which I think is very different to saying benefits would  be paid directly  to that policyholder.  
And the more important point here is that Mr P forfeited  his right to the pension. This means  he cant 
compel Prudential to pay his pension directly because he no longer  has a right to that pension.  Its 
now up to Prudential to decide how its paid. That said, I could still ask Prudential to pay Mr P his 
pension directly  if I think its the fair and reasonable thing to do. But I dont think it is.
I say this because if Prudential was to agree to Mr Ps request it would  be effectively saying the 
forfeiture was a forfeiture  in name only and was actually  reversible all along. This might have 
repercussions for Mr P because  his creditors might feel aggrieved that they could  have  with a bit of 
pressure  claimed  his pension assets if they had wanted to. I realise the Trustee in Bankruptcy has 
written a letter  saying it no longer has an interest in Mr Ps pension,  so such a scenario seems 
unlikely. But I dont think Prudential is acting unreasonably in interpreting the forfeiture clause, and
Mr Ps current position  with regards his creditors, in a cautious way. It seems to me that Prudential is 
sticking to the letter, and spirit, of the forfeiture clause as it sees it and in so doing is minimising the 
possibility  however remote  of Mr Ps bankruptcy arrangements being compromised. I dont think 
this is unreasonable.
I might  take a different  view if Mr P is being financially penalised by Prudentials actions  for 
example, if Prudential  isnt willing to pay a pension. In such a scenario,  its difficult  to see what 
purpose forfeiture would  have served. But that doesnt appear to be the case  here. Prudential has 
confirmed that it is willing to pay a pension, albeit to a third party.  So, based on the evidence 
provided, I dont think Mr P has lost out, or will lose out, financially   hes just lost some flexibility. 
So all things  considered, I dont intend  to ask Prudential to pay Mr P his pension directly.
Mr P also says the forfeiture clause wasnt brought to his attention and that he would have 
considered other options  if it had been.  He says the policy was mis-sold as a result. I dont have 
much information on how the policy  was sold.  However,  I dont consider  it likely  that anyone   Mr P 
included  would have changed their minds about a pension based on what  would happen in the case  
of bankruptcy (which presumably, Mr P wouldnt  have been expecting).  And the clause was designed 
to protect a persons  pension which, I have to assume, would have been  seen by Mr P as being  a 
good thing. So I think Mr P would have still bought his policy even if the forfeiture clause had been 
brought to his attention at the time. The forfeiture clause was only incorporated into the scheme  rules  
in 1996, so its possible  as Mr P has suggested  that this was after Mr P bought his policy. But, for 
the same reasons as above, I dont think Mr P would  have cancelled his policy if the clause had been 
brought to his attention.  
Finally, Prudential  has paid Mr P £200 because it says the information it gave him could have been 
better. I think this is fair and reasonable so I wont be asking Prudential to pay Mr P any more.
Ref: DRN51114026my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision, subject to any more  evidence  or arguments I receive from either  party, is to not 
uphold this complaint.
Christian Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5111402