K821x#15complaint
complaint
Mr W complained  that TenetConnect Limited  failed,  since  2012, to deal with his requests to 
move various investments and transfer  funding into ISAs to minimize  his tax liability.  He also 
said it had consistently  failed to communicate and respond to requests for contact. He 
further complained  that he requested a review of his investments in 2015 and despite  
signing a new contract to pay for new, ongoing advice he didnt receive any advice.
background
TenetConnect objected to this service considering his complaint,  saying  that Mr W had 
brought it outside the permitted time limits.
After various correspondence  about  this jurisdiction issue,  an ombudsman concluded that 
we could only look at Mr Ws complaint concerning an alleged  failure  to provide advice after 
signing a new advisory contract in early 2016.
An adjudicator at this service  felt this aspect of his complaint should be upheld.
He noted that the new agreement said he would receive:
Access to our support  team
Valuations on request
On-going access to an adviser  via telephone  and email
An annual CoFunds valuation
A half yearly e-mail newsletter to keep you up to date with changes  which  may 
impact your finances
Investment Review as agreed with our adviser  which includes: Review  of Objectives 
and Risk Profile; Review of Asset Allocation and Review  of applicable Tax Charges
But it did not specify how often investment  reviews  would take place.
The adjudicator did not therefore  feel Mr W had been deprived of any promised reviews but 
said hed not received  the ongoing access to an advisor by phone  or email as outlined, and 
detailed why.
TenetConnect then said it was prepared to refund 50% of the fees from January 2016 
onwards.
Mr W rejected  this, and said:
He disputed TenetConnects so-called  explanation as to why the advisor  had not 
called him back
The advisor didnt  move his funds,  as promised, and this is still part of his complaint
TenetConnect failed  to notify him his old advisor was leaving or of the alleged  new 
one
After losing faith with TenetConnect  he needed  to move his investments to a new 
business and at considerable cost; this alone  cost £2,000,  and it should  pay this
Ref: DRN56290402He also wanted  £500 in lieu of the time take pursuing this complaint plus 
compensation for the poor service and lack of communication  and for the 
considerable stress this has caused
And for the returns  of all costs, fees and commission since  December 2015 
Overall, the adjudicator concluded that TenetConnect had reviewed Mr Ws investments in 
2014 and hed agreed to leave things where they were. He said that as investments were  
medium to long-term in nature, its often unwise to be reacting to short-term  market  
movements. He wouldnt therefore have expected the business to recommend  regular  fund 
switches and he didnt  believe Mr Ws switches resulted in significantly different holdings.
He therefore didnt believe Mr W was entitled  to compensation for any potential  investment 
loss as a result of his move.  He acknowledged  Mr W's point about the advisors  failure to 
recommend drip feeding  his holdings into an ISA to utilise his annual  allowance. But he felt 
that, looking at Mr Ws total holdings and tax status,  he didn't believe Mr W would've  suffered 
a financial loss by holding these funds outside  of an ISA wrapper.
The adjudicator did feel that TenetConnect had failed to keep to the spirit if not the letter  of 
its agreement regarding  the offer of ongoing  advice,  particularly given Mr W wasnt  told who 
his new advisor allegedly was or how to contact him. He also felt Mr W was overdue  a 
review at the point  he left the business. Further,  he felt that some  of the other  things he had 
received, such as annual statements, would have  been sent to him directly if he had not 
been paying TenetConnect an advisory  fee.
He also felt Mr W had experienced considerable trouble  and upset as a result of 
TenetConnects failings.
He therefore felt it should refund all of Mr Ws fees from January 2016 on - and add 8% 
simple interest to each  payment from the date it was paid to the date of settlement of the 
complaint. It should also pay £300  in lieu of the trouble and upset  caused.
TenetConnect did not agree that a review  was overdue or that it should  pay a £300  trouble 
and upset payment.  It said Mr Ws service contract  specified that he could not expect a 
review more frequently than every five years so his complaint about not being offered advice 
since then has no validity.
Mr W also did not accept the adjudicators  proposed  compensation, saying:
TenetConnect had an opportunity to offer some  compensation at the outset of his 
complaint but didnt  do so even though they admitted their service  was not up to their 
usual standard
If they had offered  something back then, nearly 18 months ago, this would have 
saved considerable time and trouble. Instead  hes had to write a total of 11 letters as 
well as constructing a Timeline, for clarification, which has all taken a considerable 
amount of time,  probably in excess of 30 hours
Although TenetConnects failure  to provide access to a financial advisor has been  
recognized by the Ombudsman the time rules  have prevented his complaint 
regarding the moving of funds from going  forward
Ref: DRN56290403The enclosed email  proves that the advisor acknowledged  his wish to move  funds 
and promised to do so. He also undertook to contact him the next week to arrange  a 
review and move the funds in question, having  completed a risk assessment during 
2014 in preparation
The fact that this was the last time he heard  from him is significant.  He would be 
aware of the time rules  but most people, including himself at the time, would not. 
Was this deliberate?
 Also, his personal health during this period should be given consideration. He had a 
stroke on 2 March  2015 (inside the three year period) followed  by depression  which 
lasted until the middle  of 2016.  He can provide evidence for this if necessary. During 
this period he could  not give any meaningful attention to his financial affairs  because  
he was too ill. This had a direct effect on his ability  to bring his main complaint - i.e. 
moving the funds   within  the time limits
He therefore  wanted the full compensation hed outlined earlier including £2,000 for 
the forced transfer of his funds
my findings
Ive firstly  considered Mr Ws latest arguments as to why he feels  this service should still 
consider his main  complaint about the advisors  failure to recommend moving  his funds or 
come back  to him as promised to discuss this further i.e. he feels  the time bar should  be 
waived given his various ongoing  health issues at the time.
I was the ombudsman who made the jurisdiction decision, ruling  on which  parts of Mr Ws 
complaint this service  could consider,  and which it couldnt. When  considering this issue I 
took account of Mr Ws health issues, which hed already outlined, but still felt he ought 
reasonably to have  been  able to make  a complaint about certain issues more than three 
years before he did. As a result I came  to the conclusion that we could not look into the 
merits of his complaint  about the advisors  failure  to act on his request to move  funds (or 
offer recommendations about this issue).
I recognise that Mr W has elaborated on his health issues in his most recent response but I 
am satisfied  that I fully understood these issues at the time I made the jurisdiction decision. I 
therefore dont  believe I need to reconsider this issue now or would be likely to reach a 
different decision if I did so.
Ive therefore  considered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable when considering the issues  within our jurisdiction: the failure to offer appropriate 
advice after paying a new advisory  fee in January 2016 and the impact  this has had on Mr W 
both in terms of consequential loss and trouble  and upset to him personally.
As TenetConnect has agreed to refund  the advisory fees from January  2016, I need not 
address this issue in detail. But I do not agree with TenetConnects  interpretation that Mr W 
wasnt entitled to a review  for five years; the whole point of a client  signing an advisory 
agreement is to get advice about  their investments not to have to wait five years for one. 
Equally, from what Ive read TenetConnect did not keep to either the spirit or the letter  of the 
commitment to Telephone  or e-mail access to your dedicated adviser should you need  us.
Ref: DRN56290404In relation to the other issues I agree  with the adjudicators view. I dont believe 
TenetConnect should be liable for the costs associated with the switch  of his funds  to 
another provider.  In my view this was Mr Ws choice and, despite  TenetConnects failings 
since January 2016 (the only period I can consider) I dont think  he needed to do this. 
If his complaint about TenetConnects  alleged failings prior to this date were within our 
jurisdiction I may have taken a different view about  this issue. But judged solely on the basis 
that he was not given  the service he was paying  for from January 2016 I dont think there is 
enough to conclude that TenetConnect  should  pay these transfer costs.
It is clear that its service was not good enough  and its responses  to his requests for advice, 
assistance and response to queries  has been,  at best, inadequate.  I am therefore  satisfied 
that Mr W is entitled to compensation in lieu of the undoubted trouble and upset this has 
caused. Considering this services overall  approach in cases like these, I think  £300  is a 
reasonable figure.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and instruct  TenetConnect Limited to fund the advisory fees charged  
from January 2016 until the date of settlement. It should also add 8% simple interest per 
annum to each  payment from the date it was paid to the date of settlement - and pay £300 in 
recognition of the trouble  and upset this matter has caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5629040