K820x#14complaint
Its agreed  in this case that Financial Insurance Company  Limited (FICL),  as the insurer, 
should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill just refer to FICL in 
my decision.
Mrs H says FICL mis-sold  her a payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy Mrs H took out with a store card in March  2003. It was 
added to her account when she applied for the card in the store  whilst shopping.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs H disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. 
Mrs H mainly said that she was made  to feel that the policy was a normal add on that 
everyone took. Mrs H feels strongly that, as she had a secure  job with good  work benefits, 
she didnt need  PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website  and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Hs case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Hs complaint  and Ill explain  why.
It isnt reasonable  to expect Mrs H to remember exactly  what  was discussed  when she took 
out PPI so long ago. I have to look at everything  and decide  what  I think is most likely. 
FICL has given us a copy of Mrs Hs completed store  card application. Mrs H has signed in 
the PPI part of the form, next to where  it says Yes, I would like to protect  my Account with 
Account CoverPlease debit my Account  with the relevant  monthly premium until further 
notice. I think its reasonable to expect Mrs H wouldve first read through anything she was 
asked to sign. So, although I dont know what mightve been said about the PPI, I think it 
wouldve been clear from the paperwork that it was up to Mrs H to say if she wanted to have 
PPI added on. 
Mrs H also signed the completed application at the end of the form. So it seems to me that 
she must have agreed with the information on the form at the time  even if, understandably,  
she has forgotten this now.  On balance, I find that Mrs H was aware the policy  was optional 
and she chose to take it out.
FICL shouldve given Mrs H enough clear information to decide if the policy  was right for her.
Its possible some information FICL gave Mrs H about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it shouldve 
been. So I need to consider if Mrs H wouldve acted differently,  and not bought the policy, if 
clearer information had been provided. 
Ref: DRN55086982Ive taken into account what Mrs H told us about  her sick pay and job security. But this policy 
couldve paid a benefit for longer  than she couldve  relied on getting sick pay. It couldve  paid 
out for as long as Mrs H was off work sick or if Mrs H lost her job unexpectedly and was out 
of work. In the event of a successful claim,  the policy couldve cleared the card balance if 
Mrs H wasnt able to go back to work. No job can be guaranteed to be secure indefinitely. 
And I dont  know whether  her employer wouldve necessarily been  able to offer Mrs H 
alternative work at the same pay grade on the same terms and condition if she had lost her 
job. Having the policy gave Mrs H significantly better  cover than she couldve depended on 
otherwise. So I think  Mrs H couldve benefitted  from having PPI.
In coming to my decision, Ive taken into account  what Mrs H told us about her home 
circumstances. But everyones  situation can change unexpectedly and I cant be sure she 
wouldve always been able to depend on family support.
It doesnt look as if Mrs H was affected  by any of the things the policy  didnt cover. So, I dont 
think more information  about the policy exclusions and limitations  wouldve made any 
difference to Mrs Hs decision to take out PPI. 
I dont think its likely  that FICL gave Mrs H clear enough information about  the costs  of the 
PPI policy. But Mrs H chose to take out the policy when she didnt have to  so she seems to 
have wanted it at the time. And Mrs H indicated on the application form that she was happy 
to pay to have  it. 
Ive taken into account Mrs Hs comments,  including what shes said about  the way other  
claims shes made have been  dealt  with. But I am concerned here just with her complaint 
about the PPI sold with this store card. So these  points dont change my conclusion.
Looked at overall, given the benefits  PPI offered  Mrs H, I think it unlikely she wouldve made 
a different decision if better information  had been  provided. On balance  I think  shed still 
have taken out the policy. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above,  I dont uphold Mrs Hs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 March  2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5508698