K820x#14complaint
Mrs G complains on behalf  of the estate  of Mr T that NFU Mutual  Select Investments Limited 
didnt inform her that the value of her late fathers Stocks  and Shares ISA could  fluctuate.  If 
she had known this she would have drawn  the money after her mother  died.  
background
She also complained  that:
She wasnt told the two policies had been amalgamated
 
NFU didnt tell her what the platform charges  were till her third request for this 
information
She was wrongly  advised that she couldnt  draw any money out until she had the 
Grant of Probate
She wasnt given any opportunity to discuss the ISA before it was due to be sold
An adjudicator at this service  agreed  that NFUs actions had not been completely 
satisfactory. But felt its offer of £200 had been fair and reasonable given the facts he saw 
them.
He said that its terms and conditions made clear that her fathers money  would remain  
invested, and therefore at risk, until it was instructed to move it into cash.  So while he felt 
NFU couldve spelt  this out over the phone it didnt believe it had done anything wrong in 
adhering to the contractual position  at the time. He acknowledged its policy had now 
changed.
He also felt NFU was entitled  to insist on probate before  releasing  any money, saying this 
decision was within its commercial discretion and in line with HMRC  guidance. As such, this 
was not something  this service was in a position  to adjudicate on.
He accepted Mrs Gs evidence that it had taken three calls to get the platform charge 
information and acknowledged that she had not been told about the various funds being 
amalgamated. But he felt that NFUs offer of £200 in lieu of these errors was broadly in line 
with what this service would recommend in these circumstances.
Mrs G did not agree,  and said that irrespective of the terms and conditions NFU should have 
been more helpful, given  her better  support and dealt with her more  compassionately given 
her situation.
She said that several family members  had explained the situation and it would have been 
simple to explain that the money was at risk as long as it remained in the investment. In fact, 
the person she spoke  to on several occasions gave her the impression that it was ok to 
leave the money  invested while they concentrated on other urgent family concerns.
Ref: DRN51823182my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  In this case I agree with the adjudicator 
and for the same  reasons.
It is clear that Mrs G was under considerable pressure dealing not just with her fathers 
sudden death  but also her mothers  terminal illness. So I fully understand why she feels NFU 
ought to have been more  proactive  and helpful,  including pointing out that its policy   at the 
time was that investments  remained active after a person has died.
To those  in the industry and to experienced investors this may seem  obvious but there  is no 
reason why many ordinary customers would understand this. But the question Ive had to 
consider is simply did NFU do something wrong; as opposed to might  they have been  more 
helpful.
In this context, I cannot fairly conclude it did do something wrong  by failing to spell out that 
this money remained  at risk until it was given an instruction to move it into cash. If this 
complaint concerned a paid-for advisor  then they definitely should have made  Mrs G and 
other representatives of Mr Es estate about this issue  to ensure they could make a fully 
informed decision about whether they wanted  to keep  the investment active. But NFU was 
not being paid to offer investment advice and I dont believe  it was required, in effect,  to give 
it. 
Its prime responsibility was to process requests in line with the terms and conditions and to 
provide factually accurate and timely information.  I acknowledge  that it didnt make clear  that 
it had amalgamated  Mr Es two ISA funds and appears not to have responded promptly to 
Mrs Gs requests for platform  charge information.  But neither of these failings,  disappointing  
and annoying  though  they undoubtedly  were,  resulted in any financial loss. 
So I dont  think the £200 NFU offered was unreasonable.
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask the 
representatives of the estate of Mr E to accept  or reject my decision  before 
11 December 2019.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5182318