K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that Nationwide  Building Society  wont honour the interest rate from the 
terms and conditions of his upgraded current account.
background
In May 2018, Mr C applied to upgrade  his current account with Nationwide.  The new account 
offered a 5% interest rate on balances up to £2,500 for 12 months, if at least  £1,000  a month  
was credited.
Mr C was accepted  for the account, but didnt receive the introductory interest rate. 
Nationwide said that this was subject to conditions; including that customers were only 
entitled to one introductory rate at any one time,  and if they had previously had this type of 
account, and had benefitted from the introductory rate then, they wouldnt be entitled to it 
again.
Mr C had previously had the same account  in 2015, and had an introductory interest  rate. So 
Nationwide said he couldnt  have it again.
However, Mr C had saved the terms hed agreed to when he applied, and said these  showed  
the 5% interest  rate was applicable without any caveats.
One of our adjudicators looked  at the complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. He said 
the information about not being  entitled  to the interest rate again was set out on Nationwides 
website. He said Mr C was made aware that the account upgrade was subject to terms and 
conditions, and these  were available for Mr C to review on the website. Nationwide  had 
shown that Mr C received  the interest rate on his previous account  so he didnt think  it was 
wrong by not applying  it to his upgraded account in 2018.
Mr C didnt accept the adjudicators findings. He said it was reasonable for him to assume 
that the only terms and conditions  were  in his application for the account upgrade.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done this, I find Ive reached  much the same conclusion as the adjudicator,  for the 
same reasons.
The terms and conditions  of the account Mr C was applying  for were available  for him to 
review on Nationwide's website. In making  his application he agreed to be bound  by them. 
I dont think it was unreasonable  for these to be detailed  in full separately  from the online 
application he was completing for the account. The information hes sent us of his gives his 
account details  to check, and it includes a box to tick to confirm acceptance of the customer 
agreement statement.
But it also refers to other information relating to the account. For example; it says you can 
view your product literature online. It also says there are fees and charges that apply to the 
account depending on how its operated, and further information of these is given separately.
Ref: DRN56239072Overall, I dont  think Nationwide has acted unfairly  by not applying  the 5% interest to Mr Cs 
account, when  he isnt entitled  to this in accordance with the account terms and conditions  
as hes benefitted  from it before.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 April 2019.
Cathy Bovan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5623907