K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs L complain that Legal  & General Insurance Limited wont  provide a replacement
for their lost wedding ring under  their home  contents policy.
background
Mr and Mrs L made a claim on their contents  insurance for a wedding  ring they lost while on 
holiday. The ring was a specified item on their insurance and has been valued at £1050.
Legal & General said its chosen  jeweller could make a replacement ring for around £600. So 
offered Mr and Mrs L the choice to have a replacement ring made  or have the amount the 
replacement would cost them  refunded  in cash, less the £100 excess. Alternatively, it offered 
vouchers for its chosen jeweller  at the full value of the ring, less the £100 excess.
Mr and Mrs L werent happy with this, as they said the jeweller  couldnt  have  provided  a 
proper valuation as they didnt have  enough information about  the ring. They  said as they 
specified the ring on the insurance policy for a specific  amount, they should be paid that 
amount in cash. They also confirmed  that they had already bought  a new ring, although said 
this wasnt a replacement.  Further, they said they felt the policy had been mis-sold as they 
thought they would be entitled to the full amount the ring was insured for. They complained  
to Legal & General.
Legal & General didnt uphold the complaint. It said that as Mr and Mrs L had now replaced 
the ring, it would only offer around  £600  cash or vouchers for the full value,  both less the 
£100 excess. It also said that as a third party had sold the policy, any complaint about how it 
was sold would need to be directed to the third party.
Mr and Mrs L werent happy with this response. They thought Legal & General should  either  
replace the ring or pay the full value of the ring in cash. They complained to this service.
Our investigator considered all the issues and upheld the complaint.  She thought that Legal
& General should provide a replacement ring. However she agreed with Legal & General 
that the complaint about mis-selling  should  be directed to the third party  broker.
Legal & General disagreed with this view as it said it would be unlikely to be able to provide 
an exact replica and thinks  Mr and Mrs L are therefore unlikely to be happy  with the 
replacement. It also said that as they have  now bought a new ring, a cash settlement would 
be more suitable.  They asked for an ombudsmans  decision.
my provisional decision  
In my provisional decision,  I said:
Mr and Mrs L are unhappy with the options they have  been offered by Legal  & General to 
settle their claim. They say they want a replacement  for the lost ring and none of the options 
offered would enable them to get one.
Legal & General say that under the policy it can choose the method  by which  it settles a 
claim. I can see in the policy, under the section about personal possessions, it says:  We will
at our option: i) replace  as new; ii) pay the cost to us of replacing as new;  iii) repair; or iv) 
pay the cost to us to repair." So it is able to choose which of those options it offers when 
settling a claim. The wording also confirms that Legal & General are only obliged to pay the 
Ref: DRN56228512amount in cash that it would cost it to replace the ring. So it is acting in line with the policy  by 
offering around  £600, minus the excess,  as a cash settlement rather than the full market  
value of the ring. However, I also need to consider  if Legal  & General have treated Mr and 
Mrs L fairly when handling  their claim.
Mr and Mrs L have said they dont think the settlement options offered by Legal & General 
are fair, as the cash  settlement is based  on an unreliable quote provided  by its jeweller. They  
say the jeweller  didnt  have enough  information  about the ring at the time it gave the quote 
for it to be accurate. The jeweller has confirmed that it had a limited description of the ring 
when it calculated the quote.  However using that information, the market value and its own 
pricing guide, it made an estimate as to the exact components of the ring and calculated the 
quote from that. It also validated the quote against other rings sold in its own shops  that 
matched the description. So I think it has taken considerable care to calculate an accurate 
quote based on limited information.
I understand the quote offered by the jeweller to Legal & General is significantly below the 
market value of the ring and this may be the reason Mr and Mrs L doubt its accuracy.
However, the jeweller has said it agrees  the market value is around  the right price, in fact it 
valued it slightly higher based on the components. So if it was selling the ring itself it would 
be likely  to offer a similar price as the value. But it offers a significant discount to Legal  & 
General which  is why the quote is so much  lower. This doesnt mean it would provide a less 
valuable ring, as it would be of the same market value as the original. I therefore think  the 
quote from the jeweller is a reasonable estimate based on the information  Mr and Mrs L 
have provided. So it follows that its fair that Legal & General  have relied on the quote for the 
settlement.
Mr and Mrs L are also unhappy that Legal & General  are no longer offering to provide a 
replacement ring as a settlement option. Legal & General  say it is not offering  this option as 
it is concerned that Mr and Mrs L would  reject the ring and ask for a cash settlement  after 
receiving it. It says this is because they have repeatedly said they dont think Legal &
Generals jeweller  would be able to make a replacement  and it agrees  it would  be unlikely to 
provide an exact  replica. I have looked at the correspondence between Mr L and Legal &
General and I can understand why it has these  concerns. Mr L has repeatedly  said that he 
wants a replacement ring out of principle. This suggests that getting the replacement itself 
isnt the most important  factor  to him. He also said that he may get a replacement  ring 
inspected by the original jeweller and reserves the right to reject it. The fact he is considering  
asking the original jeweller to inspect the ring suggests he isnt just concerned about it 
looking similar to him, he also wants to identify  any differences no matter how minor and 
may reject it if any are found.
Legal & General also say that as Mr and Mrs L have now bought a new ring, a replacement 
wouldnt be the most suitable option. Mr and Mrs L have explained that the ring they bought  
isnt a replacement,  but a present from Mr L to Mrs L and they still require a replacement for 
the one they lost. They have provided  a receipt  for the new ring and it was bought on the 
same day they opened the claim and is more expensive than the value of the lost ring. Mr 
and Mrs L say they are keen to get a replacement for the lost ring, so it seems contradictory  
that they bought a different ring as a present as soon as they got back from holiday.  If they 
were keen to get a replacement, I would have expected them  to prioritise  this above  a more 
expensive additional  ring.
For the reasons  I have  outlined I think Legal & General have acted fairly and reasonably in 
how theyve handled  Mr and Mrs Ls claim.  I understand Mr and Mrs L have expressed that 
Ref: DRN56228513they would  like a replacement but Legal  & General have explained why they arent  willing to 
provide this and they are acting within the terms of the policy  by doing so. Therefore I think  
the options Legal & General have offered to settle  the claim are fair and I wont be asking it 
to do anything further.
Finally, Mr and Mrs L have said they feel they were given incorrect  information when the 
insurance policy was sold to them. As explained  by our investigator,  a third party broker  sold 
the policy, so they would need to raise  a complaint with them directly. I am unable  to 
consider this point  as part of this complaint against  Legal & General.
the response to my provisional  decision 
Legal & General have not added anything further.
Mr L says that he provided a detailed specification to help Legal  & Generals jeweller make a 
ring as similar as possible. He says as long as the same  materials were used at the same  
quality and weight,  he wouldnt reject the ring. He also says that a replacement ring has 
never been offered to him by Legal & General. He further says that vouchers were only 
offered as an option when our investigator  got involved.
Finally Mr L says the ring that he purchased when he returned from holiday was an 
anniversary present  and therefore  the lost ring has not been replaced. He therefore says that 
it is not for Legal  & General to say which option is the most suitable way to settle the claim,  
particularly based  on the assumption  the ring has already been  replaced. 
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision,  I considered  the terms of the policy and concluded  that it is for 
Legal & General to decide how it settles  the claim.  I therefore cant agree with Mr L that it 
isnt Legal & Generals place to say which option  would be most suitable, as it is clear in its 
terms and conditions that it is its choice. Therefore Legal & General  are acting in line with 
the policy terms and conditions by offering only the options of a cash  settlement or vouchers. 
When considering  Mr Ls explanation that he wasnt looking to reject  the ring and would 
accept it if the same  materials of the same quality were used, it isnt possible for me to know  
what would  happen  in this hypothetical  situation. However, from looking at all the 
correspondence between  Mr L and Legal & General I can understand why it had concerns 
that replacing the ring may not resolve  the matter. Although  Mr L did provide a specification  
of the ring for the jewellers, he also said he would ask for it to be inspected  by the original 
jeweller on receipt. Further, Mr L has said on a number of occasions that he doesnt believe 
the ring will be identical and said he is asking  for a replacement out of principal. 
Regarding the additional  ring purchased by Mr L on return from holiday,  Mr L himself 
referred to the new ring he purchased  as a replacement and it was only when the receipt 
was provided, that he corrected this. He states in an email to this service I requested that 
they replace the ring. In line with their policy. I did this as a matter of principle. having 
already replaced  the ring and In full knowledge that their jeweller cannot replace the ring for 
the amount offered.  I can therefore  understand Legal & Generals concerns about offering a 
replacement and cant say it has treated  Mr and Mrs L unfairly.
Ref: DRN56228514Based on this, I havent seen a reason to depart from my original assessment that Legal  & 
General have acted  fairly in this case.  I therefore dont uphold Mr Ls complaint and wont 
require Legal  & General to do anything  further.  
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given, I dont uphold Mr Ls complaint. I therefore dont require Legal 
& General Insurance Limited to do anything  further.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 October  2019.
Sophie Goodyear
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5622851