K820x#14complaint
Mrs and Mr M have  complained about  the fees MyClaimSolved Ltd (MCS)  are charging them 
on a mis-sold endowment  claim.
background
Mrs and Mr M instructed MCS to make  a mis-sold endowment claim for them. The claim was 
successful, and MCS invoiced for their fees. Mrs and Mr M have paid half of the fees MCS 
asked for.
Mrs M has complained that MCS are charging her a success fee of 37.5% plus VAT, when 
the fee shouldve been capped at 20% plus VAT.  She is also unhappy  that she never  spoke 
to the same  person at MCS twice.
This complaint was originally sent to the Legal  Ombudsman, but was transferred to the 
Claims Management Ombudsman (a Financial Ombudsman Service)  as part of the change 
in the regulation of claims management companies. It has been investigated by the Claims 
Management Ombudsman.
Our investigator found that MCS acted reasonably in charging the fee Mrs and Mr M agreed 
to. She also felt that Mrs M not speaking  to the same person twice didnt have a negative  
impact on the claim. Because of this she felt that MCS shouldnt reduce their fee.
Mrs M disagreed with the investigator.  She has asked for a second  opinion because she still 
thinks MCS charged her too much.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
The Financial Guidance  and Claims Act 2018 required the Claims Management Regulator to 
introduce a fee cap for some mis-selling claims. The fee cap came into force  on 10 July 
2018. From  this date,  claims  management companies couldnt  legally  charge  a success  fee 
of more than 20% plus VAT for PPI claims.  For all other mis-selling claims there was no fee 
cap and claims management companies  werent limited to what they could charge.
Ive seen that Mrs and Mr M signed two copies of MCSs terms and conditions  on 2 
December 2018  and on 10 January 2019.  Both of these sets of terms and conditions said 
that MCS would charge  20% plus VAT for PPI claims  and 37.5%  plus VAT for all other  mis-
selling claims  including endowments.  The terms and conditions also included examples of 
how the fees would be calculated.
MCS made the claim on Mrs and Mr Ms behalf, and it was successful. They then charged a 
success fee of 37.5%  plus VAT.  This is the fee Mrs and Mr M agreed to.
Ref: DRN57053142MCS charged a percentage success fee, not a fee based upon the amount of work  they 
actually did. This means that any work done on any unsuccessful claims would be done for 
free. Where  a claim was successful, MCSs fee may be more or less than the value of the 
work they actually did. This is the risk taken by all parties in this type of agreement. Just 
because MCSs fee is higher  than the value of the work they have done for Mrs and Mr M 
doesnt make their fee unjustified. Because of this I wont  be asking them to reduce their fee.
Ive not seen anything to show  that the people Mrs M spoke  to at MCS couldnt answer her 
questions, gave her incorrect  or conflicting advice,  or that her claim was unnecessarily 
delayed as a result. Because of this I also agree with the investigator that Mrs M not 
speaking to the same person at MCS didnt  have any impact on her claim.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, I dont  uphold Mrs and Mr Ms complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 August 2019.
Andrew Burford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5705314