K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains about end of contract  charges  when his agreement with Volkswagen  
Financial Services (UK) Limited ended. Hes also unhappy about the level of customer 
service he received.
background
In July 2016 Mr G was supplied with a car and entered into an agreement with VWFS.  The 
hire period  was 24 months, which was extended  by Mr G for a few more months.
When Mr G returned the car it was inspected.  Damage  was identified which VWFS said went  
beyond fair wear and tear. It asked  Mr G to pay charges for the damage and for excess 
mileage.
Mr G contacted VWFS to raise  his concerns about  the charges. He told VWFS that he was 
experiencing financial difficulties. Mr G was unhappy  about the way in which he was treated. 
He says he feels that the mileage allowance should have been adjusted to reflect  the fact 
that he was in possession of the car for an additional six months.
In response, VWFS waived one days hire to reflect the fact that there had been a delay in 
collecting the car. It also waived the charges for a chipped windscreen and offered a 
payment of £100  in recognition of the customer service issue.
Mr G wasnt happy with the response  and complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She said the charges  for damage and excess 
mileage were fair and she felt that the offer of £100 for the customer service  aspect  of the 
complaint was reasonable.
Mr G didnt agree. He said he wasnt disputing the damage charges but said the reason hed 
had the car for an extra six months was because hed been  unable to return it and this had 
contributed to the excess mileage covered. Mr G also felt that £100  wasnt adequate 
compensation for being laughed at on the phone.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions  of the agreement say that Mr G must return  the car in good 
condition and that any damage which exceeds  fair wear and tear is the customers  
responsibility.
Fair wear and tear guidelines have been  issued by the BVLRA  and these guidelines are 
accepted as an industry standard  in determining whether damage exceeds fair wear  and 
tear.
Ive looked at the inspection report including the photos. The damage to the left hand  rear 
door, left hand front wing,  left hand front wheel and right hand front wheel is clearly  visible  
and Im satisfied that it goes beyond fair wear  and tear with reference to the BVLRA 
guidelines. 
Ref: DRN59254332In relation to the excess mileage charges, the agreement says that Mr G must pay the 
excess mileage charge for each mile covered in excess of the maximum total mileage. Mr G 
has said that because  he was in possession of the car for an extra  six months, the mileage 
allowance should  have been increased. I can see that the agreement allowed an annual 
mileage of 5000 miles, which  equals  10,000 over the 24 month  term. BMWFS has said that 
in February 2019  the mileage was 29,705 when it would have expected  the mileage to be 
12,714 (based on the annual mileage  allowance).  These figures show  that the mileage 
allowance was adjusted  for the extra few months the car was in possession  of Mr G. The 
excess mileage charges have been  calculated based on the difference  of 16,991 miles.
Based on what Ive seen,  Im satisfied that VWFS  increased the mileage  allowance  
proportionately to reflect the additional  months  Mr G had the car. Mr G exceeded the 
mileage allowance  by several thousand miles and therefore I think  the charges  are fair.
In relation to the customer service which Mr G received, Ive listened to the call. I agree that 
the VWFS advisor couldve  responded more  appropriately when Mr G asked to speak to a 
manager but on balance, I think the compensation offered by VWFS  is fair and reasonable.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 April 2020.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5925433