K820x#14Complaint
Ms J complains about fees and charges Barclays Bank UK PLC applied  to her current 
account. Ms J also complains about  the way Barclays  treated her when she experienced 
financial difficulties. 
Background
Ms J had a Barclays account going back several  years and in August 2018 she complained  
about the fees and charges it had applied since 2008. Barclays responded on 
29 August 2018  but didnt agree that it had charged  Ms J unfairly. 
Ms J referred her complaint to our service and it was passed to an investigator. The 
investigator said part of Ms Js complaint had been  referred to us too late under the rules.  He 
said we could consider the charges applied since August 2012 but didnt find that Barclays 
had made  a mistake  or treated Ms J unfairly. Ms J didnt agree so her complaint was passed 
for an appeal. 
In April 2019 I issued  a decision that confirmed  we could only look at the fees and charges 
applied by Barclays from August 2012  onwards. This follow  up decision deals with the fees 
and charges applied to Ms Js account between  August 2012  and August  2015 when it was 
closed. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Id like to thank Ms J and Barclays for 
their patience while this case has been with us. 
Ms J says that the charges  applied by Barclays were unfair and made her financial 
difficulties harder. I understand  that account  was closed in August 2015  and transferred to 
Barclays recoveries teams. Ive looked  at the charges applied by Barclays for the three year 
period between August 2012 and August  2015. Ive also looked at how Barclays treated 
Ms J during  that period.  
Banks and building societies are allowed  to charge customers if their account isnt managed 
in line with the agreed limits. That means  Barclays was allowed to apply fees when Ms Js 
account balance  wasnt within  the agreed  overdraft limit or when  items  were returned 
unpaid. Barclays has sent us copies of the account terms for the years in question. 
Ive reviewed the terms as well as Ms Js bank statements.  Im sorry to disappoint Ms J but 
all the charges Ive seen  have been  correctly applied by Barclays, in line with the account 
terms. As a result, I cant tell Barclays to refund them.   
Barclays also sent us copies of its contact log with Ms J. When  customers are experiencing 
financial difficulties businesses are obliged to treat them positively  and sympathetically.  In 
this case, I cant see anything to show Ms J told Barclays about financial  difficulties  or 
sought assistance with the charges she was paying. I can see that Ms J did receive a 
reasonable level of charges on her account, but I think  it was reasonable for Barclays  to 
have expected Ms J to make contact if she needed assistance or was experiencing financial 
difficulties. Im sorry to disappoint Ms J but I havent  found that Barclays treated her unfairly  
while she was experiencing financial difficulties. 
Ref: DRN52320502As the fees and charges applied to Ms Js account  by Barclays  between  August 2012 and 
August 2015 were  in line with the account terms I dont have grounds to tell the business  to 
refund them  now.  I havent  seen anything  to show Barclays was aware of Ms Js financial 
difficulties or that it treated her unfairly. 
I understand there are some other issues remaining that relate to fees from a packaged 
bank account.  But those are being dealt with as a separate complaint and the issues  raised 
do not form part of this decision. 
Im sorry  to disappoint Ms J but as I havent found  that Barclays  charged her incorrectly  or 
treated her unfairly Im not telling it to take any further action. 
My final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2020.
Marco Manente
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN5232050