K821x#15complaint
Ms H complains about Royal & Sun Alliance  Insurance Plcs (RSA) decision to decline a 
claim for theft she made  on her bicycle insurance.
background
Ms Hs bicycle  was stored in a bicycle storage  building  attached to the block  of flats she lives 
in. Her bicycle and a number of others  were  stolen from this building. There was no sign of 
damage to the door to the bicycle storage building, but the metal bar the bicycle  was locked 
to had been sawn though.
Ms H tried to make a claim on her RSA bicycle insurance policy.  RSA asked Ms H how the 
thieves had gained  access  to the cycle  storage. The storage building was ordinarily  
accessed via a fob operated magnetic lock. Ms H initially told them  someone from her block 
of flats mayve let the thieves in. RSA said its policy required force  and violence to be used 
in the act of the theft. It said because  someone  had been let in, no violence was used, so it 
declined her claim.
Unhappy with this, Ms H complained to RSA. She said she initially  assumed someone 
mustve been let in due to the lack of damage  to the door. But the subsequent  police  report  
noted that because of how the locking mechanism was sited, it was possible it could be 
opened if sufficient  force was applied, but there  would be no physical evidence  of this in 
terms of damage to the door. RSA maintained  it wouldnt  pay the claim, so Ms H brought  the 
complaint to us.
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld and RSA should  pay Ms Hs claim. 
He thought the door was most likely forced  in a violent manner. RSA didnt agree so the 
complaint was been passed to me to consider. 
I explained to RSA that I didnt think it had done enough to prove that violence hadnt  been 
used. RSA responded explaining, in summary,  that it must be evident that force and violence 
has been used.  And as there was no damage  to the door, Ms H hadnt demonstrated that 
there had been  violence.  So Ive decided to proceed with issuing a final decision on this 
complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
RSA has declined the claim on the basis that its policy requires both force  and violence to 
have occurred on entry or exit of the building for a claim to be successful. For the door to be 
opened, force mustve  occurred. And RSA agrees on this point.  What  is disputed is whether 
violence was used.
RSA says Ms H hasnt evidenced violence  was used.  We dont  know how the thieves got 
into this building, so I have to decide what I think likely happened,  based on the evidence  
presented to me. I understand why Ms H initially assumed someone had let them in as there  
was no damage to the door. But since then weve had the police report  and this says:
Ref: DRN50459202The cycle  store closest to [the property] is the most  vulnerable  and this is because only one 
magnetic lock fitted and this is at the top of the door affixed to the frame. This one lock 
allows for flexing  within  the door itself and therefore allows for a weakness within it. 
Applying force to the bottom  of the door combined  with the weakness of only one magnetic 
lock causes it to open  allowing access.  
The police report clearly  states that the lock can be forced. Miss H has provided us a video 
of the door. And this shows  that it cannot  be easily pushed open whilst locked. So I think if it 
was forced  in this manner, then it wouldve needed  to have been violently forced. I can also 
see that due to the nature of the door, there  is some  flex in it. And given  that it is a magnetic 
lock, I think it entirely possible that the door could  be violently forced open without visible  
damage having occurred. 
RSA has said it is unsure how it can evidence that violence didnt occur.  It declined  to gain a 
full copy of the police report due to the cost,  and hasnt  attempted to gain a copy  of the 
relevant CCTV to the building. Both of these options may have provided clarity on what 
occurred. But it chose  not to investigate this further. Instead, its entire argument is based on 
the lack of physical damage  to the door and Ms Hs initial assumption that someone mayve 
let the thieves in  based on her lack of understanding at the time of how else the door could 
have been opened. I dont  think this is enough  for it to show violence wasnt  used. 
Considering everything  I have, I think its most  likely force and violence was used to obtain 
access to the cycle storage. Because of this, I think the fair and reasonable outcome to this 
complaint, is for me to make RSA pay Ms Hs claim. 
my final decision
My final decision is Royal & Sun Alliance  Insurance Plc must pay Ms Hs claim for her 
bicycle, less any excess which wouldve been applied. It should add 8% simple interest from 
the date it declined her claim  to the date it pays her.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 March  2019.
Rob Deadman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5045920