K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2006. Miss D says Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold  her the PPI.
background
I sent Miss D and Barclays my provisional decision on 29 March 2019.  I said that before I 
made my final decision Id look at any more  comments  and evidence that I got by 
29 April 2019.
Miss D and Barclays did not send me any new comments or evidence  for me to consider  in 
response to my provisional  decision. 
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Ds case.
Ive reached the same  conclusions and for the same  reasons as in my provisional decision. 
Ive explained  my reasons again  below.
Ive decided that the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
The policy was sold to Miss D online. Barclays has sent us screenshots that it says show  
how the PPI wouldve  been presented to Miss D. This is consistent with what  I know  
about Barclays  sales practice at the time,  and I think the screenshots are reliable. It looks  
like, from the screenshots, that Miss D wouldve been  presented with two equally clear 
options  to say yes or no to the PPI. Ive not seen enough evidence to say that Barclays  
didnt otherwise present the PPI as optional. So I think  Barclays made it clear  that Miss D 
didnt have  to take out the PPI and she chose to take it out  although I can understand 
why she cant  remember this.
Barclays didnt recommend the PPI to Miss D so it didnt  have to check if it was right for 
her. But it did have to make sure Miss D got the information  she needed  to decide if it 
was right for her.
Its possible the information Barclays gave Miss D about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But she chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted this type 
of cover. Based  on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she 
was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover - so it could have been 
useful for her if something went wrong.  It also looks  like the PPI was affordable. So I dont  
think better  information about the PPI would  have put her off taking out the cover.
Which means Barclays doesnt  have  to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss D.
Ref: DRN54374842But Barclays  has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Miss D because:
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit  share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Miss D about  that. Because  Barclays  didnt tell Miss D, 
that was unfair.
To put that right, Barclays has paid back the amount of commission and profit  share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case. 
Ive thought about everything Miss D has said. But for the reasons explained above, these 
points dont change  my conclusion.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does  not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Miss D.
But Barclays  Bank UK PLC does  have to pay back to Miss D any commission and profit  
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 June 2019
Neil Bridge
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5437484