K821x#15complaint
Mr T has complained that Berkeley Burke SIPP Administration Limited (BBSAL)  acted  
unfairly when it accepted  his application  for a Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP). 
background
In 2011, Mr T had four separate personal pensions with three providers. He was looking at 
his options for these  pensions when he says he came across a business  called TPS Land on 
the internet.  He said he started these enquiries after hearing about legislative changes  
relating to access to pensions. 
Mr Ts interactions  with TPS Land  were by telephone. He says he was told about  an 
investment in something called Store  First, which was based on income  generated from 
storage pods.  Mr T says he was advised by TPS Land that he would be better off by 
consolidating his four pensions  and investing  in Store First.
As a result of this, Mr T says he agreed to switch his pensions  to a SIPP with BBSAL to 
make the onward investment  in Store  First in July 2011.
The Store First investment hasnt performed well and Mr T has suffered substantial losses.  
Mr T considers that BBSAL is responsible for this and has submitted a complaint to it. Ill 
explain more about the parties, investment and complaint below.
BBSAL 
BBSAL is a SIPP provider  and administrator, regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority
(FCA). BBSAL  is authorised, in relation to SIPPs, to arrange  (bring  about) deals in
investments, deal in investments as principal,  establish, operate  or wind up a pension
scheme and make arrangements with a view to transactions  in investments.
BBSAL wasnt authorised by the FCA to give investment advice.
TPS Land
TPS Land was an unregulated business  based in Spain.  It had an agreement  a Non-
regulated Introducer  Agreement - with BBSAL  dated 18 April 2011. This said that TPS Land 
would, on an execution  only basis, introduce  customers to the BBSAL SIPP. The following 
undertakings were  included in the Agreement:
The business  introducer undertakes that they will not provide  advice  as defined by 
the Act (i.e. FSMA 2000)  in relation to the SIPP  for the avoidance  of doubt this 
includes reference to advice on the selection of the SIPP operator, contributions,  
transfer of benefits,  taking  benefits  and HMRC  rules.
If for any reason the business introducer believes that any employee, representative 
or agent has provided advice in respect of the SIPP  they will inform  the SIPP 
operator as soon as the breach is realised.
Its not clear, but it appears likely that TPS Land  was receiving commissions  for the sale of 
the Store First investments.
Ref: DRN53709392One of the directors  of TPS Land was Terence Wright. On 15 October 2010, the following
warning was published on the Financial  Services Authority  (the regulator at the time), 
website:
The Financial Services Authority (FSA)  has today published this statement in order  to 
warn investors against dealing with unauthorised firms.
The purpose of this statement is to advise members  of the public that an individual
Terence (Terry) Wright
is not authorised  under  the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (FSMA) to carry 
on a regulated activity  in the UK. Regulated activities  include,  amongst other  things, 
advising on investments.  The FSA believes that the individual may be targeting UK 
customers via the firm Cash in Your Pension.
Investors should be aware that the Financial Ombudsman Service and the Financial 
Services Compensation Scheme are not available if you deal with an unauthorised 
company or individual.
To find out whether a company or individual is authorised go to the our Register of
authorised firms and individuals at http://www.fsa.gov.uk/register/home.do
Date: 15 October 2010
Store First
Its not in dispute  that Store First was a high risk, unregulated investment. It took the form of 
one or more self-storage units or storepods, which were part of a larger  storage facility  in 
UK locations. Investors bought units in the facility and were offered an income  for a set 
period of time. After that, they could either take whatever income the unit(s)  provided or sell 
them.
In April 2019, the companies  that operated Store First were  the subject of a winding up order 
by the High Court.
Mr Ts investment in Store  First
As set out above, Mr T says he was advised  to make the investment in Store First by TPS 
Land. In June 2011, Mr T signed the BBSAL application form, an Asset Purchase Form and 
an Alternative Investments Letter. These  documents (and a welcome letter  from BBSAL ) 
included the following declarations/statements:
"I understand that I should seek advice regarding  the setting up of a self invested 
personal pension  plan and that I do not require advice in this respect from Berkeley 
Burke.
"I am fully aware that this investment is High Risk and/or Speculative,
may be illiquid and/or difficult to value  or sell and confirm that I wish to proceed.
Ref: DRN53709393"I acknowledge that I have been recommended to seek professional advice from a 
suitably qualified and authorised adviser  however has chosen not to seek advice for 
this transaction.
I am fully aware that Berkeley Burke SIPP  Administration Limited act on an 
Execution-Only basis, as directed by me as scheme member and that Berkeley 
Burke SIPP Administration  Limited has not provided  any advice whatsoever in 
respect of this investment or the SIPP.
You would  be strongly advised to seek financial advice of the investment and any 
related issues before  proceeding.
The transfer of Mr Ts existing pensions to the BBSAL SIPP took place in July 2011.  In total, 
around £72,000 was transferred. Of this, around £67,000 was then invested in Store  First. 
Mr T says he received an immediate payment as a result of making the investment. Mr T 
says that he thought this was a loyalty payment for making  the investment. Ill refer to this 
payment as an incentive  in this decision. It seems  likely that this type of payment would 
constitute an unauthorised payment under HMRC rules. Mr T initially  told us he thought  this 
was around £6,000 but he has now provided a bank statement from the time which shows  
that he received  £5,400. Its not clear who made this payment, but it seems  likely that it was 
from an entity linked to TPS Land.
Mr Ts complaint
Mr T initially complained to BBSAL in March 2016 that the SIPP and the Store First 
investment had been mis-sold to him. BBSAL didnt  agree and responded in May 2016 by 
saying that it hadnt  offered any financial advice and it wasnt responsible  for Mr Ts decision 
to invest in Store First.
Mr T then complained to BBSAL again  in October  2016. He said that BBSAL failed to carry  
out due diligence on TPS Land when it accepted his application. He said if it had done  this, it 
would have been blatantly obvious that no instruction from TPS Land should have been 
accepted because of the involvement of Terence Wright with that business. Mr T said that as 
a result,  BBSAL failed  to treat him fairly and exposed him to detriment by facilitating the 
SIPP investment.
BBSAL again  refused  to uphold Mr Ts complaint. And when Mr T referred  the complaint to 
us in January  2017, BBSAL said that this was the same complaint that Mr T had made in 
March 2016 and so had been made  out of time under our rules as it was referred to us 
more than six months after its final response letter  in May 2016.
One of our investigators  looked at all the evidence and issued his assessment that the 
complaint should  be upheld.  He said:
The complaint  hadnt been made  out of time as Mr T had raised different issues  
in October 2016 to those hed made previously.
Even though  it couldnt give its customers advice,  BBSAL  had a duty to treat Mr T 
fairly in deciding whether or not to accept  his SIPP application. 
Ref: DRN53709394Looking at the FCAs Principles for Business, regulations and good industry 
practice, BBSAL ought to have put in place reasonable systems and controls to 
protect consumers from the risk of fraud or unauthorised  investment  advice  and 
identified (and prevented) instances of consumer detriment.
It should have  been aware of Terence Wrights  involvement with TPS Land  and 
that there was a high risk of consumer detriment in accepting  introductions  from 
his business as he was on the regulators warning list. The business model of 
TPS Land which specialised in high risk unregulated  investments should also 
have been concerning  to BBSAL. BBSAL should have refused Mr Ts introduction  
from TPS Land  in these  circumstances.
Although Mr T had signed a number of declarations  acknowledging  that the Store 
First investment was execution only, that he should  seek advice and that he knew  
the investment  was high risk, this didnt  absolve  BBSAL of its own regulatory 
obligation to refuse to accept his introduction from TPS Land.
So, BBSAL should compensate Mr T by putting  him in the position he would now 
be if hed invested in an alternative pension  arrangement.
BBSAL didnt accept  the investigators  assessment. Its view is that BBSAL  acted in 
accordance with the prevailing commercial and regulatory statutes and guidance with regard 
to its establishment and supervision of arrangements with non-regulated  introducers, 
including TPS Land. In summary, it says:
That any consideration as to what is fair and reasonable  must  be judged by what  is 
fair and reasonable at the time the transaction took place. It cannot and must not be 
judged retrospectively.
BBSAL told Mr T of the high risk involved in the investment and that he should seek  
financial advice. If it did any more than this, it would  have been  providing investment 
advice to Mr T, something that BBSAL wasnt authorised to do. Mr T decided  to 
proceed without taking advice and knowing that BBSAL could not and did not provide 
advice. It wasnt fair and reasonable to hold BBSAL responsible  for Mr Ts decision to 
proceed in these circumstances.
Mr T signed  a declaration that said he hadnt  received advice.
Because of the rule at 11.2.19  in the Conduct of Business Sourcebook  (COBS), 
BBSAL was under a mandatory duty to act on execution only instructions.
Under trust and pensions law, Mr T was entitled  to direct the SIPP trustees  to make 
the Store First investment. He did so and BBSAL  had to comply  with his request. 
BBSALs involvement  was merely to execute  the instructions given to it by a 
beneficial owner and a co-trustee of the pension.
The investigator had incorrectly described  how the Store  First investment worked by 
referring to a guaranteed income. This undermined his findings  on the complaint. 
The investigator had relied on a report from the Regulator from 2009 but accepted  
that this was not formal guidance. The investigator should have considered whether 
Ref: DRN53709395it is fair and reasonable to expect BBSAL  to be required to adhere  to 
guidance/practice. 
The Introducer Agreement  formally set out the basis  for BBSALs relationship  with 
the TPS Land   these were the rules of engagement between  the two parties  and 
codified their respective  responsibilities.  It was fair and reasonable for BBSAL to 
expect TPS Land to act in good  faith and adhere  to the terms of the agreement.  
BBSALs policy was to terminate the Introducer Agreement immediately in 
circumstances where  it was reasonably believed that the introducer  had conducted  
regulated activities  without authorisation. 
The investigator had seemed to assert that TPS Land had breached  the General 
Prohibition on unregulated firms carrying out regulated activities. However, he had 
provided no information to support this finding.
The investigator hadnt explained how he had concluded that BBSAL had received a 
significant amount  of business from TPS Land.  The investigator had unfairly 
concluded that BBSAL should  have been concerned about  the number of execution 
only customers that TPS Land was persuading to invest in Store First.  But this 
ignored that it was possible  that a significant number  of people had been  approached 
by TPS Land but then refused to invest in Store  First and that BBSAL had given 
customers clear  investment risk warnings.  This approach by the investigator also 
failed to look at each case on its own facts.   
BBSAL was not responsible for warning  investors about  any cash incentives received 
and BBSAL didnt  know that Mr T had been  offered a cash incentive.  BBSALs 
process was to ask customers  about  this so it wasnt fair and reasonable to hold 
BBSAL responsible for Mr Ts loss if hed lied about receiving an incentive.
BBSAL ended its relationship with TPS Land  in May 2012  as soon as it found out that 
TPS Land was offering and paying customers incentives.
In these circumstances, it was also unfair for the investigator to have reached the 
view that BBSAL  should be liable for any tax charge for the incentive  as part of the 
compensation payable to Mr T.
The FSA statement  regarding Terence Wright  doesnt clearly confirm that investors 
or BBSAL should not deal with Terence  Wright.  The statement said that Terence 
Wright is not authorised  under  FSMA to carry on a regulated activity , and that 
Investors should be aware that the Financial Ombudsman Service and the Financial 
Services Compensation Scheme are not available if you deal with an unauthorised 
company or individual. These quotes  highlight, that the FSA statement was aimed at 
the general public and didnt  prohibit  SIPP  operators from dealing with Terence 
Wright and simply declared  that precautions should be taken if someone decides  to 
deal with him.
The FSA statement  didnt mention  Terence  Wrights association with TPS Land, but 
rather the firm Cash  In Your Pension.  So BBSAL questioned whether it was fair and 
reasonable to say that BBSAL should  have known  that the person referred to in the 
FSA statement  is the same Terence  Wright  of TPS Land.
Ref: DRN53709396In the context of what the FSA statement  said regarding Terence Wright, it was clear  
that BBSAL (as SIPP Operator) had imposed a fair and reasonable level of oversight 
in its dealings, via the Introducer Agreement, of TPS Land, and consequently 
Terence Wright. BBSAL terminated the contract  with TPS Land immediately on 
becoming aware of TPS Land  paying customers incentives. 
The investigator said that BBSAL ought to have checked how TPS Land  generated 
its business. It wasnt fair or reasonable to impose this obligation  on BBSAL. It wasnt 
commercially viable for BBSAL to ask another business about how it operated  and it 
was possible that TPS Land  would have refused to provide this sensitive and 
irrelevant information.
It was completely plausible that even if BBSAL had refused to accept Mr Ts SIPP 
application, he would have gone  to another SIPP provider  and made the same 
investment. And it is also possible  that Mr T would still have decided  to transfer his 
pension to a SIPP  and have decided to invest  in something else later  as it cant  
necessarily be said that an applicant always applies for a SIPP  to make a particular 
investment. 
The investigator had said that SIPP Operators  should make  certain  inquiries about  
the nature  or quality of the...investment proposed and concluded that BBSAL had 
undertaken no investment due diligence. But the investigator had never specifically 
asked for evidence of any investment due diligence that BBSAL had carried  out on 
Store First.
The Store First investment wasnt a failed investment, it wasnt  in liquidation and 
there was no basis for concluding that it had a nil value. So the investigators  
approach to redress wasnt fair and reasonable
BBSAL cant take ownership  of the Store First investment which  is what  the 
investigator had recommended as part of what he considered to be fair 
compensation. Nor is it fair and reasonable for BBSAL to be responsible for any 
ongoing charges and costs associated with the Store First investment.
Mr T hadnt  acted reasonably and appropriately at the time of the investment 
according to standards expected of consumers by the regulator. He knew  that the 
investment in Store First was high risk and had declined to take regulated advice. He 
had also failed to tell BBSAL that he had received an incentive payment.  So, it 
wasnt fair and reasonable for BBSAL  to have to compensate him in these 
circumstances.
This complaint was affected by another  case that was being  determined in the Court 
of Appeal. As such, any decision  on this complaint should  be postponed until after 
the Court  of Appeal proceedings  have been concluded.
my findings
Before I go on to set out my findings,  I want to firstly  confirm that I too think  we have 
jurisdiction to consider  the merits of Mr Ts complaint. BBSAL hasnt provided any further 
submissions about  this since the investigators assessment, but Im satisfied  that the 
complaint made by Mr T in October  2016 raised  new issues  that he hadnt previously made 
to BBSAL in March 2016 when he said that the SIPP had been mis-sold. 
Ref: DRN53709397The latest complaint refers specifically to the due diligence that Mr T says BBSAL  should  
have undertaken  on TPS Land. BBSAL  hadnt previously addressed  this distinct  complaint 
point. Mr T has referred the complaint about  this to us within  our time limits and there are no 
other impediments to our jurisdiction.
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Much of BBSALs recent submissions focus on requesting information from our service 
about our handling of complaints which are similar in nature to that of Mr T. BBSAL has also 
demanded further information about the basis of the investigators conclusions. But I think 
the investigator has made his position clear  and explained his findings  by reference to the 
evidence and arguments presented to him by both parties.  
In any event, Ive looked  at all the evidence afresh.  I wrote to BBSAL to set out and provide 
copies of what I considered to be the relevant considerations in my determination of the 
complaint. This was not an invitation for further submissions as Im fully aware of the 
arguments from both parties and have all the evidence I need. 
Ive read BBSALs response to my letter. Although BBSAL disagrees  with the relevance of 
some material, Ill explain  why I consider them to be relevant below. And to allay any 
concerns, I want to assure  it that Ive looked at all submissions with care  including  those 
made by BBSAL following the investigators assessment. My remit is also inquisitorial  rather  
than adversarial. Im required to set out what  I consider to be fair and reasonable and give 
reasons for this, not to answer every point  or question raised by either party to a complaint. 
So, in this decision I concentrate on the key arguments and evidence that are material to my 
determination of the complaint.
relevant considerations
In accordance with my duty under section 228 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 
2000 (FSMA), I must determine this complaint by reference to what  is, in my opinion,  fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case.  When considering what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint,  Im required to take into account  relevant 
considerations which include: law and regulations; regulators rules,  guidance and 
standards; and codes  of practice.  Im also required to take into account,  where  appropriate, 
what I consider to have  been good  industry practice at the time. 
I consider the following  to be relevant  considerations in this complaint.
The Principles for Businesses, which are set out in the FCAs handbook are a general 
statement of the fundamental obligations of firms under the regulatory system (PRIN 
1.1.2G). These are rules  which were  made  by the FSA under its rule making  powers, and 
apply to SIPP operators such as BBSAL. Principles  2, 3 and 6 are of particular relevance  to 
my decision  about what  is fair and reasonable in this case. They say:
Principle 2  Skill, care and diligence  A firm must conduct its business with due 
skill, care and diligence.
Ref: DRN53709398Principle 3  Management and control  A firm must  take reasonable care to 
organise and control its affairs responsibly  and effectively, with adequate risk 
management systems
Principle 6  Customers  interests  A firm must pay due regard to the interests  of its 
customers and treat them fairly.
In British Bankers  Association, R (on the application of) v The Financial Services Authority & 
Anor [2001] EWHM 999 (Admin) (20 April 2011) Ouseley J said at paragraph 162:
The Principles are best understood  as the ever present substrata to which the 
specific rules are added.  The Principles always have  to be complied  with. The 
Specific rules do not supplant them  and cannot  be used to contradict them. They  are 
but specific applications of them to the particular requirement they cover.  The general 
notion that the specific rules can exhaust  the application of the Principles is 
inappropriate. It cannot be an error of law for the Principles to augment  specific 
rules. 
And at paragraph 77:
Indeed, it is my view that it would be a breach of statutory duty for the Ombudsman 
to reach  a view on a case without taking the Principles into account in deciding what  
would be fair and reasonable and what redress to afford. Even  if no Principles had 
been produced  by the FSA, the FOS would find it hard to fulfil its particular statutory 
duty without having regard to the sort of high level Principles which  find expression in 
the Principles,  whoever  formulated them. They are of the essence of what  is fair and 
reasonable, subject  to the argument about  their relationship  to specific  rules.
So, the Principles  are relevant and form part of the regulatory framework  that existed at the 
time and have a wide application. They provide  the overarching framework  for regulation and 
must always be complied with by regulated firms including  BBSAL. As such,  I need  to have 
regard to them when  deciding what is fair and reasonable  in the circumstances of this 
complaint. 
COBS rule 2.1.1 closely reflects the Principles, in stating  that a firm must act honestly, fairly 
and professionally in accordance with the best interests of its client.  
This is a rule that was consulted on by the regulator  and provides a high level standard  that 
all firms must adhere to when transacting business with any consumer.
The FSA and the FCA have also made  a number  of publications which  remind SIPP  
operators of their obligations and set out how they might achieve  the outcomes envisaged by 
the Principles.  
A report on the finding of a thematic  review by the then regulator the FSA on SIPP 
operators published in September 2009 (the 2009 report).
A report on the finding of a thematic  review by the then regulator the FSA on SIPP 
operators published in September 2012 (the 2012 report).
A guide for Self-Invested Personal  Pensions  (SIPP) operators published by the 
FCA in October 2013 (the 2013 guidance). 
Ref: DRN53709399A letter from the FCAs Director of Supervision sent to the CEOs of all SIPP  
operators in July 2014 (the 2014 Dear CEO letter).
I think these too are relevant considerations in this complaint. Like the investigator,  I think 
the 2009 report is most relevant. However,  Ive also quoted selected parts of the other 
publications which I think are of particular relevance.  But to be clear, Ive considered  them in 
their entirety. 
The 2009  report  included  the following:
We are very clear  that SIPP operators, regardless of whether they provide advice, 
are bound by Principle 6 of the Principles for Businesses (a firm must pay due 
regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly) insofar  as they are 
obliged to ensure  the fair treatment of their customers. COBS 3.2.3(2) states that a 
member of a pension scheme is a client for COBS  purposes, and Customer in 
terms of Principle 6 includes  clients. It is the responsibility of SIPP  operators to 
continuously analyse the individual risks to themselves and their clients,  with 
reference to the six TCF consumer outcomes.
We agree  that firms acting purely as SIPP operators are not responsible for the SIPP  
advice given by third parties such as IFAs. However, we are also clear that SIPP 
operators cannot absolve themselves of any responsibility, and we would expect 
them to have procedures  and controls, and to be gathering and analysing 
management information, enabling them to identify  possible  instances of financial 
crime and consumer detriment such as unsuitable  SIPPs. Such instances could then 
be addressed in an appropriate way, for example by contacting  the member  to 
confirm the position, or by contacting the firm giving advice and asking for 
clarification. Moreover,  while they are not responsible for the advice, there  is a 
reputational risk to SIPP operators that facilitate the SIPPs that are unsuitable or 
detrimental to clients.
Of particular concern were firms whose systems and controls were weak and 
inadequate to the extent  that they had not identified obvious potential instances  of 
poor advice  and/or potential financial crime. Depending on the facts  and 
circumstances of individual  cases,  we may take enforcement action against  SIPP  
operators who do not safeguard their customers interests in this respect, with 
reference to Principle 3 of the Principles for Business (a firm must take reasonable 
care to organise and control its affairs responsibly  and effectively, with adequate  risk 
management systems).
The following  are examples of measures that SIPP operators could consider, taken 
from examples of good practice that we observed  and suggestions  we have made  to 
firms:
Confirming, both initially  and on an ongoing basis, that intermediaries  that 
advise clients are authorised and regulated  by the FSA, that they have  the 
appropriate permissions  to give the advice  they are providing to the firms  
clients, and that they do not appear  on the FSA website listing  warning 
notices.
Ref: DRN537093910Having Terms of Business agreements governing relationships,  and clarifying  
respective responsibilities,  with intermediaries  introducing SIPP  business.  
Routinely recording and reviewing the type (i.e. the nature of the SIPP 
investment) and size of investments recommended by intermediaries that 
give advice and introduce clients to the firm, so that potentially unsuitable 
SIPPs can be identified.
Being  able to identify  anomalous investments, e.g. unusually small or large 
transactions or more esoteric  investments  such as unquoted shares, 
together with the intermediary that introduced  the business.  This would 
enable the firm to seek appropriate  clarification, e.g. from the client  or their 
adviser, if it is concerned  about  the suitability  of what was recommended.
Requesting copies  of the suitability  reports provided to clients by the 
intermediary giving  advice. While  SIPP operators are not responsible  for 
advice, having  this information would  enhance  the firms understanding  of its 
clients, making the facilitation of unsuitable  SIPPs less likely.
Routinely identifying instances  of execution-only clients who have signed 
disclaimers taking responsibility  for their investment  decisions,  and gathering 
and analysing data regarding the aggregate volume of such  business.
Identifying  instances of clients waiving  their cancellation rights,  and the 
reasons for this.
The 2012  report  included  the following:
Principle 2 of the Principles for Business, states a firm must conduct  its business 
with due skill, care and diligence.
Some SIPP operators were unable to demonstrate that they are conducting adequate 
due diligence  on the investments held by their members  or the introducers  who use 
their schemes, to identify  potential risks to their members  or to the firms  itself.  In 
some firms this was made worse  by an over-reliance on third parties  to conduct due 
diligence on behalf of the operator. In some cases  this has resulted in taxable 
investments being  inadvertently held, and monies  invested in potentially fraudulent 
investments.
The 2013  guidance included the following:
Examples of good practice we observed  during our work with SIPP  operators 
include the following:
Confirming, both initially  and on an ongoing basis, that introducers  that advise 
clients are authorised and regulated by the FCA, that they have the 
appropriate permissions  to give the advice  they are providing; neither the firm, 
nor its approved persons are on the list of prohibited individuals  or cancelled  
firms and have a clear disciplinary history; and that the firm does  not appear 
on the website  listings for un-authorised business  warnings.

Ref: DRN537093911Although the members advisers are responsible for the SIPP investment advice 
given, as a SIPP operator the firm has a responsibility for the quality of the SIPP  
business it administers.  Examples of good  practice  we have identified include: 
using non-regulated  introducer checklists which demonstrate the SIPP  operators  
have considered the additional risks involved in accepting business from non-
regulated introducers.
Due diligence 
Principle 2 of the FCAs Principles for Businesses  requires  all firms  to conduct their 
business with due skill, care and diligence.  All firms should ensure that they conduct 
and retain  appropriate and sufficient  due diligence (for example,  checking and 
monitoring introducers as well as assessing  that investments are appropriate  for 
personal pension  schemes) to help them justify their business decisions. In doing this 
SIPP operators should consider: 
 ensuring that all investments permitted by the scheme are permitted by HMRC, or 
where a tax charge is incurred, that charge is identifiable, HMRC is informed and the 
tax charge paid 
 periodically  reviewing the due diligence the firm undertakes in respect of the 
introducers that use their scheme and, where appropriate enhancing the processes 
that are in place in order to identify and mitigate any risks to the members  and the 
scheme
 having  checks which may include, but are not limited to
 ensuring that introducers have the appropriate permissions, qualifications 
and skills to introduce different types  of business to the firm, and undertaking 
additional checks such as viewing Companies  House records, identifying 
connected parties and visiting introducers;
 ensuring all third-party due diligence that the firm uses  or relies on has been 
independently produced  and verified 
 good practices we have  identified in firms include having a set of 
benchmarks, or minimum standards, with the purpose of setting  the minimum 
standard the firm is prepared to accept to either deal with introducers or 
accept investments, and 
 ensuring these benchmarks clearly  identify those instances that would lead 
a firm to decline the proposed  business, or to undertake further investigations 
such as instances  of potential pension liberation,  investments that may 
breach HMRC tax-relievable investments and non-standard  investments  that 
have not been approved by the firm 
The 2014  Dear CEO  letter  provides another reminder that the Principles apply  and an 
indication of the FCAs expectations  about  the kinds of practical steps a SIPP operator might 
reasonably take to achieve the outcomes  envisaged  by the Principles. The letter said:
Ref: DRN537093912As you may be aware, we have  recently conducted  a thematic review of SIPP 
operators following  up on the guidance we issued in October 2013 (FG13/8). In this 
review, we focused on:
The due diligence procedures  SIPP operators used to assess non-
standard investments, and
How all firms were  adhering to the relevant prudential rules.
During our review, we found that a significant  number of SIPP  operators are still 
failing to manage these risks and ensure consumers are protected appropriately, 
despite our recent guidance. In our view,  the failings we identified  put UK consumers 
pension savings at considerable  risk, particularly from scams  and pension  fraud. We 
have already discussed this with the firms  concerned, explaining that these failings 
are unacceptable  and need to be addressed.
Im now writing to you, and the CEOs of all SIPP operators, because our thematic  
review indicates that these failings continue and are widespread,  despite  previous 
communications. We are concerned that many firms in this sector  continue  to 
demonstrate a lack of engagement with some areas of their regulatory obligations, 
and hence pose a threat  to the quality of outcomes experienced  by consumers.

I would encourage  you to review the key findings  from our thematic  review  in the 
Annex to this letter, and ask you to take action to ensure that your business is able to 
demonstrate an appropriate degree of protection for consumers pension savings.
Where firms fail to meet our expectation  and continue  to put UK consumers 
outcomes at risk we will take further action.
I note BBSALs point  that some of these publications  do not, in its view,  have the force of the 
law. I accept that the 2009 and 2012 reports and the 2014  Dear CEO letter werent  formal  
guidance (though the 2013 guidance  is). But this doesnt mean  their importance should be 
underestimated in my determination of what is fair and reasonable. They provide a reminder 
that the Principles apply  and give examples  of the kinds  of things a SIPP operator might do 
to ensure it is treating its customer fairly and produce the outcomes envisaged by the 
Principles. In that respect, the publications which  set out the regulators expectations of what 
SIPP operators should be doing also goes some  way to indicate  what  I consider amounts to 
good industry practice.
Its also important to point  out that although some  of the publications Ive listed  above were  
made after the events  subject  to complaint, the Principles that underpin  them existed 
throughout. So, a business must  always conduct its business with due skill, care and 
diligence (Principle 2) and take reasonable care to organise and control its affairs 
responsibly and effectively, with adequate risk management systems (Principle 3) and pay 
due regard to the interests  of its clients and treat them  fairly (Principle 6). 
It is also clear  from the text of the publications that the regulator  expected  SIPP operators to 
have incorporated  the recommended good  practices into the conduct  of their business 
already. So, whilst the regulators comments suggest some  industry  participants  
understanding of the standards expected of SIPP operators changed over time, its clear the 
Ref: DRN537093913standards themselves did not change  and applied at the time BBSAL accepted  Mr Ts SIPP  
application.
In any event, this doesnt  mean that in considering  what is fair and reasonable, I will only 
consider BBSALs actions  with these publications in mind. The reports, letter  and guidance 
gave non-exhaustive guidance. They did not say the suggestions  given were  the limit of 
what a SIPP  operator  should do. As the annex to the Dear CEO letter notes, what should 
be done to meet such regulatory obligations  is dependent on the circumstances. It was for a 
business to decide for itself how to meet its regulatory obligations  it should  not have been 
reliant on the regulator to tell it what to do. 
Having said all of the above, I reiterate the starting point is that Im required to make a 
decision on whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
what did BBSALs obligations  mean  in practice?
It isnt in dispute that BBSAL knew that Mr Ts business was being introduced by TPS Land  
 an unregulated business.  And Im satisfied  that Principles 2, 3 and 6 as well as COBS  
2.1.1 together  mean that BBSAL was obliged to treat Mr T fairly when deciding whether to 
accept or reject the introduction  of his business  by TPS Land  and to act in his best interests.  
To do this, BBSAL needed  to conduct  due diligence on TPS Land  and the underlying 
investments and have  appropriate systems  and controls in place for business introduced to it 
so that it could ensure that it monitored, identified (and prevented)  instances of consumer 
detriment. I think its reasonable to say that the likelihood of consumer detriment is much 
higher where  customers havent received advice from a regulated adviser.
The Introducer Agreement  itself envisages this kind of due diligence being conducted. It 
says:
The Business Introducer undertakes to supply any required documentation and 
information regarding  The Business  Introducer  and its shareholders as reasonably  
requested by the SIPP operator as part of the SIPP operators due diligence process  
on The Business Introducer.
I accept that BBSALs obligations  as an execution only SIPP operator did not extend to 
advising on the decision to transfer  to the SIPP and invest in Store First.  But the fact that 
BBSAL itself wasnt required to give advice did not preclude it from meeting its own distinct  
regulatory obligations by thinking  carefully  about  the business  it was accepting. 
I also think that declining to accept business  does not amount to providing advice. BBSAL 
could have declined  to accept Mr Ts application  for a SIPP without providing him with 
investment advice. It didnt have  to carry out an assessment  of Mr Ts needs and 
circumstances in order to meet  its regulatory obligations in this regard.
what did BBSAL do?
I think its important to highlight that our service has given BBSAL a number of opportunities 
to provide evidence  about  the due diligence it carried  out on TPS Land. As summarised  
above, BBSAL  has provided detailed submissions  about the investigators findings  and has 
questioned the basis upon  which these conclusions could be reached.  But, the only 
evidence that BBSAL has provided that is contemporaneous to the events that Im looking at 
is:
Ref: DRN537093914The Introducer Agreement  BBSAL  had with TPS Land dated 18 April 2011;
A copy of Mr Ts SIPP application form signed by Mr T and dated 16 June  2011;
A welcome letter sent by BBSAL to Mr T dated  23 June 2011;
A copy of the Alternative Investment Letter  signed by Mr T and dated 8 July 2011;
A copy of the Asset Purchase Form signed  by Mr T and dated   8 July 2011;  and

A copy of the Property Questionnaire that Mr T signed dated 8 July 2011.
None of these  documents  evidence that BBSAL carried out due diligence on TPS Land 
before it accepted Mr Ts application. 
BBSAL says that the Introducer Agreement constituted effective oversight and was intended 
to ensure that TPS Land acted appropriately  with customers it introduced to BBSAL. It says 
this prescribed how business was to be conducted by TPS Land. 
Having an agreement in place is one example of good practice  highlighted in the regulators  
publications. But I dont  agree with BBSAL that this alone was sufficient for it to meet  its 
obligations to treat Mr T fairly and to act in his best interests in accepting  his introduction. 
The agreement didnt  do anything  other than clarify the respective roles  of BBSAL and TPS 
Land. And I dont think provisions in the agreement  setting  out that TPS Land  undertook not 
to advise customers and to notify BBSAL  if its employees breached  the undertaking 
safeguarded against consumer detriment in the form of unauthorised advice. At best, the 
agreement asked TPS Land  to self-police against this risk. BBSAL needed to satisfy  itself 
about this independently.      
I think, when faced with an application to introduce pensions business from an unregulated 
business BBSAL  should at least have  taken steps to check  who was running that business 
and what its business  model involved in order to identify  whether this is a vehicle for financial  
crime, unsuitable SIPPs and to safeguard against  consumer detriment. Ive not seen any 
evidence that it did this or reached the right conclusions about accepting  introductions  from 
TPS Land.  Ill expand  on this below.
the involvement of Terence Wright
As Ive explained, BBSAL  needed to conduct  some due diligence  on TPS Land to meet  its 
regulatory obligations. The Introducer Agreement was signed on behalf  of TPS Land  by 
Terence Wright and its not in dispute  that he was the individual  running that business. So, I 
think BBSAL, acting  fairly and in Mr Ts best interests, should have carried out checks on 
him prior to accepting introductions from his business.
I think a reasonable  step for it to have taken in this regard  was to check the regulators list of 
unauthorised firms  and persons  to avoid. Had it done so, it would have discovered that 
Terence Wright was on the list. Ive set out the text of the warning in the background section 
above.
Theres no evidence that BBSAL checked  the list at the time. But it now says that even if it 
had checked the list, the warning mentions Terence Wrights involvement with a business 
called Cash in Your  Pension and not TPS Land.  And BBSAL says it had always  proceeded 
Ref: DRN537093915on the basis that TPS Land was unregulated and would not give advice based  on the 
Introducer Agreement. So, it doesnt  think it necessarily would have been concerned by the 
warning or been aware that this was the same Terence Wright  that it was dealing with in 
respect of TPS Land.
However, Ive already  highlighted above  that I dont think the Introducer Agreement alone 
was sufficient for BBSAL  to meet its regulatory  obligations to safeguard  against  consumer 
detriment. And I dont think its plausible that BBSAL would have been unclear about 
whether the Terence Wright mentioned in the warning was the same individual running  TPS 
Land. And if it was unclear, acting fairly, BBSAL ought to have obtained clarification  about  
the warning from TPS Land itself and, if ultimately necessary, the regulator. In my view,  if 
BBSAL had undertaken reasonable  checks they would have discovered that Terence Wright 
was in fact the same  person as the subject  of the warning.  
I think Terence Wrights  appearance on the list ought to have  highlighted to BBSAL that the 
regulator was concerned  enough about  Terence  Wrights activities  to warn  consumers  about  
him. And I think its reasonable to conclude that the warning was aimed at protecting 
consumers from detriment  in their dealings with him.
I also think the warning should have acted  as a significant reason for BBSAL to be 
concerned about  any business Terence Wright was involved in  not just Cash in Your  
Pension. The warning  said that Terence Wright was not authorised and may be targeting  
UK customers in connection  with investment business conducted through  an unregulated 
company.  As a minimum, BBSAL should  have made enquiries  to satisfy itself that Terence 
Wright was not conducting business  for TPS Land in a way that could result in a real risk of 
detriment for consumers. 
It follows that acting  fairly, BBSAL  should  have made enquiries of TPS Land so that it could 
fully understand  its business model  to ensure  that it was not operating  in a way that could 
result in a real risk of detriment for consumers. 
I will now consider what BBSAL should have reasonably discovered about the business 
model of TPS Land if it had undertaken adequate due diligence and I will then conclude  
whether BBSAL acting  fairly should  have  accepted  introductions  from TPS Land. 
the business model of TPS Land
BBSAL says that it did not deal with introducers that breached the general prohibition on 
conducting regulated activities without authorisation. It says its process was to end the 
Introducer Agreement if it believed the introducer was doing  this. It also says that the 
investigator had seemed to assert  in his assessment that TPS Land  had breached  the 
general prohibition   but hadnt identified the evidence of this. 
I think there is evidence of TPS Land  providing  advice.  Mr T has told us (and BBSAL in the 
complaint correspondence)  that he was advised by TPS Land to consolidate his pensions  
and invest in Store First.  I think its fair to say that its unusual  for people to make important 
decisions about their pensions without advice or a recommendation  about  where  to invest  
funds  particularly  where the investment is high risk and unregulated.  And theres no 
suggestion that Mr T spoke to anyone else about  his pension options or that any other party  
was involved.  So I think its likely  that Mr T was advised by TPS Land to make the Store First 
investment.
Ref: DRN537093916This is the kind of risk that ought  to have been at the forefront of BBSALs thinking  when  
dealing with an unregulated business  like TPS Land  - especially because  of the regulators 
warning about  Terence Wright. As Ive said above,  BBSAL as part of its due diligence  ought 
to have found out more about how TPS Land was operating. I acknowledge that the 
regulators reports and guidance do not specifically mention considering  the business model 
of an introducer  as an example of good  practice.  But the reports  and guidance are not 
exhaustive. They only provide examples of good  practice and are based  on the overarching 
Principles for Businesses. So the question  to consider is what,  acting fairly, ought  BBSAL 
have done to meet the obligations set by the Principles? 
I think BBSAL,  acting  fairly, should  have taken steps to understand what  TPS Lands 
business model involved. BBSAL should,  for example, have asked  about  how TPS Land  
contacted potential customers, what type of investments  it would be introducing,  what  
information was being provided to customers,  what  steps were  being taken to ensure that 
customers were  not advised or were directed to a regulated adviser,  how TPS Land ensured  
that it was not conducting other  regulated activities and whether incentive  payments were 
being offered  to customers. Theres no evidence that BBSAL  made any such  enquiries of 
TPS Land.
If it had conducted  these enquiries as part of its due diligence, I think BBSAL would have (or 
ought to have) identified  that it was unusual that TPS Land, an unregulated a business  
based in Spain, was contacting consumers in the UK about pension  investments. I think  its 
likely that it would have  found that TPS Land was calling customers  (often by way of cold 
calls), that it specialised  in one or two high risk esoteric investments and, following contact  
from TPS Land, and without the involvement of any other regulated  parties, customers  were 
transferring their UK pensions to SIPPs  to make  these investments.  I also think that its 
likely that BBSAL would have found that were insufficient safeguards against advice being 
given. That is what Mr T has told us happened when he was contacted  by TPS Land and, as 
Ive said above,  I think its likely  that he was indeed advised.
Knowing this and the regulators  warning  about  Terence Wright, I think  BBSAL ought to have 
identified that there  was a real and significant risk of consumer detriment in introductions 
made to it by TPS Land. And having identified  this risk, I think  it would have been fair for 
BBSAL to conclude  that it would  not be fair for it to accept introductions from TPS Land.
I accept that there is a possibility that, if BBSAL  had made enquiries, TPS Land might  not 
have been forthcoming with information about  its business model.  But that is not a 
reasonable basis for not making reasonable enquires. BBSAL has also questioned whether 
these types of enquiry would have been commercially viable. However, to my mind the 
basic type of enquiries and checks  necessary for it to understand TPSs business model 
would not have been a costly exercise. Also,  I dont  think enquiries of the nature Ive 
mentioned above  would have entailed TPS Land  disclosing what BBSAL has described  as 
irrelevant and sensitive information. Rather,  it would have provided BBSAL with the 
information necessary  to ensure that it was conducting its business with due skill, care and 
diligence and that it was paying  due regard to the interests of its customers  (such as Mr T) 
and treating him fairly.
Further, if TPS Land was reluctant or refused to provide information about  its business 
model, that ought  to have been something  in and of itself that made BBSAL concerned  
about the integrity and motivations of those operating TPS Land. As such, I think  this too 
should have led BBSAL to conclude that there  was a real risk of consumer detriment and 
Ref: DRN537093917that it would  not be treating Mr T fairly and in his best interests in accepting his introduction  
from TPS Land. 
I think that these concerns should  have been  heightened by the volume of introductions 
BBSAL was receiving from TPS Land.  As Ive said above, the regulator highlighted in the 
2009 report that gathering and analysing  data regarding  the aggregate volume of execution  
only business and where customers sign disclaimers as an example of good  practice . 
BBSAL has questioned the basis of the investigators finding that it accepted a significant 
volume of business  from TPS Land. But despite  its objections, BBSAL hasnt provided any 
evidence about  the actual  number  of introductions it accepted from TPS Land even though 
we have invited  it to do so. 
Based on what Ive seen,  I think its reasonable to conclude  that the number of introductions 
was indeed significant. Thats because over 100 complaints have been referred to us about 
BBSAL where the introducer was TPS Land.  BBSAL accepted these introductions  from TPS 
Land over a period of 12 months  (as it terminated its agreement with TPS Land on in May 
2012) and many of these will have  been  before Mr Ts introduction in July 2011.
I think BBSAL should  have been concerned about  how an unregulated business based in 
Spain was able to introduce UK pensions business for investment in a high risk unregulated 
investment in such a relatively high volume  without potentially undertaking regulated 
activities.
In any event, regardless of the numbers of introductions that had been  received from TPS 
Land, I think concerns  about Terence Wrights involvement and TPS Lands  business model 
ought to have resulted in BBSAL concluding  that, acting fairly, it should  not have been  
dealing with TPS Land at all. As such, I think it ought to have refused to accept Mr Ts 
application. 
what about the documents signed by Mr T?
BBSAL says it did all it could reasonably be expected to do to warn Mr T about the fact that 
he should take financial advice and that the investment was high risk and illiquid. It also says 
that the documents he signed  reaffirmed  its understanding that advice was not being given 
by TPS Land. Ive quoted  in the background section above extracts from documents  that 
Mr T signed at the time he made his application.  BBSAL also says that Mr T signed  a 
declaration setting out that he hadnt  received  an incentive payment as part of the proposed  
SIPP investment.  
BBSAL says that I should take account of these documents when considering  whether  Mr T 
himself acted appropriately and whether its fair to compensate him for his investment loss. It 
has highlighted the need to balance  consumer responsibility and quoted from FCA 
discussion papers  about actions consumers  should  take to protect  their own interests and 
the expectation that they should  make reasonable efforts to understand the documents they 
are given. 
I accept that the documents that Mr T signed clearly set out that BBSAL wasnt  giving 
advice.  I also think its likely that he was aware  or ought to have been aware that he was 
making a higher risk investment with his pension  funds. But, I dont think  that its fair and 
reasonable that this complaint should  not be upheld simply because Mr T signed the 
documents he did. 
Ref: DRN537093918The 2009  report  said that SIPP operators  should,  as an example of good practice, be:
Routinely identifying instances of execution-only clients who have signed 
disclaimers taking responsibility  for investment decisions and gathering  and 
analysing data regarding  the aggregate volume of such business.
I think the above can reasonably be referred to as the regulator  highlighting a possible 
warning sign and that SIPP operators should be alert to spotting  trends  of this type of activity 
when accepting business. But I also think its fair and reasonable to say that BBSAL ought to 
have had this warning sign in mind  when considering individual  applications. The reason for 
caution in these circumstances is self-evident   it is generally sensible for people  to take 
regulated advice about important decisions involving  their pensions, particularly where the 
customer is moving funds from a traditional  pension scheme into high risk unregulated 
investments - which are rarely suitable for the majority of consumers  and carry a significant 
risk of consumer detriment.
So, with this in mind, I think BBSAL ought  to have been cautious about  accepting Mr Ts 
application in spite of and because of the documents he had signed.  
With regard to the incentive,  theres no evidence that Mr T signed a declaration  about  this 
payment. I accept that at least some other customers introduced to BBSAL by TPS Land  are 
likely to have signed them.  But BBSAL  hasnt provided a copy of this declaration for Mr T 
and so my finding  is that it is likely that he didnt sign one. 
Even if Mr T did sign such a declaration, that would still not change my decision to uphold 
this complaint. Such a declaration isnt usual and so the fact that BBSAL thought it 
necessary to ask consumers to sign a declaration about an incentive  payment demonstrates  
that it identified  that this was a significant  risk when dealing with TPS Land. As Ive 
mentioned previously, such an incentive is likely to be an unauthorised payment breaching  
HMRC tax rules. So, having  identified this risk, the fair thing to do would be to refuse to 
accept business  from TPS Land   not just put in place a process asking customers  to sign a 
declaration. In other words, the fact that BBSAL  identified this risk is another reason why it 
ought have refused to accept introductions from TPS Land.
Overall, BBSALs regulatory obligations  meant that it needed  to consider whether it was 
acting fairly  in accepting  Mr Ts introduction from TPS Land. This is different  from providing 
investment advice. It had a duty under the Principles and COBS 2.1.1 to act in his best 
interests and needed  to consider whether accepting the introduction from TPS Land was 
consistent with that duty. So, it needed  to carry out appropriate due diligence  on TPS Land  
and reach  the right conclusions. Based on the information I have been provided with and for 
the reasons outlined above, I am not persuaded that BBSAL did this when it accepted  Mr Ts 
business. 
So, I dont think the documents Mr T signed meant that BBSAL could ignore its duty to act in 
Mr Ts best interests  or that those  documents on their own meant it acted fairly in its dealings 
with Mr T. BBSALs  responsibilities as a regulated firm meant it wasnt appropriate for it to 
accept his introduction  by TPS Land.  Just asking Mr T to sign declarations was not an 
effective way of meeting  those obligations.  
Was BBSAL obliged  to proceed with Mr Ts instructions under COBS 11.2.19?
Ref: DRN537093919BBSAL says that its dealings with Mr T were on an execution-only basis. As such, it says it 
was required to follow the best execution  rule at COBS 11.2.19(1) which  says:  
Whenever there is a specific instruction from the client, the firm must execute  the 
order following the instruction. 
BBSAL is of the view that this provision means that it had to execute Mr Ts investment  
instructions. Although it isnt entirely clear, Ive taken BBSALs argument to extend to the 
acceptance of Mr Ts SIPP application itself and that it had no choice but to accept it and 
then proceed to make the investment in Store  First.
But I dont agree. The COBS rule relates  to the execution of an instruction to make  an 
investment, but it would only be relevant  where  the investment  was one that BBSAL had 
accepted. And BBSAL  would only have got to the point of executing the specific instruction, 
if it accepted the SIPP  application.  If it hadnt accepted application,  the execution of the 
investment instruction wouldnt have arisen.
Im satisfied that if BBSAL  had met its regulatory  responsibilities and acted fairly in its 
dealings with Mr T by carrying out adequate due diligence, it wouldnt have accepted his 
application introduction from TPS Land. I therefore dont accept BBSALs submission that it 
had no choice but to make  the investment in Store  First, or that the rules allowed it to simply 
give risk warnings and go ahead. 
I think my conclusion  here is supported by the fact that BBSAL ended its relationship with 
TPS Land in May 2012 after it says it became aware that it was paying incentives  to 
customers. This demonstrates  that even  BBSALs own procedures at the time were  that it 
could and should refuse to accept business  from introducers in certain circumstances. My 
view is that BBSAL, acting fairly,  ought to have taken this decision about TPS Land before 
accepting Mr Ts introduction rather than wait until May 2012 to do this. 
BBSALs due diligence on the Store First investment
BBSAL had a duty to conduct due diligence and give thought to whether an investment itself 
is acceptable for inclusion into a SIPP. That is consistent with the Principles for Businesses  
and the regulators publications  as set out above  in the background section  of the decision.  It 
is also consistent with HMRC Rules that govern  what investments can be held in a SIPP.  
But, given what Ive said about BBSALs due diligence  on TPS Land and my conclusion that 
it wasnt treating Mr T fairly or reasonably when it accepted the introduction of Mr Ts 
business, I dont  think it is necessary to also consider BBSALs due diligence  on Store First. I 
am satisfied  that BBSAL  was not treating Mr T fairly or reasonably  when it accepted his 
introduction from TPS Land, so I have not gone  on to consider due diligence  it may have 
carried out on the Store First investment  and whether this was sufficient. As such,  I dont 
make any findings about  this.
fair compensation
Mr T was actively looking  at his pension options. But I think if BBSAL had told Mr T it would 
not accept the application  from TPS Land,  its likely that he would have been put off 
proceeding with the Store First investment or any investment associated  with TPS Land.  I 
think the rejection  of the application would have prompted Mr T to seek  regulated  advice and 
he would  have invested in a suitable  alternative. 
Ref: DRN537093920BBSAL says that if it had refused Mr Ts application, Mr T could  have proceeded with the 
Store First investment through TPS Land  with another SIPP operator. As Ive said above, I 
dont think thats  likely  to have happened. In any event, I dont think its fair and reasonable 
to say that BBSAL  should not be responsible for its errors because another  SIPP  operator 
would have made the same mistakes. I think its fair to instead assume that another SIPP 
provider wouldnt have  processed the transaction if it had carried  out sufficient due diligence  
in accordance with its own regulatory responsibilities and good industry practice.  So again, I 
think the end result would have  been  that Mr T would  not have made the Store  First 
investment and he would have instead  invested in a suitable alternative.
So, my aim in compensating Mr T is to put him as close as possible to the position he would 
probably now be in if he hadnt invested  in Store First and had instead invested  in a suitable  
alternative. 
As Ive said above,  I take the view that Mr T would have invested differently. Its not possible 
to say precisely what he would have done  differently. But Im satisfied that what Ive set out 
below is fair and reasonable given Mr T's circumstances and objectives  when  he invested. 
what should BBSAL  do?
To compensate Mr T fairly, BBSAL must:
Compare the performance of Mr T's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below. I think this is a fair proxy as Mr T wanted  capital  growth  and was willing  to 
accept some investment  risk. If the fair value is greater than the actual value there is 
a loss and compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater  than the fair value, 
no compensation is payable.
BBSAL should  add interest  as set out below. 
If there is a loss, BBSAL  should pay into Mr T's pension  plan to increase its value by 
the total amount of the compensation  and any interest. The amount paid should  allow 
for the effect of charges and any available tax relief.
Compensation should not be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any 
existing protection  or allowance. 
If BBSAL is unable to pay the total amount into Mr T's pension plan, it should pay 
that amount  direct  to him. But had it been  possible to pay into the plan,  it would have 
provided a taxable  income. Therefore the total amount should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise  have been  paid.
The notional allowance should  be calculated using Mr T's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age. 
For example, if Mr T is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement 
age, the reduction  would equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr T would 
have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation.
Ref: DRN537093921Mr T has provided  a bank statement showing that he received £5,400  shortly  after 
making the investment. Im satisfied  that this is the amount of the incentive paid to 
him for making the Store First investment and that this should  be deducted from the 
loss calculation.
Like the investigator, I think BBSAL should  also assume responsibility for any future  
tax liability to HMRC which may arise  from the incentive having been  paid. Thats  
because he wouldnt have  received the incentive payment if the Store  First 
investment had not gone ahead and he wont have  benefitted from the amount of tax 
he pays on it. Therefore any tax that he pays on the loan should  be repaid to Mr T by 
BBSAL.
Like the investigator, I think Mr T has suffered some  trouble and upset as a result of 
BBSALs actions  and I think  £500  is fair compensation for this. So BBSAL should pay 
this amount to Mr T.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If BBSAL deducts income tax from the 
interest it should tell Mr T how much  has been  taken off. BBSAL  should  give Mr T a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
investment name
status benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end date) additional interest
BBSAL SIPP still existsFTSE UK 
Private Investors Income Total 
Return Index
date of 
investmentdate of my 
decision8% simple  per 
year from date of 
decision to date 
of settlement  (if 
compensation is 
not paid within 28 
days of the 
business being 
notified of 
acceptance)
actual value
This means  the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date. 
BBSAL says that there is no basis to conclude that the Store First investment has a nil value 
and that it is a failed investment. But the companies  that manage the investment are now the 
subject of a winding up order.  So think  its fair to say that, at the very least,  it may be difficult 
to find the actual value of the Store First investment. So, for the purpose  of calculating the 
loss the actual value of the Store  First investment should be assumed to be nil to arrive at 
fair compensation and BBSAL should take ownership of the investment.
BBSAL has expressed concerns about whether it can take ownership  of the Store  First 
investment. But, if BBSAL is unable to purchase  the investment, it may require that Mr T 
provides an undertaking to pay BBSAL any amount he may receive  from the investment in 
the future.  That undertaking must  allow for any tax and charges that would be incurred on 
Ref: DRN537093922drawing the receipt  from the pension plan. BBSAL  will need to meet  any costs in drawing up 
the undertaking.
If BBSAL cant  take ownership  of the Store First investment and that is the only reason for 
Mr Ts BBSAL SIPP remaining open, BBSAL also should waive  its fees for a period of five 
years. BBSAL should also not charge Mr T fees for the closure of the SIPP  or the transfer of 
the redressed funds to another  provider.
Whether or not it can take ownership of the Store First investment, BBSAL  should  assume  
responsibility for all additional  charges arising in relation to the investment such  as Non-
Domestic Business Rates. I think this is fair and reasonable because Mr T would not have  
made the investment in Store  First if BBSAL had refused his application as I think it should 
have done. So he should not be liable for any additional costs arising from this investment.
fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a return  
using the benchmark.
Any additional sum paid into the investment  should be added to the fair value calculation  
from the point in time when it was actually paid in. 
Any withdrawal, income or other distribution out of the investment should be deducted from 
the fair value  at the point  it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue  any return in the 
calculation from that point on. If there  are a large number of regular payments, to keep 
calculations simpler, Ill accept if BBSAL totals all those payments and deducts that figure at 
the end instead of deducting periodically.
my final decision 
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Berkeley  Burke SIPP Administration Limited 
should pay the amount calculated as set out above.
Berkeley Burke SIPP Administration Limited should provide details of its calculation  to Mr T 
in a clear,  simple format.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr T either to 
accept or reject my decision  before  12 October  2019.
Abdul Hafez
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5370939