K821x#15complaint
Ms L complains about Amtrust Europe  Limiteds  unfair decisions on her claim for damage to 
her property under her home  insurance  policy (building warranty).
background
Ms L lives in a block of flats which suffered damage to the roof and was the subject of a 
group claim by the tenants in 2014. Individual claims were  set up in 2017 and Ms Ls is the 
subject of her complaint.  She said her neighbours had all accepted offers  of settlement for 
their claims, but she wouldnt accept  hers as it didnt cover  all her expenses. She also 
thought Amtrust had wrongly applied two excess charges and refused to provide supporting 
evidence as to why she wasnt on cover for roof damage at the relevant  time. 
Ms L said Amtrust  has caused  delay in its handling  of the claim and made  unreasonable 
demands, such as requiring all the conveyancing  files for the purchase of the property. She 
said even though the Information Commissioner had ruled  on this, the tenants were  still 
obliged to pay for vast amounts of photocopying. 
Ms L said Amtrust  insisted  on individual  invoices from the tenants  for repairs carried  out, 
when there  was one contractor and the work was performed according to standard  
contracting procedures.  Ms L said Amtrust had said that the excess applied  to each cause of 
loss and decided  the roof and the render were separate  causes. Ms L thought this was 
arbitrary and not supported by the wording of the policy. She said her interpretation  was that 
the cause of loss is poor workmanship and said this is supported  by the policy  wording.
Amtrust said the policy doesnt explicitly  state  excesses are applicable to parts  of the 
building, but it does state that excesses are applicable  per cause of loss. It said that as the 
causes of loss are the roof and render, two separate excesses of £1,000 have been applied 
to the claim. It said that all policyholders  have  been  treated in the same way.
Amtrusts loss adjuster  told Ms L that the roof problem was found in 2012,  but her flat went 
on cover  in October 2013. Amtrust  said it issues Certificates of Insurance  to the developers 
not the buyers. Amtrust  said that the policy would respond to any valid claim where the issue 
was discovered whilst the policy was on cover. It said as the issue  relates  to a common  part 
of the property, there is a shared responsibility  on the leaseholders - if one leaseholder is 
aware of the damage the evident date applies for all the flats served by a common lease.
Ms L said she wasnt aware of any problem  with the roof when she bought her property and 
didnt know any of the other leaseholders. She said she had relied in good  faith on the 
insurance policy she acquired with the property. She said she should  have been  told at the 
time the policy was issued  that the roof was no longer on cover. 
Amtrust reviewed the conveyancing records Ms L provided and made  a revised offer for the 
claim. Ms L said she wouldnt accept this because she didnt think Amtrust was entitled to 
apply two excesses  and she didnt think roof cover should be withheld. Amtrust said it hadnt 
excluded roof cover for two of the flats due to a specific  exclusion in the policy.  It said it 
couldnt cover all the flats as only five were on cover when the roof issue  became known.
Our investigator recommended the complaint  be upheld in part. She said its fair for Amtrust 
to apply two excess  charges  as the damage  occurred in two separate  areas  of the property. 
Ref: DRN55569032But she said its exclusion of roof cover was unfair  and it should reconsider Ms Ls claim.  The 
investigator said Amtrust should pay Ms L £200 compensation for the distress it caused  her.
Amtrust didnt agree  with the investigator.  It said theres no exclusion for roof cover, but Ms 
L's policy commenced after the roof issue was discovered and so her flat was not on cover.  
Amtrust said its the developers responsibility  to notify the policyholder upon purchase as 
Amtrust are only aware of the policyholder's  details when a claim is submitted.
Ms L also disagreed  with the investigator. She said the main areas of damage are the roof 
and the render and it is illogical to say that because this is in two separate  areas  two excess 
charges should  be applied.  She said in effect  this would mean that causes of damage mean  
areas of damage  and this isnt supported by the policy. Ms L agreed  about the roof cover.
Ms L said Amtrust  shouldnt  have  requested  the entire conveyancing file as it would include 
privileged information irrelevant to the claim. She said this was supported  by the Information  
Commissioner and Amtrust  hadnt objected to the decision. And so, she didnt understand 
why the investigator  thought Amtrust's request was reasonable. She said Amtrust should at 
least have paid for her photocopying.  Ms L said she deserved more compensation as for 
over five years Amtrust  had avoided paying her claim and made derisory offers without 
reasonable explanation.  Ms L said she had lived with uncertainty during this time causing  
her huge  stress and loss. Ms L requested  an ombudsman review her complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms L complains about the unfair application  of two excess charges to her claim and that 
cover for her roof has been excluded by Amtrust. She requests further compensation for the 
stress shes  been caused. Ive looked closely at the handling of the claim by Amtrust and its 
agents to see if it has acted in accordance with the terms  of the policy  and treated Ms L 
fairly.
From Ms Ls insurance policy, I see that a separate excess is applied  per cause of loss or 
damage as per the policy definition;
D. EXCESS
A separate  Excess  shall apply to each separately identifiable cause of loss or damage for 
which a payment is made under the Policy by the Underwriter, regardless of whether more  
than one cause  of loss is notified  at the same  time.
Ive thought about the cause of loss at Ms Ls property. Ms L describes the damage as due 
to poor workmanship. Although I wouldnt disagree that this is a factor in the occurrence of 
the damage, I think that is too generic and would prevent a specific  application of an excess 
as appears to be intended by the policy. I dont agree with Ms L that Amtrusts application of 
the excess is arbitrary. The damage  occurred in two distinct  areas  of the property and I think 
it is separately identifiable as required by the policy. In the circumstances I think it was fair 
for Amtrust  to apply two excess charges to Ms Ls claim.
Ms Ls insurance cover started in October  2013 when she bought her flat. Other tenants had 
similar cover  from when they purchased  their flats. Amtrust have told us there was a pre-
Ref: DRN55569033existing issue with the roof of the property when Ms L purchased and had excluded cover for 
the roof for hers  and one other  flat.
Ms L said she wasnt aware of any pre-existing issues with the roof before buying her flat or 
an exclusion  as it wasnt included on her policy documents. Amtrust requested  conveyancing  
files as it thought  Ms L and others had negotiated a lower sale price  because of the roof 
issue. Ms Ls file showed this not to be the case but Amtrust  still wouldnt  provide roof cover  
to her, and one other flat.
I agree  with the investigator that as Amtrust hasnt provided evidence of an exclusion for roof 
cover in Ms Ls policy documents, or a discount  on her purchase, I dont think its fair to 
exclude this part of her claim. The roof forms part of the structure of the property, as is 
stated in the policy terms, and damage  to this area would normally  be covered by a building  
insurance policy or warranty. 
Although Ms Ls policy came on cover after the roof issue was known by Amtrust,  there  is a 
lack of reference to this in the policy documents or communication to Ms L. Consequently,  
I dont think its fair or reasonable  for Amtrust to exclude roof cover  from Ms Ls policy.  I think 
Amtrust should pay Ms L interest on any increased settlement of her claim from the date of 
its decline of her roof claim  until payment as she has been  without use of this money.  
Ms L has also said Amtrusts requests for information were  excessive. She raised a 
complaint about  this to the Information Commissioner who agreed  with her. I sympathise  
with Ms L, but it is a requirement of the policyholder to prove their claim and to do this 
generally requires  cooperation with the insurers  enquiries. I think it would have affected  Ms 
Ls claim and this complaint if Amtrust  had found property negotiations influenced by the roof 
issue. And so, I can understand its requests. It is not our role to review the findings of the 
Information Commissioners Office,  but I havent found reason to require Amtrust to do 
anything further  about this issue.
Ms L has described the impact that the prolonged handling of her claim by Amtrust has had 
upon her and the stress from its decisions about  her claim. I think  the £200  compensation 
recommended by the investigator is fair and reasonable for the distress and inconvenience 
caused to Ms L by Amtrusts poor handling of her claim.
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given above it is my final decision that the complaint is upheld in part. 
I require Amtrust Europe Limited to reconsider Ms Ls claim and offer of settlement in line 
with the policy terms, without applying the exclusion for roof cover. I require Amtrust Europe 
Limited to pay 8% simple  interest* on top of any additional reimbursement from the date of 
Ms Ls roof claim until the date of settlement.
I also require Amtrust Europe Limited  to pay Ms L £200 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by this dispute  and its handling of her claim.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 December  2020.
Andrew Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN55569034*HM Revenue and Customs requires Amtrust Europe Limited to take off tax from this interest.  Amtrust 
must give a certificate  showing how much  tax its taken off it if Ms L asks for one.
Ref: DRN5556903