K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain  about advice from AWD  Home Finance,  an appointed representative 
of Legal & General Partnership Services Limited.  They say they were mis-sold a mortgage 
and a will package.  A claims management  company (CMC)  brings this complaint on 
Mr and Mrs Ps behalf.
background
L&G recommended  a mortgage to Mr and Mrs P in early 2007. The CMC says the advice 
given to Mr and Mrs P was unsuitable.  It says Mr and Mrs P didnt need  to re-mortgage or 
consolidate debts.  It says the interest  rate on the recommended mortgage was higher  than 
their existing mortgage. And by recommending Mr and Mrs P re-mortgage  immediately 
instead of waiting 18 months  they paid an early  repayment charge  (ERC)  of about £3,000. 
The CMC said the filters  used by L&G when searching for mortgages didnt reflect 
Mr and Mrs Ps requirements in the fact find. And it says L&G had an arrangement  that 
made it advantageous to recommend the lender. The CMC also said the broker  mis-sold a 
will package to Mr and Mrs P. 
The CMC said Mr and Mrs Ps needs  could have been met with a small further advance  or 
unsecured loan.
Our adjudicator recommended  that Mr and Mrs Ps complaint about the suitability  of the 
mortgage advice  should be upheld, saying:
while Mr and Mrs P had little disposable income,  it wasnt  clear that they were struggling. 
They didnt need to consolidate unsecured debts.  Their  credit card debts were  relatively  
small and their two personal loans  would have been repaid  within  two years.  It wasnt 
good advice to consolidate  a car loan. 
there was no evidence Mr and Mrs P were  in financial difficulty. There  was no need for 
them to re-mortgage  immediately at a higher interest rate and incur the ERC. 
L&G should return Mr and Mrs P to the position they were in before  the advice was 
given. The adjudicator said L&G should  refund the costs  of the debt consolidation, the 
fees for the mortgage  advice and the ERC so that the mortgage  account was returned  to 
its balance before the advice was given.
Our adjudicator said the recommendation to buy a will package wasnt  unsuitable. But 
adding the cost to the mortgage was poor advice. He said L&Gs  offer to refund the interest 
on the cost of the will and £150  for trouble and upset  was fair and reasonable. The CMC  
responded on behalf of Mr and Mrs P to ask that the complaint be passed to an 
ombudsman. L&G didnt  respond.
I sent a provisional  decision  to the parties. I agreed  with the adjudicators findings, but 
wanted to set out in more detail how L&G should  put matters  right.  The CMC said it had no 
comments. L&G responded  with more information  and evidence,  including Mr and Mrs Ps 
bank statement for late November and December 2006. It said they were struggling 
financially and couldnt wait 18 months to refinance. 
Ref: DRN58557072my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely  to have happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances. 
the will package
I dont think the recommendation that Mr and Mrs P get advice about a will was unsuitable,  
especially as they had a dependent child and equity in their property. But I do think  that 
adding the cost of the will package to the mortgage was poor advice. Mr and Mrs P had to 
pay interest on that cost over the whole mortgage term.
L&G accepted this was wrong  and offered to refund the interest  on the cost of the will over 
the term of the mortgage, which it calculates as £83.73. It also offered £150.00 for any 
trouble and upset  caused. In the circumstances, I think  this is fair and reasonable.
the mortgage advice
L&G recommended  the mortgage. So it needed  to gather information about Mr and Mrs Ps 
needs and circumstances. L&G provided copies  of the mortgage paperwork, including  a 
client review and mortgage record of suitability. 
Mr and Mrs P had a mortgage of about  £48,000 with a fixed  interest rate of 5.25% and 
13 years  remaining. Their  monthly mortgage payments were  about £426. An ERC of about  
£3,000 applied until September 2008.  
Mr and Mrs P wanted to consolidate  debts of about £8,000, including three credit card 
accounts, a loan of about  £5,300 with about  5 years  remaining and two smaller  loans  
originally taken out to consolidate other  debts.  Monthly repayments for their unsecured  debts 
were about  £334.
Mr and Mrs P wanted a repayment mortgage  with a five year fixed rate to avoid the 
uncertainty of interest rate changes. They wanted  to raise £1,000 for home improvements. 
In February 2007  L&G recommended  a 14 year repayment mortgage of £69,700  with a five 
year 5.69% fixed rate product. Monthly payments  were initially £603.
The CMC says several aspects of L&Gs  advice were unsuitable. Ive looked at the specific  
aspects here and at the recommendation as a whole. 
applying to their existing lender for a further  advance: 
Theres nothing to suggest L&G asked Mr and Mrs P if theyd applied  to their existing lender 
for a further advance  or discussed it with them. A further advance from their existing lender 
would have avoided  much of the costs involved in re-mortgaging. However, I must also take 
into account that I cant be sure now this would have been available. 
Ref: DRN58557073consolidating debts : 
L&G had to consider whether debt consolidation was suitable, taking into account the costs 
associated with increasing the period over which a debt is repaid and whether its 
appropriate to secure  a previously unsecured loan. 
L&Gs records dont suggest that Mr and Mrs P were  struggling to maintain debt repayments. 
After meeting the debt repayments  and normal living  expenditure they had income of about 
£99 left each month.  In response to my provisional decision L&G said it had reviewed this 
again and Mr and Mrs Ps monthly disposable income was only about £71. And they had a 
direct debit returned unpaid in December  2006,  which suggests they were struggling.  
The suitability letter says Mr and Mrs P understood that consolidating short term debt into 
the longer term mortgage would be more costly.  It gives  the overall cost of repaying the 
mortgage with and without debt consolidation.  It says Mr and Mrs P wanted to go ahead  as 
they wanted one manageable payment and to reduce  their monthly  outgoings. They 
anticipated their living  costs would rise. And they wanted to borrow  an additional £1,000 for 
home improvements: L&G says they couldnt  afford  to do this without re-mortgaging and 
debt consolidation.
the ERC : 
An ERC of about  £3,000 was payable if Mr and Mrs Ps existing mortgage was repaid before 
September 2008. L&Gs suitability letter says Mr and Mrs P were  aware  of this and wanted 
to go ahead to make immediate savings and raise capital. 
other costs  of re-mortgaging: 
The CMC says Mr and Mrs P incurred costs of £12,000 in re-mortgaging. Some  of this 
related to payment protection insurance which has been  dealt with separately.  Nonetheless, 
Mr and Mrs P incurred  costs of over £5,000, including  the ERC.
was the recommendation suitable?
I dont think the recommendation was suitable.
Ive considered what L&G said, but I dont  think its shown  there  was an immediate need for 
Mr and Mrs P to consolidate debts. Before  re-mortgaging,  Mr and Mrs P had a small amount 
of disposable  income left each month, even  if, as L&G now says, this was about £71 rather  
than £99. I dont  think one unpaid direct debit  is sufficient  evidence Mr and Mrs P had 
financial difficulties which required immediate action  especially as this happened  in 
December when many  people find their expenditure is higher than usual.
L&G says while Mr and Mrs Ps credit  card debts were relatively  small (about £1,200),  they 
were close  to their credit  limits. I agree   but the amount of the debt was still relatively small. 
Even if they had less disposable income, as L&G now says, they could have repaid their 
credit card debts over 2 to 3 years if theyd  applied more of their disposable  income to this 
(and didnt  borrow  more).  
Mr and Mrs Ps two personal loans, which together totalled £1,600, would have  been  paid off 
within two years. And, of course, as each debt was paid off that would leave  more  
Ref: DRN58557074disposable income. Once the two personal  loans were repaid theyd have had disposable  
income of about  £200  and over £250  if the credit card debts were also repaid. 
Their remaining loan  for a car purchase   had about 5 years of repayments left. 
Theres nothing to suggest Mr and Mrs P needed  to raise £1,000 for home improvements on 
an urgent  basis either. And if they had, it would have been good advice to suggest they 
approach their existing  lender about this.
The fixed  interest  rate on the new mortgage  was higher than Mr and Mrs Ps previous 
mortgage. And there were costs of about £5,000 involved with the re-mortgage and debt 
consolidation. About £3,000 of this could have been  avoided if L&G had suggested 
Mr and Mrs P wait to re-mortgage  until late 2008,  when  the ERC no longer applied. 
Mr and Mrs Ps monthly outgoings reduced after taking out the new mortgage.  The amount 
of disposable  income they had each month increased to about £250. But L&G needed to 
consider the costs of re-mortgaging: the ERC,  other fees and costs,  and the additional 
interest Mr and Mrs P paid as a result of consolidating  their debts  over a longer period and 
having a higher interest rate on their mortgage debt. 
I made  a rough  comparison of what it would have cost Mr and Mrs P to repay their mortgage 
and other  debts without  L&Gs advice and the amount they paid as a result of taking  out the 
new mortgage. The difference, over the life of the mortgage, is about £25,000. Some  of this 
relates to PPI and costs  of the wills package, which have  been dealt with separately. But I 
think Mr and Mrs P were  worse off as a result of L&Gs unsuitable advice. 
No doubt re-mortgaging eased  any pressure  on Mr and Mrs Ps finances in the short  term  
and allowed them to borrow  an additional  £1,000.  But Im not persuaded that Mr and Mrs P 
had an immediate need to consolidate  debt or reduce their monthly outgoings. The re-
mortgage meant they incurred immediate costs of about £5,000 and significantly more over 
the life of the mortgage. I dont think this was good advice.
what should happen now?
In respect of the debt consolidation, L&G should
(A)calculate the amount Mr and Mrs P have paid in interest and capital towards the 
consolidated debts from the date they took out the recommended  mortgage to the date 
of settlement;
(B)calculate the amount of the consolidated  debt outstanding on the mortgage balance as at 
the date of settlement;
(C)calculate the amount it would have cost Mr and Mrs P to repay the debts if they hadnt 
been consolidated, assuming they made  the same monthly payments as set out in the 
fact find and there was no further spending on the credit card accounts;
(D)pay Mr and Mrs P the result of A + B - C. 
In respect of the set up fees of the new mortgage,  L&G should:
(E)calculate the set up costs  of the mortgage   add together broker,  legal, lender and 
valuation fees plus the ERC and deduct the help with costs incentive (and the cost of the 
wills package  if it deals with this separately);
(F)calculate interest on (E) at the mortgage  rate for costs added to the mortgage  balance 
and at 8% for any costs  paid up front to the date of settlement;
(G)pay Mr and Mrs P the result of E + F. 
Ref: DRN58557075In respect of the higher  interest rate on the new mortgage:
(H)calculate the difference between the interest  paid to the new lender compared to the 
interest that would  have been  paid to the old lender to the end of the old lenders fixed 
rate period (disregarding the additional borrowing and the refunded debt and fees from 
the balance);
(I)calculate interest on (H) at 8% from the end of the fixed rate period to the date of 
settlement;
(J)pay Mr and Mrs P the result of H + I. 
Mr and Mrs P will need  to give L&G information about their mortgage arrangements so that it 
can complete the calculations  above.
L&G should  also pay compensation of £150  and refund  interest on the cost of the wills 
package, as it has offered to do, either  as part of the calculation  above or separately. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. I order Legal & General Partnership  Services  
Limited to take the steps and pay the compensation set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  24 April 2020.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5855707