K820x#14complaint
Mrs H complains about the charges Volkswagen Financial Services  (UK) Limited (VWFS) 
have asked her to pay to refurbish a car she has been financing through  them.  
background
Mrs H took receipt of a used car in May 2016.  She financed the deal through a hire purchase 
agreement with VWFS. She terminated the agreement early and returned her car but she 
was disappointed to be asked by VWFS  to pay some charges to refurbish the car as they 
said it hadnt been returned  in the condition the contract stipulated.
VWFS agreed to remove some  of the charges but they wouldnt remove charges  for a 
scratch to the front bumper; a cracked door pad and a broken grille which they said were  
beyond fair wear and tear. Mrs H said shed accept the charges to the bumper and grille but 
that the door pad damage was there  when she took receipt of the car and she shouldnt be 
held responsible.
So Mrs H referred her complaint to this service and our adjudicator  provided an opinion. She 
explained that the British  Vehicle  Rental and Leasing Association (BVRLA) provided  the 
industry guidelines on what was considered to be acceptable wear  and tear and she 
therefore considered  each  area of damage against  that standard. She noted, from the 
inspection photographs,  that the bumper scratch had penetrated through to the primer; the 
door panel had an obvious  crack  in it and the front grille was broken and she thought  each of 
these issues was beyond  what  the guidance would consider acceptable. So she thought 
VWFS had been right to charge  Mrs H for the repairs. She understood that Mrs H claimed 
the damage to the door pad was there when she took receipt of the vehicle but she reviewed 
the service history for the car prior to Mrs H taking receipt of it and couldnt  find evidence  
that was the case. 
But Mrs H disagreed with the adjudicators opinion and she therefore  asked  for an 
ombudsman to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicators view.  I know that will disappoint Mrs H so please let me explain 
why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mrs H acquired  her car under a hire purchase  agreement. The hire purchase agreement  is a 
regulated consumer credit agreement  and as a result our service is able to look into 
complaints about  it.  
Ref: DRN50942302Ive reviewed the damage that is reported in the inspection report  against the standard set by 
the BVRLA.  I note the car was just over a year old when Mrs H took receipt  of it and had 
completed about 12,000 miles and Ive considered if the BVRLA  standard could be 
considered too stringent when considering the damage thats been reported. In these  
particular circumstances  I dont think thats the case.  I think  the damage reported to the 
interior door panel isnt something a reasonable person wouldve expected  if they took 
receipt of a car of this age and mileage so I think its unlikely Mrs H wouldve accepted the 
car in that condition  if the damage  was pre-existing.  
I also note that the multi point inspection completed  before handover  suggests  that there 
was a walk around  inspection of the car and goes in to some  detail; listing  148 areas that 
were inspected prior to supply. Mrs H has signed  this inspection and whilst it doesnt  
specifically refer to the door trim that shes now being charged for; I think  it provides 
evidence that the vehicle  was subjected to a thorough inspection prior to handover  and I 
think its reasonable therefore to suggest  any damage that was apparent wouldve been 
highlighted.
I can confirm that Ive reviewed the photographs in the report  of the crack to the door trim. 
The BVRLA guidance says that interior trim must be free from damage and the door clearly 
isnt: the damage  is therefore in excess of the standard and is chargeable.
Im therefore  not asking  VWFS to take any further action.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 October  2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5094230