K821x#15complaint
Mr A says Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc gave him incorrect  advice about his 
household insurance, which exposed him to legal costs it materialised he wasnt  covered for.
background
Mr A contacted RSA in November 2018  to discuss a couple of potential  claims on his 
household insurance. He had two conversations with advisers on the same day.
In the first call he was shocked when the adviser  told him his policy  had lapsed in 2013. He 
called a little later the same day to try to clarify  what had happened.  On this occasion he was 
assured he did have cover. He was given  a policy number and details, including information 
about his legal expenses insurance.
Mr A didnt contact RSA again until March 2019.  He was then told again he didnt have any 
insurance. He was concerned because this implied hed been without buildings and contents  
insurance for several years. And since the last phone call hed incurred significant  legal 
expenses in a dispute with his former  employer.
RSA reviewed what had happened. It acknowledged  that on one occasion its adviser had 
given Mr A the incorrect information. To say sorry it offered him £100. Mr A had never had a 
contract of insurance with it. And even  though  it got things wrong in one call, it only provided  
information; it didnt  consider  or advise him on the prospects of a potential claim.
The investigator didnt  uphold this case. Mr A disagreed and so his case  has been  passed to 
me. I issued  my provisional decision in December 2019.
Mr A responded and asked me to think more about the balance of responsibility for what had 
happened. He thought RSA should be directed  to pay at least  half of the legal costs hes 
incurred. He also provided an update of the extent  of those costs.  
Ive thought carefully about what Mr A has said. Ive addressed the key points hes made  in 
this final decision.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this case.  Im upholding  Mr As complaint, but not to the 
extent hed like. Ill explain why.
the role of other  parties  and the limits of this decision
Mr A told us that hed had a mortgage with the same building  society  since  1998. From the 
outset hed always had protection  for unemployment, sickness  and redundancy, along with 
the buildings  and contents insurance.  He says the payments he made  to his building  society 
included premiums for these policies.
Mr A says hes never cancelled any of his policies at any time, nor was he given the option 
to stop his insurance. He now says he never received any documentation advising him of 
any change to the insurance  underwriter (although theres conflicting  testimony  on this 
point). And he says hed never have been 1 day without a buildings and contents  policy.
Ref: DRN58769792Piecing together some of the information we have it would seem  Mr As building  society  used 
to offer insurance  products.  So I can see how its possible that when he took out his 
mortgage he arranged  all his insurance requirements at the same  time and through  the 
same provider.
In 2013 Mr As building  society  decided to partner with an insurer (X). According  to X, Mr As 
policy lapsed around this time and he didnt have a contract with it. In 2017 his building 
society changed its insurance provider again,  this time working with RSA.
When Mr A called RSA in November 2018 to explore a couple of potential claims, he was 
initially told, correctly,  he didnt have insurance. The problem  is that in a second call on the 
same day, when he was trying to work out what had happened to his cover,  he was told that 
actually he did have  a policy.
Its clear in the second call Mr A had with RSAs adviser, he thought  he might need to make 
use of this cover in relation to an emerging employment issue. He described how he felt he 
might soon become  involved  in a constructive dismissal  situation.
Armed with a policy reference number given  to him by RSAs adviser - which actually 
belonged to another of its customers - Mr A was able to access the legal helpline  and says 
he was put in touch with a legal firm which had expertise in the legal framework in Northern 
Ireland.
RSA was responsible  for providing household insurance, including  the general  enquiry line 
Mr A called. But the legal advice service  was provided by a law firm (Y) and it acted as a 
gateway to the underwriter of the legal  expenses element of the policy, insurer  (Z).
It wasnt until March 2019, when Mr A contacted RSA again  that he was given the correct 
information. He didnt have insurance  and hed been  without a buildings and contents  policy  
since 2013.
Ive listened to the call when this was revealed to Mr A. As you can imagine it came as quite 
a shock. Although he will have saved significant sums on insurance premiums from 2013  to 
2019, understandably his main concern was that if something catastrophic had happened  
hed have been very exposed. Thankfully it hadnt and he acted  immediately to put cover  in 
place once the position was confirmed.
But Mr A had begun incurring legal costs in relation  to a dispute he had with an employer.  
He says he pursued a course of action based on what hed been told in November 2018 
about the cover available to him.
Ive set out this more  detailed background of what happened in Mr As case because  there 
are a number of parties involved  here,  which may or may not bear some responsibility  for the 
position he finds himself  in.
And I need to make  clear Im not looking into the actions of Mr As building society, for 
example concerning how it informed him about  changes to his insurance provision or 
payments. Im not considering the actions of insurer X. Neither am I looking into what  Y, the 
legal advice service  did, when working  for insurer Z. Nor am I looking at the actions of Z.
The focus of this complaint can only be about the acts and omissions of RSA.
Ref: DRN58769793Mr A will reflect on whether  he wants  to contact his building society and insurer  X to 
understand their respective roles  in the position he found himself in with his insurance  cover.  
If he isnt satisfied with the outcome he can bring  a complaint to this Service about  either  or 
each firm.
Mr A will also want  to reflect on whether he wants to contact  insurer Z about its role in his 
exposure to legal costs.  If he isnt satisfied by the outcome he can bring a complaint to this 
Service about whats happened.
If Mr A has concerns about the legal services  he received from firm Y, or any other  firm of 
solicitors involved in the dispute with his employer, then he will need to pursue those with the 
organisation involved in the first instance. If he doesnt get satisfaction he can contact the 
Legal Ombudsman, which has jurisdiction for these matters.
the role of RSA
So, the focus of my decision is on what  RSA was responsible for. Mr A has never previously 
had an insurance  contract  with it. It didnt have anything to do with his original cover   its 
remote from any problems that mayve occurred when his building  society  changed its 
insurance arrangements.
But RSA has accepted it was responsible for giving Mr A incorrect information  in November 
2018. It told him he had a policy, describing  the extent of his cover and key features. For 
example, it said he had cover for legal expenses costs up to a limit of £50,000.
Mr A says he relied on RSAs advice  to advance his dispute against his former employer. 
Hes showed us invoices  for legal expenses  related  to the period between  the problem call 
and March 2019 when he was told he didnt  have insurance.
Mr A wants  RSA to proceed  on the basis of the information it gave him in November 2018 - 
as if he did have legal expenses insurance in place. I can understand why he thinks  RSA 
should pick up the bill for whats happened. But I dont think  its that straight-forward.
Ive thought about the most likely  course of events had Mr A received the correct information 
in November 2018. I think he wouldve acted in the same way as he did in March 2019  when 
it was confirmed he was without insurance.  I think  he wouldve acted immediately to buy 
household and contents insurance with legal expenses cover  included.
But that doesnt mean he wouldve necessarily  had the cover  he needed from November 
2018 if RSA had got things right. In my experience, its likely  any insurance hed have bought 
wouldnt have covered the position he was in. Thats because legal expenses  policies  often 
dont accept claims about an existing dispute,  nor where an insured peril arises within the 
first month or so of the inception of a policy.
Mr A might then reasonably argue that at least if hed been given the right advice in 
November 2018  he wouldve  been able to take his decisions  about  the dispute  with his 
employer in full knowledge of the cover available to him. This argument isnt without merit, 
but there are problems  here as well.
Ref: DRN58769794RSA wouldnt have  been involved in giving advice to Mr A about how to progress a claim for 
legal expenses insurance. The adviser in the second call in November gave him the phone  
number for the legal advice service provided by Y for this purpose.
RSA wouldnt have  been responsible for validating any claim. It wouldnt  have  been  
responsible for accepting  or rejecting his claim according to the terms and conditions of the 
legal expenses element of his policy. These  things  wouldve been  the role of the legal 
expenses insurer Z and its agent Y.
Mr As view is that RSA should  be responsible for at least  half of the financial loss hes made 
through incurring  legal costs that werent covered. I dont think  that would be fair because as 
Ive said, other organisations wouldve been responsible for advising on, validating  and 
accepting/rejecting any claim for legal expenses.
So, I remain  of the view that the significant elements of responsibility  for what  happened  to 
Mr A dont sit with RSA.
putting things right
Were all inconvenienced occasionally in our day-to-day lives,  including in our dealings with 
other people, businesses and organisations. When Im deciding how to sort out a complaint 
like this, Ill think about whether its fair to award  compensation  for trouble and upset.
This isnt intended to fine or punish  a business   which is the job of the regulator. But when 
somethings gone wrong, a businesss recognition of the emotional  and practical impact can 
make a real difference.
Mr A has saved  money since 2013  in terms of insurance premiums. But I recognise his 
shock when he found out hed been without home and contents cover for several years. It 
couldve resulted  in a very bad situation for him. Thankfully it didnt.
There was still a significant consequence for Mr A of the mix-up with his insurance. Hes 
incurred legal expenses  in a recent dispute with his employer  which  hed formed the 
impression hed be covered for.
If there have  been acts or omissions which have resulted in Mr As position being prejudiced, 
I think the main responsibility for this is most likely to rest with one or more of the other firms  
Ive mentioned.
That said theres  no dispute RSA got things wrong  when it gave him the wrong information 
about his insurance  cover  in November 2018.  This was a telling factor  in his remaining 
without insurance  until March 2019.  And it played a role in his initial  expectation of the legal 
expenses support he might benefit  from.
RSA offered Mr A £100 in recognition of the things it got wrong. But in the circumstances  of 
this case I dont think that quite reflects the distress and inconvenience  its responsible  for. I 
think the compensation should be £300.
Ref: DRN58769795my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out, Im upholding Mr As complaint, but not to the extent he wanted. 
I require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc to pay him £300 for the trouble and upset its 
caused him.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 February  2020.
Kevin Williamson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5876979