K822xcomplaint
Mrs M complains that National Westminster Bank Plc has lost her property  deeds,  which  she 
lodged in a safe custody  facility at one of its branches. 
background 
Mrs M says she held items in safe custody at a NatWest branch  for over 30 years.  In 
January 2019,  Mrs M arranged an appointment at the NatWest branch to collect  her 
possessions. In particular,  she says NatWest held the deeds for a property she ran a 
business from. She wanted these as she was planning to sell the property. During a branch 
meeting, she was told the deeds were lost. Mrs M raised a complaint as she was unhappy at 
not having her possessions  returned and with the service she received at the branch.  
NatWest responded  to her complaint. It said that its records show that the customer  had 
withdrawn the contents of an envelope  in 1992. So it didnt think  the deeds were missing.  
Although, it did offer to repay Mrs M the safe custody fees shes  paid for the last ten years  
totalling £250. 
Mrs M didnt  accept the response and remained unhappy that NatWest hadnt provided her 
with the deeds she asked  to be returned. She then referred her complaint to our service  to 
investigate. 
Our investigator recommended the complaint  be upheld in part. He didnt think  NatWest  had 
dealt with Mrs Ms concerns appropriately  and had caused her distress.  He asked it to pay 
£150 compensation for the distress caused on top of the fees NatWest had already agreed 
to refund.  He reviewed  NatWests internal records, which showed that the deeds held in an 
envelope in the safe custody were for another property and these had been collected  in 
1992. He said he hadnt seen anything  to indicate the deeds Mrs M was looking for had been 
held by NatWest. 
NatWest agreed to the investigators recommendations but Mrs M didnt accept the new 
revised offer. So the complaint has been  passed  to me for a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise this whole situation has been very upsetting  for Mrs M. I want to assure her Ive very 
carefully considered  everything shes told us and the records NatWest has provided. And Im 
sorry to disappoint  her, but I dont think its likely NatWest is responsible for losing the deeds 
she is looking for her. Ill explain  why. 
Mrs M says she is sure the business  property deeds were held but she isnt clear about what  
other documents were lodged with the bank. She says her late husband would  have given 
the deeds to NatWest for safekeeping. 
NatWests records show Mrs M has held an envelope in safe custody that was now missing.  
The ledger  notes detail what was in the missing envelope. The notes indicate there was an 
agreement for building works relating  to her business property deposited in 1984   but this 
item was reported as missing during an audit in 2008. It also records that deeds  and 
Ref: DRN56765242documents for another property (not the deeds  Mrs M is looking for) were held in 1984 but 
these were discharged  to the customer in 1992. 
I have considered the letter Mrs M sent to us from her solicitor about  a legal charge on the 
business property.  This letter does support that NatWest had a legal charge on the property. 
However, it doesnt refer to the deeds  or if (and when) they were stored in safe custody by 
the bank. So I dont think it is strong evidence to support that NatWest lost the deeds.
On balance, I dont  think the deeds Mrs M is looking for were held in the safe custody facility. 
Ive taken into account that Mrs Ms recollections  of exactly what  was held with the bank 
arent clear. This doesnt mean I doubt  what she is saying, just that the balance  of evidence 
doesnt support  her version of events. The records held by the bank make no reference  to 
the business property deeds ever being held in safe custody. Overall, this leads me to think  
NatWest hasnt made any errors leading to the deeds being  lost. So I wont  be asking it to 
compensate Mrs M for any losses shes  suffered as a result of not having the deeds. 
The records  that NatWest  has provided from the branch indicate that it cant locate other 
documents belonging to Mrs M that were recorded  as being in safe custody. It seems these 
were logged as missing in 2008 but it doesnt seem Mrs M was made aware of this at the 
time. NatWest has already agreed  to refund  the fees it charged Mrs M for the safe custody  
facility for the last 10 years as a gesture  of goodwill. In the circumstances, I think it is fair for 
these fees to be refunded. I understand that this payment has already been credited to 
Mrs Ms account.
Lastly, I think NatWests handling  of the situation has caused  Mrs M distress.  The 
explanations given by NatWest havent been  very clear. Mrs M says she was told her deeds  
were lost when she visited the branch but the response to her complaint says her 
possession was withdrawn in 1992.  The records Ive seen say the envelope was reported 
missing during an internal audit, so it seems  likely  that this is what  she was told in branch. I 
can see how this must  have been confusing and worrying for Mrs M when she was trying  to 
locate important documents. She also encountered some problems with NatWest  agreeing  
to her son dealing  with things on her behalf. He was present with her in the branch and a 
signed authority  was given to allow the safe custody facility to be discussed with him. This 
was also the point at which the complaint was raised. But the response letter  to the 
complaint says that there isnt authority on the account to speak to her son. Again, I can see 
how this would be confusing and worrying for Mrs M. Taking  everything  into account, I think  
£150 is fair compensation for the trouble and upset  NatWests  actions  have caused  her. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I uphold this complaint  in part and direct National Westminster 
Bank Plc to:
Pay Mrs M £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience  caused. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 July 2019.
Daniel Little
ombudsman
Ref: DRN56765243
Ref: DRN5676524