K820x#14complaint
Mr L complains  Barclays  Bank UK PLC will not refund some  disputed transactions.
background
Mr L complained to Barclays about nine transactions which he said he did not make  nor 
recognise.  Eight of those  were online transactions and one was a contactless payment to a 
merchant.  In total, the nine transactions amounted to just under £250.
The payments were made from the middle of January 20018  through  to the first week  in 
February.  Mr  L complained to Barclays on 10th February.
In its final response to Mr L, Barclays did not uphold his complaint.  It had spoken to one of 
the online merchants  who had confirmed the payments were for supplements and that the 
recurring payments  were  taken after a free two week trial.  The  merchant confirmed it had Mr 
Ls correct name email  address and phone  number.  It did not confirm  (and I dont think  
Barclays asked) whether  any of these supplements had actually  been  posted to Mr L.
In any event, Barclays concluded the other merchants must  be offering the same products  
and as there was no compromise of Mr Ls card, it was going to hold him liable.
In relation to the contactless payment, Mr L confirmed he had his card on him at all times.  In  
those circumstances,  Barclays  could  not see how the payment was made by anyone  other  
than Mr L  or at least with his authority.
Mr L then asked this service to consider his complaint.   He said Barclays  had been 
unreasonable in holding  him liable for these transactions.
Our investigator did not think she could ask Barclays to do anymore so the matter  was 
passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Generally speaking, if the evidence suggests that it was more likely  than not that Mr L made 
or authorised these  payments,  Barclays  is entitled  to hold him liable.  The  relevant rules  say 
that.  But the rules  also say that its not enough  that Mr Ls genuine card or PIN were used  
he has to have consented to the payments being  made too.
From the evidence I have  seen, I am satisfied that the Mr Ls genuine card was used.  I then 
need to decide if he consented to the payments  and therefore whether Barclays has done 
anything wrong  in holding him liable.
I cant see anything to suggest Barclays has acted unfairly or unreasonably in holding  Mr L 
liable for these transactions.
In relation to the contactless payment, Mr Ls card would have needed to be present.  He 
says his card was with him at all times  and even confirmed he still had it in his possession 
when he called Barclays to complain.   I think the probability of a fraudster being  able to 
Ref: DRN55085342access his card, make the payment and then replace  the card without Mr L realising is 
extremely low.
With regards the online  payments,  they were all made to merchants selling similar 
supplements.  Barclays fairly  relied on documentary evidence to conclude the payments 
were authenticated  and then relied  on its communication with one of the merchants to 
conclude the payments  were consented  to.
Based on what I have seen, I think this is a fair conclusion for Barclays  to have reached.   I 
also remind myself that Mr L was logging onto his online banking during  this period and 
would have seen  the payments leaving his account.  He  failed  to report them until some  
days after the last payments  had debited his account.  I would expect him to have reported  
suspicious payments  from his account as soon as he saw them.
I have also thought about how these  payments  would  benefit a third party  fraudster and why 
they would  provide Mr Ls real details to the merchants.  I cant see how this would benefit 
anyone other than the person making  the payments.
In the circumstances, I think Barclays has dealt with Mr Ls complaint fairly and I wont  be 
asking it does anymore.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2020.
Shazia Ahmed
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5508534