K820x#14complaint
Mrs B is unhappy that Lloyds Bank  PLC had placed  a block on her account and was unable 
to tell her why. This was discovered when she called to attempt to make  a faster  payment.
background
Mrs B called Lloyds Bank PLC with the purpose of making a faster payment but the call 
handler explained to Mrs B that the account had a block placed on it and so she couldnt  
process it.
This call lasted approximately  75 minutes whilst Lloyds attempted to find out what  had 
happened.
After this, Lloyds investigated  what had happened and found that a block  had been placed 
on the account by member of its branch staff but they had not left any notes as to why.
Lloyds called Mrs B to explain its investigation but Mrs B was in a public place and was 
unable to hear clearly  what  was being said. Mrs B asked for a call-back.  But Lloyds settled 
the case paying £62 to her. £50 for the distress and inconvenience caused and £12 for any 
costs incurred as part of the call.
Mrs B was unhappy with this and asked for our service to review her case. An investigator 
looked at the case  and felt that Lloyds had adequately compensated her. Mrs B disagreed 
and was unhappy with a number of things that Lloyds  had done.  Initially Lloyds had said it 
would offer £15 for costs incurred  with the call but then only paid £12  Mrs B didnt think  
that was fair. 
Lloyds explained  that this had changed  because when the reviewed  the complaint, it only 
paid costs for some of the call. This was because  to make the faster  payment Mrs B 
wouldve had to have  spent some time on the calls in any event. Lloyds also said the 
majority of telephone  companies dont charge additional costs for calls to its number but it 
pays costs in these  situations just in case they have been incurred.
Mrs B was also unhappy that Lloyds only sent her an FRL after we became involved.  And 
that during the complaint  process shed  had to chase Lloyds complaint handler  and then the 
complaint was settled  without her agreeing and when she was led to believe shed get a call-
back.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
After reviewing all the evidence submitted by both parties, I can see why Mrs B is frustrated 
with Lloyds and the service  it has provided. But what I have to decide  is whether the offer its 
made is fair in the circumstances.
Much of what Mrs B remains unhappy  with is the way Lloyds dealt with her complaint. And 
I can understand why Mrs B was annoyed that Lloyds didnt call her back as shed requested  
and instead settled the complaint without further  correspondence.
Ref: DRN55292482I can also understand Mrs Bs frustration  with the reduction in costs  offered for the call, down 
from £15 to £12. It does seem a bit petty and I dont think its a particularly smart move  when 
attempting to resolve a complaint with a customer who is already frustrated due to an error  
made by the business.
But ultimately my role is to consider whether the offer is fair in terms of the monetary amount 
and not the way it was reached. So I wont be awarding extra compensation for these 
matters. Lloyds has explained that commonly calls to its number arent charged by telephone 
providers. But it pays compensation anyway when  a customer is kept longer than they 
should due to its mistake. Mrs B hasnt told us whether she was charged or that she was 
charged more than this. And with this in mind I dont think the £12 offered is unreasonable. 
Lloyds said the reduction from £15 was to take into account  that in making  the faster 
payment Mrs B wouldve had to been  on the phone with it for a while in any event. Originally 
the call handler  hadnt  taken this into account.  This doesnt seem unreasonable way to 
calculate the costs but as Ive said I can understand Mrs Bs frustrations that initially she was 
told it would  be £15.
What prompted  this complaint was the call where Mrs B was unable  to make a faster  
payment. Lloyds has explained  that it was a member of staff at its branch that put the block 
on the account, it seems  that the purpose  of this was to flag to staff that large withdrawals 
were being  made on this account. But unfortunately the member of staff didnt add any notes 
and so the call handler didnt have  any information about the purpose of the block.
I understand that Mrs B believes that the block mightve been placed  due to complaints 
shed raised about  how the branch had dealt with her requests for large withdrawals. But 
I dont think this is the case, rather the block was placed as part of Lloyds process. And so 
I dont think putting  the block in place  was unreasonable and if the notes had been  added 
correctly this wouldnt have been a problem.  It wouldve prompted  staff to make  sure the 
withdrawals were genuinely what Mrs B required.  
Unfortunately, because of the error  in not adding the notes,  this meant  Mrs B had to spend 
additional time on the phone and I can understand this must  have  been  frustrating. Lloyds  
has offered £50 for the inconvenience  that its mistake caused. This, alongside the money  
offered for any costs incurred, I dont think is unreasonable.
In conclusion, I dont  think Lloyds provided  a good service in this instance to Mrs B and its 
understandable that she has complained about  this. But I dont think any further award is 
due.
Ref: DRN55292483my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, I dont  think  Lloyds Bank PLC needs to do anymore to put 
things right.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 October  2019.
Simon Hollingshead
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5529248