K820x#14complaint
Mr K and Miss P say they were mis-sold  a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.  
Although sold by Bristol  & West Building  Society, the company now responsible for 
answering the complaint is called The Governor and Company of the Bank of Ireland. 
However, to keep things  simple and consistent,  Ill refer mainly to BOI.
background and summary to complaint
Mr K and Miss P are represented by a third-party company in bringing this complaint. 
Although it said the sale was in 1989,  we now know it was in 1987. However, because  this 
was such a long time ago, we dont know much about the sale or the policy. Mr K and Miss P 
imply they bought  the policy at the same time as taking out a joint-mortgage  in a branch and 
that the PPI policy  was a joint one. Ive got no other  evidence of that, but Ive assessed  the 
case on that basis.
Im also going to assume the policy provided cover for the policyholder(s)  for accident, 
sickness, and unemployment  subject to the common exclusions and limitations and would 
have offered to repay their mortgage  monthly  repayment for up to 2 years, in the event of a 
successful claim. It looks like the policy may have cost around  £16 per month. 
At the time,  Mr K was employed as a factory  worker and Miss K as a cashier.  The company 
representing them said they had sickness protection of between 3  6 months with their 
respective jobs. Its been implied that one of them, at least, had death in service benefits and 
both would have  had redundancy entitlements. Ive been told Mr K and Miss P would also 
have had life insurance in place at the time, although again, Ive seen no evidence of this.
When asked about health matters, Mr K seems to have had no existing health conditions  at 
the point of sale. The company representing them quote Miss P as having migraines in 
1969. As this is many  years before the sale, I dont  consider this to be relevant to what Im 
being asked to consider. I understand the mortgage  account closed around 2005. 
I dont have access to the 1987 PPI policy rules for the business, so Ive made  reasonable 
assumptions about the probable scope  and exclusions  of the policy, based  on experience.
Mr K and Miss Ps representative made lengthy  and substantial representations on their 
behalf. I will not restate them all here,  but I have read and considered them  all carefully. In 
summary, Mr K and Miss Ps representative  says:
BOI failed to meet the sales standards which applied  at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr K and Miss P 
wouldnt have taken  out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr K and 
Miss Ps representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut  that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
Ref: DRN50045122claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means BOI should  have  told 
Mr K and Miss P about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means BOI should  have  explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mr K and Miss P and the 
impact they would have had on their chances of making a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
The information Mr K and Miss P received was misleading. These policies were 
promoted as providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations 
on the scope of the cover meant  this was untrue.
Im sorry  its taken  a while for the complaint to reach this stage but I see one of our 
adjudicators looked in to the complaint a while ago and told Mr K and Miss P that they didnt 
think we should  uphold it. Both parties have seen  and provided their responses to the 
adjudicators opinion. Mr K and Miss P disagreed  with the adjudicators opinion for several  
reasons. As the complaint couldnt  be resolved informally, it has been passed  to me for a 
final decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr K and Miss Ps. I dont intend to set 
that out in much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr K and Miss Ps 
complaint.
This sale took place  in 1987 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 1987. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
Ref: DRN50045123The first industry codes of practice for sellers of insurance were introduced in 1989,  which  is 
after BOI says it sold Mr K and Miss P PPI. Prior  to this there  were  fewer requirements on a 
business when  selling  insurance  such as this. But BOI doesnt  appear to have considered 
Mr K and Miss Ps complaint any differently  it seems to me it has considered the sale of 
PPI against these later standards.  So on the basis that it puts Mr K and Miss P in a more  
favourable position,  I have taken into account  the later industry codes of practice in 
considering what  I think  is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In particular, The Association of British Insurers General  Insurance Business Code of 
Practice for all intermediaries (Including  Employees  of Insurance  Companies) other than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Building  Societies 
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Building  Societies  Ombudsmans terms of reference  the Ombudsman  
was required to decide complaints by reference to what  was, in his opinion, fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so BOI 
was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were guidance 
when considering Mr K and Miss Ps complaint.  
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If BOI gave advice, whether it advised  Mr K and Miss P with reasonable care and 
skill  in particular,  whether  the policy was appropriate or suitable for them,  given 
their needs and circumstances. 
-Whether BOI gave  Mr K and Miss P sufficient, appropriate and timely information to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take out the policy,  
including drawing  to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions of the policy  and significant  limitations  and 
exclusions. 
Ref: DRN50045124-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr K 
and Miss P, I must then go on to consider whether and to what  extent Mr K and Miss 
P suffered loss or damage and what I consider would amount to fair compensation 
for that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr K and Miss 
P and BOI, Ive decided not to uphold Mr K and Miss Ps complaint. Ive set out my 
reasoning below. 
did Mr K and Miss  P know they had a choice?
BOI had to make it clear that the PPI policy was optional. As Ive said, there isnt much  
paperwork left I can refer to for this sale. The copy  of the mortgage application is largely 
illegible and so I have  nothing confirming what happened at the time.  Nevertheless, Mr K 
and Miss P confirm there was a meeting  and BOI doesnt dispute that PPI was sold.
In the absence of the actual paperwork, BOI sent me examples of the types of documents  
that would  have featured during the sale process. And I think  the applicants would have 
been offered a choice of either having  or not having  PPI cover. Ive seen a leaflet which 
portrays the cover as optional and Ive seen other forms which would have shown,  clearly  in 
my view, who was covered, what was covered, and the overall  cost of the PPI.  
Businesses arent required to keep  records  indefinitely, and Mr K and Miss P dont have 
records I can refer to either, so relying  on these example; documents is reasonable, in my 
view. And taking everything into account, I think its more likely that Mr K and Miss P knew  
the policy was optional and they agreed to take it out without undue pressure. 
did BOI provide advice?
There is uncertainty about whether  or not this was an advised  sale. I simply cant  say 
whether or not it was - but its more likely to have  been. This means BOI had to advise Mr K 
and Miss P with reasonable care and skill, in particular whether the policy  was appropriate or 
suitable given their needs and circumstances.
the advice
I cant say after so long what steps BOI took to establish whether  the policy was a suitable 
recommendation for Mr K and Miss P and there  is no record of what the adviser discussed in 
relation to the policy. This is unsurprising, but the adviser probably  had some limited 
information about Mr K and Miss Ps financial  circumstances, although there is no specific  
evidence to show they took steps  to establish whether the policyholder(s) would have been 
caught by the significant  exclusions  and limitations  which might have meant the policy did 
not fully meet their needs. For example,  there is nothing left to determine whether  BOI 
considered whether the policyholder(s)  had any pre-existing medical conditions.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities I cant say if BOI did all it should have done to 
determine whether  the policy was suitable  for Mr K and Miss P given their circumstances. So 
Im not persuaded BOI advised with reasonable care and skill.
Ref: DRN50045125But while Im not persuaded BOI did all it should  have  done to make  sure the policy  was 
suitable for Mr K and Miss P, I do think its more likely than not that the policy  was ultimately  
suitable for them. In reaching that conclusion  Ive taken into consideration:
-They each looked to have met the eligibility  criteria for the policy.
-Mr K and Miss P had a need for the policy  it seems likely that their ability  to 
continue to meet their mortgage repayments would have been put under strain if they 
were not working  for an extended  period of time  even allowing for the work benefits  
they say they would have  been entitled to.
-The monthly cost of the policy appears  to have  been affordable for Mr K and Miss P.
-The likely exclusions and limitations  probably  didnt  make  the policy  unsuitable for 
Mr K and Miss P. There was nothing about Mr K and Miss Ps employment or 
occupation which would have made  it difficult for them  to claim.  And they havent told 
us about any pre-existing medical conditions that could affect their ability to claim
-While  the policy would  only pay benefits  for a maximum of 24 months for each claim, 
this provided useful cover given  Mr K and Miss Ps circumstances.
-While  they say Miss Ps coverage  on the PPI would have been affected by her 
retirement age, I note that at the point  of sale she appears to have been aged  43.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  BOI gave Mr K and Miss P sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable them to understand what BOI 
was recommending to them and make  an informed decision about whether to follow that 
advice and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr K and Miss P were  given  a broad description of 
what the policy was intended to cover  (that is that the policy  would protect their payments if 
they were unable to work through accident, sickness  or unemployment) and of the 
approximate costs. I have  reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely  Mr K and Miss 
P would have taken  out the policy without  any sense of what the policy  was for and of how 
much the premium might be. I also think BOI gave sufficient information  about the monthly  
benefit, the cost - although possibly not enough  about the exclusions or limitations  - before 
they agreed to take out the policy. 
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr K and Miss P, Im not persuaded 
BOI did enough to present information about  the policy it was recommending in a way that 
was fair and reasonable to them. Im not persuaded BOI gave Mr K and Miss P all of the 
information they needed about the policy to make an informed  decision about  whether to 
follow the recommendation  and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
Ref: DRN50045126In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr K and Miss Ps representative has raised 
a number of general  points  in regards to the requirements on a business  when providing  
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr K and 
Miss Ps. Ive considered these carefully  and summarised them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr K and Miss Ps representative  considers to 
be poor value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business rather 
than the insurer.  
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr K and Miss P about the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone further 
and explained  the significance of them  to them. 
Im not persuaded by Mr K and Miss Ps representatives views  on this. The duty of utmost  
good faith in insurance law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose 
material facts and not to make material misrepresentations.  While I cant be certain what a 
court would say  I think its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer  
having to disclose the claims ratio information or explaining the significance of the limitations 
and exclusions in the way Mr K and Miss P have suggested. And taking into account the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude that BOI ought to have done either. 
what effect did BOIs shortcomings have on Mr K and Miss P? To what extent  did they 
suffer loss or damage  as a result?
Ive found that BOI didnt do all it should  have  done  when it sold this policy to Mr K and Miss 
P. So I have gone  on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mr K 
and Miss P suffered loss and damage  as a result. To answer this, I must decide whether or 
not Mr K and Miss P would have  still taken out the policy, had BOI done things properly. 
While Im not persuaded BOI took the steps it should have done to establish whether the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Mr K and Miss P, I have found  that the policy was 
ultimately suitable for them.  In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr K 
and Miss P suffered loss or damage  in this case primarily depends on whether, if BOI had 
explained things  properly, Mr K and Miss P would  have acted differently, or whether they 
would have taken  out the policy  in any event.
Mr K and Miss P say they wouldnt have  taken it out and believe I should  presume  this to be 
the case given  the significant failings identified above. Ive considered the representations  of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mr K and Miss P had some interest in taking out 
payment protection insurance. By this I mean when BOI advised them that there  was a 
suitable product  they could buy that would protect their mortgage payments in the event  they 
were unable to work because of accident,  sickness and unemployment, they concluded they 
Ref: DRN50045127wanted that product. But they potentially made that decision based  on incomplete 
information, meaning what they thought  they were getting is not exactly what they got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr K and Miss Ps 
circumstances at the time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or 
unsuitable for them. It seems likely Mr K and Miss P would  have  been  told the cost before 
the policy started and they probably paid for the policy for a number of years, so if the costs 
were significantly  at odds  with their expectations at the point of sale,  its possible they might 
have raised that with BOI at the time, or reconsidered their decision.  Overall, Im not 
persuaded Mr K and Miss P would have found  the cost unacceptable.
Possibly the most significant potential differences between what Mr K and Miss P thought 
they had bought and what they actually bought were the following:
The policy may have  excluded claims relating to existing medical conditions that the 
policyholder(s) knew about or ought  to have  known about before the start date of the 
policy; 
The policy may have  contained limitations  on claims relating to back  and mental 
health conditions  placing more  onerous  evidential requirements to support a claim on 
those grounds;
The policy may have  limited, and in some  situations, excluded,  unemployment cover 
if policyholder(s) werent permanent employees;
The possible requirement that in order to be eligible  for a disability claim  the 
policyholder(s) be unable to do their own job, a similar job or any paid work which  
their experience, education  or training reasonably qualified  them to do;
The policy protected payments for up to 24 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage. 
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations or exclusions above might  well have caused 
Mr K and Miss P pause for thought   and may well have caused  them to conclude  the policy  
wasnt as good  as they thought and they might have  decided not to proceed.  The limitations 
on the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might  have dissuaded  
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr K and Miss P from taking out the 
policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mr K and Miss Ps circumstances at the time of sale shows  that the 
policy wasnt fundamentally wrong  or unsuitable  for them.  They were eligible for its benefits 
and it provided cover  that, despite  its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable  to 
them should  the insured  risks have become a reality. I also havent seen any evidence  to 
suggest they wouldve been  caught  by any of the significant exclusions. So, I still think they 
had some good reasons to take the policy out.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and in some policies 
the steps required to make  a disability claim for these  conditions were more  onerous than 
Mr K and Miss P might reasonably have expected. But its unlikely they would have expected 
to be able to make a disability claim without having to provide some  evidence to support that 
claim. And while this limitation might have  dissuaded  some consumers in slightly  different 
circumstances to Mr K and Miss P from taking out the policy,  Mr K and Miss P, in their 
circumstances, still had some good  reasons to take it out.
If Mr K and Miss P had known they could only claim for disability if they were  unable to do 
both their job and any similar gainful occupation which in the insurers view they might 
Ref: DRN50045128reasonably become qualified for, it might  have played into their thinking about what they 
would have done. And I accept it may have  given them pause for thought   although  its 
possible they may not have been overly  concerned  given that if they were unable  (through 
disability) to carry on their own occupation the chances that they would be able to take up a 
similar occupation would also, in all probability, be limited.
I think BOI told Mr K and Miss P that any claim they made would be limited to a 24-month. 
This may have differed  from what they expected and might have hoped  for  but 24 months  
was a much  longer period  than Mr K and Miss P would have received full sick pay for.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I think  it more  likely than 
not Mr K and Miss P would still have  taken out the policy. The policy  was suitable for them, 
was sufficiently close to what  its likely  they thought they were getting  and provided  benefits 
that would  help them manage  the consequences  if they were made redundant, or unable  to 
work through  accident or disability. Ive considered what  was said about  death in service  
benefits and life insurance, but both these  products  cover a completely different eventuality. 
Likewise, having  redundancy protection isnt mutually exclusive with having mortgage  
protection insurance. In the circumstances  therefore, I consider it more likely  than not they 
would have taken  out the policy  in any event, notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Mr K and Miss Ps representatives say the rules  about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP 
App 3) make it clear that, where a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr K and Miss P would not have bought the PPI they bought unless , in the 
particular circumstances  of the complaint, there is evidence to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr K and Miss 
Ps circumstances  as detailed above, I consider it reasonable to conclude the position Mr K 
and Miss P found  themselves  in as a result  of the sale was the same  position they would 
have been in had the breach or significant  failings  not occurred. 
Mr K and Miss P believe the presumption may only be rebutted  when  the flaws  in the sales  
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr K and Miss P in the position  they would have been in 
if they had not bought the policy. 
Ref: DRN50045129That is because,  while I accept it is possible that they would not have taken  out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that they would still have 
taken out the PPI had they been  given clear, fair and not misleading information about the 
policy they were buying. So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude BOI should pay Mr K and Miss P compensation, as that would 
put them in a better position than they would have been in if everything had happened as it 
should have done. 
Im also aware that Mr K and Miss P think BOI misrepresented  the terms of the policy  in how 
it described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
BOIs statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why BOI failed to 
act fairly and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  BOI gave  Mr K and Miss P, in the way it did, 
was insufficient  to meet the standards  I consider  it fair and reasonable to expect it to have 
met in 1987  when providing information about  an insurance policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mr K and Miss Ps representative says a court might 
take if it were to find BOI negligently misrepresented the contract to Mr K and Miss P and 
about the remedy a court might award  if it were to find that BOI had been  in breach of its 
duty of utmost  good faith. But this doesnt persuade me to alter my conclusions  about what 
is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of the complaint  including what  I think  is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mr K and Miss P in a better position than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K and Miss P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  17 June  2021.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5004512