K821x#15complaint
Mrs B says Uncle Buck Finance LLP irresponsibly lent to her.
background
This complaint is about one short term loan Uncle Buck provided to Mrs B in August 2017.  
The loan was for £250 and was due to be repaid over three  instalments of £133. There is an 
outstanding balance remaining on the loan. 
Our adjudicator upheld  Mrs Bs complaint and thought the loan shouldnt  have been given 
because the information Uncle Buck had gathered about Mrs B showed she was having 
problems managing her money because she had other outstanding short-term  loans  when 
she was given the borrowing. 
Uncle Buck  disagreed and said even if Mrs Bs credit file showed  other  short-term  loans this 
didnt mean  she couldnt  afford this loan. But it offered to write off the remainder  of her 
outstanding balance to settle  the complaint, but Mrs B declined the offer and asked for an 
ombudsmans decision. So, the complaint was passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all the relevant rules,  guidance  and good  
industry practice - on our website. 
Uncle Buck  needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mrs B 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could consider several 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less 
thorough checks might  be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Uncle Buck should  fairly and reasonably  have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ref: DRN59369032I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Uncle Buck  was required to establish 
whether Mrs B could  sustainably repay  her loans  not just whether the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course,  the loan payments being  affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and the customer should  be able to make repayments  on time, while meeting 
other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow  to meet  the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.  
Ive carefully considered  all the arguments, evidence and information provided  in this context 
and what this all means for Mrs Bs complaint. Having  done this, Im upholding Mrs Bs 
complaint. Ill explain  why.
I think Uncle Buck ought to have realised that Mrs B wouldnt  have  been  able to make her 
repayments for her loan sustainably without taking out more lending. I can see Uncle Buck  
did income/expenditure and credit checks on Mrs B before it lent the loan to her. And I can 
see that Uncle Buck has provided its findings  from those checks, including  the reports  from 
the credit  checks,  to us. 
Having reviewed all of this, I dont think Mrs B was able to repay any of her loans in a 
sustainable manner.  The credit check reports show that Mrs B already had some 
outstanding short-term loans. I think this was likely  an indication  that Mrs B was in a debt 
cycle and relying upon borrowing to repay  borrowing.  This was proven when Mrs B was only 
able to make  one of her repayment instalments before she contacted Uncle  Buck to enter a 
repayment plan.  
putting things right  what Uncle Buck needs  to do
It isnt clear from the information  Uncle Buck  has given us as to whether the outstanding 
balance due on the final loan has been transferred  to a third party.  If it has, then Uncle Buck  
should buy the loan back if it can. If Uncle Buck cant buy the loan back  than it needs to 
work with the third party to make sure the following is achieved:
refund  all interest and charges Mrs B paid on the loan;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement;
rework the loan applying all payments made by Mrs B as if they went towards the 
principal amount borrowed. But importantly,  Uncle Buck needs to make  sure that it 
collects no more than the principal sum lent. 
If the amount  Mrs B has paid exceeds  the amount she was lent, any further amounts 
paid should be treated  as overpayments. Any overpayments that may have been 
made should be refunded to Mrs B with 8% simple  interest from the date the 
overpayment was made to the date of settlement ;
Ref: DRN59369033if there is still an outstanding balance, any refunds  should  be used to repay any 
balance remaining on the outstanding loan. If there  is any surplus this should be 
repaid to Mrs B.
remove any adverse information  recorded  on Mrs Bs credit file in relation to the 
loan. 
                                                                                                                                 
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires Uncle  Buck  to take off tax from this interest.  Uncle Buck  must 
give Mrs B a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if she asks for one.
If after doing the above Mrs B still has an outstanding balance due on the loan then it should 
try and work  together  to come to a mutually  agreeable  repayment  plan in order to repay 
what is owed. But Id remind Uncle Buck of its obligation to treat Mrs B fairly. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im upholding  Mrs Bs complaint. Uncle  Buck Finance LLP 
should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 March  2020.
Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5936903