K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains that Clydesdale  Bank Plc trading as Yorkshire  Bank has treated him unfairly  
in relation to a skills course provided by a third-party. 
background
Mr W paid for a skills course on his credit  card in September 2018. He says that he was told 
by the third-party  course provider when thinking  about taking the course that the cost of the 
exams was included  in the amount  hed paid at that time. He says about a month  after 
paying for it he discovered that there were significant fees to be paid to complete the 
associated exams that followed the course on top of what hed already paid.
Mr W wanted his money  back as he feels the third party lied to him about the true costs of 
the course. Having complained to the third party and been unsuccessful he complained to 
Yorkshire Bank.
Yorkshire Bank looked into it and listened  to the call recording the third party  provided it. 
Yorkshire Banks systems notes from listening to that call show  the exam costs  were 
explained. It said it also reviewed the third-partys website, which it says also made clear the 
exam costs payable. So it didnt think it should  have  to pay the cost of the course to Mr W. 
Mr W remained unhappy with this, so he complained  here.
Our Investigator  looked  into the matter. Unfortunately the call recording was no longer 
available by this time.  But Yorkshires  notes from listening to the call were and remain 
available. So this along with the other  evidence was considered. The investigator  didnt  feel 
any part of the complaint  should be upheld. Mr W doesnt agree. So this complaint comes to 
me to decide.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the information  I have is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory (as some of it is here)  I 
base my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
I should also repeat that this decision is about  Yorkshire Bank only. It is not about the third 
party who arent in our jurisdiction. But under the Consumer  Credit Act 1974 the credit 
provider can be held equally liable as the supplier (the third-party course provider here).  And 
Mr W can complain here because he paid for the course using the credit  card he has with 
Yorkshire Bank. So if I decide that there was a breach  of contract or material  
misrepresentation by the third party then Yorkshire  Bank would have to make  good for this.
This entire case hangs on what was said during a phone call in September 2018.  Mr W says 
he was told the exams that went with the skills course were included in the cost he paid. The 
third party and then Yorkshire bank say that this isnt the case. So this is the key issue I must 
decide upon.
Having considered the matter in the round  I do not think Mr Ws complaint should be upheld. 
I say so for the following  reasons.
Ref: DRN56300492The call recording that Yorkshire Bank  had access to between the third party and Mr W is no 
longer available. Clearly  this is unfortunate, but I dont think it is decisive here. I say this 
because we do have  what the third party says about the call. We also have  Yorkshire Banks 
notes from when it listened to the call. And we have the other evidence which Yorkshire 
Bank collected at the time. So although  not having  the call is unfortunate, I think I can still 
reach a fair decision on the matter.
Having considered Yorkshires note from listening to the call its clear  the exam  costs were 
described. It states cost  of exam told to the caller (Mr W). The third party  in its evidence  
says the costs were  made clear also. Yorkshire has also stated that at the time it reviewed 
the Third Partys website and it says the costs  were also made  clear  there  also.  I also note 
that Mr W in his arguments has pointed to the exams costing 190 x3 which suggests the 
costs of the exams  were  more than the amount he paid for the course  originally. So it seems 
Mr W is arguing that he thought £570  worth of exams were included in the £450  he paid for 
the course. Having considered all of what has happened here,  and remembering this is a 
decision about Yorkshire Bank, Im satisfied on balance that it has treated Mr W fairly by 
deciding on balance that hed not been misled on the call.
Mr W did also have  the option of cancelling the skills course  within fourteen  days if hed 
wanted to. So although Mr W says he was pressured into taking the course Im not 
persuaded by this. From the records  its clear  Mr W initiated contact  and was interested  in 
doing the course before the course provider spoke to him. Furthermore  if the call was as 
Mr W has described and he felt pushed into it he had opportunity to cancel without losing 
any money. But he didnt  do this. So Im not persuaded he was unduly pushed  into taking 
this course.
Its also clear  that the third party when answering  Mr Ws complaint to it offered as a gesture 
of goodwill  an extension  to allow Mr W to complete the course.  So taking this into account 
Im not satisfied there was a breach of the contract  or a material misrepresentation here.
Mr W says hes taken legal advice and believes  he has a strong case. Mr W is free to take 
the course provider  to the courts if he so wishes. However they are not party  to this decision 
and I can only decide on how Yorkshire Bank have treated him. And Im satisfied it has 
treated Mr W fairly here.
In short,  Ive considered everything that Mr W has said. I appreciate how he feels  about the 
whole situation.  All in all I think  Yorkshire has treated Mr W fairly under its obligations here 
as I dont think the third party breached the contract  or materially  misrepresented it to him. 
So, I have decided that this complaint shouldnt succeed.
my final decision
For the above reasons I do not uphold  this complaint about Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as 
Yorkshire Bank.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr W to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 January 2021.
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ref: DRN56300493ombudsman
Ref: DRN5630049