K820x#14complaint
Mr S is unhappy with how his remortgage application with Nationwide Building Society was 
handled. In particular that he had to pay fees he wasnt expecting to pay, that there were 
delays which  caused him a loss and that there  was confusion over which firm of solicitors 
were acting.
background
Mr S completed a remortgage  application  with Nationwide  on 24 December 2018. He says at 
this time he was told that the remortgage  would be completed by the end of January and that 
he wasnt warned  he would have to pay a fee in relation to the deed of postponement 
required as a result of his purchase being  made under the Help to Buy (H2B)  scheme. As a 
result of the delays he says he had to pay more for his mortgage  as his existing mortgage  
was on that lenders standard variable rate. He was also confused  because  two firms of 
solicitors appeared  to have been appointed by Nationwide and he thought this added  to the 
delay.
When Mr S complained to Nationwide  it did not accept all of Mr Ss points. It made an offer 
of £100 in view of any possible misunderstanding  regarding the processing timescales,  and 
oversight with the appointment of the law firm. 
The investigator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld.  He issued two views.  In the first 
view he said:
He couldnt  be certain  if the fact that the property was purchased  under the H2B 
scheme was discussed at the initial meeting but he thought  if it had been  as Mr S 
said it had  it would have been documented which  is wasnt.
Nationwide did make it clear  in the key facts illustration (KFI) that not all legal  fees 
would be covered and so he did not think that it was reasonable to say that Mr S 
was not aware  of potential fees.  He also didnt agree  having listened to the call  
that Mr S was told in February that there  would be no legal fees to pay.
He accepted there was confusion regarding which  firm of solicitors  was acting on the 
remortgage but did not think Nationwide was responsible for the legal teams not 
communicating changes effectively.
He was satisfied  that the mortgage  application was completed within  reasonable 
timescales (just over four weeks including  the Christmas break).  
He thought there may have been delays caused by Nationwide sending a letter  to a 
central number rather than the number stated on the solicitors letter. But he felt that 
the £100 offered by Nationwide covered any potential loss. 
He felt a realistic remortgage  timescale  was approximately 8 weeks (depending on 
the complexities of the case). This remortgage  took approximately 14 weeks 
(including the Christmas period). Whilst this was longer than Mr S wanted the 
investigator did not think that this timescale was unreasonable. And in any event the 
additional amount Mr S had to pay because he was on his previous lenders SVR 
was covered by the £100 offered by Nationwide.
Mr S asked the investigator  specifically to consider whether there was a data protection  
breach due to the passing of information from one firm to another and the £115 fee he had to 
pay.
Ref: DRN54481742The investigator issued  a second  view.  In it he said that transferring cases  from one firm to 
another was standard  practice for conveyancers,  particularly  in remortgage cases. He could 
see no reason to be concerned regarding potential data protection breaches. With regard to 
the fee, the evidence (key facts  document, mortgage offer and Nationwide's website) all 
confirm that standard legal fees are covered but borrowers may be liable for other costs. So 
he couldnt say that it was unreasonable  that Mr S had to pay this fee based on the evidence 
available to him.
Mr S wants  an ombudsmans  decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Like the investigator I can understand why Mr S feels  let down. I believe that he left his 
December meeting with Nationwide thinking he would have moved his mortgage  by the end 
of January and that he would have no legal fees to pay whether to Nationwide  solicitors  or 
to other  parties. Neither of these  things turned out to be the case.
When a complaint relates to things which were said in a meeting which wasnt  recorded and 
both parties give contradictory  accounts  I have to consider what I think  was most  likely to 
have happened. Mr S has told us that the Nationwide  adviser  said:  that it is very tight to get 
the transfer completed before the end of December  but as the solicitor's paperwork is sent 
out immediately.  Once these are filled promptly and returned to the solicitor the transfer can 
be completed by the end of January. Mr S saw the Nationwide  adviser  on 24 December. I do 
not think it was ever realistic to think that the remortgage could be completed by the end of 
December. So what I think has happened  here is that Mr S has misunderstood what  the 
adviser was saying. I think she was talking about  the time it would take for Nationwide to 
make an offer not for the time it would take to complete the remortgage. I think  this was 
simply a breakdown in communication and neither partys fault.
Mr S says he told Nationwide  about the second charge and he also said that he was told he 
wouldnt have to pay legal fees/costs.  Again I think this was most likely a breakdown  in 
communication between  him and the Nationwide adviser. The investigator  set out in detail 
how Nationwide explained in writing in various  documents including the KFI that only 
standard costs  would be covered by it. So I agree  with the investigator  that Nationwide cant 
be held responsible for Mr Ss misunderstanding  regarding costs. I also agree with the 
investigator that if Mr S had mentioned he purchased his property under the H2B scheme  I 
would have expected it to be mentioned in the notes on the 24 December meeting and it 
isnt; in fact the opposite  is true as the ownership type is listed as standard. So I think  he is 
mistaken.
I think it was unfortunate  that Mr S told Nationwide the name of the solicitors acting rather  
than the other way round. I can understand  how this would have been confusing  and would 
have caused Mr S to lose some confidence in the process. I dont, however, think  this 
caused a material  delay (no more than a few days)  nor have I seen any evidence  that Mr S 
should be concerned about  data protection breaches.  
Ref: DRN54481743I agree  with the investigator that it is unfortunate that Nationwide didnt send its consent to 
the specified fax number  for the solicitor but instead  sent it to a general number for the 
solicitor. I think  this might have caused  a two week delay but like the investigator  I cant  be 
certain. Nationwide offered  Mr S £100  in view of any possible misunderstanding regarding 
the processing timescales and oversight with the appointment of the law firm. Overall, I think  
this was a fair response and dont think it needs to do anything further.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 December  2019.
Nicola Wood 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5448174