K820x#14complaint
Mr S says he was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.  Financial Insurance 
Company Limited  (FICL), as the insurer, has taken responsibility for the sale.  To keep things 
simple, Ill only refer to FICL  in this decision, rather than any other  business.
background
Mr S took out a PPI policy with a loan in 2000. Mr S paid for the PPI with a regular monthly 
premium, which  didnt  attract interest.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr S disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ss case.  
Ive decided that Mr Ss PPI policy wasnt mis-sold   Ill explain why.
The credit agreement had a section for PPI. It showed how much the PPI would cost if Mr S 
chose to pay for it, as a distinct cost from the loan itself.  There was a box Mr S could sign if 
he wanted PPI, or which could be left blank if he didnt want it. The form reiterated that he 
should only sign there if he wanted cover. Mr S signed specifically for PPI, separately to 
signing for the agreement as a whole. So I think that FICL made Mr S aware he had a choice 
about buying the PPI, and that he chose to take it at the time.
FICL didnt  recommend the PPI to Mr S, so it didnt  have  to check  if it was right for him. It did 
have to give Mr S clear information about  the PPI.
The cost of the policy was shown, both as a distinct cost and as a proportion of the loan. So 
I think Mr S wouldve  understood  how much  he would  need to pay for it. The agreement  also 
showed what PPI would  cost together with the loan, which  was also what  it would pay out 
each month  in a claim. And it looks like the PPI wouldve been affordable.
Lastly, its possible that FICL didnt point out all the main things the policy wouldnt cover.  It 
looks like the policy excluded claims for pre-existing medical conditions,  and Mr S did have a 
condition. But from what he told us, it didnt  affect  his day-to-day life, didnt require 
medication and never caused him to take time off work. Its worth bearing  in mind that the 
PPI was there to cover extended time off, and so it doesnt sound like Mr Ss condition  was 
likely to ever cause  him to claim. The policy still covered Mr S for conditions which werent  
pre-existing, as well as if he lost his job. And he doesnt seem  to have been affected by any 
of the policys  other  exclusions. So I dont think that better information about the exclusions 
was likely to have changed Mr Ss mind  about buying PPI.
Ref: DRN50546382my final decision
For the reasons  I explained above, I dont  uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 February  2019.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5054638