K820x#14complaint
Mrs B has complained on behalf  of herself and the estate of the late Mr B. She says Aviva 
Life & Pensions UK Limited mis-sold them a payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy  for 
their mortgage.
background
Mr and Mrs B took out a PPI policy for a mortgage in 2001. Mr and Mrs B paid for the PPI 
with a regular  monthly  premium, which didnt attract interest. It covered them both, in case 
either of them  was off work sick or lost their job.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs B disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.  
While I know this will disappoint Mrs B, I dont think that this particular PPI policy was likely 
to have been mis-sold   Ill go through my reasoning.
Aviva dont have the original documents from the sale,  which is understandable given just 
how long ago it was, and given that the policy has long since  closed. And under data 
protection regulations, Aviva were  required  to dispose of Mr and Mrs Bs data rather  than 
hold onto it for too long. Ive thought carefully  about  whats most likely to have happened,  
based on the limited  information I have.
It would have been a very serious  failing  for Aviva  to have set up the policy  without Mr and 
Mrs Bs permission,  or to have misled them about  it being compulsory.  And Ive got no 
evidence which shows thats what it did, nor have I seen any wider problems with its sales  
process from the time.  The policy documentation doesnt seem  to have displayed the PPI as 
anything other than something Mr and Mrs B could take or leave, and it looks like in order to 
get the policy they wouldve specifically  applied for it, separately  to applying to the mortgage  
itself. So taking everything into account, I think its most  likely  that Aviva  made  Mr and Mrs B 
aware they had a choice about buying the PPI, and that they chose  to take it at the time.
Aviva recommended  the PPI to Mr and Mrs B, so it had to check  it was right for them.  And 
based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think it was. For example, they 
dont seem to have been affected by any of the policys  main  exclusions or limitations. And 
while Mr and Mrs B had sick pay cover through work, the PPI covered them more 
comprehensively and paid out on top. And they dont seem to have  had any other significant 
protection in case  either of them lost their job. Its worth bearing  in mind that if Mr and Mrs B 
fell behind on their mortgage payments, they risked losing their home. So I think the PPI 
couldve been useful  for them in protecting their home and giving some peace of mind.
Ref: DRN57637662Its possible that the information Aviva  gave Mr and Mrs B about  PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been.  The question, then,  is whether  I think better information was likely to have 
changed their minds. But as I explained above,  it doesnt look like they were affected  by any 
of the main things the policy didnt cover, and it couldve really been  useful  for them  in case 
something went wrong. It looks like the policy wouldve  been  affordable,  and if their 
circumstances changed then Mr and Mrs B couldve cancelled it at any time without a 
penalty. So overall, I dont think that better  information was likely to have put them off taking 
out the cover.
my final decision
For the reasons  I explained above, I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs B to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 April 2019.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5763766