K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains that Bank  of Scotland plc (trading  as Halifax) is holding him responsible for 
payments he says he didnt make  from his account  which led to an overdraft. He also 
complains that it has recorded  adverse information  about him to CIFAS, the UKs  fraud  alert 
service.
background
Mr A opened  an account with Halifax  in June 2017 when he was a minor. He received a card 
and PIN and used  his account. On Friday  28 July 2017 he says he went  to a friends house. 
He realised he didnt  have his card when he got there. He says he tried to call Halifax  about 
this twice but on the second attempt ran out of credit  on his phone.  Halifax says he didnt  
report his card lost until 31 July 2017  at a branch. 
Before he reported  his card lost thered  been a number on transactions made on 28 
November 2017.  There were two credits  for £296.16  - one at 20:57 and the other  at 23:37. 
At 23:39 a balance  enquiry was made  and then a cash withdrawal for £500 taken. Further  
cash withdrawals of £70 and £10 were made  in the early hours of the next morning. And two 
pay at pump purchases made which werent debited to his account until 2 August 2017 and 
resulted in an overdraft  of £110. The credits had been  reported  as being made as part of a 
scam and his account was blocked  on 29 July 2017.
Halifax said that it was a very short  time between the account being opened and the 
reported fraud. There was no clear  way in which someone had found out Mr As PIN. It had 
no record of any attempts  by Mr A to call it on 28 July 2017. It concluded that Mr A had 
authorised the withdrawal  of the fraudulently obtained credits into his account. He was 
responsible for the overdraft and it had grounds  to report  what had happened to CIFAS.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint be upheld.  Shed spoken with Mr A 
and his representative in this complaint. She said that:
-She wasnt persuaded Mr A had tried to call Halifax on 28 July 2017. Mr A had said 
that the first call to Halifax was about 14:30 on 28 July 2017. He had used his friends 
landline but was on hold and ended the call as he was concerned at the cost. The 
second call was about 17:00  using  his mobile  which he says ran out of credit. Mr A 
says hed spoken to someone but hadnt been  put through to the fraud  department. 
Halifax had no record of the calls and Mr A had no evidence of them  either.
-She thought  Mr A would have seen the credits on his account when he logged  onto 
online banking. Mr A had told her he had checked  his account over the weekend  
before he reported his card lost. Hed first received an error message but when he 
was able to log on hadnt noticed anything unusual. His representative had later said 
that Mr As online account had been blocked  and he couldnt log on at all. Halifax 
was unable to provide  evidence of any log ins now but could say that his online 
access was never  blocked. 
-Mr A had given inconsistent information  to this service about  his PIN. He had said 
repeatedly there was no way someone couldve discovered this. It was only when 
shed told him that this would  mean  that the CIFAS marker would stay that he had 
changed his account  of what happened. He had then said through his representative 
that his PIN advice  slip was in a wallet. And that this must have dropped  out with his 
bank card when he took out a travel card on the bus. She thought  that if this had 
happened someone would have noticed  and told him.
Ref: DRN51602762-The disputed transactions were in an area within 10 to 15 minutes drive from Mr As 
house and close  to where hed said the friend he visited  lived. She didnt think  a 
fraudster would  have  stayed in the same area. There was no attempt to use his card 
for about nine hours after Mr A said hed lost it or to withdraw  the first credit for about  
two and a half hours.  These werent the actions of someone concerned that the loss 
of the card might be discovered and reported.
-She concluded either that Mr A had made  these  transactions himself or had 
authorised someone else to do this.
-Shed  seen evidence of the scam reported to Halifax and the investigation it carried 
out. She was satisfied  that the CIFAS  marker  had been  reported appropriately.
-Halifax was right to hold Mr A responsible for the overdraft and itd acted within  the 
terms and conditions  in closing  his account. 
Mr A didnt agree. His representative made  a number  of points on his behalf and said that 
this service hadnt for a moment considered him to be innocent and hadnt taken an 
unbiased view.  The representative said that given  his age at the time he might have been 
bullied into doing  this. He reported what happened  to police. And he was sure how hed lost 
his card and PIN. Mr A didnt have any more  evidence  now but his representative said he 
was sure that his mobile phone network  had confirmed the call to Halifax on 28 July 2017. 
Mr A hadnt  been  able to log onto online banking and Halifax should have called him about 
these suspicious credits  to his account. The use of his card and PIN didnt mean hed carried 
out a fraud. Mr A didnt drive and it would take him up to 30 minutes by bus to get to the 
location of the withdrawals. His representative said he can vouch  for Mr A being  at home 
that night.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to take account of the Payment Services Regulations 2009. And to think about 
whether Mr A authorised the payments  from his account. Thats  more  than the payments  
being authenticated but would require him to consent to them.  If he didnt  authorise  them  
then generally  Halifax  wouldnt  be able to hold him responsible for them. Two of the 
payments resulted in an overdraft. And so where  credit is involved, the Consumer Credit Act 
1974 applies  and it states that a consumer wouldnt be liable for an unauthorised payment 
unless they consented to someone else having possession of that card.
I also need to consider  whether the report to CIFAS was made fairly. On this point, Halifax 
needs to have more than a suspicion or concern. It has to show  it had reasonable grounds to 
believe that a fraud  or financial crime had been committed  or attempted and that the 
evidence would support this being reported  to the authorities. 
Im satisfied on the evidence provided  by Halifax that these withdrawals were authenticated  
when the chip on the genuine card was read and the correct  PIN entered.  But I need to think  
about whether  Mr A consented to them to decide  if they were  authorised.
what is most likely?
Where there is a dispute about what happened  we consider what the most  likely explanation 
is. Mr A doesnt think his explanation that he is innocent of any involvement in this fraud  has 
been fairly considered. So Im going  to start by addressing those concerns.
Ref: DRN51602763I have to say to him that the inconsistencies  in what hes said to this service about  what  
happened do undermine  his credibility.  So Im not persuaded I can put much weight on the 
explanation about the impact of his age and maturity at the time this happened and of  him 
being scared of the consequences  as his representatives told us. Another view could be 
that hes come to realise that his initial explanations havent helped to rule out his 
involvement and hes changed them. The examples include whether or not hed been able to 
log onto online banking.  He initially  said to this service that he was able to and now says that 
he couldnt. Frankly  I cant resolve  that either  way as Halifax  no longer has any evidence 
about this. The issue though with his PIN is a key one for me. Hed said that no one could 
have found this out repeatedly. But he now seems to have a very clear recollection not only 
that he was carrying  it  for reasons  that arent clear  but also that there was a specific  time 
when his card and PIN must have  fallen out of his wallet on the bus. Again thats  not 
impossible but its been  very late in the course  of his complaint to significantly change what  
hes said.
His representative has said that he might have been  bullied in some way to letting someone 
else use his account.  Thats  not impossible and I might have understood Mr As reluctance 
to disclose this. But the difficulty is that up to now he still hasnt done so. And that would 
undermine what hes told us. I also dont  know whether this would mean  what  hes reported  
to police about this fraud  would be inconsistent too. So I cant reasonably put any weight on 
that explanation here without any evidence   only speculation about what  could have 
happened.
Im going  to assess the complaint based on Mr As broad  current  explanation of what 
happened as set out by our investigator. To find that these transactions werent  authorised 
by him Id need  to think all of the following were  most likely:
-Mr A lost both his card and PIN on the bus as he says and didnt realise  at the time.
-Mr A on his account knowing that it was important to report the loss did do all he 
could to report this including  phoning  Halifax.
-The unknown third party that found his card and PIN happened to be a sophisticated 
fraudster who rather than trying  to take money out straightway  decided to use the 
account to receive money from a scam.
-That third party  seemed to have no concerns about the card potentially being 
reported lost and not having access to the money paid into the account. And as our 
investigator says that person made no attempt to use the card for a number of hours 
and waited for the second credit to come into the account before  attempting to 
withdraw any money.
Im afraid that these  arent all findings  Im able to make as most likely based  on the available  
evidence and my assessment above  of Mr As credibility. So I find that these transactions 
were made either by Mr A or by someone  hed freely allowed to have and use his card and 
PIN. I consider that he consented  to the transactions and that he is responsible for them.  
Given this finding  Ive no basis to criticise Halifax for not alerting Mr A to the credits  to his 
account. Or for it allowing  payments that resulted in an overdraft - the way in which 
payments for petrol are recorded and processed  at an automated  pay at pump machine 
seems to have been exploited  here. I find he is fairly responsible for this borrowing.
My findings  means  that Mr A has sought to conceal  his knowledge of what  happened.  I dont 
find it credible to think he had no knowledge of the way in which  his account was being  used.  
Or that he didnt know the funds that were  paid in werent legitimate ones. As I say hes not 
provided an explanation to support this that I find most likely. 
Ref: DRN51602764CIFAS marker  
Halifax says that it applied the CIFAS marker because  Mr A received fraudulent funds into 
his account. So Ive looked at whether  Halifax was fair to apply the marker,  based on the 
evidence it had, and the investigation  it carried out. CIFAS guidance says the business must 
have carried out checks of sufficient depth to meet the standard  of proof  set by CIFAS. This 
essentially means that Halifax needs  to have enough information  to make a formal report  to 
the police. And that any filing should  be for cases where there are reasonable grounds  to 
believe fraud or financial crime has been committed,  rather than mere suspicion.  
Having reviewed Mr As account of events and the evidence Halifax has provided, Im 
satisfied that Halifax  had sufficient evidence for the CIFAS marker  to be recorded.  In coming 
to this view, Ive taken  into account the following reasons:
-Mr A received fraudulent funds into his account  and didnt report this to Halifax at the 
time.
-He authorised the withdrawal of the funds and so was in control  of who had the 
benefit of this money.
-Halifax had grounds to believe that Mr A had used fraudulently obtained funds based 
on the evidence  it had.
I appreciate that this will be a great disappointment to Mr A as the marker  is having a 
detrimental effect on him. But given what Ive said above, I dont think Halifax  has treated 
him unfairly  in respect of the disputed transactions and recording the CIFAS marker. So I 
wont be asking it to do anymore. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 November  2019.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5160276