K820x#14complaint
Miss S and Mr D complain that St. Jamess  Place  Wealth Management Plc (St Jamess) 
mis-sold payment protection  insurance (PPI) with mortgages in 2007 and again in 2011.
background
Briefly:
In 2007 Miss S and Mr D took out PPI at the same time as taking out a mortgage to move 
house. Both took place during a meeting. The policy was designed  to protect  Miss S and 
Mr Ds mortgage payments in the event Miss S  the policy was in her sole name only  
couldnt work because of accident, sickness or unemployment.
The policy cost just under  £50 a month  and it provided a benefit  to match  Miss S and Mr Ds 
monthly mortgage payment  around  £790. And it would pay out for up to 12 months per 
claim.
At the time Miss S told us she was employed as a sales  operator  and says she was entitled 
to at least three months sick pay. Miss S also said that she and Mr D had savings worth at 
least three months pay. Miss S said she had a medical condition at the time.
In 2011 it appears  Miss S and Mr D contacted St Jamess following  which  their existing PPI 
policy was cancelled and a new policy was taken out. This was in Miss S and Mr Ds joint 
names and it cost just under £40 a month.  The benefit level and benefit period remained the 
same.
Miss S said her circumstances  hadnt significantly changed from 2007 including  their jointly  
held savings. Mr D said in 2011  he was employed  as a civil servant and was entitled  to three 
months sick pay. He said he had a medical condition at this time. 
I issued my provisional decision of November 2019.  Here I said that I considered Miss S and 
Mr Ds complaint about their 2007  PPI policy was one that we could consider and I set out 
my findings  on it  I said I didnt intend  to uphold it. I also said that because  St Jamess had 
offered to pay compensation to Miss S and Mr D for their 2011  PPI policy   including  a 
goodwill payment of £250 each  I wasnt going to make a finding on this part of their 
complaint here.
St Jamess replied to my provisional decision and said it had nothing  further  to add.
Miss S and Mr D havent replied to my provisional decision directly or via their 
representative.
Im mindful that Miss S and Mr D havent responded to my provisional decision.  But Im 
satisfied that they received it  it was posted  and emailed to their representative. They  were  
given and reminded of the deadline  for responses, so I think if theyd wanted to respond they 
wouldve done so by now. I therefore think its safe for me to go ahead  and issue my final 
decision.
Ref: DRN53547392my findings
Ive re-read and considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats  fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general  approach  
to handling PPI complaints on our website and Ive taken into account whats  relevant here 
in deciding this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Miss S and Mr Ds complaint about  their 2007 
PPI policy  sale and my reasons are set out below.
did Miss S and Mr D have a choice  about PPI?
Miss S and Mr D have said they thought  they had to have PPI  it was sold as part of a 
combined package  of insurance cover.
St Jamess has provided a copy of a Confidential  Mortgage Review document, which  
appears to have been what  the adviser  used to record  the personal details and 
circumstances of Miss S and Mr D in giving its advice about their new mortgage as well as 
the PPI.
Here I can see on page  10 there  is a section about Existing Protection Arrangements  where 
the word None is written. And then on page  12 theres a section titled Mortgage  Payment 
Protection Insurance where the words sufficient to cover mtge  + protection is written. And 
towards the end of this document - in the Summary of Recommendations section - the 
adviser has written the name of the provider of the PPI policy recommended and its cost.
In addition to this document, St Jamess has also provided a copy of the advisers  summary  
of recommendation  letter,  which was sent to Miss S and Mr D following their meeting. In 
addition to the recommendation for the mortgage  itself, it said here:
I also recommended  that you consider the important benefits of accident, sickness  and 
unemployment insurance in respect of your mortgage. You confirmed that you wished to 
consider this protection. I have therefore arranged this through... The initial  contribution is 
£47.08 and you confirmed that it is affordable now and in the foreseeable future. The amount 
of cover this policy provides is and pays out when  you are unable to work  due to Accident, 
Sickness or Redundancy, after a waiting period of 30 days.
I accept I cant  know  what was said in the meeting. But given the above is a record of that 
meeting, nothing here said or reasonably implied that Miss S and Mr D had to have PPI. I 
accept the adviser  likely encouraged them to take it out  they were after all recommending 
the cover  because they identified Miss S and Mr D had a need  for it. But Ive not seen 
enough to persuade me that the adviser went further  than that and either deliberately  or 
inadvertently said or implied they had to have it as part of the package.
Im mindful that Miss S and Mr D also took out buildings and contents insurance   also 
recommended to them  through the same provider as the PPI ( I believe this is what  Miss S 
and Mr D have referred  to as the combined package of insurance.)  And in the advisers  
recommendation letter they said buildings  insurance  was compulsory  lenders typically 
insist on this. So its possible Miss S and Mr D have  misremembered things and it was this 
part of the insurance which they were told they had to have.
Ref: DRN53547393So overall, while Ive listened carefully to Miss S and Mr D, Im not persuaded that things 
happened as they say. I think  more  likely  than not PPI was recommended to them and they 
chose to take it out because they were  interested in the benefits it provided.
St Jamess recommended the cover. So it had to advise them with reasonable care and skill 
 taking steps to ensure it was suitable for Miss S and Mr D. It also had to give them enough  
clear and timely information  about the recommended policy,  including  highlighting the 
significant exclusions and limitations of cover  so they could make an informed decision 
about whether  to go ahead or not. 
the advice 
The evidence Ive referred to above  records that the adviser had some  information about 
Miss S and Mr Ds circumstances at the time, including their occupations, incomes, existing 
insurance cover and savings. 
But its not clear to me from the evidence provided  that the adviser considered  Miss S and 
Mr Ds sick pay entitlements  within their existing arrangements. And the evidence  doesnt tell 
me whether they asked Miss S about her health  and whether she had any existing medical  
conditions. So I accept  its possible there were gaps in the advice given.
But in any event and in light of Miss S and Mr Ds circumstances, I dont think  it was wrong  
for St Jamess to have recommended PPI  I think  it was suitable for them.  I say this 
because:
Miss S was eligible for the cover  (this policy was in her sole name.)
Miss S says she was entitled to at least  three  months sick pay and she and Mr D 
had an equal amount  of pay in savings. But the policy wouldve paid out in addition to 
any sick pay Miss S had and for longer if necessary  up to 12 months per claim. 
In terms of the level of savings Miss S and Mr D say they have  St Jamess  
paperwork from the time of the sale, which Ive previously referred to records 
something very different. It records that they had around £50 in readily accessible 
savings and would look to save for an emergency fund. Given this evidence is from 
the time in question  Im minded to place more  weight on it. So I think Miss S and 
Mr D are mistaken  I think they had very little by way of savings at the time.
So I think its clear Miss S and Mr D had a need  for cover  I think  they wouldve 
quickly come  under  some financial  pressure  if Miss S found she was unable  to work 
for a period  of time. As such I think Miss S and Mr D wouldve found the policy  useful 
and it wouldve helped  them protect  their mortgage payments and perhaps ultimately 
their home.
Miss S told us she had an existing  medical  condition at the time of the sale. And 
given what the policy said about  limiting claims for existing conditions, I accept that 
for some consumers with slightly different circumstances the policy wouldnt have  
been right for them. But in Miss S particular case, given the nature of her condition;  
the fact that shes  said it was controlled;  and shes not said she had to have time off 
work because of her condition, I dont think Miss S wouldve likely thought the main 
reason shed need to claim on the policy would be for her condition.  So given this 
together with her broader circumstances, including the fact that the policy was 
protecting a mortgage, I dont think the policy was unsuitable. 
Ref: DRN53547394The policy appears to have been affordable.
So in light of the above, I dont think it was wrong  for St Jamess to have recommended PPI.
the information
I think Miss S and Mr D had enough  information to get a broad sense of what the policy 
provided. But I accept  its possible  there  were  some gaps in the information provided  to them  
 for example its not clear to me from the evidence provided that the significant exclusions 
and limitations were clearly brought  to their attention before their decision  to buy.
But given Ive found that the policy was ultimately suitable for them,  Im not persuaded that 
Miss S and Mr Ds decision to take out PPI wouldve  been different had St Jamess  done 
anything more  I think more likely than not theyd  have  still taken  it out.
It therefore follows that I dont think Miss S and Mr D have lost out as a result of taking out 
mortgage PPI in 2007.
my final decision
For the reasons  above Ive decided not to uphold Miss S and Mr Ds mis-sale complaint 
about their 2007  PPI policy.
But St Jamess Place Wealth  Management Plc has offered to pay back  to Miss S and Mr D 
everything they paid for their 2011  PPI policy including suitable interest, as well as an 
additional amount of £500 as a gesture  of goodwill. And so in the circumstances I think  this 
is a fair way to settle this complaint. 
I would remind Miss S and Mr D to provide St Jamess Place Wealth Management Plc with 
the necessary  information it seeks to facilitate payment if theyve not done so already.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S and Mr D 
to accept or reject my decision before 18 January  2020.
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN5354739