K820x#14complaint
Mr Q is unhappy with Bank of Scotland plcs decision to hold him responsible for 
transactions on his current account which he says he didnt make or authorise.
background
Mr Q contacted Bank of Scotland  at the end of July 2017 after he was unable  to withdraw 
money from a cash machine due to insufficient funds. It was following that attempted  
withdrawal that Mr Q discovered a large  number of transactions  on his account which he 
says he didnt authorise.
Mr Q went through his account history and discovered over £15,000 in disputed  transactions  
had debited his account between 24 April 2017  and the end of July 2017. There were  many 
payments to two separate gambling  companies  along with payments to debt collections 
agencies and other merchants. All of the disputed spending was carried  out without the 
presence of the physical  card; only the card details were used.  
Mr Q had continued to use his account throughout the period  of disputed transactions.  He 
made cash machine  withdrawals and some balance enquiries. He also carried  out some  
online transactions which he doesnt dispute.
Bank of Scotland investigated  Mr Qs claim but said it wouldnt be refunding  the transactions. 
It said:
it would  be unusual  for a fraudster to use an account for gambling as that person 
would have no access to any winnings;
despite that first point,  winnings amounting  to £6,400 had been credited  back  to 
Mr Qs account;  
one of the gambling companies confirmed the account held with it was in Mr Qs 
name with the correct  address;
Mr Q had checked the balance of his account prior to two cash machine withdrawals 
and so he should have been aware something was wrong  given the difference in the 
account balance.
Bank of Scotland did raise  a chargeback  claim with one of the merchants used   an online 
streaming service. It initially refunded  those  transactions  but later reversed the refund once it 
found out from the streaming service that it was reimbursing Mr Q directly. Theres been  no 
further comment on this point by Mr Q and so Ive not included  these particular transactions 
in my investigation.
Mr Q was unhappy with the banks response.  He pointed out that the email  address and 
phone number held by the gambling  companies wasnt his and one of them  didnt even have 
the correct name.
Mr Q said he hadnt noticed the changing  balance on his account as he wasnt paying that 
much attention. Hes also mentioned that he thought there might be certain  funds pending 
and perhaps kept in a holding account.
Ref: DRN52981172Mr Q brought his complaint to our service and one of our investigators looked  into it. He 
didnt uphold  the complaint and felt it was more  likely than not that Mr Q had either carried 
out the transactions himself or had authorised someone else to use his card.   
Our investigator, in explaining his findings,  highlighted some  of the same reasoning the bank 
had put forward.  He was satisfied an unknown  fraudster  was unlikely to have spent from 
Mr Qs account on gambling  only to return money  to the same account. He also felt it was 
strange Mr Q hadnt noticed any of the disputed  activity  when  he checked his balance at 
cash machines. 
He noted there had been numerous calls to the bank on its automated system, considering 
these were most likely  balance enquires. He didnt make a finding on whether he felt it was 
more likely than not to have been  Mr Q making those calls but discovered someone would 
have needed to know: account number,  sort code, date of birth and CVV security
code on the back  of the card.
Mr Q disagreed with our investigators findings  and asked for an ombudsmans review  of his 
complaint. We asked Mr Q for any specific points  he wished to make  following the 
investigators opinion.  We didnt hear anything further and so Ive proceeded to review  his 
case based on what we have on file to date.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Im not upholding it. Ill 
explain why.
My investigation has focused  on whether the bank can hold Mr Q responsible  under the 
provisions of the Payment  Service Regulations 2009. I need  to be satisfied  whether  its more 
likely than not Mr Q authorised the transactions hes disputed by either carrying  them  out 
himself or allowing someone else to do so.
Where evidence and information is incomplete I must base my findings on the balance of 
probabilities. That is to say what I think is more likely than not to have happened.
I, like the bank and our investigator, have considered the nature of the spending on Mr Qs 
account. The vast majority of Mr Qs stated  losses are through gambling  transactions. And 
its true Mr Qs stated losses have in effect  been reduced by the incoming funds from the 
same gambling companies.
This type of activity  does appear strange as there  is very limited benefit  to a fraudster from 
carrying out such activity.  There  would be no prospect of being able to withdraw  any 
winnings unless the third party was able to access a cash machine, spend with other 
merchants or withdraw in branch.  I cant see thats happened or, at least, such activity hasnt 
been reported by Mr Q as being fraudulent. So Im then left to question why an unknown 
party would transfer winnings to Mr Qs account  at all.
Im also concerned by the two balance enquiries before cash is withdrawn from a cash 
machine by Mr Q. He has said he simply didnt notice the difference in what his balance  was 
and what it should  have been. But that seems fairly implausible given the significant  
differences involved.
Ref: DRN52981173Im satisfied its more likely than not Mr Q had some  idea of what his account balance would 
have been around the time the disputed spending starts. I say so because  the account  was 
being used regularly with deposits,  withdrawals and card payments being made.
I can also see there was whats been  explained as a bank error where £7,000  credited to  
and then debited  from  Mr Qs account  on 10 April 2017. Mr Q has previously said he was 
aware of that error and so it seems likely he would have known what his balance was once 
the account was corrected.  At that point the balance  stood at £6,477.30.  Its quite  possible 
Mr Q would have been fully informed of his balance after this point, for example when his 
statement was issued  or following the paying  in of cheques to his account.
Mr Q then carries  out a balance enquiry  on 7 July 2017. Hes confirmed this was him. Up to 
this point  since  23 May 2017  Mr Q had carried out approximately £1,250  of spending  
whilst paying in over £2,300. And so there should have been a net gain of around  £1,000  on 
the account balance. But instead, as a result of the disputed transactions,  the balance had 
reduced to £4,147.27. It had been £8,293.64 on 22 May 2017 and so the difference  was 
around £4,000.  Thats  a significant difference and Im not persuaded such a large  amount  
could simply be overlooked. The account balance  hadnt been  that low since  14 March 2017, 
some four months earlier and before Mr Q started  new employment.
Mr Qs balance then increases by over £2,000  from 7 to 17 July 2017. Thats despite Mr Q 
only paying in £425. The remainder of the increased balance  comes from winnings placed 
back into the account by the gambling  company. I again have difficulty in seeing  how such a 
large change  in the balance could go unnoticed.
Im not persuaded by Mr Qs explanation of thinking  funds might  have  been  placed into a 
holding account  before crediting his own account. It doesnt fit with his confirmed balance 
enquiries. And it would  also mean funds he was paying in werent being credited  to his 
account for a month and a half. Thats how far back  credits  would  have to go in order to 
make up the £2,000 increase between  7 and 17 July 2017. It doesnt seem  reasonable for 
someone to have believed that was a likely explanation for an incorrect  balance, even if they 
only had limited banking  knowledge.
I dont believe the telephone activity  on the account  suggests an unknown  fraudster being in 
operation either. I think the investigator is right in concluding the calls to the bank are most  
likely to check the balance. But those checks arent  then followed by transactions on the 
account. That seems  strange if a fraudster was in operation. Itd mean there was an 
individual with access to Mr Qs card details, enough  personal  and security  information to 
call the bank and know there was money available for them  to spend  and yet not proceeding 
to do so. 
I acknowledge there are elements to this case that do support Mr Qs claim. The fact that 
one of the gambling accounts isnt in his name  and is registered to a different address. The 
debt collection payments dont appear to relate to debts in Mr Qs name either, based on his 
credit report.  But, on balance, I dont think the bank has treated Mr Q unfairly  and I dont find 
it needs to refund the disputed transactions. I believe  its more  likely than not he authorised 
the transactions himself or allowed  someone else to use his card details.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN52981174Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr Q to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 January 2020.
Ben Murray
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5298117