K821x#15complaint
Mr V says Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited  gave  him incorrect  and ambiguous  information  
about one of his personal  pension plans.
background 
Mr V had three pension  plans. He was a member  of a company scheme and he had two 
personal pension  plans. In 2013 he sought advice from a financial adviser (FA) about his 
retirement. He wanted to understand  what income would be available to him when he 
retired, how this would  vary according  to the age he accessed his funds and what his 
transfer options were.
Mr Vs FA gave  him detailed  advice  in January 2014. It used information provided by Aviva 
about his two personal pensions. It told him that he should keep his pensions  where  they 
were because they had features which made them more  valuable than the alternatives 
available in the market.
However, the FA told Mr V both his personal pensions  had a guaranteed annuity  rate (GAR). 
This was a mistake - his largest pension pot didnt  have this feature.  It seems  it misread the 
information provided by Aviva.
Mr V was made  redundant in 2015.  Based on the FAs advice he decided  he didnt need to 
go back to work. In late 2016  Mr V received conflicting information from Aviva about  whether 
his larger  pension pot did or didnt  benefit from a GAR.  Unfortunately, the last of these 
communications indicated  that it did.
Mr V says it wasnt  until 2019 the position  was finally made clear to him  there wasnt  a 
GAR associated with his largest personal  pension  plan.
Mr V has several concerns about  whats happened. As well as his decision  not to return  to 
work, he told us about other choices he and his wife made based  on his FAs advice and the 
information hed received  from Aviva.  For example, theyd taken more holidays and his wife 
had reduced her working hours.
Initially Aviva  responded to Mr Vs complaint by explaining what  had happened and 
confirming there had never been  a GAR attached to his larger personal pension  plan.  It said 
any concern about  the advice hed received was a matter  to be addressed by his FA. It 
offered him £100 for the inconvenience it had caused.
The investigator initially upheld Mr Vs complaint; he thought Aviva had been primarily 
responsible for what had happened.  He recommended a payment of £1,000  for the trouble 
and upset it had caused. 
Aviva then provided evidence to show that it had given Mr Vs FA the correct information. 
So, it thought the investigators award was too high. But it also thought its own offer to Mr V 
had been too, so it proposed an award of £250.  The investigator thought the revised offer 
was fair.
Mr V didnt agree with the outcome. He didnt  think it reflected the impact of the incorrect  
information on his current and future  finances.  And he didnt think it was right for the 
investigator to reduce  the £1,000 award hed initially recommended. 
Ref: DRN56921542So, Mr Vs complaint was passed to me for a decision. I issued my provisional findings  last 
month and invited both parties to submit any final arguments or evidence.  Mr V disagreed 
with my initial conclusions. Ill respond  to the main points he raised in this final decision.
Its important to note at this point  Mr V has also raised concerns about  things his FA got 
wrong. These are subject of a separate complaint against that firm. My decision here only 
focuses on the acts or omissions of Aviva.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this case.  Im upholding  Mr Vs complaint but not to the 
extent hed like. Ill explain why.
Aviva has provided copies of the information  it says was sent to Mr V about his personal 
pension plans since they were established.  And Mr V has copied us some  of the documents  
hes received.
Ive read the policy document and schedule for Mr Vs largest personal pension. He wouldve 
received copies of these  when he first set up his plan.  Theres no mention of a GAR.  Thats  
different to his smaller pot where  this feature was confirmed in the paperwork.  Based  on 
what Ive seen I dont  think his largest personal  pension did have a GAR.
Mr V says that he struggles to understand how his FA could get the pension projection  for 
his largest plan so wrong by working on the basis it had a GAR. I can only report  what  Ive 
read in the pack  of information which Aviva sent to Mr Vs FA in 2014. This confirmed  there 
was no GAR. So Ive no doubt the FA made a mistake in advising otherwise.
I can also see that Aviva previously wrote to Mr V in November 2013 confirming details of his 
personal pensions.  This provided a breakdown of key information and again indicated  no 
GAR applied  to the larger of his plans.
This might all appear clear  cut. But it isnt.
Ive found that at other times Aviva also sent Mr V ambiguous and incorrect information 
about his pension plans. For example, in September 2013 Ive seen a schedule it sent him 
which conflates information about  his two pension plans and states that a GAR does apply to 
his policy.
I note Mr Vs FA observed the following about the information pack  it received  in 2014:
It may also be worth highlighting  that although page 6 states that a GAR does not apply, 
pages 10 and 13 confirm that GARs do apply to with profit  elements. It is curious how our 
adviser provided such specific GAR figures, and that the correspondence  now located is 
ambiguous...
I think the information provided  by Aviva to the FA did confirm that a GAR wasnt a feature of 
his larger  pension plan.  And given the FAs area of expertise, I wouldve expected  it to seek 
clarification if it had any doubts. Nevertheless,  if its possible  for an expert to become 
muddled, this might  suggest the information wasnt as clear as it couldve been.
Ref: DRN56921543Mr V was made  redundant in 2015.  Based on his FAs retirement income projections he 
believed he didnt need to go back to work. Mrs V also cut back on the hours she worked.  
And they took more holidays.
From what  Ive seen I think Mr and Mrs V did rely somewhat on the flawed projections  from 
the FA in 2014  to inform important decisions they made  about  their work/life balance  and 
finances. I think Mr Vs FA must take the main share of responsibility for what happened.
That said,  crucially, the next communications Mr V received from Aviva  in late 2016  were 
problematic. It sent him conflicting information  about whether his larger pension pot did or 
didnt benefit from a GAR. Unfortunately,  the last of these  communications  indicated that it 
did. Mr V told us he thought the first letter was a mistake,  I find this persuasive. 
Rather than Avivas communications in 2016 putting Mr V on the road to discovery about the 
flawed financial advice,  it had the effect of reinforcing what hed been told. Aviva told us that 
the next communication it had with Mr V was in late 2018 when two letters  were  issued, this 
time each  confirming that no GAR  applied to his larger personal pension  plan.
putting things right
Mr V has told me about the impact that things going wrong with his pension projections had 
on him and his wife in terms  of their work/life  plans. Because Ive decided  the main 
responsibility for what happened rests  with his FA, Ive considered  matters of direct financial 
loss, consequential  losses and loss of expectation  in that separate decision.
When Im deciding how to sort out a complaint like this one against  Aviva,  Ill think about 
whether its fair to award compensation  for trouble and upset. This isnt intended to fine or 
punish a business  which is the job of the regulator.  But when somethings gone wrong, a 
businesss recognition  of the emotional and practical  impact can make  a real difference.
For me to award compensation, I need  to decide what the impact  of Avivas actions was. It 
has acknowledged that it got something  wrong - sending ambiguous and incorrect  
information to Mr V. And its sought  to put things right by increasing its initial offer of 
compensation to £250.
Normally Id say this was enough. But the impact of what Aviva got wrong in the 
circumstances of this case was to reinforce a serious mistake made by Mr Vs FA. While of 
course the FA must  be held responsible for its flawed projections, I require Aviva to increase  
the compensation it pays to Mr V to £500 for the impact of its errors.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out, Im upholding this complaint.  Aviva  Life & Pensions  UK Limited 
must pay Mr V the redress Ive directed.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 January 2020.
Kevin Williamson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5692154