K821x#15complaint
Mrs T complains that Royal and Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) has declined  her claim 
under her buildings  insurance, for damage  to her retaining walls  following a weather event.
background
Ive issued three provisional decisions  on this case, so I wont  rehearse the arguments here. 
Ill summarise  the key points. Ill be referring  to both Mr and Mrs T throughout as theyve 
both corresponded with me during this case.
In July 2016 a storm caused damage to Mr and Mrs Ts retaining walls.  Following  this, Mrs T 
made a claim against her insurance policy and, after being initially  accepted  by RSA, it 
eventually declined the claim  relying  on the faulty  workmanship exclusion in its policy. 
Central to this dispute is the height  of backfill behind the lower retaining wall, which 
collapsed during the storm. Mr and Mrs Ts original engineers drawings showed the height 
of backfill to be 1.3m, and Mr and Mrs T say it was built in accordance  with the design.  
RSA disagreed. It said its engineer, E, whod been  out to take measurements for a 
replacement wall, recorded a backfill of around  2.1m. It said it was this additional load on the 
wall, not the storm, which  was the main cause of the damage.  
Mr and Mrs T engaged an engineer of their own, F, to visit their site. Fs report concluded  it 
was the storm that caused the damage. Despite  seeing this, RSA remained of the view it 
was the height of backfill that caused  the collapse and maintained it wouldnt pay the claim.
Mrs T brought a complaint  to this service. The investigator who looked into the case  didnt 
recommend it should be upheld,  so it was passed  to me to review.
I issued my first provisional  decision  (PD) 5 December 2017 upholding Mrs Ts complaint on 
the basis that RSA hadnt sufficiently persuaded me, on balance,  that the wall had not been 
built and backfilled in accordance with the design. RSA disagreed and argued that even if 
this wasnt the case, the redress I set out would represent betterment. This was because the 
replacement wall designed  by E was for a higher structural  load.
I considered RSAs points  but remained of the view that the complaint should  be upheld,  
although I reflected  RSAs  comments on betterment  in my redress  proposal. Again, RSA 
disagreed and at that point it was agreed with both parties that a third, independent  engineer 
would go to the site as means to move  the complaint  forward  and deal with the outstanding 
issues. C was appointed, and provided its report in September 2018.
Cs report, in conclusion, said the wall failed due to an exceptional  rainfall event. RSA 
challenged the parameters C used  in that report.  After some email  exchanges  with RSA, I 
issued another  provisional decision in December 2019  again explaining I still intended  to 
uphold the complaint. 
Shortly after the deadline for any further comments or evidence passed, RSA got in contact 
to tell me it was proposing to settle the claim,  but wanted to send an engineer  to site so 
costs could be established. I had some concerns about RSAs proposal  and it then explained 
that it had now accepted  the claim and its intention was to accurately  establish how much  it 
Ref: DRN51312582would cost to rebuild the damaged wall. But RSA still wanted to send  an engineer to Mr and 
Mrs Ts site. 
Given the duration of the claim,  I outlined in my most recent  email  to both parties that I didnt 
think this was necessary.  I explained that RSAs  own engineer,  E, had already been  out to 
take measurements and designed a replacement wall. The only change that needed to be 
made to that design was the height  of retention,  which should reflect the height  the original 
wall was designed for. So I suggested that E simply amend its own drawing, and overall 
schedule of works.
I received a response from RSA outlining that it had instructed E on this basis,  and accepted  
my redress  proposal.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I uphold  it, and Ill 
explain why.
Ive already set out detailed reasons to the parties explaining why I think Mr and Mrs Ts 
claim should be paid,  and why RSA has not sufficiently persuaded me, on balance, that it 
can rely on its faulty workmanship exclusion.  
C, the independent engineer, concludes that the cause of the damage was an exceptional 
rainfall event - which is consistent with a video Ive seen of water  cascading down into Mr 
and Mrs Ts garden from the fields at the rear, and collecting in the patio area. It is not my 
role as deciding  ombudsman to act as a technical  expert on structural issues,  but I do need 
to decide which expert  evidence  Im most  persuaded by. 
Two separate engineers,  F and C, have now attended Mr and Mrs Ts site to examine the 
collapse and have  broadly agreed that the storm was the main cause  both providing 
detailed structural calculations in support.  Overall  Ive found  this evidence  more persuasive 
than that of RSAs  engineer  E, whose role in attending site was only to produce  a design 
for a replacement wall.
This has been a long-running  dispute  with diametrically opposed  views  from both parties, 
and with differing  expert opinion from the engineers  involved. Now, following  a number of 
exchanges Ive had with both parties after my last PD was issued, Im pleased to see that 
RSA has accepted the claim, and on the basis of my proposed redress.
Although Ive received this acceptance from RSA at an informal  stage, Ive taken the step of 
issuing this decision so that both parties have finality.  As I set out in my most recent 
correspondence with both parties  (and to which RSA have agreed) I direct  that:
RSA should  return to E to update and amend its drawings  and schedule  of works to 
reflect the height of backfill set out in the original plans (for the now-collapsed wall)
two estimates should be obtained  from contractors  of the costs it would incur to 
reinstate the wall to the exact specifications  of the original  plans (and as Ive outlined 
in my first bullet)  with any essential adjustments to reflect any changes  in regulation  
Ref: DRN51312583and building standards  since  that time  and to pay a cash  settlement of the average  
of those two estimates.  To be clear, the estimates sought should be reflective  of what 
it will cost Mr and Mrs T to put right the damage, and not what  RSA could achieve if it 
used one of its own contractors
8% simple interest should be payable on the claim from the date of loss
Id originally indicated  that RSA should pay the £1,000 it had already offered in 
compensation for the distress  and inconvenience caused. But, as discussed with 
RSA in recent exchanges, Im satisfied £2,000 more appropriately and fairly reflects  
fair compensation for the distress and inconvenience suffered. In particular the loss 
of use of the most part of the garden over one of the hottest summers in recent  times  
(2018).
In my second PD I set out my reasons for why a cash settlement should be paid:
This dispute has hinged on the conditions of the site and the substantial  disagreement  
between the parties  about the load that was bearing on the original wall. RSAs  own expert 
produced a plan for the replacement wall which itself seems  to suggest that there is much 
uncertainty about the nature of the challenge  remaining  on site. Whilst I have made my 
decision that on the balance of probabilities the original wall was not faulty by design  or 
build, Im conscious that in the situation which exists here it will be extremely challenging 
for RSA to take responsibility for the reinstatement  of a replacement  wall which  will meet 
their own and Mr and Mrs Ts expectations.  That is especially the case as RSA remains of 
the view that the original  wall wasnt sufficient and requiring it to reinstate it leaves RSA 
exposed to the ramifications of any later problems.
As a result I think that the right solution  now to this dispute is to require that a cash 
payment is made to allow Mr and Mrs T to organise reinstatement themselves
At the time of writing  this decision I dont know what rebuild costs are likely to be, 
considering there will be a change in design details. But, as Ive outlined  above, RSA needs  
to put Mr and Mrs T back in the position they would have been  in before the storm caused 
the damage. And thats  what RSA has agreed to do. Im mindful, though,  that the cost of the 
replacement wall E originally designed  was £137,000 plus VAT,  which  would exceed our 
award limit of £150,000. So its possible that the new wall may also be estimated to cost in 
excess of £150,000, inclusive of VAT. I need  to remind  Mr and Mrs T that I cannot direct  
RSA to pay over that amount, as I set out in my first provisional decision:
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award  fair compensation  to be paid by a financial 
business of up to £150,000, plus any interest  and/or costs/interest  on costs that I consider 
appropriate. If I think that fair compensation is more than £150,000,  I may recommend that 
the business pays the balance. I understand that the estimate for the reinstatement  works  
was around £137,000 plus VAT, which would exceed our award limit
my final decision
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 April 2019.
I uphold the complaint. I think  that fair compensation should be calculated  as follows:
Ref: DRN51312584RSA should  return to its engineer, E, to update  and amend its drawings and schedule 
of works to reflect the height of backfill set out in the original plans (for the now-
collapsed wall)
two estimates should be obtained  from contractors  of the costs it would incur to 
reinstate the wall to the exact specifications  of the original  plans (and as Ive outlined 
in my first bullet)  with any essential adjustments to reflect any changes  in regulation  
and building standards since that time  and to pay a cash  settlement of the average  
of those two estimates. To be clear, the estimates sought should be reflective  of what 
it will cost Mr and Mrs T to put right the damage, and not what  RSA could achieve if it 
used one of its own contractors
My decision  is that RSA should pay Mrs T the amount produced from the average  of the two 
estimates  up to a maximum  of £150,000.  And it should pay:
8% simple interest on the claim from the date of loss
Id originally indicated  that RSA should pay the £1,000 it had already offered in 
compensation for the distress  and inconvenience caused. But, as discussed with 
RSA in recent exchanges, Im satisfied £2,000 more appropriately and fairly reflects  
fair compensation for the distress and inconvenience suffered. In particular the loss 
of use of a large part of the garden over one of the hottest summers  in recent times 
(2018).
my recommendation
At this stage I dont  know what  the eventual costs will be, but I think  its possible fair 
compensation may still be more than £150,000, so in this circumstance I recommend that 
Royal and Sun Alliance Plc pays Mrs T the balance.
This recommendation is not part of my determination or award.  RSA doesnt have to do what  
I recommend. Its unlikely that Mrs T can accept my decision and go to court to ask for the 
balance. Mrs T may want to get independent  legal  advice before deciding  whether to accept 
this decision. 
Andy Howell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5131258