K820x#14complaint
Mr G and Ms R are unhappy with how a claim was handled by Royal & Sun Alliance  
Insurance Plc (RSA) under  their landlords  insurance policy.
background
In August  2017,  Mr G and Ms R made a claim on their policy  for a tree to be felled that was 
diseased and had become dangerous.  RSA accepted the claim and paid out the policy limit. 
However, Mr G and Ms R have said the tree also caused  damage  to the surrounding ground 
and boundary wall. 
RSA says it considered  the claim under the any other accident event in the policy.  But 
declined it as it said the tree roots caused  the damage gradually.  It says that damage that 
happens gradually (gradually operating cause)  is an exclusion under this part of the policy.
Mr G and Ms R have  said they think that high winds may have caused the damage as the 
roots of the tree were diseased the tree was moving  significantly more,  and this is what 
caused the uneven ground  and movement of the boundary wall. They have also said the 
neighbour was concerned that the tree was twisting in December 2016.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She felt it was fair for RSA to decline the claim 
under the any other accident  event  in the policy. As tree root growth is something that 
happens over time and can cause gradual damage. She also said high winds  isnt an event 
listed in the policy.  She said there may have been  storm conditions  at some  point, which 
included high winds, and storm  is an event covered by the policy. But in the absence  of 
evidence of a storm, when it happened  and that the storm  had caused the damage,  she 
didnt think the claim  should  be considered under that section of the policy.
Mr G and Ms R didnt  agree and provided  some  further information  about storms in the area 
in December 2016. Theyve told us that they didnt regard the tree as their responsibility  and 
were in dispute with their neighbour  as a tree preservation order  assigned the tree to the 
neighbours property. The neighbour was disputing  this, so it caused a drawn-out dispute. 
Mr G and Ms R also said they do not live at the property, so they were not aware  of the 
immediate danger  of the tree moving  and twisting until their neighbour informed them  of the 
possible danger in December 2016. So, theyve  asked for the case  to be passed  to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive decided  not to uphold this complaint,  
for largely  the same reasons as our investigator. Ill explain why.
Ive looked at the photographs provided  by both parties, there is no doubt  damage has 
occurred. And its accepted the tree and its roots caused the damage.  
But whats  in dispute here, is the damage  caused  by an event  that the policy  would cover. 
RSA said it considered the claim under  the any other accident  event as this section has the 
widest range  of cover. However, there  is an exclusion  for gradual damage.  RSA say the tree 
roots have grown over time and this is what has caused the damage. This in my opinion isnt 
Ref: DRN59584302unreasonable, as roots  do grow over time and so I think its fair for RSA to decline the claim 
under this exclusion in the policy.
Mr G and Ms R have  also said that they believe  high winds  have caused the damage and 
that the storms that happened in December 2016 were the cause. They say this is when 
their neighbour also made them aware of the danger of the tree twisting  in the high winds. 
Mr G and Ms R have  also said as they dont  live at the property, they are reliant on their 
tenant to make them aware of any issues with the property.
I have taken everything Mr G and Ms R have  told us into consideration. But ultimately 
Mr G and Ms R didnt  report  the damage  to their Insurer until August 2017.  I understand the 
reasons theyve given  for this. But there is no expert  evidence that a storm caused  the 
damage. Im therefore not persuaded that a storm was the dominant  cause of the damage 
and Im more persuaded from what Ive seen that the roots have caused the damage over 
time. So, I wont be asking RSA to do anything more. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G and Ms R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  12 June  2020.
Angela Casey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5958430