K820x#14complaint
Miss H is unhappy with the delays by Zenith Insurance plc in its handling of a claim under 
her gadget insurance policy.    
background
Miss H made a claim  for repairs to her laptop.  She was told it would take from three  to five 
days to repair. But there were delays, and Zenith  eventually offered her a cash  settlement 
instead. 
By that time Miss H had arranged her own replacement, as she needed the laptop for work. 
Zenith offered  to settle the claim for £849.99.  This was based on the cost of a like-for-like 
laptop found through a supplier. Miss H wasnt  happy with that as, she said, it was from a 
random third-party supplier website rather than the manufacturer. Shed paid more when 
she bought her replacement directly  from the manufacturer. 
Zenith accepted  that thered been  delays in finalising the claim,  and that Miss H had been 
inconvenienced. It increased its settlement offer by £150 (taking it to a total of £999.99)  as 
acknowledgment of that. Miss H was prepared to accept the amount of £999.99 towards the 
replacement of her laptop. However, she made  it clear that acceptance was on the basis that 
she didnt believe the amount included  sufficient compensation for the trouble  and upset 
shed experienced.
Although the investigator felt Zeniths  offer was fair in the circumstances, Miss H didnt  
agree. 
So this complaint has come to me to decide.    
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im satisfied that Zeniths settlement  offer is fair and Ill explain why.
As the investigator  pointed out, Zenith had no obligation to go directly to the manufacturer  to 
source a new replacement laptop.  Under the policy, Zenith could provide a refurbished  
replacement (including  from another source), which may well have cost less than the laptop 
Miss H bought for herself. Zenith wasnt required to cover Miss Hs actual expenditure in full. 
That is particularly given  that the replacement  she bought was a higher specification  than the 
laptop for which the claim was made.  The evidence  indicates the £849.99 Zenith originally 
offered represented  the cost of a refurbished replacement  available  at the time, and so that 
would reasonably satisfy its obligations  in terms of covering  the damaged laptop itself. 
Zeniths offer to then increase the settlement by a further £150 took the total to £999.99.  It 
appears a new laptop  of similar specification to the original could have been sourced from 
the manufacturer (at a price of £949) if Miss H had chosen to do that. 
There were clearly delays in finalising the claim, and Miss H was understandably 
inconvenienced by that, given her reliance on the laptop for work. This in turn caused her 
Ref: DRN52871712concern and upset.  While she did have the help of her personal assistant in dealing with the 
matter, that doesnt  mean she herself  was completely insulated from all the worry and time 
involved. But I am satisfied that the component of the settlement (£150) which Zenith  
specifically offered, in acknowledgement and as compensation for that, was fair in the 
circumstances. 
Because Im also satisfied  the amount it offered to cover a refurbished replacement laptop  
(£849.99) was itself reasonable, I dont believe the settlement should be increased further.    
my final decision
For the reason  Ive given, its my final decision that I do not uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 February  2019.
Helen Moye
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5287171