K820x#14complaint
Mr H has complained that Vitality Corporate Services  Limited  (Vitality) didnt provide him 
with the level of cover he asked for when he took out his critical illness insurance policy.  Hes 
also complained  that Vitality misled him about changes to his policy,  which  influenced his 
decision when purchasing another policy. Hes says hes lost out on making a claim as a 
result.
background
In 2014 Mr H purchased  a Vitality Essentials Plan  through a price  comparison  website  that 
Ill refer to as C. The plan provided level cover  of £250,000 over a term of 22 years in the 
event that Mr H died or was diagnosed  with a serious illness as listed in the policy  terms.
At the time that Mr H took out the policy, Vitality was known by another  name.  But Ill refer to 
Vitality throughout  this decision  for the sake of clarity. 
In November 2018 Mr H says he purchased an additional critical illness  insurance  policy  with 
another insurer providing cover of £250,000.
Mr H was diagnosed  with type 1 diabetes in December 2018,  so he contacted Vitality to 
make a claim. But Vitality  told Mr H that it couldnt consider a claim.  This was because  he 
had Primary  cover, not Comprehensive cover  cover for diabetes wasnt included in the 
Primary cover.
Mr H complained. He said when he used Cs website, two Vitality policies had appeared in 
the search and hed opted to take the more  expensive policy. So, he believed hed taken the 
Comprehensive cover, not the Primary cover. He also complained that Vitality had made a 
press release available  on its website in April 2018 which said its Primary cover had been  
expanded to include a number of extra  illnesses  one of which was diabetes. Mr H said hed 
been reassured by this when he did his research in November 2018. So, hed taken a less 
comprehensive policy with another insurer instead of another Essentials Plan with Vitality.
Vitality didnt uphold  Mr Hs complaint. It said it couldnt comment on the options presented 
to him by C but the documents issued  to him when  the policy  started showed hed taken 
Primary cover. It said the change explained in the press release  only related to new policies 
taken after April 2018. It also said other information on its website showed that existing 
customers should refer to their plan documents for the illnesses covered under their plans.
Mr H remained  unhappy and referred his complaint to our service.  He said it was fair for him 
to assume the changes  to Primary cover were  retrospective  as the press release didnt say 
this applied to new policies only. He also still believed hed paid for Comprehensive cover.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She was satisfied  Vitality  had received an 
application for Primary cover, rather than Comprehensive cover.  She told Mr H that Vitality 
wasnt responsible  for the quotes  presented on Cs website, so if he felt this was misleading  
hed need to complaint to C.
Regarding the press  release, the investigator  thought this couldve been clearer  in explaining 
the change only referred to new policies. But overall  she didnt think  it was reasonable for 
Mr H to rely on this information  alone.  The investigator noted  that Mr H hadnt been  
Ref: DRN55774192contacted personally  about the changes so she didnt think  it was reasonable for him to 
assume the changes  applied  to his policy.
Mr H didnt agree and asked for a final decision.  He didnt think he needed to look for further 
information about what conditions were covered or how it affected historic policies as there 
wasnt anything in the press release that prompted  him to do so. He still believed  it was fair 
to base his decision  to take out new cover on the information as presented.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding it for 
largely the same reasons  as the investigator.
I first wish to say that Im sorry to hear about  Mr Hs recent diagnosis and I can appreciate  
his frustration at finding  out he wouldnt be able to make a claim under either  of his policies.
The first issue Mr H raised is that he believed he selected Comprehensive  cover, not 
Primary cover. This belief  was based  on the premium he paid, which was the more 
expensive of the two quotes C provided  for Vitality policies. Im satisfied  Vitality  provided 
Mr H with Primary cover as per the application  he submitted through  C. Ive also seen the 
documents he was sent, which clearly showed hed taken Primary cover. If this wasnt what  
Mr H thought hed asked for, I wouldve expected  him to have questioned this at the time. As 
he didnt, I think its fair to assume he was happy  with the cover  hed purchased.
I cant account for the two different prices C gave Mr H for the Vitality policies  this is 
something hell need to take up with C separately. If Mr H is unhappy with Cs response, he 
can refer his concerns  to our service as a new complaint.
Mr H says Vitalitys  press  release states  that Primary cover  has been upgraded and it hasnt 
made any distinction between new and existing  policies. Ultimately he believes his claim 
should be paid.  This is either because the Primary cover under his existing Vitality  policy  had 
been expanded to include severity  level E illnesses, which  includes diabetes. Or because 
the press  release was so misleading that this influenced his decision when taking out new 
cover. He says if it had been clear it only applied  to new policies he wouldve taken another 
policy with Vitality because of the increased cover available.
Vitality has confirmed that the change to Primary cover wasnt  intended to apply to existing 
policies retrospectively.  It has referred  to a website it runs that explains what  conditions are 
covered under its policies. This makes it clear that the conditions  listed are taken from the 
current Essentials Plan offered and if a customer already has a policy, they should  refer to 
their plan documents. This is also consistent  with my understanding  of how critical illness 
policies work   the conditions covered are fixed at the start of the policy  and arent subject to 
any change over the remaining term. So, Im satisfied that Mr Hs Vitality policy  hasnt been  
expanded as per the press release.
I agree  with Mr H that the press release couldve been clearer about which policies  the 
change applied to. It didnt specify that the change applied to new policies taken from 
April 2018, but crucially it also didnt say the change applied to existing policies. In the 
absence of any specifics on this point, I dont think it was reasonable for Mr H to assume the 
change was retrospective and so applied  to the policy  hed taken almost five years earlier.
Ref: DRN55774193If the changes  were intended to be retrospective,  I think Mr H ought  to have expected Vitality 
to contact him directly  to inform him of the change  and provide him with an updated policy 
document. However, Mr H didnt  receive  any personal contact from Vitality about  this. He 
was provided with a plan document  at the outset  and hadnt received any new plan 
documents since then.  In the absence of any personal contact telling Mr H his specific  policy  
had been changed, I dont  think it was reasonable for him to make  this assumption.  For this 
reason, I also dont think it was reasonable for him to base his decision to take new 
insurance out on this belief.
Whilst I have sympathy for the position Mr H now finds himself  in, I dont think Vitality  needs 
to consider a claim for serious  illness benefit.  Im satisfied his Primary cover remains 
unchanged and I dont think it was reasonable for him to have assumed it had been 
upgraded based solely on a press release.
Mr H has also raised concerns about  the potential the press release has to mislead a large 
number of customers. As the investigator has said, this wouldnt be for our service to 
comment on. If Mr H still has concerns about  this, he can contact the Advertising Standards 
Agency. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 July 2019.
Hannah Wise
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5577419