K821x#15complaint
Mr A complains that Aioi Nissay Dowa Insurance Company of Europe  SE cancelled his 
motor insurance policy.  He wants compensation, his no claims discount (NCD) reinstated  
and an apology.
background
Aioi Nissay Dowa discovered  that Mr A was parking his car a few streets  away  from the 
insured address on a regular basis. It was only prepared to cover this new address for a 
premium increase of £6,000. Mr A discussed  this with Aioi Nissay Dowa  and he was given 
time to make  new arrangements. It said it would discuss this with the underwriters. But then 
it cancelled his policy. Aioi Nissay  Dowa offered Mr A £50 compensation which it increased 
to £200. But Mr A said hed lost employment because of the cancellation.  He said hed 
incurred hire car costs.  And he said hed taken out more expensive  insurance elsewhere.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld.  He thought Aioi Nissay 
Dowa had cancelled the policy when it had told Mr A that it would first discuss the parking 
arrangements with the underwriter. He thought  it should increase its compensation offer to 
£300. He thought it should reimburse Mr A for any increase in premium  hed had to pay for 
his new cover. He thought that if Mr A had no claims in the policy year, it should allow  him 
one years NCD. He thought Mr A should  provide evidence of his hire car costs for Aioi 
Nissay Dowa to consider  and reimburse.  But Mr A didnt provide evidence of his 
consequential losses of employment. So he didnt consider this. 
Aioi Nissay Dowa replied that it had taken steps to restore Mr As position. It said it had paid 
Mr A £200  for cancelling his policy when it should  have  called him back.  It said it had 
reinstated the original policy at the same address and on the same  terms but Mr A had later 
cancelled this. It had then waived the outstanding  premium. It had provided three  months 
free cover whilst it reinstated the policy. It said Mr A had then insured with several other 
insurers so it couldnt provide a years NCD. It didnt think it needed to do anything further. 
Our investigator raised  these concerns with Mr A so that he had a chance to respond. Mr A 
responded that he wanted his complaint reviewed by an ombudsman, so its come  to me for 
a final decision.  He said Aioi Nissay Dowa had wanted £6,000 extra  premium  to reinstate his 
policy. He said he hadnt received the £300  compensation.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Aioi Nissay Dowa agreed that it had made an error  when it cancelled  Mr As policy when he 
expected it to call him back after a discussion with the underwriters. Mr A complained  about  
this but it then took Aioi Nissay Dowa about eight weeks to respond to his complaint. Aioi 
Nissay Dowa said it wanted to put things right for Mr A. 
Our approach is that when a business makes a mistake it should restore  the consumers  
position as far as its able to do so. It should  also consider the impact its error had on the 
consumer. So Ive looked at what happened  after the cancellation  and what Aioi Nissay 
Dowa should do to put this right. 
Ref: DRN50520532Aioi Nissay Dowa has removed the cancellation marker from Mr As record.  So he doesnt 
have to declare  this to future  insurers and it shouldnt  affect  his premium. I think  thats  fair 
and reasonable as the policy was cancelled in error.
Aioi Nissay Dowa reinstated the policy, at the same  address and on the same  terms, and it 
offered indemnity for the period the policy was cancelled. But Mr A then cancelled  the policy  
and took out cover elsewhere. 
Mr A said hed been quoted an additional  premium of £6,000 for his new address. I agree 
that Aioi Nissay Dowa did tell him this at first. But when Mr A disputed this, it went back to its 
underwriters for further discussion. The result was that the original premium was offered. 
Aioi Nissay Dowa told Mr A this in a phone call which Ive listened to. And it explained in its 
response to Mr As complaint that this would be reviewed at renewal. 
So from what I can see, I think it was Mr As decision to cancel his policy.  So I think  Aioi 
Nissay Dowa need not reimburse Mr A for any increase in premium  hes had to pay for cover 
elsewhere. And I dont  think  Aioi Nissay  Dowa needs to award Mr A one years  NCD as he 
didnt complete his years  cover with it. The investigator has already explained to Mr A that 
when he starts a new policy, the NCD year starts again.    
Mr A said hed hired cars and incurred other costs whilst his policy was cancelled.  Aioi 
Nissay Dowa offered  to consider evidence of Mr As hire car costs  if he provided reasonable 
evidence of these.  But I cant  see that hes done  this after two years. So I dont require Aioi 
Nissay Dowa to pay Mr A any compensation for this.
Mr A said hed also lost employment  opportunities due to the cancellation. But as he hasnt  
provided any supporting  evidence  for this I dont  think thats  something  I can consider 
further.
Aioi Nissay Dowa waived about £600  in outstanding premium. And it offered Mr A £200 
compensation. It said this was for his loss of use of his car. The investigator  thought  this 
should be increased to £300  to take into account  the inconvenience  the unfair cancellation 
caused Mr A. I think thats fair and reasonable as I can see that Mr A was caused 
considerable inconvenience  in getting this matter  resolved.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require Aioi Nissay Dowa Insurance 
Company of Europe SE to pay Mr A £100 further compensation (£300 in total if it hasnt 
already paid this) for the distress and inconvenience  caused by its unfair cancellation of his 
policy. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 December 2019. 
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5052053