K821x#15complaint
Mr J complains about the amount that hes been charged by Volkswagen  Financial Services 
(UK) Limited, trading as Volkswagen Finance, for damage to a car that he returned at the 
end of his hire purchase agreement.
background
A new car was supplied  to Mr J under a hire purchase agreement with Volkswagen Finance 
that he signed in September 2014.  The agreement ended in October 2018 and Mr J says 
that he stopped using  the car and that it was available for collection but it wasnt collected 
until December 2018. He says that he noticed in January  2019  that a payment of £1,479.41 
had been collected from his bank  account by Volkswagen Finance. 
He claimed that amount from his bank  under a direct debit indemnity but he was then 
contacted by Volkswagen Finance and was told that the charge was for damage to the car 
and excess mileage and that he hadnt  received  an invoice for the charge because  of an IT 
problem. He complained to Volkswagen  Finance and it agreed to remove  the charges for 
damage to the right front door, rear door and rear quarter panel (totalling £397.44) leaving 
£1,081.97 due from Mr J and to reimburse  him for any bank charges that hed incurred as a 
result of the indemnity claim that hed made.  Mr J wasnt satisfied with its response so 
complained to this service.
The investigator recommended  that this complaint should be upheld  in part. He said that all 
of the charges were fair except the charge applied for the right front wheel and that 
Volkswagen Finance should remove that charge.  He said that Mr J had been  caused worry 
and upset when  Volkswagen Finance took a large amount of money  from his account 
without notifying  him. So he recommended that it should also pay him £75 compensation.
Volkswagen Finance hasnt responded to the investigators recommendations but Mr J has 
asked for his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. He says, in summary,  that:
Volkswagen Finance  has fabricated damage charges and then withdrawn them;
he wouldve placed a claim with his insurance company if hed received an invoice for 
more than £1,400 of damage to the car;
he offered to make good repairs but that was rejected by Volkswagen Finance; and
the open-ended obligation in the agreement that he must: keep the vehicle in 
good repair and condition commensurate  with its age and mileage, isnt just and 
equitable. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The car that was supplied  to Mr J was a new car. The agreement  required him to:  keep 
the vehicle in good repair and condition commensurate with its age and mileage. That 
requirement would apply from when the car was supplied  to Mr J until the car was returned  
by, or collected from, him and the agreement ended. I consider it to be fair and reasonable 
for Mr J to be required to keep the car in good  repair and condition during that period. Mr J 
signed the agreement and agreed  to be legally bound by its terms so he agreed to keep  the 
car in good  repair  and condition  and I dont consider that to be unfair or unreasonable.  
Ref: DRN55342102Mr J contacted Volkswagen Finance when his hire purchase agreement was ending and it 
wrote to him in October 2018 to say that he would be contacted  by a third party to arrange 
collection of the car or that he could  make his own collection arrangements  with the third 
party (and a link to a web-site and a phone number were provided). The letter  also said that 
the agreement  continued until the car was collected, Mr J would be responsible for any 
damage to the car that wasnt fair wear and tear and that he could have any necessary 
remedial work carried  out before the car was collected.
The car wasnt collected until early December 2018.  It was inspected by the third party  and a 
vehicle inspection report was completed. It identified significant damage  to the car, for which 
charges (excluding  VAT) were recommended, as follows:
Scratched front bumper £110.40
Scratched rear bumper £110.40
Scratched right door mirror £27.60
Chipped right front door £110.40
Damaged right rear door £110.40
Damaged right rear quarter panel £110.40
Dented right front door sill £138.00
Damaged left front wheel  (replace) £302.84
Scratched right front wheel £36.00
Scratched right rear wheel £36.00
Mr J wasnt present when the inspection was completed but the cars  mileage  was recorded 
as being 35,007 miles. The inspection report included photos  of the damage. Volkswagen 
Finance collected  £1,479.41 from Mr Js bank account for the damage and excess  mileage 
charges  but it didnt send any notice of those charges to Mr J. Mr J claimed a refund of that 
amount from his bank  under a direct  debit indemnity. Volkswagen Finance then contacted  
him about the charges.  
Mr J complained to Volkswagen Finance  about  the charges  and it agreed to remove  the 
charges for damage to the right front door, rear door and rear quarter panel  (totalling 
£397.44) leaving  £1,081.97 due from Mr J and to reimburse him for any bank charges that 
hed incurred as a result of the indemnity claim that hed made.  As Volkswagen  Finance has 
agreed to remove those charges I havent  considered them  any further. 
Ive looked at the photos of the other  damage.  Its clear  that there was significant  damage to 
the car. Im not persuaded that its likely  that the damage was caused  after October 2018  
and even if it was Mr J was still responsible  for looking after the car until it was collected  by 
the third party.  And Im not persuaded that theres  any evidence to support Mr Js claim that 
the damage has been fabricated. There was a delay in the car being collected  but Ive 
seen no evidence to show that Mr J contacted the third party  to arrange an earlier collection, 
as he was able to do. And nor did he arrange   as he couldve done - for the damage to be 
repaired before  the car was collected.
Most of the damage to the car wouldnt be considered to be fair wear and tear in accordance 
with the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association guidelines. But Im not persuaded 
that theres enough  evidence to show that the damage to the right hand front wheel is more  
than fair wear and tear. So I dont consider that a charge for that damage  is justified. But I 
consider that the other charges are fair and reasonable  in the circumstances.
Ref: DRN55342103Mr J says that he wouldve made an insurance  claim for the damage if hed received an 
invoice from Volkswagen Finance. But the car was damaged and either hadnt been repaired 
or hadnt been repaired to an acceptable  standard. And it was for Mr J to decide whether or 
not to make  an insurance claim for any of the damage - and Im not persuaded that 
Volkswagen Finance has any liability  to him in connection with any such  claim.  
The delay in the car being collected  and the payment being collected  from Mr Js account 
without notice will have caused  him distress  and inconvenience. Volkswagen Finance has 
agreed to reimburse  him for any bank charges that he incurred as a result of making  an 
indemnity claim if he provided evidence  of those charges  and I consider that to be fair and 
reasonable. But I also consider that it would  be fair and reasonable for it to pay him £75 to 
compensate him for the distress and inconvenience that hes been  caused.
Volkswagen Finance has agreed to remove the charges for damage  to the right front door, 
rear door and rear quarter  panel  (totalling £397.44) leaving £1,081.97 due from Mr J  and to 
reimburse him for some  bank charges. In addition to that I consider that it should waive the 
charge of £36 (pus VAT) for the scratched right front wheel and to pay £75 compensation to 
Mr J. I consider that to be fair and reasonable in the circumstances.  And Im not persuaded 
that it would  be fair or reasonable for me to require Volkswagen Finance to take any other 
action in response to Mr Js complaint.
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I uphold Mr Js complaint in part. And I order  
Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited,  trading as Volkswagen Finance, to:
1.Waive the charge  for the damage  to the right front wheel.
2.Pay £75 to Mr J to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience that hes been  
caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 September 2019.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5534210