K820x#14complaint
Mr L complains, through his representatives,  that National Westminster  Bank Plc (NatWest) 
gave him and his late wife unsuitable investment advice.
background
In July 2008 Mr and Mrs L met with an advisor  from NatWest. The suitability letter from the 
time says they wanted to review their investments, having recently received a sum of money  
into their bank accounts.
At the time Mr and Mrs L were both retired and held around £113,000 in various assets.  The 
fact find completed in July 2008 suggests  that £48,000 was in instant access accounts, 
£27,000 in cash  ISAs (split equally  between  Mr and Mrs L) and £38,000 in other types  of 
investment such as bonds.
NatWests advisor recommended investing £30,000  in a guaranteed  capital bond, which was 
designed to track the FTSE 100. If the FTSE 100 grew by a certain  amount over the fixed  
term of three and a half years, Mr and Mrs L could receive  up to 121% of their capital back. If 
the growth was smaller or non-existent,  no profit would be made, but the original capital 
would be returned.
Mr Ls representatives say that this was unsuitable  as it meant  84% of Mr and Mrs Ls 
available funds were  tied up in different sorts  of investments. They  feel this was 
inappropriate for a retired couple  and didnt leave sufficient emergency funds.
An investigator reviewed  the complaint and didnt uphold  it. They  didnt think the advice was 
unsuitable. Mr Ls representatives disagreed and the complaint has been  referred  to me for a 
final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding Mr Ls 
complaint.
The fact find carried out at the time notes that Mr and Mrs L wanted to keep an emergency 
fund of at least £30,000.  Mr Ls representatives  say this wasnt  achieved, as Mr and Mrs L 
had only £18,000  left in bank accounts after investing in the guaranteed capital bond.
However, I think its reasonable to include Mr and Mrs Ls cash ISAs in any emergency fund 
calculation, as this money  would be available  quickly to them  if needed. And they had 
£27,000 in their ISAs   so £45,000  in total held in cash, just under 40% of their total assets. 
I think this more than met their need for easily accessible funds.
Ref: DRN51581142Mr and Mrs Ls bond matured in 2012  and the original capital of £30,000 was returned to 
them. As the FTSE 100 had not grown  by the minimum amount required over the period, 
Mr and Mrs L didnt receive any profit on their investment.
The lack of return doesnt automatically  mean the advice  was unsuitable. Ive borne in mind 
that in the fact find and suitability letter completed  at the time of sale, Mr and Mrs L were 
listed as cautious  investors who wanted  the potential of good returns  without risking their 
original capital. They already held some  investments, including cash  ISAs, corporate bonds  
and investment bonds. So I dont  think the guaranteed capital bond was an unusual  
investment for Mr and Mrs L, nor one that was out of line with their stated objectives.
Mr and Mrs L had recently  received a sum of money that they were  looking to invest. The 
£30,000 NatWest  recommended should be put into the guaranteed capital bond was a little 
over a quarter of their overall assets.  I dont think this was an unreasonable percentage in 
this case, given Mr and Mrs Ls circumstances and their aims. Its unfortunate the bond  did 
not produce a return. But poor performance  in itself is not an indication NatWest did anything 
wrong.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint and am not instructing National  Westminster Bank Plc to take 
any action.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 July 2019.
Cara Goodbody
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5158114