K822xcomplaint
Mr H says Cumberland Building  Society  (Cumberland) - who were trading at the time as 
West Cumbria Building Society - miss-sold him a payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  
in 1995. 
background
Mr H took out a PPI policy with a further advance  to a mortgage in 1995. He paid a monthly 
amount for the policy. Our adjudicator  upheld  the complaint. Cumberland  disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me. 
The adjudicators assessment  focused  on the 1995 policy only.  Mr H also took out a policy in 
1992. Cumberland upheld the complaint about that policy  and offered to refund all the 
premiums Mr H paid for that policy plus interest.  We wouldnt make an award that was larger 
than this if we upheld it. So that seems  to be a fair outcome for the complaint about that 
policy. So, this decision will say no more about that policy.
Our adjudicator said the complaint about  the 1995  policy should be upheld. Cumberland  
disagreed with the adjudicators opinion and so the complaint was passed to me.
I issued my provisional decision in respect of this complaint on 13 November 2019, a copy  of 
which is repeated  below, and so it forms part of this final decision. In my provisional  decision 
I set out the reasons why I was minded not to uphold Mr Hs complaint. 
I asked the parties  to the complaint to let me have any further representations that they 
wished me to consider by 13 December 2019.  At the time of writing Cumberland told us that 
they had received the provisional  decision  and had no further submissions they wished to 
make. Mr Hs representatives have made a further  submission. I have considered  their 
submission in full. So, I am proceeding to my final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered again all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Hs case.
In my provisional decision I explained  that,
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill confine my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it, but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach  what  I think  is the right 
outcome in the wider context. 
Where there isnt much evidence for me to consider, or the evidence is contradictory,  I need to 
make my decision  based on a balance of probabilities  that is to say, Ill consider what I do have, 
look at what both sides have said, and make a decision based on what  I think most likely 
happened. 
Im minded  not to uphold Mr Hs complaint. Ill explain why.
Ref: DRN58192692I think Cumberland made Mr H aware that he had a choice about  buying the PPI, and that he 
chose to take it. I say this because Cumberland have been  able to provide the application 
form Mr H signed for the cover. The application  for the PPI was separate  to the application 
for the further  advance.  And Mr H signed a standing order for the policy that was separate  to 
the arrangement  for the mortgage repayment. So I think it more likely that Mr H knew the 
insurance cover was separate to and not dependant on the further advance. And Mr H 
selected the amount of cover he wanted  from the policy on the application form. So having  
considered all the submissions made to me in this case, I think  its more likely that Mr H 
agreed to the cover  knowing  he had a choice to do so, even  if he doesnt remember  that 
now, many  years later. 
It seems  that Cumberland recommended the policy to Mr H, so it had to make sure it was 
suitable for him. Mostly  the policy was suitable  for Mr H. I explain why I say that. Mr H was 
eligible for the policy and I think he had a need for the cover.  Whilst Mr H told us he was 
entitled to some sick pay, he told us this wouldnt have lasted longer than six months. The 
policy however could have paid the benefit  amount for up to 12 months in the event he 
became too unwell to work,  or if he lost his job. So, as this would have paid out in addition  to 
his sickness benefits  I think  the policy would have  been useful to Mr H. 
I have noted that Mr H told us he had savings  that would have lasted for over 12 months of 
repayments. But Mr H chose to protect  those  savings at the time he took out the extra 
borrowing. So as the policy  would have further protected those other means,  I think  he would 
have found the policy useful. 
The policy cost appears to have been comparable to other similar  policies at the time and it 
appears to have been affordable; it was afforded for many years.   
But Mr H was affected by one of the exclusions under the policy.  The policy would not pay 
out if the sickness that kept Mr H off work was related to a pre existing medical condition. 
And Mr H had a pre existing medical  condition. The business had to sell something that was 
suitable for Mr H and in this respect  the policy wasnt suitable. But having identified  a failing 
in the sale, I need to consider what Mr H would have done  but for that failing. 
In this case I have noted  that Mr H tried to make  a claim on his other policy  in February  1995  
and was declined  because the condition was deemed to be a pre existing condition.  I have 
considered that despite that experience Mr H did not cancel that policy. In fact he kept that 
policy until 2014. And approximately six months after having his claim declined  because of 
the pre existing medical condition exclusion,  Mr H took out the policy that is the subject of 
this complaint. So it seems that Mr H had not been  put off PPI by his experience  and so I 
dont think hed have  avoided the policy had Cumberland provided better advice or better 
information about the exclusions. 
Mr Hs representatives said that Mr H didnt  exercise choice in the matter, as he only took 
out the policy because it was inferred  he had to in order to get the further advance. But for 
the reasons Ive already  given above  I dont think that was the case,  most  likely.    
As well as checking the policy  was right for Mr H, Cumberland also had to give him clear enough 
information about the policy so he could decide if he wanted  to buy it. Its possible  the information  
Cumberland gave Mr H about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve been.  But for the same 
reasons Ive mentioned above  that I think the policy was suitable for him, I dont think  better 
information wouldve  stopped him from buying  it. 
Ref: DRN58192693Mr Hs representatives have also questioned why Cumberland didnt cancel the policies when Mr H 
paid off his mortgages in 2000. I have seen no evidence that Mr H raised  this with Cumberland  at 
the time and was given misleading  information  or doubtful  advice about  this at the time. Had Mr H 
wanted the policies cancelled he could have cancelled the payment instructions at any time. I have 
seen insufficient  evidence that Cumberland  failed Mr H in this matter in the way his representatives 
have suggested.  
With regard to the complaint about  the mis-sale of the policy,  I realise Mr H will be disappointed  by 
the outcome.  But on balance,  for the reasons  Ive explained, I dont think he lost out because  of 
anything Cumberland  may have done wrong. 
Which means Cumberland doesnt have  to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr H.
But Cumberland has already offered to pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr H because: 
When the policy  was sold, Cumberland expected to get a high level of commission  and profit  
share (more  than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should  have told Mr H about that. Because 
Cumberland didnt  tell Mr H, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Cumberland has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission  and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this case.
what the business needs  to do
Cumberland has to pay back  to Mr H any commission and profit share it got that was more  than 
50% of the PPI premium. Cumberland should also pay back to Mr H any extra interest  he paid 
because of that.
Cumberland should  pay back  to Mr H the extra he paid each month because the commission and 
profit share it got was more than 50% of the cost of PPI. Cumberland should also pay Mr H 8%* 
simple interest on each payment.
 
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr H can claim back the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
my provisional decision
I intend to find that the PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Cumberland Building  Society  does not have 
to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr H.
But Cumberland Building Society does have  to pay back to Mr H any commission and profit share  
it got that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Mr Hs representatives have disagreed with my provisional findings.  Having considered  
again all of the evidence and arguments from the outset in order  to decide what  is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint,  including the recent submissions, I find no 
reason to depart from my original findings  as set out in my provisional decision.
Mr Hs representatives think that Cumberland hasnt provided any evidence that the policy  
was optional. My provisional decision detailed my thinking that it had provided some  
evidence and that, on balance, Mr H would, or should have understood the policy  was 
optional. In addition,  I would add that nowhere in any of the documentation that Mr H was 
given is there any suggestion that he had to take the cover to get the further advance.  For 
me to uphold on this issue over 24 years after the sale,  I would have to think  that Mr H was 
Ref: DRN58192694told something that was different in nature to anything recorded in the documentation from 
the time of the sale. Whilst acknowledging that things could have happened  just as Mr Hs 
representatives say, I think  that I have  seen insufficient evidence  to fairly reach that outcome 
in this case.
Mr Hs representatives think that some of my other  findings are flawed because  I have made  
the finding about the policy being, most likely, optional.  For the reasons given above, my 
findings stand  on that point. 
Mr Hs representatives have described  Mr H as semi-literate at best . And they have  called 
my findings  into question because of that. This testimony has been submitted for the first 
time. No evidence has been submitted  to support  this testimony.  And I note that Mr H trusted 
himself to arrange borrowing on a property without  the need  for an intermediary or assistant 
at the time of the sale. So having  considered  the case  again in its entirety, I do not think this 
testimony from Mr Hs representatives is sufficient to undermine  the findings I have made.  
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, and within my provisional decision, I find that the PPI policy wasnt 
mis-sold  so Cumberland  Building  Society  does  not have to pay back  all of the cost of the PPI to 
Mr H.
But Cumberland Building Society does have  to pay back to Mr H any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr H either to 
accept or to reject my conclusions, in writing,  before  17 January 2020.
Douglas Sayers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5819269