K820x#14complaint
Mr W says Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, (Halifax) mis-sold him a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Mr W bought the policy  at a meeting in 1998  at the same time as taking  a mortgage. He was 
employed at the time as a mould technician and, according  to his mortgage application, had 
been with his employer for six years. Hes told us he was entitled to less than three months 
full sick pay and redundancy pay and didnt have any other means, like savings, with which 
to pay his mortgage if he couldnt  work. From what Mr W has told us, at the time of the sale 
he was in good health and hadnt had any health  issues. 
The PPI policy provided cover for Mr W for accident, sickness and unemployment  subject 
to its exclusions and limitations. It cost around  £18 a month at the time and, for a successful 
claim, offered to pay £350 a month to help Mr W with his mortgage related costs.
Halifax has sent us evidence to show the mortgage  account closed in 2002. Mr Ws 
representative has made lengthy  and substantial representations on his behalf. I will not 
restate them all here,  but I have  read and considered them  all carefully.  In summary, Mr Ws 
representative says:
Halifax failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on handling 
PPI complaints under DISP App 3, it should be presumed Mr W wouldnt have taken the 
policy and the complaint  should  be upheld. Mr Ws representatives  believe  there  to be no 
evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a successful 
claim meant  the policy was of inherently poor value  as shown by the low claims ratio. 
The common law duty of utmost  good faith means  Halifax  should have told Mr W about 
the poor value;  
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Halifax  should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mr W and the impact they 
would have had on his chances of making a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is generally 
someones biggest ever long-term  transaction  cover would stop at the time it would be 
most needed; and
The information Mr W received was misleading. These  policies were  promoted as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and had a chance to 
give their responses to the adjudicators  opinion.  Mr W disagreed with the adjudicators 
Ref: DRN56381592opinion for several  reasons. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been  
passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Ws. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ws complaint.
This sale took place  in 1998 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2002. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme  Court judgment in Plevin  about  s.140 of 
that Act and the rules  and guidance  made by the FCA about  the handling of complaints  
about the non-disclosure of commission in light of the Plevin  judgment, arent applicable.  
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at the time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct Marketing/ 
Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Halifax at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take the ABI Code  and these 
other publications into account  when  deciding what is, in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of Mr Ws case.
There was also the Mortgage Code which was a voluntary code followed by subscribing 
lenders and mortgage intermediaries. While predominantly about  mortgage related matters, 
it also included some insurance related commitments. 
Ref: DRN56381593Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   the Office of the Banking Ombudsman  in this 
case  might have been expected to reach in relation to an equivalent complaint. I note that 
under the Banking Ombudsmans  terms of reference the Ombudsman was required to 
decide complaints  by reference to what was, in his opinion, fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances  and that the Ombudsman was required  to observe any applicable rule of 
law or relevant judicial  authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Halifax was required to take into account the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were  
guidance when  considering Mr Ws complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If Halifax gave advice,  whether it advised  Mr W with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for him, given his needs  and 
circumstances. 
-Whether Halifax gave Mr W sufficient,  appropriate and timely information to enable him 
to make an informed choice about  whether  to take the policy,  including  drawing to his 
attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions 
of the policy  and significant limitations  and exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr W, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mr W suffered  loss or damage 
and what I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr W and 
Halifax, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ws complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below. 
did Mr W know he had a choice?
Halifax had to make it clear the PPI was optional. Mr W has said he had no interest in PPI 
and has said it was included as part of his mortgage  package.  But the mortgage application 
form had a separate Accident, sickness and unemployment insurance section with boxes 
for Mr W to tick and sign to say either yes or no to the cover.  On Mr Ws form, the box to 
say yes to the PPI was ticked and Mr W signed  the box to say he wanted the cover.  And I 
think he wouldve known to sign instead the box to say no to the cover if he didnt  want it.
Ref: DRN56381594Also, to apply for the PPI, Mr W signed  a Mortgage Repayments Insurance  Application, 
separate from his mortgage application. So, taking everything into account, I think its more 
likely Mr W knew the PPI policy was optional and agreed to take it without  undue  pressure. 
did Halifax provide advice?
Mr W hasnt said whether  Halifax  gave  advice. Halifax says it did give advice  and if Halifax  
did give advice, Halifax had to do more. With all this in mind,  I think its fair to proceed on the 
basis that Halifax gave  advice. 
This means  Halifax had to advise Mr W with reasonable care and skill, in particular whether 
the policy was appropriate or suitable given his needs and circumstances.
the advice
While I dont know exactly what was discussed in the meeting, the documentary  evidence 
suggests Halifax took some steps  to establish whether the policy was a suitable  
recommendation for Mr W. The adviser  had some information about Mr Ws financial 
circumstances as part of his mortgage application  - for example, details of his employment  
status, length of service  and income.  Also, on the PPI application form he signed, questions 
were answered saying Mr W wasnt aware of impending unemployment or on a fixed term 
contract - and hadnt seen a doctor in the previous  12 months for anything  that wasnt  minor.
But Ive nothing to show that Halifax asked Mr W about any health  issues he mightve  had 
but hadnt seen a doctor for in the last year  or asked what  his work redundancy or sickness 
benefits were. With all this in mind, I dont  think Halifax  did enough to establish  Mr W had a 
need for the PPI and wouldnt be caught by its significant limitations or exclusions.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities, Im not persuaded Halifax  did all it should have done 
to determine whether  the policy was suitable  for Mr W given his circumstances. So Im not 
persuaded Halifax advised with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded Halifax did all it should have done to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mr W, I do think  its more likely than not the policy  was ultimately suitable for him. 
In reaching that conclusion  Ive taken into consideration:
-Mr W met the eligibility criteria for the policy.
-Mr W had a need for the policy  it seems likely Mr Ws finances  wouldve been put 
under strain  if he werent working  for an extended period of time  even allowing for the 
redundancy benefits and sick pay he wouldve been  entitled  to, and taking into account  
what hes told us about not having any savings to fall back on. The policy wouldve 
helped him manage the consequences were  he unable to work  for a time.
-Although Mr W says he was financially stretched at the time, Ive seen nothing else to 
suggest the monthly cost of the PPI wasnt affordable.
 
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mr W. There was 
nothing about  Mr Ws employment or occupation which wouldve made  it difficult for him 
to claim. And from what hes told us, he didnt have any existing health issues  that 
couldve affected his ability  to claim.
 
Ref: DRN56381595-There were  limits  to the cover  provided  by the policy (including that the policy  would only 
pay benefits for a maximum  of 12 months for each claim and Mr W couldnt claim for 
disability unless he were  unable  to do his own or any similar  job, and unable to do any 
paid work his experience, education or training reasonably qualified him to do). But the 
PPI still provided valuable cover given  Mr Ws circumstances, the loss of income hed 
suffer if he couldnt work, the role the policy benefit could play in that situation in helping  
him meet mortgage related costs and, as the PPI was to protect  the mortgage on Mr Ws 
house, the potential consequences  were Mr W to have  become unable to make  
payments on the mortgage loan secured against his home.
the information
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Halifax gave Mr W sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable him to understand what Halifax  
was recommending to him and make an informed  decision about whether  to follow  that 
advice and take the policy.
Im satisfied its more likely than not Mr W was given a broad description of what the policy  
was intended  to cover (that is, the benefit  would help protect his mortgage  payments if he 
were unable to work through accident, sickness or unemployment). I have reached this 
conclusion because I think  it unlikely  Mr W wouldve taken the PPI without any sense of what 
it was for. Also, his mortgage  application  forms PPI section described the PPI as insurance  
against accident, sickness and involuntary unemployment.  The PPI application  form Mr W 
signed set out the monthly PPI benefit  as well as the monthly premium payable,  so I also 
think Mr W was informed of the PPI benefit  amount  and what the PPI would cost at the start.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Halifax gave Mr W sufficient 
information about the exclusions  or limitations before he agreed to take the policy. 
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr W, Im not persuaded Halifax did 
enough to present information about the policy it was recommending in a way that was fair 
and reasonable to him. Im not persuaded Halifax gave Mr W all the information  he needed 
about the policy to make an informed decision about whether to follow the recommendation 
and take it.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr Ws representative  has raised a number 
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales.
It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr Ws. Ive considered  these 
carefully and summarised them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have explained 
the low claims  ratio  what Mr Ws representative considers to be poor value  and the 
fact much of the premium went to the business rather than the insurer.  
Ref: DRN56381596-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just told 
Mr W about the limitations and exclusions, it should have  gone  further  and explained the 
significance of them to him. 
Im not persuaded by Mr Ws representatives views on this. The duty of utmost  good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find this extended to the insurer having to disclose the claims 
ratio information or explaining the significance of the limitations and exclusions  in the way 
Mr W has suggested. And, taking into account the law, industry codes and standards  of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude Halifax ought to have done  either.  
what effect did Halifaxs  shortcomings  have  on Mr W? To what extent did he suffer  
loss or damage as a result?
Ive found Halifax  didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy  to Mr W. So I have  
gone on to consider whether it would  be fair and reasonable to conclude  Mr W suffered loss 
and damage as a result.  To answer  this, I must  decide whether or not he would have still 
taken the policy,  had Halifax done things  properly. 
While Im not persuaded Halifax took the steps  it should have done to establish whether  the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Mr W, I have found the policy was ultimately suitable 
for him. In those circumstances it seems to me that whether or not Mr W has suffered loss or 
damage in this case primarily depends  on whether, if Halifax  had explained things properly, 
Mr W would  have acted differently or whether  he would have taken  the policy in any event.
Mr W says he wouldnt  have taken it and believes I should presume this to be the case  given  
the significant failings identified above.  Ive considered the representations of both sides and 
the evidence relating  to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take insurance  requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests Mr W had some interest in taking payment protection  
insurance. By this I mean when Halifax advised him there was a suitable product he could 
buy that would protect  his mortgage payments if he were unable  to work because  of 
accident, sickness or unemployment, he concluded he wanted that product. But he made  
that decision based on incomplete information, meaning what  he thought he was getting is 
not exactly what he got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr Ws circumstances at the 
time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. As Ive 
also already explained, the information  Mr W was given about the cost and benefit was 
clear. But the information  about other  aspects  of the policy, such  as the limitations and 
exclusions, wasnt as clear as it should have been.   
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr W thought  he had bought  and 
what he actually bought were the following:
Ref: DRN56381597The policy excluded disability claims related to any health  issue  Mr W knew  or shouldve 
known about or for which he had been  advised or treated by a medical practitioner in the 
12 months before the policy start and which recurred within  24 months of the policy  start;
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health conditions 
placing more onerous evidential requirements  to support a claim on those  grounds;
The policy limited, and in some situations  excluded, unemployment  cover  if Mr W wasnt  
a permanent employee;
The requirement that, to be eligible for a disability claim, Mr W be unable to do his own 
or any similar job, and unable to do any paid work his experience, education or training 
reasonably qualified him to do; and
The PPI paid benefits for up to 12 months,  rather than the remaining mortgage  term. 
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations or exclusions above might  well have caused 
Mr W pause for thought   and may well have caused him to conclude the policy  wasnt  as 
good as he thought and he might have decided not to proceed. The limitations on the cover,  
when coupled with the other shortcomings  in this sale,  might have dissuaded some 
consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr W from taking the policy.  
But, the evidence  about Mr Ws circumstances at the time of sale shows the policy  wasnt  
fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. He was eligible for its benefits and it provided 
cover that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable  to him should  the 
insured risks have  become a reality. I also havent  seen any evidence to suggest he 
wouldve been caught by any of the significant exclusions  Mr W didnt have any existing 
health issues and was in permanent employment. So, I think he still had some good reasons 
to take the policy.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were  more onerous than Mr W might 
reasonably have expected. But its unlikely he would have expected to be able to make a 
disability claim without  having to provide some evidence to support that claim.  And while this 
limitation might have dissuaded  some consumers in slightly different circumstances to Mr W 
from taking the policy,  Mr W, in his circumstances, still had some good  reasons  to take it.
If Mr W had known he could only claim for disability if he were  unable to do his own or any 
similar job, and unable to do any paid work his experience, education or training reasonably 
qualified him to do, it might have played into his thinking about  what to do. And I accept it 
may have  given him pause for thought  but, given  his circumstances,  on balance I think  he 
wouldve still been interested in taking the cover.
Halifax may not have  told Mr W any claim he made  would be limited  to a 12-month  period. 
This may have differed  from what he expected and mightve hoped for.
But 12 months was longer  than Mr W wouldve received  full sick pay and his redundancy 
entitlement was also significantly  less than 12 months income. In those circumstances, I 
consider it likely Mr W wouldve still thought a policy that paid up to 12 monthly payments 
would be of benefit and help him manage the consequences were  he unable  to work in the 
circumstances covered by the policy. The policy allowed for multiple claims to be made and 
could cover Mr Ws mortgage  payment  and help reduce his outgoings - and so help ensure 
his home  was not placed at risk at what could be a difficult and uncertain time if Mr W were  
unemployed or too sick to work.
Ref: DRN56381598Having considered all the evidence and arguments in this case,  I consider  it more likely than 
not Mr W would still have  taken the policy. It was suitable for him, sufficiently close  to what  
its likely  he thought he was getting  and provided  benefits that would  help him manage the 
consequences if he were  made redundant, or unable to work through accident  or sickness.  
In the circumstances, I consider it more likely than not Mr W would have taken the policy  in 
any event notwithstanding  the limitations on cover.
Mr Ws representatives say the rules  about  how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken PPI, unless there is evidence to outweigh  the presumption. 
They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr W would not have bought the PPI he bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr Ws 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  he found  
himself in as a result of the sale was the same position he would have  been  in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr W believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales process  
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including his own comments that he would not have taken 
the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments.  
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr W in the position he would have  been  in if he had not 
bought the policy. 
That is because,  while I accept it is possible he wouldnt have taken the PPI, I am satisfied, 
of the two possibilities, its more likely than not Mr W would still have taken the PPI had he 
been given clear, fair and not misleading  information about the policy  he was buying. 
So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable, in those circumstances, to conclude 
Halifax should pay Mr W compensation, as that would  put him in a better position than he 
would have been in if everything  had happened as it should have done.  
Im also aware Mr W thinks Halifax misrepresented the terms of the policy  in how it 
described the PPI. While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
Halifaxs statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why Halifax  
failed to act fairly and reasonably was not because of what  it did or didnt say in the 
information it provided  but because the overall  information Halifax gave Mr W, in the way it 
Ref: DRN56381599did, was insufficient  to meet the standards I consider  it fair and reasonable to expect it to 
have met in 1998 when providing information about  an insurance policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mr Ws representative says a court  might  take if it were  
to find Halifax negligently misrepresented the contract to Mr W and about the remedy a court  
might award if it were  to find Halifax  had been in breach  of its duty of utmost good  faith.  But 
this doesnt persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out, I dont think  it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mr W in a better position than if everything had happened as it should 
have done. 
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 December  2020.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5638159