K820x#14complaint
Mr E has complained about the amount of compensation he has been  offered by The Royal  
Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) for the mis-sale  of payment protection  insurance  policies  
(PPI) on two loans. 
background
Mr E had two loans  one taken in September 1998 and ending in March 2000  (account  
number ending 6541),  and the second  taken  in March 2000 and ending in April 2001 
(account number ending 4245).
Mr E complained to RBS that the policies had been  mis-sold to him. It agreed  to uphold his 
complaint and offered compensation to repay the cost of the PPI premiums, associated 
interest on those premiums and interest at a rate of 8% per year simple, for the time he had 
been out of pocket. 
Mr E disagreed with the offer. He said it wasnt enough. He wanted further compensation to 
reflect that he had paid for PPI out of his current account that was overdrawn.  He says that if 
it wasnt for the cost of the PPI policies he wouldnt have  had to pay such high levels  of 
interest and this has had a subsequent  negative effect on his finances ever since. 
One of our adjudicators looked  into the complaint and concluded  that the compensation 
offered by RBS was fair in the circumstances of Mr Es complaint. 
Mr E disagreed. As the complaint remains unresolved it has been passed  to me for decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As RBS has already  upheld Mr Es complaint I wont be looking  at how the policies were sold 
to him. I will only be considering whether the offers RBS has made are fair. Mr E says the 
mis-sales and compensation offered are intrinsically linked as any additional charges and 
interest he incurred would not have  been debited if he hadnt been sold the PPI in the first 
place. 
When I find a PPI policy has been mis-sold I would expect the business to put the consumer 
in the position they would have been in if they hadnt  been sold the policy.  In this case, RBS 
has already accepted the policies were  mis-sold  and has offered to do this. I accept that 
Mr E feels  strongly about the mis-sales. I will be looking at the impact of them and 
considering whether the offers RBS has made are fair. 
Mr E was sold the PPI with his loans. His loan accounts were separate  accounts  to his bank 
account  but Mr E says its the impact  of the additional costs  of the PPI that have incurred 
additional charges to his bank account.
RBS has provided a statement of Mr Es bank account which  shows all the transactions 
since October 1991 to August 2018, so including the terms of the loans. During  this period 
there were many times when Mr E was in credit, and overdrawn.  Mr E has said that he 
would not have had to pay so much for the overdraft but for the cumulative  effect  of the PPI. 
So I have  gone  on to consider whether it was the impact of the costs  of the PPI that caused 
Ref: DRN59926122the overdrawn periods and whether RBS is responsible for any consequential loss because  
of that.
But I dont think it was. I say this because the statements of the account  show  it was in credit 
for long periods, during  the lifetimes of the loans, as well as overdrawn. The overdrawn 
periods were  caused by all sorts  of spending,  not just the PPI that was paid for out of the 
regular loan repayment. The monthly  amounts of the cost of the PPI during the periods of 
the loans were only a small proportion  of the loan repayments. So I cant  say whether or not 
Mr E would have gone overdrawn even if he hadnt  been paying for the PPI. 
And equally there were  periods after the loans were finished when the account  was in credit, 
so again, this suggests that it was Mr Es choice of spending which caused the account to 
subsequently become  overdrawn. 
I understand that Mr E says that if hed not paid for the PPI each month he wouldnt  have  
incurred the additional charges. But no one knows how Mr E would have used the small 
extra amount he may have had each month if he had not previously paid for the PPI from his 
account. 
The simple  interest payment included within RBSs offer is intended  to compensate  Mr E for 
the loss of the use of the money he paid for the PPI. And the rate used  in line with the 
regulators guidance  reflects the fact that there  are costs and losses  involved.  To suggest 
that Mr E would have  incurred any subsequent  overdrawn periods, or would have had less of 
an overdraft if hed not had the PPI, is too speculative on the evidence  provided. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  I think the offers of compensation made  by The Royal 
Bank of Scotland Plc to settle the complaint about the mis-sold PPI policies with his loans is 
fair. I wont be asking The Royal Bank  of Scotland Plc to do anything further. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 February  2019.
Catherine Langley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5992612