K821x#15complaint
Miss W has complained about fees,  charges and insurance premiums added  to her 
mortgage account by Rooftop Mortgages  Limited.
background
In 2007 Miss W took out an interest-only  mortgage  with Rooftop. The account has been in 
arrears over the years and fees and charges  have  been added  to the mortgage account. The 
charges were for mortgage arrears  administration, legal  fees,  failed direct debits and field 
agent visits. Rooftop has also charged Miss W for Lenders Interest Only (LIO) insurance 
premiums.
Miss W complained about these  fees, but Rooftop didnt uphold the complaint. Miss W 
brought the complaint to us, where  it was considered by an investigator. 
Rooftop didnt  consent to us looking at fees and charges applied  more than six years before 
the complaint  was first raised  I August  2018, as it said Miss W had left it too late to complain 
about them. The investigator agreed this part of the complaint was out of time and that there 
were no exceptional  circumstances  to explain the delay.  
In a detailed letter dated 23 March 2020 the investigator set out all the fees and charges that 
had been applied. Both Miss W and Rooftop have  a copy  of that letter,  so I wont repeat all 
the details here. 
In summary,  the investigator was satisfied that the fees for legal work, field agent visits and 
LIO insurance had been fairly applied. she noted that Rooftop had refunded arrears fees 
totalling £400 applied to the account  between  February 2016  and June  2018.  She also 
asked Rooftop  to refund the following fees:
April 2016 £50
November 2016 £50
January 2018 £50
March 2018 £50
April 2018 £50
May 2018 £50
Miss W didnt respond to the investigators letter dated 23 March  2020. 
Rooftop didnt  agree with the investigators  findings. It said that, although it appreciated 
Miss W was having difficulties, she is also responsible for manging her account  effectively  
and engaging with Rooftop.  Her failure  to pay, or to pay only part of the monthly repayment, 
made her situation worse.
Rooftop set out each  and every interaction  it had had with Miss W since  1 March  2017. 
Rooftop also said that the fees applied in January, March and April 2018 were applied  in 
relation to missed  payments the previous months.  The fee applied in May 2018 was because  
in April 2018 Miss W made only a partial  repayment.
provisional decision of 13 May 2020
I issued a provisional decision in which I made the following findings.
Ref: DRN55203292Rooftops terms and conditions allow it to apply fees and charges to the mortgage 
account, in line with its tariff of charges. Rooftop  is also entitled to arrange its own 
insurance cover if it is not provided with details of the insurance Miss W holds  on the 
property. What I have to decide is if the fees and charges added  to the account have 
been applied  fairly.
legal fees:  Ive considered the fees that have been  applied and Ive reviewed the 
invoices provided  by Rooftops solicitors.  Im satisfied that the legal fees have been 
fairly applied. The work  carried out and the hourly rate charged do not appear to me 
to be excessive in the circumstances.
Im not upholding this part of the complaint.
field agent  visits:  Im satisfied that Rooftop  was justified  in instructing a field agent, 
given the lack of response from Miss W. Im satisfied the field agent costs  have  been  
fairly applied.
Im not upholding this part of the complaint.
failed direct  debits: Im satisfied that the fees charged for failed direct debits have 
been fairly applied. Rooftop had to engage in additional work  by writing to Miss W 
about this. The two fees of £20 have therefore  been fairly applied.
Im not upholding this part of the complaint.
LIO Insurance: I note that Rooftop  charged Miss W for LIO insurance between 2013  
and 2016. There  is nothing in the file to show that Miss W had provided  Rooftop with 
copies of her insurance schedules for this period. In the circumstances, Im satisfied 
Rooftop hasnt  acted unfairly  in arranging its own insurance cover. 
I think that if Miss W is able to produce copies of her insurance schedules for the 
period, Rooftop  should refund the charges. But in the absence  of any proof of 
insurance, I dont think Rooftop has acted unfairly.
Im not upholding this part of the complaint.
mortgage arrears fees: Although Rooftop  has set out full details of everything that 
happened on the account since  1 March 2017,  the only fees that Rooftop is disputing  
it should refund are those for January,  March  and April 2018 (which  it says were  
applied for missed payments during the previous month)  and May 2018, which  it says 
is for a partial repayment made in April 2018.
Im satisfied that Rooftops  position is correct in relation to the fees applied for a 
missed payment the previous  month   so for January, March and April 2018.  So I 
think those fees have been  fairly applied and dont  need to be refunded.
But where a partial  repayment has been  made, I dont think its fair for Rooftop to 
apply a fee. Miss W paid more than 50% of the monthly instalment in April 2018, and 
so I think the fee applied  in May 2018  should be refunded.
My provisional decision was as follows:
Ref: DRN55203293I didnt uphold the complaint about  the fees applied to Miss Ws mortgage account  for 
legal costs, field agent visits, failed direct debits or LIO insurance premiums;
I thought that, in addition to arrears fees already refunded by Rooftop, the arrears fee 
of £50 applied  in May 2018 should also be refunded. I was satisfied the other arrears 
fees and charges have been fairly applied.
responses to the provisional  decision
Rooftop responded to say that it accepted  my provisional decision.  Miss W didnt respond.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive reviewed my provisional decision, 
and reconsidered  everything Miss W and Rooftop  have said about this matter.
Having done so, Ive reached the same  conclusion as I did in my provisional decision, for the 
same reasons. 
Im satisfied that the fees charged for legal  costs, field agent visits, failed direct  debits  or LIO 
insurance premiums have been  fairly  applied by Rooftop. As far as arrears fees are 
concerned, whilst I appreciate Rooftop  might disagree, Im satisfied that the £50 arrears  fee 
charged in May 2018 should  also be refunded, as more than 50% of the monthly repayment 
was made  that month. I agree with the other  fee refunds made by Rooftop  and Im satisfied 
no further refund is due.
my final decision
My final decision is as follows:
Im not upholding the complaint about  the fees applied to Miss Ws mortgage  account for 
legal costs, field agent visits, failed direct debits or LIO insurance premiums;
In addition to arrears fees already  refunded by Rooftop Mortgages Limited,  the arrears  
fee of £50 applied in May 2018 should  also be refunded. Im satisfied the other  arrears  
fees and charges have been fairly applied.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 July 2020.
Jan OLeary
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN55203294
Ref: DRN5520329