K821x#15complaint
Mr A is unhappy that UK Insurance Limited  has declined  a claim on his buildings insurance 
policy.
background
Following a lengthy period of heavy rain, Mr As roof leaked. This caused water  damage to 
the internal walls and ceiling  upstairs.  Mr A made a claim  to UKI. It appointed loss adjusters, 
who attended the property to assess the damage. The claim  was considered  as storm 
damage and adjusters  told UKI the roof was in a poor state of repair.  Adjusters  also said the 
amount of mould  internally indicated that water had been entering the property  for a long 
period of time. Based  on this, UKI declined the claim.
Mr A didnt accept this. He said he was claiming  under the accidental  damage section of his 
policy. He said there  was no mould  prior to the heavy rain. And photos were provided  to 
show this was the case. He also said he had no reason to suspect  his roof was in poor 
condition until the leak occurred.
Mr A was also unhappy about  the loss adjusters conduct. The adjuster turned up early  and 
carried out the inspection with Mr As son and his wife  who doesnt speak English. He said 
the loss adjuster had provided  incorrect information in the report, misleading UKI into 
declining the claim.
UKI said the claim wouldnt be covered under the accidental damage  section as, due to the 
condition of the roof, it couldnt  be satisfied  that the internal damage  was both sudden and 
unexpected. It said that as Mr A had made previous claims, several years ago, for his roof 
leaking, he shouldve  been aware that it was in a poor state  of repair.  UKI did uphold the 
complaint regarding the loss adjusters conduct, and it paid compensation for this. Mr A 
didnt agree about the claim and brought his complaint to our service.
Our investigator upheld  the complaint. He accepted Mr A wasnt claiming for the roof 
damage. And as the damage to the internal walls  was both sudden and unexpected,  he felt it 
was reasonable  for UKI to pay the claim under the accidental  damage section of the policy. 
Regarding the loss adjusters conduct, our investigator said Mr A accepted that the 
compensation offered was reasonable. So, he didnt think  it was necessary to comment  on 
this part of the complaint. Mr A accepted this. But UKI didnt agree with the claim outcome. 
So, the complaint has been passed  to an ombudsman for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both Mr A and UKI agree the heavy rain conditions didnt constitute  a storm, the internal 
water damage claim was considered under the accidental damage section of the policy.  The 
policy says Mr A is covered for accidental damage  to buildings defined as sudden and 
unintentional physical  damage that happens unexpectedly.
UKI said the claim doesnt fall within this policy definition. This is because the condition  of 
the roof was poor, so a leak wasnt unexpected.  It said the mould  on the internal  walls wasnt  
sudden but instead had happened over a long period of time.
Ref: DRN58500342Mr A said by the time UKIs  loss adjuster  visited  his property the mould  had got a lot worse. 
Hes provided photos taken by his loss assessor  shortly after the leak,  which showed the 
mould was minimal. Given that mould can grow relatively quickly in damp  conditions,  and 
UKI took some time to arrange an inspection, I accept the photos show  the mould was worse  
by the time the loss adjuster visited. I think that highlights  when Mr A first noticed the mould 
it was sudden and got progressively worse from then.
Mr A said he didnt  know his roof was in a poor condition. He said the roof cant be seen 
from the ground. And whilst he had made previous claims for roof leaks, these were  many 
years ago. It was only following the loss adjuster  inspection for this claim that he was told the 
roof needed  replacing.
Im not sure Mr As previous roof claims are of any great relevance here. He said the 
previous leaks were repaired so I think Mr A would assume previous problems with the roof 
had been resolved. My understanding is that no leaks had occurred since  the previous claim 
several years ago. Im satisfied it was only at the point of noticing the water damage Mr A 
became aware  the roof was an issue again. So, I think the damage was sudden  and 
unforeseen. Based on this, I think UKI didnt act fairly when it declined the internal damage 
claim. I think  UKI should  pay a cash amount for the water damage to the internal walls.
UKI has produced  a schedule of works and so has the loss assessor  on behalf of Mr A. 
Understandably, theres a difference between the amounts being claimed for. However, Ive 
looked through both schedules and based on these I think £2,400 would be fair cash amount 
for UKI to pay to conclude the claim.  Ive considered all the other  points made by both 
parties, but I think overall this is a fair outcome.
As Mr A accepted the compensation  from UKI for the loss adjusters conduct I dont need to 
make a finding on this point.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I require UK Insurance Limited to:
pay the cash settlement amount of £2,400 for the accidental damage claim to the internal 
walls;
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 April 2020.
John Quinlan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5850034