K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs G say Nationwide Building Society mis-sold them two payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policies  taken out with loans in 2000  and 2003.
background
Our adjudicator didnt  think the policies were  mis-sold. Mr and Mrs G disagreed with the 
adjudicators findings  so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Having done so I dont think the policies were mis-sold. Ill explain why.
the 2000 sale
Mr and Mrs G recall the loan was arranged and the PPI sold to them  during a meeting. But 
Nationwide has shown  us persuasive evidence that the loan was applied for over the 
internet. From what  Ive seen I think this is more likely.
The loan was for £9,000  and was intended  to be repaid over seven years.  The PPI policy 
sold with the loan was paid for with a single premium of £2,198.22 which was added  to the 
loan. The PPI covered Mr G only. If Mr G had lost his job it couldve paid a monthly benefit of 
£190.42 for up to 12 months. If Mr G had an accident or became  too unwell to work it could 
have paid the monthly benefit until Mr G returned to work or the loan term ended.
Mr and Mrs G have told us that Nationwide did not advise them that the PPI had been  added 
to the loan.
Nationwide has shown  us a copy of the credit agreement signed by Mr and Mrs G in 2000. 
The PPI premium is set out separately  to the loan repayments on the form and is described 
as optional. So it looks like Mr and Mrs G would have been made aware  of the PPI and that 
it was optional.
From what  Ive seen I think its most  likely  Mr and Mrs G were made aware  the policy was 
optional and they chose to take it out  although after nearly 20 years I can understand if 
they cant remember this.
I dont think Nationwide  would have given Mr and Mrs G a personal recommendation to buy 
the PPI policy  so it didnt have  to check if it was right for them. But it did have to make  sure 
they got the information they needed to decide  if it was right for them. 
Its possible the information Nationwide gave Mr and Mrs G about  the PPI wasnt as clear as 
it shouldve been.  But I think  they chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like they were 
interested in this type of cover. 
Ref: DRN58873432The policy covered Mr G. Based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it doesnt 
look like he was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover - so he would 
have been able to make a claim and the policy would have been useful for him if something 
went wrong. 
Mr G has said he didnt need  the PPI as he wouldve received sick pay from work if he was 
unable to work. But this particular  PPI couldve paid a benefit  in addition to any sick pay and 
potentially for much  longer than Mr Gs sick pay would last. 
Mr and Mrs G have told us they had no other savings  or other resources to make the 
monthly repayments. And it also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont think  better 
information about the PPI would have put Mr and Mrs G off taking out the cover. 
So taking everything into account I think its likely the PPI policy was presented to                
Mr and Mrs G as being optional and they chose  to buy it. And even if Nationwide  had given 
them all the clear  information it shouldve, I still think they would have  gone  ahead and taken 
out the policy. 
the 2003 PPI policy
In 2003 Mr and Mrs G took out another loan, this time for £12,000, part of which  was used to 
clear the original loan taken in 2000.  Mr and Mrs G applied for the loan over the telephone 
and were again sold a PPI policy.
The PPI sold with the 2003 loan was funded by a single premium  of £2,341.43 which was 
added to the loan. The loan was to be repaid over seven years.
Similar to the credit  agreement from the 2000 sale, the cost of the PPI is set out separately 
on the 2003 credit agreement  and the PPI is described as optional.
So taking everything into account I think Nationwide made it clear the PPI was optional and 
Mr and Mrs G chose to take it out.
I dont think Nationwide  gave Mr and Mrs G advice.  So again  it didnt  have to check if it was 
right for them. But it did have to make  sure they got the information they needed to decide  if 
it was right for them.  
Its possible the information Nationwide gave Mr and Mrs G about  the PPI wasnt as clear as 
it shouldve been.  But I think  they chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like they were 
interested in this type of cover. 
The PPI policy covered Mr G only. Mr Gs circumstances had not changed substantially 
since 2000. It doesnt look like he was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the 
PPI cover - so he would have been  able to make a claim and the policy would have been  
useful for him if something went wrong.  
The PPI could have  paid a benefit on top of Mr Gs sick pay and potentially for much  longer 
than his sick pay would last. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  So I dont think better 
information about the PPI would have put Mr and Mrs G off taking out the cover. 
So taking everything into account I think its likely the 2003 PPI policy was presented to       
Mr and Mrs G as being optional and they chose  to buy it. And even if Nationwide  had given 
Ref: DRN58873433them all the clear  information it shouldve, I still think they would have  gone  ahead and taken 
out the policy. 
Which means Nationwide doesnt have  to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to                     
Mr and Mrs G.
But Nationwide will pay back some  of the cost of the 2003 PPI policy to Mr and Mrs G 
because: 
When the policy was sold, Nationwide expected to get a high level of commission and profit 
share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have  told Mr and Mrs G about that. 
Because Nationwide didnt tell them, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Nationwide  has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission 
and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this 
case.
what Nationwide needs to do
For the 2003 PPI policy  Nationwide  should  pay back to Mr and Mrs G the extra  they paid 
each month  on the loan because the commission and profit share was more than 50% of the 
PPI premium - including any extra Mr and Mrs G paid if the loan was paid off early.  
Nationwide should  also pay Mr and Mrs G 8%* simple interest  on the extra  paid each month.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr and Mrs G can claim back  the 
tax if he doesnt  pay tax.
my final decision
My final decision is that The PPI sold in 2000 wasnt mis-sold and I make no award  against  
Nationwide Building  Society.
The 2003  PPI policy wasnt mis-sold   so Nationwide Building Society  does not have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs G.
But for the 2003 PPI only, if it hasnt done  so already, Nationwide  Building Society does  
have to pay back to Mr and Mrs G any commission and profit  share it got that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  20 October  2019.
Steve Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5887343