K820x#14complaint
Ms S complains  that TSB Bank plc unfairly  recorded a default on her credit  file and she 
wants this to be removed.  
background
Ms S exceeded the agreed  overdraft limit on her account and TSB transferred the account  to 
its collections department  at the beginning  of December 2015. From that date until 15 
January 2016  TSB sent Ms S arrears letters, reminder letters, enforcement notices, a final 
demand and a final reminder.  It also tried unsuccessfully on numerous  occasions to contact 
her by phone.
On 16 January Ms S rang the bank asking  it to refund charges and to close  the account. 
That request  was refused, but she was told to visit a branch about the account closure. She 
doesnt appear to have  done so and on 24 March  TSB closed the account.  And on 31 March  
it recorded a default on Ms S credit  file.
TSB heard no more  from Ms S until September 2018 when she contacted  the bank to agree 
a repayment plan. But as she wanted to pay what she could when she could  rather than a 
fixed sum at regular intervals   TSB said that this wasnt an acceptable repayment plan. And 
so Ms S then set up a standing order and for some months  has been paying  £100 every two 
weeks or so.
Ms S then complained to TSB that it had unfairly  recorded a default on her credit file. She 
said that her mother had been very ill during 2014/15, and had sadly died.  Ms S said she 
had been her mothers sole carer and that she had been hugely distressed  during this 
period. She said that as a result she hadnt concentrated on her financial affairs  as she 
otherwise would have done and had run into financial difficulties. She said that TSB had a 
responsibility to treat customers  in her position  fairly,  and she didnt feel it had done so when 
it recorded a default on her credit file. 
When the bank  hadnt replied to Ms S complaint within the expected timescales,  she 
complained to us. She also added to her complaint by saying that she wasnt  informed that 
her account  would be transferred to TSB when Lloyds banking  group transferred some of its 
business to TSB in 2013. As an original Lloyds customer  Ms S believed  her account should  
have stayed with Lloyds.
Our adjudicator considered that TSB could  have done more  than it did to help Ms S given 
her very difficult family circumstances and so there followed a significant  exchange of 
correspondence and phone calls between  him, TSB and Ms S to explore what  more  the 
bank might be prepared  to do. But in pursuing  this the adjudicator nevertheless recognised  
that Ms S had not told TSB in 2014/15 about  her mothers  illness or about the impact this 
was having on her ability to manage  her own finances.
TSB looked again in considerable detail at Ms S case and concluded that it would be 
prepared to write off her outstanding debt  almost £2,000  but it wouldnt remove the 
default from her credit  file as this had been validly recorded.
Our adjudicator considered this to be fair and reasonable,  but Ms S did not. She said the 
most important matter for her was the removal of the default as this was preventing her from 
securing a mortgage. She said she would pay off her debt to TSB herself immediately if it 
Ref: DRN53622462would remove the default. She therefore  asked for an ombudsmans decision on her 
complaint.
With respect to the transfer of Ms S account to TSB, our adjudicator said he didnt consider 
that the bank had done anything wrong.  He said he had seen copies of the many template 
letters the bank  had sent its customers during the months preceding  the transfer explaining 
what would  happen  and setting out how customers could  choose to remain with Lloyds if 
they preferred,  but Ms S didnt appear  to have contacted the bank at the time.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Banks are required to treat customers in financial difficulty positively and sympathetically, but 
of course they can only do so if they are made aware of customers particular circumstances. 
And even  when they do know  it doesnt  mean that they have to agree to all actions  
requested by those  customers.
Ms S was plainly in some difficulty with her account  by December 2015 when TSB 
transferred it to its collections department. I can see from the banks records  that not only did 
it write to her many  times over the following few months, but it tried on numerous occasions  
to contact her by phone. 
I understand entirely why this was a particularly difficult and distressing  period for Ms S and I 
recognise that her attention will have been on family matters, which  she has recently said 
also included difficulties  her sister  was experiencing. But Im afraid it doesnt follow that TSB 
was wrong to record a default on her credit file. TSB knew nothing of Ms S difficult  
circumstances over and above  that she had an unauthorised overdraft and was not 
responding to its many  letters  and phone calls. It therefore followed standard  banking 
practice by closing her account and recording a default. And although Ms S has 
subsequently discovered that this has had adverse implications for her in that she is 
struggling to secure  a mortgage, I cannot reasonably find that TSB did anything wrong 
based on what it knew at the time.
Following the closure of her account  Ms S didnt contact the bank, or attempt to deal with her 
debt, for more than two years when she then offered to set up a repayment plan. But the 
terms she offered were unacceptable to TSB as she was volunteering to repay on an ad hoc 
basis. But to her credit she then nevertheless set up a standing  order and has made  regular 
repayments since.
Ms S main concern is the removal  of the default, and she has offered to clear  her debt if that 
will help. She maintains that at the time that she got into financial difficulties she could have 
done no more  than she did because of the events in her personal life, and it was 
unreasonable of TSB to have expected that she could have done. Consequently, she 
believes that the default has been  unfairly  recorded  and it is preventing her from making 
progress with her current housing difficulties.
Having been approached  by our adjudicator and made aware of Ms S circumstances both in 
2014/15 and now, TSB has looked again  at her case and at its actions to date. And as a 
goodwill gesture it has said it will write off her outstanding balance and record  her debt as 
cleared on her credit file. But it will not remove the default.
Ref: DRN53622463In my judgement this is a very fair offer from TSB in responding to Ms S circumstances. I 
know Ms S would prefer the default to be removed,  but Im afraid I cannot reasonably require 
TSB to do that as the default hasnt in my opinion been recorded either in error or unfairly.  
Credit files should accurately reflect how customers manage their debts, and although Ms S 
has explained why she failed to take any action in 2014/15 about her debt, the fact remains 
that she did nothing  about it. 
Ms S has also complained that her account was transferred  to TSB following Lloyds banking 
group reorganisation, when she believes it should have remained with Lloyds. But from the 
copy letters  I have seen  that the bank  sent to all of its customers, my view is that it was open 
to Ms S to remain with Lloyds if she had wished to do so. It appears that she would probably  
have had to close  her existing account and open  another, but that choice was hers to make. 
I cannot therefore see that the bank acted  unreasonably here.
I know that my decision will come  as a great disappointment to Ms S, and I understand why, 
but Im afraid that I do not have reasonable grounds  to require TSB to remove  the default  
from her credit file.
my final decision
My decision  is that TSB Bank plc should clear the outstanding balance  on Ms S account  and 
amend her credit file to reflect that she no longer has a debt.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 June  2019.
June Brown
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5362246