K820x#14Complaint
Miss A has complained  that Vitality  Health Limited (Vitality) declined a claim made  under 
her private medical insurance policy and added an exclusion  to it.
Background
Miss A took out a Vitality  private medical  insurance policy  through  a company Ill refer to as 
E in November 2017.
In June 2018 Miss A contacted Vitality as she was being referred to a specialist for surgery  
to treat her fibroids. After  receiving medical information from Miss As GP, Vitality  declined 
the claim and added an exclusion to her policy  for the treatment of fibroids. This was 
because it said Miss A had failed  to tell Vitality that shed been  suffering from fibroids  in the 
online application form submitted by E. Vitality said if it had known about this, it would have  
added the exclusion  to her policy at the outset.
Miss A complained, saying that shed made  E aware  of her fibroids and had disclosed this in 
her paper application  form. She said E worked  on behalf of Vitality  so it should take 
responsibility.
Vitality explained  E was an Independent  Financial  Adviser (IFA) so it wasnt  responsible  if E 
hadnt included  details of Miss As fibroids  in her application.
Miss A referred her complaint to our service.  She wanted a refund  of premiums and for 
Vitality to refund the fee shed paid her GP for completing her claim form.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. He thought that Vitality  was entitled to decline 
Miss As claim and add the exclusion. This was because he was satisfied Miss A needed to 
tell Vitality about her fibroids. Had she done  so, he could see Vitality wouldve added the 
exclusion so she wouldnt have ever been  able to claim  for this condition.  He said it was 
clear Miss A had disclosed  this to E and E had failed to include it in the online application  
form, so she would need to take this up with E.
The investigator also didnt think Vitality needed to refund Miss As premiums  because shed 
still had the benefit of cover for other medical conditions.  He didnt think Vitality  needed  to 
refund the fee for the claim form as its terms showed it wouldnt be responsible  for any fees 
charged by doctors  for completing  claim forms.
Miss E didnt accept  the investigators  view. She added that due to the claim being turned 
down and the delay since, her condition  had become worse, requiring more invasive 
surgery. As no agreement could be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to make  
a final decision.
 
My Findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding it.
I know this will be disappointing for Miss A  Im very sorry to hear of her health concerns 
and I dont wish to add to any distress at what is already a difficult time for her. But I dont 
think Vitality has treated her unfairly.  Ill explain why.
Ref: DRN55854272In reviewing this complaint Ive considered the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and
Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA), which mirrors this services longstanding  approach  to 
cases like this. It sets out the roles  and duties of the consumer and insurer  when entering 
into an insurance contract. CIDRA  places the consumer under a duty to take reasonable 
care not to make a misrepresentation (i.e. to say something untrue or misleading),  provided 
the insurer has asked  a clear question. If the consumer  doesnt take reasonable care to 
answer questions  accurately it sets out the remedies available to the insurer.
It isnt in dispute that there was a misrepresentation. Miss A says she disclosed her fibroids 
in the paper application form she completed  for E. However, E submitted the application 
form online and it didnt  include the disclosure Miss A made about her fibroids.
What would Vitality have done differently?
The action an insurer can take depends  on whether the misrepresentation was deemed to 
be careless, or deliberate or reckless. 
Its clear Miss A disclosed her fibroids  to E. But she was sent a copy of her application  by 
Vitality to check. This included the following warning:
For the purposes of underwriting (assessing)  your application, we usually rely solely on the 
information you provide and the questions being answered honestly  and fully for all 
applicants to be covered by the plan. Failure to do so may result  in a claim not being paid, 
your underwriting terms being changed or your cover being cancelled, and/or any treatment 
costs already paid being reclaimed.
The copy  of the application sent to Miss A showed  the question about  whether or not shed 
suffered from any reproductive disorders, including fibroids, was answered,  no. Miss A 
didnt contact Vitality to correct this. It seems most likely to me that this was an oversight on 
Miss As part. So, I think its fair for Vitality to categorise this as a careless 
misrepresentation.
CIDRA explains that where  its found that a consumer has made a careless  
misrepresentation, the insurer is entitled  to take the action it wouldve taken had it known the 
relevant information  at the point of application.  Vitality has provided  evidence showing it 
wouldve provided Miss A with the policy she applied for, but it wouldve included the 
following exclusion:
Benefit will not be payable under this plan for any further investigations or treatment due to:
1)Fibroids and related conditions
2)Menorrhagia and related conditions.
As the treatment Miss A required falls within the remit  of this exclusion, I think it was fair for 
Vitality to decline her claim.  This is because Miss A wouldnt have ever been eligible to claim 
for treatment of fibroids.
I appreciate Miss A may feel this is unfair,  particularly as she told E about her fibroids. But 
Vitality isnt responsible  for Es actions as E is an IFA. Miss A can make a complaint about 
Es actions  separately.
Ref: DRN55854273I dont think Vitality needs to return Miss As premiums as its clear it still wouldve provided 
her with the policy, at the same premium  she paid, if itd known her full medical history at the 
point of application. It wouldve covered her for treatment  of new medical conditions  if shed  
needed it, so shes had the benefit  of cover  throughout.
Regarding Miss As request for a refund  of the cost of completing the claim form, Vitalitys 
terms and conditions say this is a cost Miss A must bear. So, I dont think  Vitality needs to 
refund this to Miss A.
My Final  Decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 November  2019.
Hannah Wise
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN5585427