K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken in 2002  when    
Ms B applied for a credit card by post.  Ms B says Barclays Bank  Plc  trading as 
Barclaycard  mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Ms Bs case.
Having done this, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why. 
Ms B says the policy was added to her account  without her knowledge  or consent. Looking 
at the copy of Ms Bs application form that has been  provided  by Barclays,  it asks applicants 
to select a box to say yes or no to taking the PPI. The yes box has been  ticked  on Ms Bs 
form and shes signed the application form in agreement to its contents.  So, I think  Barclays 
made it clear  that Ms B didnt have to take out the PPI  and she decided  to take it.
As I havent  seen anything to suggest  Ms B had any direct contact with a Barclays  advisor 
at the time of the sale, it doesnt look like Barclays recommended the PPI to Ms B. So it 
didnt have to check if it was suitable  for her. But it did have to make  sure Ms B got the 
information she needed to decide if it was right for her.
Looking at everything Ive been given, its possible the information  Barclays  gave Ms B about 
the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve been.  But based on what Ive seen  of her 
circumstances at the time it doesnt  look like she was affected by any of the exclusions to or 
limits on the PPI cover. Ms B says she was working part time when the policy was taken out.  
But the policy doesnt have any requirements  to be working a certain  number of hours  to be 
eligible for it so this wouldnt have stopped Ms B from claiming  on the PPI.
Ms B says she has some sick pay benefits  from her employer, but the PPI wouldve paid out 
alongside these  and for longer.  And from what shes  told us, Ms B didnt have any other  
means  such as savings   of making  her repayments. So I think  the policy  would have been 
useful to her if something went  wrong.
It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont  think better information about the PPI 
would have put Ms B off taking  out the cover.  Which  means Barclays doesnt  have to pay 
back all the cost of the PPI to her.
But Barclays  has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Ms B because:
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Ms B about that. Because Barclays didnt tell Ms B, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays  has paid back the amount  of commission  and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ref: DRN58692982my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank Plc does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Ms B.
But Barclays  Bank Plc does have  to pay back to Ms B any commission and profit share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done  this, so I dont 
award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 April 2019.
Claire Marchant-Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5869298