K821x#15complaint
Ms S has complained about her home  insurer U K Insurance  Limited (UKI) in relation to a 
claim she made to it for damage caused by a water leak in 2014.
background
Following the leak in 2014 Ms S complained  to this service and our adjudicator  issued a 
view in January 2016. He noted the claim had been  severely delayed by UKI and said it 
should decide what needed fixing, including what had caused the kitchen floor to drop and if 
this needed fixing  under the policy.
At the start of February  2016, as a result  of that view,  UKI appointed a new loss adjuster. 
There was a meeting  at Ms Ss home at the end of May 2016  and in July 2016 the loss 
adjuster asked Ms S to get an estimate  for the damage at her home. Ms S sent this to UKI 
in November 2016 but it said it wasnt detailed  enough.  Following Ms S providing a revised 
estimate UKI agreed the costs. That was 1 December 2016 and the builder told Ms S work 
would start at the beginning of February  2017.
After work started some  additional damage was found. UKI agreed to some amendments 
but there  were two items it would  not agree to (a damaged gas pipe and replacement  lintel). 
And a third (a rotten window  frame) which it did agree to but then declined  to cover. UKI 
accepted it had caused some delay though since our previous view and told Ms S it would 
pay her £350 compensation. Ms S complained to us again.
Our adjudicator felt that UKI should  be paying for the lintel but not the gas pipe. She felt the 
compensation UKI had offered  was fair and reasonable.
Ms S disputed our investigators  findings  about the gas pipe and pointed out that the 
window frame hadnt been mentioned. She also said she wanted UKI to write confirming 
what her claim  would have cost if it had handled things properly from the start. UKI said it 
didnt think it should have to pay for the lintel (£900). It said it had to be replaced to comply 
with building regulations, it wasnt necessary as part of the insured work.
The complaint was passed  to me and I noted that we hadnt given an answer  on the 
window frame issue. I issued a provisional  decision to both parties.  Theyve now responded 
and Ive set out my final findings below, which include my provisional findings,  the parties 
responses and any final comment  from me on those  issues.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
I said provisionally:
gas pipe
UKI asked for a cause  of damage  report from a gas specialist. This said the pipe had 
fractured due to Ms Ss contractor using  a pneumatic drill to break up the floor. I know the 
contractor only had to lift the floor due to UKIs earlier claim delays but that doesnt mean 
Ref: DRN53266892its fairly responsible  for the damage caused  by work carried out by a contractor it didnt 
appoint. Im not going to make UKI pay for this repair.
Ms S said she accepted  my findings  in this respect. These findings are now part of my final 
decision.
My provisional findings continued:
lintel
Ms Ss contractor reported that the lintel had been exposed whilst replacing  plaster  
necessary as a result  of the original claim delays. Once exposed it was apparent this didnt 
meet building regulations and an engineer said it had to be replaced. I dont think  Ms S 
could have completed the insured  repairs without this work being carried out. And if the 
plaster to that height hadnt needed  to be replaced  then neither  would  the lintel.  In the 
circumstances I think UKI should reasonably cover the cost of this which is £900.
UKI said it felt Id missed  the point here which was essentially that the lintel didnt have to 
be replaced. Its replacement was only a recommendation.  
The report  from Ms Ss contractor stated that after a site visit from the structural engineer  it 
has been recommended  we must remove.and replace  with new. Im satisfied that 
Ms S had no choice  but to allow the lintel replacement  to go ahead  in order to get the 
property repairs completed. Whilst I understand why UKI thinks it shouldnt be liable for this 
I think that requiring  that it covers this cost in the circumstances here is fair and reasonable.
My provisional findings continued:
window frame
The contractor reported that it was mouldy and rotten and needed  replacing.  When  the loss 
adjuster asked the contractor, the contractor  said that, in his view, this was likely related to 
the claim.  UKI seemed  to agree but upon review said it didnt think  this was likely. No 
reasoning was given. Considering what happened  at the start of the claim, and the lack of 
any persuasive evidence  from either  expert as to the likely cause of the problem, I think  its 
reasonable to give Ms S the benefit of the doubt. I intend to make UKI pay Ms S £350 as 
payment of the sum her contractor charged  her for replacing the window.
Ms S said that payment  for the window has been made. In this respect then I wont ask UKI 
to make any further payment.
My provisional findings continued: 
interest
Due to the payment arrangement Ms S had with the builder it isnt clear what  she has and 
hasnt paid. Therefore,  Im not going  to make  UKI add interest on the sums Ive said it 
should now pay.
compensation
Ref: DRN53266893I can see there were delays between February  2016  and May 2016 and poor 
communication, at times, throughout 2016.  I think it was also likely frustrating for Ms S to be 
told to arrange her own scope for the repairs.
UKI had a surveyor involved so could easily have done this. However,  I note Ms S did want 
to use her own builder but had difficulty finding one prepared to undertake the scale of 
work. And that when UKI asked for further clarification as to what work the builder 
proposed, this was given  quickly and UKI accepted it without further delay. So I think UKIs 
failure to carry out the scope itself likely  didnt  impact the length of the claim. 
When Ms S advised  UKI of the additional  three  items it replied  with a few days. However, 
whilst it initially  seemed  to accept that the window frame needed replacing as part of the 
claim it then changed  its mind without any real reasoning being  given.  I accept this was 
frustrating for Ms S.
Overall in assessing this complaint Ive been mindful that the claim was initially made  in
2014. Im only assessing the impact of delays from January 2016 here but I accept that the 
on-going nature of the matter made things much more stressful for Ms S. Im satisfied that 
in the circumstances here £600 compensation is fairly and reasonably due.
claim cost
Its unfortunate that the claim repair costs escalated in the way that they did. It might be 
possible for UKI to confirm what  the costs would have been if the claim had been handled 
correctly but I cant see that this would likely  provide any benefit to Ms S, or that she is 
currently disadvantaged because she doesnt  have it. And in saying this Im mindful that 
insurers usually want to know about the full cost of claims, regardless of why the total was 
ultimately reached.
Neither party commented in these respects  so my provisional findings, as copied here, are 
now the findings of this my final decision.
my final decision
I uphold  this complaint. I require U K Insurance Limited to pay Ms S:
£900 for the replacement lintel.
A total of £600  compensation (if £350 has been paid already then only the remainder will 
now need to be paid).
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 April 2019.
Fiona Robinson
Ref: DRN53266894ombudsman
Ref: DRN5326689