K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a claim for a damaged Apple watch  made  under a gadget  insurance  
policy from Assurant General Insurance Limited,  administered by Lifestyle Services Group 
Limited (AGI).  Mrs M says the repair hasnt been  carried out correctly.
background
In September  2018 Mrs M registered a claim with AGI for damage to the screen on her Apple 
watch. The item was sent to AGIs repairers and it was returned to Mrs M once the repair  had 
been completed. Shortly after it had been returned, Mrs M contacted  AGI and told them  the 
watch had been  used in the shower  and it was no longer waterproof. She said the item had 
been used in the shower before the damage to the screen had occurred (before  the repair took 
place) and it hadnt  been  a problem before. Mrs M complained that the repair hadnt  been 
completed correctly and said she wanted the watch to be looked at again and returned to the 
state it was in prior to the damage or, if this wasnt possible, payment for a replacement.
AGI didnt  agree  that the repair was faulty. It said it provides a warranty  following any repair 
but the warranty didnt cover  defects caused  by misuse. It said Apples own user guide  
states the watch shouldnt be exposed to such liquids as soaps and shampoos  something 
which it says is likely  when showering. So AGI didnt uphold Mrs Ms complaint. Unhappy 
with their response, Mrs M brought her complaint to our service. 
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. He said AGIs  warranty  is clear in stating it will 
cover failures as a result of manufacturing  defects or faults. But the watch  was worn  in the 
shower potentially  exposing it to soaps, shampoos or conditioners - which  Apple advises 
against. So he didnt  think the lack of water resistance was a manufacturing fault or defect. 
The investigator also pointed out that Apple  say water resistance isnt a permanent condition  
and that this could diminish  over time. As the watch was around two years old he thought  it 
was possible that this may have been the cause, as opposed to any repairing  issue.
Mrs M disagreed with the investigators outcome. She said it was logical that, as the only 
interference with the watch had been the repair, it seemed obvious that it had been  returned 
without being  sealed correctly and this is what caused the failure.  As the watch was only two 
years old, she wouldnt  expect a product of this brand and quality to only provide 
waterproofing for less than two years. 
As Mrs M didnt agree with the investigators outcome, the complaint has been  passed to me 
to review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And having  done so, Ive decided this 
complaint shouldnt be upheld. I appreciate this will be disappointing for Mrs M and Ill 
explain my reasons for reaching  this outcome.
When responding to Mrs Ms complaint, AGI has referred to the 90 day warranty it provides 
following the repair of a gadget. This warranty states AGI will cover mechanical and 
electrical failures as a result of any manufacturing faults or defects. But the warranty also 
states it will not be valid if the defect  is caused by misuse, neglect or tampering. I need to 
consider whether the problem relating to the waterproofing of the watch is one that AGI 
should be considering under this warranty.
Ref: DRN53851552AGI has referred to guidance provided by Apple in relation to the use of the watch  and Ive 
seen a copy of this information. Apples user guide  states it doesnt recommend  exposing 
the watch to such  liquids as soaps, shampoos  as these can affect water seals and acoustic 
membranes and this should be avoided. The guide  also confirms that water resistance isnt a 
permanent condition and may diminish  over time.
From what  we have been told by Mrs M the watch was noted as not being waterproof  
following it being used  in the shower. I think it would be fair to say that when  taking a shower  
its likely  this would involve the use of soaps or shampoos and I think it would be quite 
difficult to protect the watch from exposure to these liquids. The fact that it has been  used  in 
such a way is against the recommendations of the watch manufacturers.  Based on this 
knowledge I dont  think it would be reasonable to say that the loss of water resistance must 
be as a result of a manufacturing fault or defect. 
Mrs M has said the watch had been worn  in the bath or shower prior to the repair taking 
place without any issue  so she believes the repair must have  been  completed incorrectly.  
And I can appreciate  why she has reached  this conclusion. But I dont have any independent 
evidence to show that there was a fault with the repair completed by AGI. Without  this it 
would be unfair  for me to conclude  that AGI has done something wrong. I have to take into 
consideration that the watch manufacturer itself states that water  resistance isnt a 
permanent state  and so it may simply be coincidental that this problem has occurred 
following the repair, as opposed to being caused  by it.
So when taking  everything into account,  I dont  think that AGI has acted unfairly in refusing 
to repair  the watch  under the warranty it provides. It therefore follows  that I dont uphold this 
complaint. I have noted that AGI has said that Mrs M can make a new claim against the 
policy for this damage. Mrs M may wish to contact AGI to discuss this further.
my final decision
For the reasons  stated  above, I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 November  2019.
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN5385155