K820x#14complaint
Mrs P has complained about the premium Tesco Personal Finance plc charged her for her 
home insurance policy.
background
Mrs P applied for home  insurance  via a price comparison  website. It offered her a policy with 
Tesco at a premium  of £123.80. When she selected this option,  she was transferred to 
Tescos home page. It invited her to enter her loyalty card number for an exclusive discount. 
She entered  her loyalty card number.  After Mrs P had paid the premium, she realised that 
the premium hadnt been reduced from the price originally quoted.  
She complained to Tesco and asked it to refund the discount. It said that it was able to 
locate her loyalty card from the details  shed provided and that had enabled it to add the 
discount to her quote automatically. It said it had only offered the option to edit the loyalty  
card number in case she had another card.
Mrs P complained to this service. Our adjudicator  didnt recommend that her complaint was 
upheld. He thought Tesco had applied the loyalty discount when calculating Mrs Ps 
premium and didnt  think Tesco  had treated her unfairly 
As Mrs P didnt agree,  the matter has been referred  to me. Mrs P also thought Tesco should 
offer her some compensation for the fact that its website was misleading.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are two issues I need to decide.  They are firstly whether Tesco applied a loyalty 
discount to Mrs Ps premium and secondly whether Tescos website was misleading.
loyalty discount
Tesco has provided  us with a screenshot showing that it was able to locate Mrs Ps loyalty 
card from the details shed provided on the price  comparison  website and so it was able to 
apply a discount to her quote automatically.  It has subsequently explained that on the screen 
the box under the words inviting Mrs P to enter her loyalty card number wasnt blank but 
filled with a number  she couldnt view.
I cant share with Mrs P the amount of the discount  that was applied to her policy  because  
its commercially sensitive  but Im satisfied  that one was applied.
Tesco has said that since its already applied a discount, its not prepared to discount  the 
premium further. I think thats  fair.
was Tescos website misleading?
Tesco accepts that its website could have made it clearer to Mrs P that the discount had 
been applied  when calculating the premium quoted to her. I agree. I can see why she might 
have thought the premium might be reduced  further  when she input her loyalty  card number.
Ref: DRN55277752But at the point when she chose to go ahead and buy the policy,  it was clear to Mrs P that 
her premium  hadnt been reduced from the amount first quoted and she still accepted that. 
So I dont  think the fact that the website was rather misleading made  any difference to her.
I can understand that this has been  rather annoying  for Mrs P but overall I dont think its a 
mistake which  has had a significant impact  on Mrs P. In the circumstances I dont  feel that 
any compensation is justified.
Im sorry  to disappoint Mrs P but I dont feel Tesco has treated her unfairly or unreasonably.
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 February  2019.
Elizabeth Grant
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5527775