K822xcomplaint
F, a limited company, complains that Santander UK Plc would not change its 
correspondence address and caused  it inconvenience.
background 
F contacted  Santander  in August 2018 and asked  that its correspondence  address be 
changed to one in a different country.  Santander  gave it conflicting information  about 
whether this would  be possible. It eventually added the overseas address to the account in 
October 2018. 
Our investigator recommended that F be paid £200 in compensation and Santander agreed. 
She said that Santander had not given  a clear explanation of its policy or requirements to F. 
She had now confirmed with F that the addresses held were the correct ones for its 
registered, trading  and correspondence details.
F did not agree  and said it wanted compensation of £500. Santander had acted in a 
haphazard manner.  It had not explained  why the address  was changed in October 2018 
after it said that this could not happen.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the correspondence between F and Santander about this request. I agree that 
Santanders requirements were unclear. It initially told F that it could not change the address 
to one overseas  online  but that it would  need to apply in writing. It seemed at times  to be 
confusing the request  from F with the personal  address  details of the director.  It did not act 
on the written requests  from F and told it earlier in October 2018  that the address had not 
been changed - even  though it was subsequently on 23 October 2018. In the meantime F 
had made  arrangements  for a different  address to be used in this country and had given 
instructions to Santander about this.
The terms and conditions  of the account state that the account  holder  here F  must have 
an address in this country. But Santander  has an internal  policy which says that a request to 
go outside this can be considered. And its told our investigator that it was reviewing its 
policy about this after June 2018. On 3 October  2018 it told F in its final response that at 
least one director must  have an address in the UK. It then asked F to resubmit  its request 
again even though F had already put this in writing. 
It is a matter for Santander  to set the terms and conditions for the account  and decide  what 
criteria should be applied.  Here,  I dont think that the delay  in it making a decision was 
reasonable whether or not it was undertaking a review. And its communication  about this 
with F was poor.
I agree  F has been caused inconvenience by this matter. But I cant  consider the personal 
impact on the director here in a complaint from F. I understand  that F had access to online 
banking and that correspondence  from Santander was limited.  However, F made a request 
to change that correspondence address and had to contact Santander about this repeatedly. 
Ref: DRN51095912In my judgement the compensation now offered to reflect this is reasonable and I know the 
director of F will be disappointed by this. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint and require Santander UK Plc to pay F £200.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 July 2019.  
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5109591