K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains about the service provided by Lloyds Bank Plc through his online trading 
account. In particular that it didnt deal with the trade  he placed  for Spotify  shares as it 
shouldve done.
background
Mr G wanted to purchase Spotify shares when they first started trading on 3 April 2018. He 
made several telephone enquiries about doing  so before they became available  on the 
market and before placing  a buy order online.
There was a delay  in loading the trade  details onto Mr Gs online account so he couldnt see 
that his order  had been successful and wasnt able to see the value  of the shares  in his 
account and couldnt sell them.
Lloyds contacted him by telephone around  two hours after he had purchased the shares to 
tell him that his trade had been successful. He then asked  for his shares to be sold.
He complained to Lloyds  who didnt  uphold his complaint. It said that Mr G had provided 
clear instructions to buy and then sell the shares.  It said it had carried out those instructions 
and didnt agree that it had done  anything wrong.
One of our investigators  considered the complaint but didnt uphold it. He said it wasnt  in 
dispute that there was a problem with the online platform. But he said Mr G was made aware 
he could call if he had problems. He said Mr G wanted to buy the shares and Lloyds followed 
his instructions. He acknowledged there  was a problem with selling the shares  online but Mr 
G hadnt called to check the shares  had been  purchased, or to sell them,  when he couldnt 
do this online.
Mr G didnt agree with the investigator. He said the investigator hadnt addressed the core of 
his complaint. He explained that when he purchased the shares online he didnt get any 
confirmation and tried to purchase them again. He said when he got confirmation of the sale 
via email he had telephoned  to ask what the purchase price was and the person he spoke  to 
couldnt tell him. 
He said the investigator  was wrong to suggest  he couldve found out the purchase price over 
the phone  as their online  system wasnt working  so couldnt tell him the price.  He said 
knowing the price  you purchased  at is important when making a decision  to buy or sell. He 
suggested the investigator  had been contradictory in that he had said Mr G couldve called 
Lloyds for information  whilst at the same time referring to the multiple calls he had made. 
The investigator sent him the call recordings at his request  but he didnt make any further 
comment.
As Mr G didnt  agree with the investigator the matter  has been referred to me for review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN59522902Mr G has explained that what he wanted to do on 3 April 2018 was to purchase Spotify 
shares with the money he had available in his account and then sell those shares within  a 
short time and I accept that is what he wanted  to do.
He telephoned  Lloyds three  times between around 2.00pm and 2.45pm saying he wanted to 
place a trade. But the shares werent  available for trading  until around 5.45pm. Mr G 
telephoned at around 5.50pm but Lloyds was still carrying  out its own checks at that time so 
the shares werent available  on its platform when he telephoned.  He was asked whether he 
wanted to hold for a couple  of minutes  but he said he didnt.
The shares became  available on Lloyds  platform at around 6.03pm and the trade 
confirmation I have  seen shows that Mr Gs placed an online trade  to buy the shares at 
6.07pm.
There is no dispute that the details  of the trade  didnt show  in Mr Gs online account 
straightaway. He has explained that this then led him to place a second  trade  for the same  
shares the details  of which  also didnt show in his account.
Lloyds then tried to call Mr G just after 8pm and left a message for him to call which he then 
did at 8.26pm. The person he spoke to said he had been asked  to call Mr G by one of the 
dealers. It is more likely  than not that this was prompted by what  had happened on Mr Gs 
account which required some explanation  to be given to him.
The person  Mr G spoke  to explained  that he had been successful in one of his trades  for 
Spotify and that this was his second  trade.  It was acknowledged this wasnt  showing on his 
account. There is also reference to Mr G having placed a trade for Lloyds shares which  
couldnt go ahead because the trade for Spotify had completed. Mr G then asked for the 
Spotify shares to be sold.
Lloyds accepts that there was a delay in loading the trade details onto the account showing 
that Mr Gs trade had been successful. From what Mr G said in the telephone call at 8.26pm, 
when he tried to sell the shares  he couldnt.  It seems clear he assumed that neither  trade  he 
placed for Spotify had been  successful  given he didnt then try and telephone Lloyds.
Lloyds has explained  that the delay in uploading the trade details onto Mr Gs account was 
because of the high volume of trades that were  placed  once  Spotify started trading. I dont 
think Lloyds was in breach  of its agreement with Mr G because it didnt immediately upload  
the trade details. There will be times  when  it cant immediately  provide information online 
such as when there are periods of high demand  and I dont think this means it did anything  
wrong.
I also think it would have  been reasonable for Mr G to have telephoned Lloyds to check what  
had happened  with the trades he had placed  online. I note he suggested the investigator 
had been contradictory in saying he could have telephoned for information  whilst referring to 
the calls he had made. But all the calls he made  were before he placed any trade and it isnt 
contradictory to find he shouldve called after he placed the trade when he was unable to see 
any details of the trade or sell.
 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons I have explained. 
Ref: DRN59522903Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 June 2019.
Philip Gibbons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5952290