K820x#14complaint
The legal representative of the late Mr Rs estate, Mrs R, has complained that he would 
never have  taken out his pension if The Strachan Partnership Ltd had advised him his wife 
might not receive  100% of the death benefits.  Mrs R has also complained that Strachan  
dealt with her unprofessionally  in explaining the process for claiming  the death benefits  from 
the late Mr Rs plan.  Mrs R is represented in this complaint by her sister Ms C.
background
In 2016 Mr R started new employment  and Strachan arranged a new Self Invested Personal 
Pension (SIPP) to receive contributions from his new employer. Into that plan he also 
transferred his Group Stakeholder Pension and Group Personal Pension (GPP) which hed 
taken out when he was working for two previous  employers.
As is the practice when taking out any new pension plan, Mr R completed an Expression of 
Wish (EoW)  form to nominate his then partner (now Mrs R) to receive  the death benefits.  
They married later that year. Strachan has shown  that the literature issued  by SIPP  provider, 
including the EoW  form, explained the death benefits would be paid out from a discretionary 
trust; meaning the SIPP provider was entitled to decide how to distribute the benefits. 
When Mr R sadly  died, Mrs R reports being told by Strachan that he should  have  made a will 
to demonstrate she should benefit from the pension  on his death; and that she would need  
to obtain Grant of Probate in order to claim. That turned out to be unnecessary as Mr R died 
without a will and with a small  estate. She further states that Strachans  adviser  explained 
that the children  would be entitled to part of Mr Rs estate under Scottish law. 
The SIPP provider subsequently made  a decision  to only pay 60% of the death  benefits to 
Mrs R, with the remainder being paid to another beneficiary or beneficiaries. Ms C explained 
when she brought  the complaint to the Financial  Ombudsman Service that Mrs R was in 
financial difficulty, and the dispute  with the SIPP provider was affecting her health. To put 
things right they wanted Strachan to ensure 100% of the death benefits  went  to Mrs R.
Strachan told us that it didnt  agree 100% would be paid out to Mrs R during its meeting with 
Mrs R and a consultant from the pension provider, after Mr Rs death. It agreed that a junior 
member of staff had given  out information about the relevance of wills/probate  based on a 
misunderstanding of Mrs Rs situation,  which it subsequently corrected.
One of our investigators  considered the complaint. In summary,  she said:
On the fact find that Strachan filled in with Mr R before switching his pension,  he 
stated maintaining his standard  of living in retirement was the highest  priority, and 
protection in the event of death of himself or his partner as the lowest. 
The SIPP providers key facts  document explained that the death  benefits were 
subject to a discretionary  trust, as did the EoW form Mr R completed.
The death benefits wouldnt have had a material effect on him deciding  to transfer his 
pension policies, as the death  benefits from his existing policies were also written 
under a discretionary trust  as indeed are all pensions of this type.
She recommended that Strachan  paid Mrs R £200 for the upset caused by the 
incorrect information about the need for a will and grant of probate. Strachan had 
agreed to make  this award.
Mrs R didnt agree. In particular, she said:
The question is why did Strachans advise [Mr R] to remove  [his] ex-wife from the policy  and
Ref: DRN55490912to include his children  as non-dependants,  and to add his future  wife to the policy  making 
sure [his] wife came  through to sign the documents if death benefits were  not a priority. If all 
pensions are going to be subject to the death before benefits rule was there need for this 
farce.
She thought  Strachan had failed in its responsibility to directly  explain to Mr R the 
consequences of his EoW. And she felt the investigator hadnt placed enough weight on 
what she was told at the meeting after Mr Rs death   it was Strachan  and the SIPP 
providers representatives word against  hers. In that meeting both Strachan and the pension 
provider agreed  that they couldnt see why I would not receive 100 percent pay out. She 
was insulted by Strachans  offer of £200  because the adviser  and not just a junior  employee  
had misled them about Mr R needing  a will.
The investigator explained that there was no better way Mr R had to potentially influence  
who received the death benefits, than filling  in the EoW form. The representative of the SIPP 
provider Strachan  asked to the meeting with Mrs R after Mr Rs death  wasnt  actually one of 
the trustees  of the SIPPs discretionary trust.  So he may have  expressed  an opinion,  but 
wasnt actually making the decision on how to distribute  the death benefits.
Mrs R subsequently  suggested that Strachan  might have asked Mr R to sign the fact find 
document, and then filled it in the following day. That, combined with alleged errors in 
personal details  on the form (which  Mr R pointed out to Strachan at the time), indicated  to 
her that there were failings in the sale of the SIPP.  She also provided  an audio recording  of 
the abovementioned  meeting with the adviser  and representative of the SIPP provider, which  
she and her sister attended  after Mr Rs death.
As it doesnt appear  the adviser would have been aware that the meeting was being 
recorded, weve asked  Strachan to confirm  whether  it has any concerns about this evidence  
being considered as part of the complaint. It was happy for us to include  this evidence. So Ill 
now proceed to make  my final decision on the complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
advice given to Mr R in 2016
The EoW form Mr R completed for his new SIPP in 2016 explained the following:
Are your instructions  binding?
Normally, any Instruction  you give us in Part 3 about  who to pay the death benefit to is only 
an expression of wish and is not binding. This means that [provider], as administrator of the 
scheme, will decide who should receive  the death  benefit, taking  into account all relevant 
matters, including  your expression  of wish.
The Key Features Document for the SIPP used as part of the sales  process also explained:
4.7 Other  important  questions
What happens to my SIPP when I die?
We will normally pay out the plan value as a lump  sum. Your  beneficiary may be able to
choose an annuity or a flexible income instead.  Please let us know who you would like to 
receive the death benefit by completing  an instruction for payment of death benefits form
We will decide who to pay death  benefits to. Well take your wishes  into account  but wont
Ref: DRN55490913be bound  by them.
Unfortunately I think whats happened in this case is that the precise  way the SIPP provider 
has decided to exercise its discretion has taken on a significance  it probably wouldnt have 
had at the time Mr R was receiving advice. As the fact find completed with Strachan  shows,  
Mr R was looking for a review of his pension arrangements in 2016 view a view to improving 
the income he and his dependants would  receive  once he retired. As sometimes happens, 
this then resulted  in him consolidating several  pension plans together.
I understand Mrs R may be concerned that the investigators opinion was influenced by Mr R 
rating protection in the event of his or his partners death as the lowest priority.  That doesnt 
mean protection wasnt still important  theres  no reason for me to think  that Mr R wouldnt 
have wanted Mrs R to be provided for on his death; particularly given that he made her the 
sole nomination  on his EoW form. But it does reflect the fact that this wasnt  the reason Mr R 
was actually carrying out a review of his pension arrangements. The fact find is 
contemporaneous evidence of Mr R and Strachans discussions,  and I dont think  Mrs R can 
credibly dispute that it doesnt broadly reflect the content of those discussions.
A pension  plan it isnt necessarily the main, or most cost-effective way of providing a lump 
sum in the event  of death before retirement.  Term assurance is often  taken out to 
supplement the value  of any assets that might be passed on, because  the cost of the 
insurance reflects that there isnt an accumulated fund - and a benefit will only be paid if the 
insured dies within the term of the plan. Term  assurance can also be paid to a nominated 
person without being deemed part of the insureds estate and potentially subject to 
inheritance tax.
The tax concessions given to pension arrangements are to allow a fund to be built up for use 
in retirement; not primarily to pass on to beneficiaries on death before retirement. So the 
accumulated fund on death  before  retirement might be considered  part of the policyholders 
estate. In order to prevent  this happening and the possibility of inheritance  tax being 
payable, the providers use a discretionary trust. As discretion  rests  with the provider as to 
who to pay the death benefits  to, its deemed to fall outside the policyholders estate.
Its a standard  part of applying for a new pension plan that an EoW form will be completed. 
Mr R completed  one for the previous pension he transferred into this SIPP   and I gather he 
hadnt updated that EoW so his ex-wife was still named  on that plan. So whilst the advice he 
took from Strachan in 2016 resulted in his EoW changing, it doesnt  necessarily mean  Mrs R 
would be in any different a position had Mr R not transferred  his plan in 2016. The payment 
of death benefits would have been subject to the former providers discretionary trust 
instead. They may well have concluded that his EoW was likely  out of date, and given  similar 
consideration to paying the majority of the benefits to Mrs R as the current provider has 
done.
Ultimately, I agree with the investigator  that Mr R did all he reasonably could in 2016 to 
express his preference for Mrs R to receive  all of the death benefits. And the advice  
Strachan gave  on consolidating  his pensions didnt make a material difference here. Im also 
satisfied that the forms Mr R completed and the supporting  literature gave the standard  
disclosure that any pension applicant will receive  about the pension  provider having 
discretion over distributing the death  benefits before retirement. So in terms of the complaint 
Mrs R is bringing  as the representative of Mr Rs estate,  Im not going to be upholding this.
information Strachan gave to Mrs R.
Ref: DRN55490914The rest of Mrs Rs complaint concerns the explanations Strachan gave her of how the death 
benefits from her late husbands plan would  be paid out. She says she was given the 
impression that things would have turned out differently if Mr R had made  a will, and that she 
needed a Grant of Probate  to claim the pension death benefits. 
Ive listened to the recording Mrs R has provided of the later meeting which  it seems  was 
held to resolve a misunderstanding  so I havent  actually  heard how the misunderstanding 
first happened. But I note that Strachan  hasnt denied that it allowed Mrs R to gain the 
impression, initially, that the pension death  benefits were part of Mr Rs estate. Thats  clearly 
unfortunate because  the purpose  of the discretionary  trust is to keep the death benefits 
separate from Mr Rs estate. 
I do however consider  that Strachan  did the right thing in arranging a meeting  not only with 
Mrs R and her sister, but also a representative  of the SIPP  provider  in an attempt to better 
explain how the decision to distribute  the death benefits will be reached.  For the avoidance  
of any doubt, the complaint Im considering here is against Strachan,  not the SIPP provider.  
There was discussion in the meeting about  the evidence  the SIPP provider was expecting  
Mrs R to provide, which wasnt something  Strachan  had control over. And in the paragraphs  
that follow Ill only be commenting below on what Strachans adviser  said in the meeting.
 
At the start of the recording, the adviser is heard admitting that Strachans communications  
with Mrs R havent always been as clear as they should have been. Mrs R is also heard  
recollecting that she had been told by the junior member of staff that this was an estate 
pension; and Mr R having made  a will was very important  in this situation.  Just as with its 
dealings with the ombudsman service, Strachan  at no point denies  that its member  of staff 
might have said this  and this is essentially  why it has now agreed to a payment of £200 for 
the upset it caused.  In fact some of the discussion in the meeting strays into whether Mr R 
making a will might  have helped, or not. Strachans  adviser is heard suggesting it might  have  
done, and Mrs R disagrees.
In fairness I dont think anyone can categorically  say that Mr R making a will wouldnt have 
potentially have an impact  on the discretionary decision the SIPP provider makes. A will 
couldnt bind the SIPP providers decision,  but it would have been open  to the SIPP  provider 
to weigh up the will in the evidence it took into account (along with the EoW, claims made  by 
potential beneficiaries and any other evidence).  But most importantly here, I dont consider in 
the recording Mrs R has provided that Strachan is categorically saying the SIPP providers  
decision would have  been different if Mr R had made a will. I think  its clear  from the nature 
of the discussion  that by this point everyone  at the meeting did understand the discretion the 
SIPP provider had. And that it would never  have  been  possible  for Mr R to predetermine who 
would receive the death benefits.
I agree  there is some discussion about  the Scottish treatment of an individuals estate in the 
meeting (meaning  the children can claim),  and how this differs from the English treatment. 
That doesnt  of course mean children have an automatic claim to the pension death  benefits, 
so I see how Mrs R might have thought  this was irrelevant. But again, I couldnt  categorically 
say that the fact Mr R had been domiciled in Scotland wasnt  potentially  relevant information 
the SIPP provider  would  take into account.  (It might  have  been open to them to consider the 
overall position, including what sums other  beneficiaries  might  already be inheriting,  in 
deciding how to distribute the proceeds  of his pension.)
Mrs R was concerned in the meeting  about whether it had been necessary for her to use a 
solicitor. It doesnt seem  it was necessary to apply for Grant  of Probate, given that Mr R had 
a small estate and the pension  didnt form part of that estate. However  what  is also evident  
in this case is that theres a dispute  about  how much of the death benefits should be paid to 
Ref: DRN55490915Mrs R versus the other beneficiaries. All the potential beneficiaries are entitled  to present 
their case  to the provider  before it makes  its decision,  and in my view its not unusual  to find 
the involvement of a solicitor when this is the case. Clearly there is a lot of money at stake, 
and Im aware of the financial impact it will have on Mrs R. So I cant  fairly say that Strachan 
is solely responsible  for the solicitors involvement.
Mrs R has also mentioned  hearing  in the meeting that she would receive 100% of the death 
benefits. It seems to me everyone  at the meeting was hoping, in view of Mrs Rs financial 
situation, that she would benefit  to a significant  degree from the distribution of the death 
benefits. But as the investigator explained, the SIPP providers representative at the meeting 
wasnt one of the trustees making the discretionary decision  and it doesnt seem  that Mrs 
R could reasonably have thought anyone in that meeting could guarantee  what  the outcome 
would be. I havent heard in the recording Strachans adviser promising Mrs R that she 
would receive all of the death benefits.
I appreciate that its very unfortunate for Mrs R that she didnt receive a higher  proportion (or 
all) of the death  benefits given the EoW  form her late husband completed.  But in my 
experience its not unusual  for the pension provider, after carefully  considering additional 
claims for the death benefits, to arrive  at a distribution that does  to a lesser  or greater degree 
lend some weight  to those  claims.  Ultimately the percentage  split arrived  at was a matter for 
the provider itself, but Im satisfied that nothing Strachan did when it sold Mr R his policy  
could have made a difference  to this. 
Strachans acknowledged the further upset it caused Mrs R whilst she was grieving for the 
loss of her late husband, in that its explanations about the process  were  not as clear as they 
should have been. Im not persuaded any errors here by Strachan ultimately altered a 
decision which only the SIPP provider was able to make.  So Im satisfied the sum its agreed 
to pay of £200 is an appropriate amount, and consistent with other awards the ombudsman 
service has made in similar  circumstances for the upset caused.  I recognise this will come 
as a considerable disappointment to Mrs R and I dont  underestimate  the impact of the 
decision made by the SIPP provider on her financial situation.
my final decision
I uphold Mrs R and the estate of the late Mr Rs complaint in part. I require The Strachan 
Partnership Ltd to pay Mrs R the sum of £200 for the upset it has caused.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 May 2019.
Gideon Moore
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5549091