K821x#15complaint
Mrs H complains that advice given to her by Sanlam Wealth Planning UK Ltd in 2008  was 
unsuitable.
background
Mrs Hs relationship was with a firm of advisors that has since  been acquired by Sanlam. So 
although Mrs H didnt  have any direct dealings with Sanlam, it is that firm that is now 
responsible for the advice she was given  in 2008. And for ease, throughout this decision, 
I will refer to Sanlam as the firm that dealt with Mrs H.
The meeting  that Mrs H held with Sanlam  in 2008, and the subsequent  advice  that was 
provided, related  to both her pension savings,  and those of her husband.  Mr H has made  a 
separate complaint against Sanlam  that I am also considering. So in this decision I will only 
deal with the parts of the meeting  and advice that relate to Mrs H.
Mrs H held pension savings in two pension plans when she met with Sanlam in 2008. She 
was making monthly  contributions to one of the pension plans. Sanlam advised Mrs H to 
transfer her two existing  pensions  into a new personal pension  with an alternative provider. 
The savings in Mrs Hs new personal pension were invested into a single fund. 
Mrs Hs complaint has been assessed by one of our adjudicators. He didnt think that the 
recommendation that Sanlam had made in 2008 had been suitable. So he asked Sanlam to 
pay Mrs H some compensation. 
Disappointingly Sanlam  didnt  respond to that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been 
resolved informally, it has been  passed  to me, an ombudsman, to decide.  This is the last 
stage of our process.  If Mrs H accepts my decision it is legally binding on both parties.
my findings 
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice  at the time.
In deciding this complaint  I have taken account  of the submissions that have been made by 
Mrs H and by Sanlam.  Where the evidence is unclear, or there  are conflicts,  I have made my 
decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words I have looked at what 
evidence we do have,  and the surrounding  circumstances, to help me decide what I think is 
more likely to, or should, have happened.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service.  This service isnt intended  
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct  
Authority. Instead  this service looks to resolve  individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide  that something  has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things  right by placing the consumer,  as far as is possible, in the position 
they would  have been if the problem hadnt  occurred
I have looked  carefully  at the information Sanlam recorded at the time about Mrs Hs two 
existing personal  pensions. Sanlam noted  that Mrs Hs attitude to risk could be described as 
cautious. Her pension  savings  were  relatively modest and invested  in two separate  funds. It 
Ref: DRN56537552seems to me that those funds were  reasonable investment vehicles for someone in a similar 
position to Mrs H. So I dont think there  was any necessity for Mrs H to alter her pension  
investments.
The annual management charges that Mrs H needed to pay on her new pension  were 
broadly the same as her old schemes. But she was now also needing  to pay Sanlam an 
annual charge, together with some  establishment charges for the first five years  of her new 
plan. So overall the amounts that Mrs H would  be paying each month in charges were far 
higher.
The suitability report that Sanlam issued at the time provided little justification  for Mrs H 
moving her pension funds  to a new provider. And having considered her circumstances I can 
also find little to support  such  a recommendation. So I cannot conclude  that the advice 
Sanlam gave to Mrs H was appropriate, and so I uphold  her complaint.
putting things right
My aim is that Mrs H should be put as closely  as possible into the position  she would 
probably now be in if she had been  given  suitable  advice.
I take the view that Mrs H would have left her pension savings unchanged without the advice 
from Sanlam.  Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair and reasonable given Mrs H's 
circumstances and objectives at that time.  
What should Sanlam do?
To compensate Mrs H fairly, Sanlam must:
Compare the performance of Mrs H's investment with that of the benchmark  shown  
below. If the fair value  is greater  than the actual value there is a loss and 
compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value , no 
compensation is payable. Sanlam should  add interest as set out below. 
If there is a loss, Sanlam  should pay into Mrs H's pension plan to increase its value 
by the total amount of the compensation and any interest.  The amount paid should 
allow for the effect  of charges and any available tax relief.
Compensation should not be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any 
existing protection or allowance. 
If Sanlam is unable to pay the total amount into Mrs H's pension plan, it should  pay 
that amount  direct  to her. But had it been possible  to pay into the plan, it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore the total amount  should be reduced to 
notionally allow  for any income tax that would otherwise  have been  paid.
The notional allowance should  be calculated using Mrs H's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at her selected  retirement  age. I have assumed this to be at the 
basic rate.
Ref: DRN56537553So, for example,  as Mrs H is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected  
retirement age, the reduction would equal the current  basic rate of tax. However,  if 
Mrs H would  have been able to take a tax free lump sum,  the reduction should  be 
applied to 75% of the compensation.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Sanlam deducts income tax from the 
interest it should tell Mrs H how much has been  taken off. Sanlam should give Mrs H a tax 
deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
investment  
namestatus benchmarkfrom 
(start date)to 
(end  date)additional 
interest
New 
Personal 
Pension 
Planstill existsPerformance 
of 
investments  
in previous 
personal 
pensionsdate of 
investmentdate of my 
decision8% simple  per 
year from date 
of decision to 
date of 
settlement (if 
compensation 
is not paid 
within  28 days  
of the business 
being notified 
of acceptance)
Actual value
This means  the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date. 
Fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a return  
using the benchmark. The starting value should  be calculated as the transfer value of 
Mrs Hs pension plans before the deduction  of any advice charges or exit penalties.
Any additional sum paid into the investment  should be added to the fair value calculation  
from the point in time when it was actually paid in. 
Any withdrawal, income or other distribution out of the investment should be deducted from 
the fair value  at the point  it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue  any return in the 
calculation from that point on. If there  are a large number of regular payments, to keep 
calculations simpler, Ill accept if Sanlam totals all those payments and deducts that figure at 
the end instead of deducting periodically.
Ref: DRN56537554Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method  of compensation because:
Mrs H wanted capital  growth with a small risk to her capital. 
Mrs H had no reason to transfer  her pensions and I believe suitable  advice  would 
have been for her to have left her pension savings where they were.
My final decision  
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Sanlam  Wealth Planning UK Ltd should pay the 
amount calculated as set out above. In addition Sanlam Wealth Planning UK Ltd should pay 
Mrs H the sum of £150 for the trouble and upset this matter  will have caused  to her, and the 
disruption it might have caused  to her retirement planning.
Sanlam Wealth Planning UK Ltd should provide  details of its calculation to Mrs H in a clear, 
simple format.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 May 2020.
Paul Reilly
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5653755