K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that Tesco Personal Finance  PLC (trading  as Tesco  Bank)  wont refund  a 
disputed transaction  on his credit card account.  
background
Mr S says he didnt make  a cash withdrawal  with his credit  card for £200.  This took place at 
a cash machine about seven miles from his home at 8:21 pm on 9 June 2018.  He says that 
he didnt use this account for cash withdrawals and had kept his card in a locked safe in his 
loft. He hadnt told the PIN number to anyone other  than his wife. After  hed complained  to 
Tesco Bank he says he realised he didnt even have  the actual card used to make the 
payment, and that the card he had in his possession expired in April 2018.
Tesco Bank said it wouldnt refund the money.  This was because the withdrawal was made 
using the genuine card and the correct PIN number was entered on the first attempt. It said 
that there  was no clear  way in which an unknown person had obtained the card and also 
found out the PIN. And Mr S didnt think it likely someone in his household had been able to 
do so. 
Tesco Bank also said it thought that Mr S had used  this card by mistake  to make a 
withdrawal, as it now knew  that the PIN number was the same as that on another card Mr S 
used regularly. 
Our investigator recommended that the complaint be upheld and the money plus any 
charges refunded. But she said that Tesco Bank was entitled to deduct £35 from any refund 
for transactions made while the card wasnt in his possession.  She said that:
-The card used  to make the transaction had been sent to Mr S sometime  after 6 
March 2018. 
-She thought  it possible  that someone  in his household had intercepted this as Mr S 
said he hardly ever uses his account and as he kept his card in a locked safe in his 
loft. And he wouldnt have been expecting  the card,  as he wouldnt likely  have  been  
aware the original  one was expiring.
-Mr S had the account for over 10 years and it was possible that someone else in the 
household may have  discovered the PIN and then used the card on that evening  
when Mr S had a large social  event in his house.
-The person  using the card might not have known that the withdrawal limit was £300 
and so had only taken out £200.
-She didnt think that Mr S had consented  to anyone else having possession of the 
card.
Tesco Bank thought that the investigators  explanation of what happened was highly 
unlikely. And Mr S hadnt himself said that this is what he thought  had happened.  So it 
wanted an ombudsman  to review the complaint.
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 15 October  2019. I set out the details of 
that below.
Ref: DRN56276792I said I would be taking  into account  the Payment  Services  Regulations 2017,  and 
considering whether this payment was authorised. And where credit is involved, as is the 
case here on credit cards, the Consumer Credit Act 1974 applies and it states that a 
consumer wouldnt be liable for an unauthorised payment unless they consented to 
someone else having possession of that card.
Tesco Bank has provided evidence to show that the payment was authenticated.  The 
genuine card with unique chip was used  and the correct PIN entered.  But thats not enough 
to show whether or not Mr S consented  to the payment and so authorised  it. So I said I was 
going to look at this carefully.
the new card
As the investigator  says, Mr S hadnt  been using  this card for payments. From  what I could 
see from his statements, he used the account  to make balance transfers both before and 
after this disputed payment. The card used  for this payment was issued in March  2018 
because his existing  card was due to expire  in April 2018. That replacement card had the 
same 16 digit number  as the old one. 
I noted that a new card with a different number was issued on 22 June 2018, which was the 
date Mr S reported what happened to Tesco Bank.  And a further card was issued on 16 
September 2018 - again with a different number (although I didnt know the reason for that).
When Mr S spoke  to Tesco my understanding was that he thought he had the card issued in 
March 2018 in his possession. And during the call was told to cut that one up. At the time of 
my provisional decision I wasnt clear whether he was saying he still has that cut up card or 
not. And he told this service on 19 September 2018 that the card for Tesco  had expired in 
April, I have not received an updated  card.
There are a number of possibilities about the card used for the disputed payment. It could 
have been intercepted before it was delivered  to him. Or someone in his household could 
have taken it. From what I understood from his recent call with this service, his grown  up 
children live over 100 miles away. Or he might just have  received it and initially put it in his 
safe and forgotten about it. Especially  as he doesnt  use it.
the PIN number
I listened to the calls Mr S had with Tesco about  this transaction. I didnt think Mr S had told 
Tesco Bank that his PIN numbers on this card and another credit card he holds were the 
same. And I heard him say clearly  that no one else knew  his PIN. That might  have been a 
misunderstanding as hes been clear to this service that his wife does know  his PIN.
Hes been very consistent though in saying that no-one else knows the PIN. And hes told 
this service that hes very careful when  he enters  his PIN on his other cards and shields the 
keypad with his wallet. 
Theres no evidence that Tesco  Bank  sent a PIN advice  with the replacement card and 
thered be no reason  for it to do so. It was a replacement card for one that was expiring - not 
for a lost or stolen card. So no new PIN would  be needed.
my assessment
Ref: DRN56276793I said I wouldnt be able to decide  exactly what happened here, so I was looking at whats  
most likely. And in particular whether theres a likely explanation of how someone could have 
used Mr S card without his consent.  I noted hes very clear  that he himself has no 
explanation for this.
So I looked  at the main  possible  scenarios:
a) an unknown third party took his card
As I said above, its possible his card was intercepted before it was delivered to him. But this 
would mean  that person waiting three months  before being able to use it. I thought  it even 
less likely someone unknown to him couldve  accessed it after itd been delivered. Or 
couldve got into his loft and accessed his safe.  Another difficulty here is how that person 
would also have discovered the PIN. Even if Mr S had somehow been observed using his 
different credit card to make a purchase that person  would have needed  to guess correctly 
the same  PIN number  was on his Tesco Bank card. And I was struggling to see why, even if 
that person didnt  know that £300 in cash could be withdrawn each time, there were no 
further attempts  to use the card before Mr S realised what happened and reported this on 22 
June 2018.
b) a person  known to him took his card and used it without his consent
Its more likely that someone with regular access to Mr S home could have taken the card 
when it came in the post. I also thought its possible that Mr S might have put the card in the 
safe when he received  it and forgotten about it. So again someone with personal knowledge 
of his security measures might have  been  able to obtain this. But its still not clear how even 
someone he knew would find out the PIN without  him knowing,  and also again crucially  
guess or know it was the same as the one on his other credit card.  Hes adamant  that the 
only other person  who knew  the PIN was his wife. And hes explained  that both of them were 
involved in a large social event at his house that evening when the withdrawal was being 
made. Hes recently told this service that this scenario is definitely unlikely and I agreed 
with him.
c) someone had the card with his consent
I knew that Mr S is equally certain that this didnt happen either.  But I couldnt see any other 
most likely way in which someone could  have had both the card and the PIN. I knew Tesco  
Bank says that this might have been  the result  of a mistake when he used the wrong card.  
Thats not impossible,  but I didnt have  anything to support this either. I fully understood how 
upset Mr S was when Tesco Bank said he was in some way involved with the payment. And 
that the principle  here is much more important to him than the amount of money.
As Ive said,  I needed to decide what is most likely amongst scenarios all of which  have 
unexplained parts.  Thats  not been  easy in this case, as I hoped Mr S appreciated. Although 
I could see ways in which his card might  have been in someone elses possession without 
his consent, I couldnt  see any likely explanation for how his PIN was also discovered.  And 
nor is there a sensible explanation of the timing and nature of this sole disputed  transaction 
by a fraudster. So I knew I was going  to disappoint  him when I said that I was not persuaded 
that the most  likely  explanation here is that he didnt consent to his card being used for this 
payment. I therefore provisionally found it reasonable for Tesco Bank  to hold him 
responsible for it.
Ref: DRN56276794I said Mr S has the opportunity to tell me if he doesnt agree. I pointed out that hell have 
seen the way Ive approached things and so Id need to be persuaded why a different 
explanation is the most  likely one in order to change my findings.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Tesco Bank said it didnt  have any comments to add.
Mr S said he didnt  agree and made  some  specific  comments  on my provisional decision.
He reiterated his account of what happened  that night and that he was happy to provide 
witness statements. I understand what he says happened. I think  hes had a reasonable 
opportunity to provide any evidence or comments. And I need to say that we are an informal  
dispute resolution service  not a court and couldnt  test signed witness  statements even if 
these were available.  In any event his and his wifes presence that evening  at the party  
doesnt rule out someone using the card with his consent as I explained above.
Mr S says he disagrees with Tesco Bank when it said he might  have used this card to make 
a withdrawal by mistake.  Again  I acknowledge his position on this but needed to record  and 
consider this possible explanation put forward when making my assessment.
He further clarified  his position that he never  received the card used  for this withdrawal sent 
out in March 2018. He received a new card sent out in June 2018 when he reported what 
happened. And he confirmed that his wife of many years knew  the PIN and he was unhappy 
at any suggestion  her name was being  brought into disrepute. I need to say that this was 
never my intention.  What I wanted to understand clearly was who knew  the PIN as this was 
very important in determining how it might  have been discovered by a third party. And also, 
having listened to his calls with Tesco Bank about  the complaint, to identify any 
misunderstandings or differences in his account now. 
Mr S thinks  that Tesco Bank  should  have retained  CCTV of the withdrawal for more than 10 
days and this would have allowed a proper investigation. He has provided a text confirming  
he reported this to police and said he wouldnt have put himself at risk by making a false 
report. In conclusion Mr S stresses his position  to me again that neither he nor his wife made  
this transaction  and he didnt authorise  anyone else to do so. 
CCTV may have assisted here but I cant say how long it should be kept for or draw 
conclusions in Mr S favour  if it wasnt available.  But often CCTV doesnt help us resolve 
whether a person withdrawing money  was acting with authority or not.
As Ive already  said I cant say exactly what happened here. Mr S has clarified some points 
in his submission and has re-emphasised his stance on the complaint. But Im afraid  none  of 
this makes my previous assessment of what was most likely change. As I explained in my 
provisional decision Id need to have  been  persuaded  why a different explanation is more  
likely. And for the reasons  Ive already  set out in detail I dont think  it was. In conclusion I do 
not consider that the most likely explanation  here is that Mr S didnt consent to the card 
being used.
I fully understand  how bitterly disappointed he will remain  with my decision.
Ref: DRN56276795my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 December  2019.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5627679