K821x#15Complaint
Miss M says J D Williams & Company Limited  (J D Williams)  irresponsibly lent to her.
Background
This complaint is about two catalogue  shopping  accounts J D Williams  provided  to Miss M. 
Account A was opened  in May 2009 with a credit limit of £100  which  remained at this level 
until the account was closed. Account B was opened in October  2015  with initial  credit  limit 
of £125. This limit was increased eight times  until it eventually reached £1,750.00  in 
November 2017.  Miss M fell into arrears and her account was eventually sold on in 
September 2018. 
As Miss Ms complaint primarily centres  on account  B, all references to account  from this 
point forward are made with reference to account  B.
Our adjudicator partially upheld Miss Ms complaint and thought  the limit increases from the 
seventh one onwards, in August 2017, shouldnt have been given. J D Williams didnt 
respond and the complaint was passed  to me.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  unaffordable and irresponsible lending - including  the key relevant rules, 
guidance and good industry  practice  - on our website. 
J D Williams needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss 
M could afford to repay what she was being lent in a sustainable manner. These checks  
could take into account a number of different things, such  as how much  was being lent, the 
repayment amounts  and the consumers income  and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough  checks  might be reasonable and 
proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that J D Williams should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the frequency of borrowing, and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer has been indebted (reflecting the risk that prolonged 
indebtedness may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming,  
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ref: DRN56767882Our adjudicator set out in some detail why he thought that J D Williams  unfairly increased   
Miss Ms credit limit from August 2017 onwards. As J D Williams didnt respond,  I dont know  
what it thinks our adjudicator got wrong.
Nonetheless Ive also looked at the overall pattern of J D Williams lending history  with     
Miss M, with a view to seeing if there  was a point at which  J D Williams should reasonably 
have seen that further lending was unsustainable,  or otherwise harmful.  And so J D Williams 
should have realised that it shouldnt have increased  Miss Ms credit limit. 
Given the particular  circumstances of Miss Ms case, I also think  that this point was reached 
in May 2016.  I say this because by this point J D Williams ought to have realised Miss M was 
having difficulty managing her money.  Miss M hadnt  made any real inroads into what  she 
owed from the time of the last credit  limit increase. And any credit check  carried  out would 
also more likely than not have shown that her indebtedness had increased elsewhere and 
shed taken a significant number of short term lending  and high-cost loans. So J D Williams 
ought to have realised Miss M was already struggling to sustainably repay what  she owed 
and that there was a significant  risk increasing  her credit limit in these circumstances would 
lead to her indebtedness increasing unsustainably.
By December 2017 Miss Ms repayment record  and her failure to make any sort of inroads  
into what she owed made it clear that her financial position had worsened and she was now 
more likely than not experiencing financial difficulty. So at this stage J D Williams should 
have stopped adding interest  to the account and instead exercised forbearance.
I think that Miss M lost out because J D Williams continued to increasing Miss Ms credit limit 
from August 2017 onwards and also it failed  to recognise that she was in financial difficulty 
from December 2017 onwards.  In my view J D Williams actions unfairly prolonged Miss Ms 
indebtedness by allowing  her to use credit she couldnt afford and the interest being added  
got her into further  debt.  So J D Williams  should  put things right.
Putting things  right  what  J D Williams needs to do
rework the account to ensure that from August 2017 to December 2017 interest is 
only charged on the first £1,500.00 outstanding to reflect the fact that no further credit 
limit increases should have been  provided.  The rework should  then factor in that no 
interest at all should have been  charged on the account from December 2017  
onwards.  All late payment and over limit fees should also be removed; and
If an outstanding  balance remains on the account once these adjustments  have been 
made J D Williams  should contact Miss M to arrange a suitable repayment  plan for 
this. If J D Williams considers it appropriate to record negative information on             
Miss Ms credit file, it should backdate this to May 2016.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest,  fees and charges results  in there no longer being  
an outstanding  balance, then any extra should  be treated as overpayments and 
returned to Miss M, along with 8% simple interest  on the overpayments from the date 
they were made (if they were)  until the date of settlement. If no outstanding balance 
remains after all adjustments  have been made, then J D Williams should remove  any 
adverse information  from Miss Ms credit file.
Ref: DRN56767883HM Revenue & Customs requires J D Williams to take off tax from this interest.  J D 
Williams must give Miss M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for 
one.
 
From what  Ive seen, J D Williams sold the outstanding balance on this account to a third 
party debt purchaser.  So it either  needs to buy the account back  from the third party  and 
make the necessary adjustments,  pay an amount to the third party in order  for it to make the 
necessary adjustments, or pay Miss M an amount to ensure that it fully complies with this 
direction.
My final decision
For the reasons  set out, Im partially  upholding Miss Ms complaint. J D Williams & Company 
Limited should put things right in the way set out above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 April 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN5676788