K821x#15complaint
The complaint is about advice Anthony  Feeney  Financial Services (AFFS)  gave to Mr J for 
his personal pension. Mr J transferred his personal  pension to a self-invested  personal 
pension (SIPP) to invest in store pods. Mr J says he did not want to take a risk with his 
pension funds and the advice was unsuitable because it exposed  the funds  to a high degree 
of risk. 
background
I issued my provisional decision on 18 January 2019, a copy  of which  is attached to and 
forms part of this decision.
Mr J accepted my provisional  decision and had nothing  further  to add. AFFS  has not replied.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
findings as in my provisional decision and for the same reasons.
my final decision
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Anthony  Feeney Financial Services  should 
calculate the loss and pay compensation as set out in my provisional  decision.
Simple interest is to be added to my award  at a rate of 8% gross  a year from the date of this 
decision to the date of payment.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 March  2019.
Roy Milne
ombudsman
Ref: DRN52066662copy  of provisional decision
complaint
The complaint is about advice Anthony Feeney Financial Services (AFFS)  gave to Mr J for his 
personal pension. Mr J transferred his personal pension to a self-invested personal  pension (SIPP) to 
invest in store pods. Mr J says he did not want to take a risk with his pension funds  and the advice 
was unsuitable because it exposed  the funds to a high degree  of risk. 
background
In 2013, Mr J was cold called about his pension. He then met with one of AFFSs  advisers, who 
completed a fact find recording Mr Js financial  circumstances. The fact find shows that Mr J was 45 
years old and married.  He had no dependent children. He was self-employed.  He earned about 
£40,000 a year. It was noted that Mr J did have a personal pension.
Under the heading risk and reward there were a number of standard  paragraphs describing 
investment risk, ranging from very cautious to speculative. The adventurous paragraph was 
selected, and the adviser recorded under further comments: 
I am willing to take more risk to achieve the growth and pension pot I require.
The next section of the fact find was headed Investment Knowledge and Experience. Paragraph 
number 4 (I have no  or very little  experience or understanding of investments  risks) was 
selected.
The fact find also asked What is the value of these [existing] pension benefits  within your overall 
investments and in the general context of your financial  planning  situation?
Again, there were four choices, with choice 3 Whilst obviously of value, these  benefits do not 
represent a significant proportion of my financial wealth  being  selected.
Under further comments in this section, the adviser noted that Mr J had my own business, car + 
house with a 16 year mortgage left
It was noted that obtaining  a cash  lump  sum at retirement was not a priority, and under  comments  it 
was recorded that annuity is my main  priority. Mr J might want to take his pension benefits before 
age 65 and wanted the option to take his benefits when  he needed to do so.
A series of standard questions was printed on the fact find, about  Mr Js existing provision. These 
gave a scale  of 1-5 with 1 being not at all and 5 being very  important, very much and definitely 
depending on the question being  asked. 
According to the fact find, Mr J was not at all happy  with the investment  performance and charges for 
his personal  pension  plan.  It was noted that he wanted a more extensive choice of pension funds  and 
was very much driven by a desire to tidy up his pension  funds.
On a scale of 1-7 where one is immediately  and 7 was least important Mr J said that a structured 
investment portfolio reflecting his attitude  to risk was 7, being the least  important of his 
considerations. The ability to take benefits immediately  was his number 1 priority.
The adviser  sent a financial planning report. The advice  was to transfer Mr Js personal pension  into a 
SIPP. A brochure  about  investing in Store First store  pods together with an illustration, key facts  and 
related information regarding AFFS,  including a client agreement, was also sent.
Mr J accepted the advice to transfer his personal pension  of £24,611 to the SIPP to invest into Store  
First store pods.  He completed  the paperwork  in October 2013;  he waived his right to a 30-day 
Ref: DRN52066663cooling off period  in order that the investment could be made immediately upon receipt of the 
transferred pension  funds. 
In February and again in March 2014, the adviser  wrote to recommend that Mr J invest  £3,737.85 of 
the funds held in cash in the SIPP into the Vanguard 60% Equity fund. Mr J accepted this advice and 
invested in that fund.
One of our adjudicators  investigated the complaint. She wrote to AFFS and explained why she 
thought the complaint should  be upheld. Briefly, she thought that Mr J was a man of modest means 
who had little or no investment experience.  She considered that such  a consumer was unsuitable for 
the promotion of the store pods UCIS.  
The adjudicator felt the existing personal pension  was not unsuitable.  The facts obtained  by AFFS 
about Mr Js financial situation did not support  the advisers conclusion that he could tolerate an 
adventurous approach  to investment risk. 
AFFSs solicitors  replied to the adjudicator. They did not agree with her interpretation of the relevant 
conduct of business and other rules and regulations regarding the promotion of UCIS to Mr J. They 
also provided  Counsels opinion which  stated that store pods did not fit the criteria  to be considered  
as a UCIS. The adjudicator wrote to the solicitors to explain that we had dealt with this issue in 
previous decisions, and that our position remains  that store pods are UCIS or UCIS-like investments. 
The adjudicator was not persuaded to change her mind. She remained of the view that the underlying 
fund could not be treated separately from the overall  advice. The starting point should be to act in the 
clients interest and to establish from the outset whether Mr J could be amongst that group of people 
to whom promotion of UCIS  is permitted.  
She remained of the view that AFFS should not have been  promoting the store  pods to Mr J. She 
noted the point that AFFS said Mr J had acted upon his own choice, having  been persuaded by an 
unregulated salesman  who introduced him to AFFS. But this introduction was made  so that AFFS, a 
regulated adviser and pension transfer specialist,  could advise Mr J. The advice should  have 
considered the underlying  investment. If that investment  was unsuitable, then the entire 
recommendation to transfer to the SIPP was unsuitable.
Another one of our adjudicators spoke with Mr J. Mr J explained that he had an existing pension and 
received a phone call from a company to see if he was interested in changing.  Mr J said he thought  
this was AFFS. Someone from AFFS then came to his house and started talking  about SIPPs. Mr J 
had no idea what he was saying.  He says that it was the adviser from AFFS who told him to put his 
money in store pods. The adviser told him that hed make more  money  doing  this than with his 
existing pension. Mr J said that he was pretty cautious and thought  hed asked for medium risk. Mr J 
said that if he had been advised against investing in store  pods he wouldnt have invested.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
our jurisdiction
AFFS was giving advice to start a SIPP. That is a regulated activity.  We can therefore  consider a 
complaint about the advice to start the SIPP. It does  not matter  whether the store  pods are a UCIS or 
not. This is a complaint that we can consider.
Ref: DRN52066664the relevant rules
The rules that firms had to follow are set out in the regulators handbook. The advice had to take 
account of the relevant rules  whether  or not store pods were  regulated. The regulations required  the 
advice to be suitable. To do that AFFS had to obtain enough information about Mr Js circumstances.
what should the adviser have done?
The adviser  was required  to give suitable  advice.  To do that the adviser had to have enough 
information to know his client. 
The risks of this transfer were almost entirely about the intended investment. I cannot see how 
suitable advice can be given without thinking about that investment. Thats  the key message from the 
regulators alert issued in January 2013. 
AFFS knew that Mr J intended to invest in store pods. They should have considered whether that was 
suitable for him.
The adviser  did set out some risks of investing in store pods  in his suitability report. These were:
Investment in a single undertaking or having one investment as a large part of a schemes  
assets brings considerable risk.
The buyer may grant a lease for a term of 6 years to the Seller at fixed  rents  that are stepped 
throughout the term. This is an attractive option for the Buyer as it would appear to provide a 
guaranteed income for 6 years after purchasing the property,  however after the initial period 
stated, there is no guarantee of occupancy or rate of return.
You may not always be able to secure a tenant and if there is a prolonged period of 
unnocupancy [sic], surplus funds may have to be used  up to cover the annual  SIPP fees, 
service charge, buildings insurance and electricity  rent in addition  to the nominal  ground rent 
during the term,  you may also be required to make contributions to the scheme if there are 
insufficient funds available to cover the fees.
You must  consider the potential marketability carefully in respect of a specialist commercial 
property such as this. It will have  to be sold in order  for you to secure  pension benefits at your 
chosen retirement age via an annuity.
The investment comes  with a buy back guarantee which does reduce the inherent illiquidity 
risk of this type of asset, however there is little to back up this guarantee apart from the word  
of the company.
The adviser  went  on to say: I recommend that your fund is not placed within  one asset  class  
and should form  part of a diversified portfolio across a number of asset classes. However,  in 
my view this does not go far enough. 
Im satisfied that investing  in store pods was a high risk investment.  They were not regulated whether 
or not they were a UCIS. The investments were potentially illiquid and unsuitable for Mr J. I think if Mr 
J had been advised not to invest in store pods that he would have followed that advice.
I think  suitable advice should have been not to invest  in store pods. If that advice had been given I do 
not see any reason why Mr J would have transferred to a SIPP. I think that given a realistic 
assessment of his attitude to risk as balanced, or medium,  that a standard  personal pension  would 
have been suitable for his needs.  I think the extra charges  normally associated with a SIPP were  not 
justified.
fair compensation
My aim is to put Mr J into to the position  he would probably now be in if he had been  given suitable  
advice. In my view, if Mr J had been given  suitable advice he would have kept his existing  pension. 
Ref: DRN52066665AFFS should establish  the notional current transfer value  of Mr Js existing personal pension plan,  
assuming it had not been  transferred. The current transfer value of the SIPP investments,  including 
any cash held in the SIPP bank account,  should be compared to the current notional value of the LV 
personal pension plan.
If there  are any difficulties in obtaining a notional valuation then the FTSE UK Private Investor Income 
Total Return  Index should be used. That is a reasonable proxy for the type of return that could have 
been achieved if suitable  funds  had been  chosen.
If there  is a loss, AFFS should  ideally  pay an amount into Mr Js pension plan to increase its value by 
the amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should  allow for the effect of 
charges and any available tax relief.  Compensation  should not be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
I think  its unlikely AFFS will be able to pay the compensation into Mr Js pension plan. So, it should 
pay that amount  direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have provided  a 
taxable income when he takes the benefits.  Therefore the compensation  should  be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income  tax that would otherwise have been paid. 
The notional  allowance should be calculated  using Mr Js expected marginal rate of tax in retirement. 
I think  Mr J is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer  in retirement. The reduction should equal the current  
basic rate of tax. However, as Mr J would  have  been  able to take a tax free lump sum,  the reduction 
should be applied  to 75% of the compensation.
 
Since the store pods investment is illiquid, its value  should  be treated as nil. The resultant  sum 
represents the redress  due from AFFS to Mr J. AFFS  can then arrange  to take ownership of the store 
pods investment. If that is not possible  then Mr J can sign an undertaking that he will pay to AFFS any 
future disbursements he may obtain from the store pods investment.
It is very likely  that Mr J will have to maintain the SIPP  for a period of time as the store  pods cannot 
be sold, which  will prevent  the SIPP  from being closed. If AFFS is unable to buy the store pods from 
the SIPP  provider, they should pay Mr J five years  worth  of SIPP fees to compensate him for these  
costs. 
In addition, Mr J has been caused some distress  by the loss of his pension funds. AFFS should also 
pay him a sum of £250 to compensate for that loss.
my provisional  decision
I uphold the complaint. My provisional decision is that Anthony  Feeney Financial Services should 
calculate the loss and pay compensation as set out above.
Ref: DRN5206666