K821x#15complaint
Mrs B says Casheuronet  UK LLC (trading as Quick  Quid) irresponsibly lent to her.
background
This complaint is about ten payday  loans that Quick Quid provided to Mrs B from October 
2009 onwards.  Mrs Bs last loan was provided in March 2012.
Our adjudicator upheld  Mrs Bs complaint about  loans three to ten. So he thought that Mrs B 
shouldnt have been provided with these loans. Quick Quid  didnt agree with our adjudicator  
in full. So the complaint  was passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Quick Quid needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mrs B 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Quick Quid should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mrs Bs complaint.
As our adjudicator explained, a proportionate  check for loans three, four and five would  more  
likely than not have  shown that:
Ref: DRN56818562the repayment required for these loans took up a significant proportion of Mrs Bs 
monthly income. In these  circumstances,  there was a significant risk that Mrs B 
wouldnt have been able to repay this loan without undue difficulty or borrowing 
further.
Having looked  at the overall pattern of Quick Quids lending history with Mrs B, I also think  
that Quick Quid should  reasonably have seen that Mrs B was unlikely to have been  able to 
make her loan repayments in a sustainable  manner by the time it provided loan six. I say this 
because:
by the time of loan six, Mrs B had owed Quick Quid money for most of a fifteen 
month period.  It had taken Mrs B five months  to eventually repay loan five. And loan 
six was for not that much  less than what Mrs Bs actions appear to suggest  that she 
was finding difficult  to repay. In my view, Mrs B owing Quick  Quid money for this 
period of time, in these circumstances, was in itself a clear  demonstration  of Mrs Bs 
inability to settle her loans over the life of the credit agreement.  
Mrs B was given loans for a period that cannot  reasonably be described as short-
term. And, in my view,  Mrs B paid large  amounts of interest to, in effect, service  an 
increasing debt to Quick Quid over an extended period.
I think that Mrs B lost out because Quick Quid provided these loans  because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mrs Bs indebtedness by allowing 
her to take expensive  credit intended for short-term  use over an extended period of 
time.
the number  of deferrals and the extended  period of time she owed Quick  Quid  money 
was likely to have  had negative  implications on Mrs Bs ability to access mainstream  
credit and so kept her in the market  for these  high-cost loans.
So Im upholding  Mrs Bs complaint about  loans three to ten and Quick Quid should put 
things right.
putting things right  what Quick Quid  needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Mrs B paid on loans three to nine;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
deduct all interest  and charges applied from the outset of loan ten from the current 
outstanding balance. An outstanding  balance  is likely to remain  even after all 
adjustments are made. So Quick Quid can deduct this outstanding balance  from the 
compensation it now needs to pay Mrs B should  it wish to do so;
the period  of time Mrs B owed Quick Quid money means  that any information still 
recorded about loans six to ten is adverse. So all entries  about these loans (where 
they remain) should be removed from Mrs Bs credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Quick Quid to take off tax from this interest. Quick Quid 
must give Mrs B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
Ref: DRN56818563my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mrs Bs complaint. Casheuronet UK 
LLC (trading as Quick  Quid) should pay Mrs B compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 August 2019. 
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5681856