K820x#14complaint
Mrs N complains about how Santander UK plc dealt with her credit  card application.
background
Mrs N says she decided to replace her existing Santander credit  card with one more  suitable 
for her following a conversation with Santander.  She says the application was unreasonably 
refused and Santander didnt tell her that she should expect a call from it before the 
application could  proceed. Mrs N says this was unfair and may have affected her credit 
score.
Santander says it followed its correct policy as it needed to speak  to Mrs N. It says it made  
three calls to Mrs N over successive days but is unable to leave a message as its 
department cant  receive  incoming calls. Santander accepts its letter  to Mrs N about  this 
could have been more specific and has paid £25 compensation for this.
Mrs N brought her complaint to us but our adjudicator didnt uphold her complaint. The 
adjudicator thought Santander had tried to speak to Mrs N on three separate  occasions 
without success and so hadnt made an error  by refusing the application.  The adjudicator  
thought the compensation  payment was fair and reasonable.
Mrs N doesnt accept  that view and questions why Santander couldnt leave a message and 
says it should  have told her to expect a call from it. She says she has a good credit history 
and income and would not have cancelled her previous credit card account if she had known 
what would  happen.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall view as the adjudicator for the same reasons. I realise Mrs N will be disappointed by 
my decision.
I appreciate that Mrs N would like to have  been  told to expect a call from Santander about 
her application.  But Im satisfied that its up to Santander to decide what  its policies and 
procedures are for dealing with credit card applications and to decide  with whom it enters 
into a business  relationship with. I think such matters  are commercial business decisions  
and not something  I can fairly interfere in. So in those  circumstances I dont think Santander 
made a mistake or acted unreasonably  by deciding it wished to speak to Mrs N before 
proceeding with the application and I dont  think it was obliged to have told her that before 
hand.
Im satisfied that having looked at Santanders records  it made  three separate attempts over 
three days to speak to Mrs N but without success. So I dont think it acted unfairly  or 
unreasonably to end the application in those  circumstances. I appreciate Mrs N says 
Santander should have left a message  or told her to expect a call. But for the reasons I have 
explained I find its up to Santander to make  those sorts of decisions.
I have not seen any evidence this affected Mrs Ns credit file and I also think  it was Mrs Ns 
decision to cancel her previous  Santander  credit card.  Overall  I dont think  Santander has 
acted unfairly or misled  Mrs N and so I cant fairly ask it to do anything further in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN50752582There is no question Santander could have explained its decision in more  detail  when it 
wrote to Mrs N. But I think its paid a fair and reasonable  level of compensation for that and I 
appreciate thats  not the main part of Mrs Ns complaint in any event.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 March  2020.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5075258