K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs I complain that the service they received from the National Westminster  Bank  
Plc (NatWest), when they provided an instruction regarding the transfer of monies to a third 
party, was poor, and directly led to them  incurring  costs  of £840.
background
On Saturday 27 January  2018 Mr and Mrs I went into a NatWest branch with a payment 
instruction letter for the transfer  of funds from Mrs Is e-savings account with Ulster Bank to a 
third party bank account. This was in respect  of completion monies on their house purchase 
scheduled for completion on the 30 January. Mr and Mrs I said they asked that the 
instruction letter be sent that morning, in similar  fashion to an earlier  occasion  associated 
with their purchase deposit transfer. The instruction letter requested the funds be transferred 
on the morning  of the 29 January.
NatWest faxed the instruction at 11.59am on the 29 January but the relevant department at 
Ulster Bank said they didnt receive it until 2.05pm. Ulster Bank  spoke to Mrs I at 2.25pm  to 
verify the instruction, but as the instruction was received  after their 12pm cut off time the 
funds were not transferred until the morning  of the 30 January. Mr and Mrs I say that 
because of the delay they incurred delayed completion costs of £840.
NatWest said that they did not feel as though they had done anything wrong. In their view, 
they sent the instruction  letter in good  time, and irrespective of whether it had been sent on 
the Saturday or the Monday it would have made no difference to the eventual outcome.
Mr and Mrs I were unhappy with NatWests response and so an investigator from this 
service looked into the complaint but didnt think NatWest had done  anything wrong. 
Mr and Mrs I disagreed  with that view and so the matter has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I will not repeat the investigators 
summary of the background  to this complaint because it is accurate  and full and I want to 
avoid repetition.  But, if it appears that I havent mentioned something it is not because I have 
ignored it, but because  I dont think  its relevant  to the issues I have to decide.  
My decisions  are based on the evidence in front of me. Where such evidence  is incomplete, 
inconclusive or contradictory, I am bound to reach a decision on the balance  of probabilities 
 in other words,  I consider what is more  likely  to have happened in light of that evidence  
and the wider circumstances of the case.  
Looking at the available evidence, I think we have a very unfortunate situation here. I can 
accept and understand that Mr and Mrs I are upset and annoyed  that their instruction did not 
go through when  they asked it to. I can also see in their instruction letter to Ulster Bank they 
asked for the transfer to be made on the 29 January.
Looking at the facts  I can see that NatWest sent the instruction letter  through to Ulster Bank 
by fax at 11.59pm on the 29 January. I note that completion of the property purchase was 
Ref: DRN52806752not until the 30 January 2018. According to the fax transmission sheet, the entire fax would 
have been received a few minutes  later, just after 12.00 noon.
The issue  here is whether  NatWest  have acted fairly in sending the letter  of instruction over 
to Ulster Bank when  they did, rather than on the Saturday. It is not clear that NatWest would 
necessarily have known  that Ulster Bank  had their own time limit of 12.00  noon as the cut off 
for same day transfers. Had NatWest  sent the letter of instruction on the Saturday  then 
arguably Ulster Bank would have had a few more hours to deal with the instruction on the 
Monday morning, given that the weekend were  not normal  working days. But it is not certain 
that they would have  dealt  with it any earlier than they did, even though  they would 
physically have had the letter on the Saturday.  The first opportunity  Ulster  Bank  would have 
had to take action on the letter of instruction would have been first thing on the Monday 
morning, which is a fact Mr I has acknowledged.  In any event Ulster  was able to transfer the 
funds first thing on the day of completion.
This real problem here is that Mr and Mrs I left insufficient time to action the transfer. Their  
decision to deliver  their letter of instruction on the Saturday meant that the time period in 
which NatWest and Ulster Bank had to operate was very, very tight. This could have been 
avoided had the letter of instruction been  given  by Mr and Mrs I well before the 27 January. 
The pertinent issue which arises therefore  is whether NatWest have acted with the bounds 
of reasonableness  in sending the letter of instruction through when they did. Mr and Mrs I 
delivered the letter to the branch on a Saturday, which  is not a normal banking working day. 
Once the normal banking working week resumed on the Monday, the letter  of instruction was 
sent to Ulster Bank within a few hours.  I think that was reasonable, in the absence of an 
express instruction  regarding the Ulster Banks deadlines. 
So I cant say that NatWest has done  anything  wrong and Im not satisfied that it has treated 
Mr and Mrs I unfairly, and so Im not upholding their complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I do not uphold the complaint against National Westminster 
Bank Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs I to 
accept or reject my decision  before  30 September 2019.
Jonathan Willis
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5280675