K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs D are unhappy  that Lloyds Bank General Insurance  Limited (Lloyds)  wont  meet  
a claim they made under their home  insurance for items  stolen from their home  whilst  they 
were on holiday.
background
Mr and Mrs D were on an extended  holiday.  Their daughter, who was visiting Mr and Mrs Ds 
house regularly,  contacted them to say the house had been broken into and things stolen.
Mr and Mrs D contacted  Lloyds and, after a few calls, the door that had been  damaged  was 
boarded up. 
Mr and Mrs D returned home and continued their claim. Lloyds then said it wouldnt meet  the 
claim for stolen items as the house  had been  unoccupied at the time of the theft, and Mr and 
Mrs D hadnt said they were going away for more than 30 days. It also explained that even if 
Mr and Mrs D had said they were  going away, the theft wouldnt have been covered.
Mr and Mrs D protested  as they say their daughter and her children were visiting regularly 
and even staying  overnight on occasion,  so the property was occupied.
Lloyds still wouldnt meet the claim,  so Mr and Mrs D brought  their complaint to us.
Our investigator didnt  think the complaint should be upheld, He thought the policy  was clear  
when it said Mr and Mrs D werent  covered for theft if the house was unoccupied. And he 
didnt think visits or stays by Mr and Mrs Ds daughter meant the house  was occupied  as 
described in the policy. So he didnt think Lloyds  had done anything  wrong.
Mr and Mrs D responded  to say they believe the property was occupied, and that as Lloyds 
had paid for their patio  and front door to be repaired under the building  part of their policy,  it 
was only fair that it should meet their claim for stolen items too, as both parts of the policy  
had the same terms and conditions. They  also said some of the phone  calls werent dealt  
with well and they were asked questions theyd  need to be legally literate  to understand 
and answer.
Our investigator looked into these new points. Lloyds said it hadnt realised the property was 
unoccupied until after it had done  the repairs  otherwise it likely wouldnt have met that 
claim either. And the investigator  listened  to the calls and thought  the questions  asked were  
reasonable, given Lloyds  was trying to find out enough information to see if it should meet 
the claim.
Mr and Mrs D remain unhappy, so Ive been  asked to decide this complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Having done so Ive reached the same  conclusions as our investigator  did, for much  the 
same reasons. I know this will disappoint Mr and Mrs D so Ill explain my reasoning. 
Ref: DRN55670762terms and conditions
The policy Mr and Mrs D have says they should  contact Lloyds if theyre going to be away 
from home for more  than 30 days.  Mr and Mrs D say they didnt realise  they should do that. 
Ive looked at policy and I think it was clear  both that they should call, and also that many of 
the things normally  covered  under  the policy would be excluded if they left the house  
unoccupied. 
I say that because the 30 day point is raised in the questions Mr and Mrs D answered when 
they bought the policy,  its in the I like to be kept in the know  part of the policy (which 
summarises things Mr and Mrs D should  be aware of) and also in the main body of the 
policy. And throughout the policy there are lots of references  in the column headed  what  
we dont cover  to there being no cover (including for theft) whilst the house is unoccupied.
The policy defines  unoccupied  as Not lived in by you or a member  of your family for more 
than 30 days in a row. 
 
That ties in with the requirement  for Mr and Mrs D to notify Lloyds if they are going away for 
longer than this.
I think overall it was clear Mr and Mrs D should  have  told Lloyds they were  going away for an 
extended period.  
Mr and Mrs D also say their house  wasnt unoccupied as defined in the policy,  because their 
daughter was visiting regularly to check the house,  and also stayed there  on several  
occasions. And they point out that in law, their daughter is family. However, their policy  says 
family means (in summary) relatives that normally live at the house.  And Mr and Mrs D 
daughter doesnt  live with them, so Lloyds  says, whether checked or not, the house was 
unoccupied.
Ive checked the policy  and I have  to agree that it does include this definition  of family.
Overall, I dont  think Lloyds was unfair when it applied the terms and conditions contained in 
the policy to Mr and Mrs Ds claim. 
other repairs
Mr and Mrs D say that as Lloyds repaired the damage to the house under the buildings  part 
of their policy, they should also meet  their contents claim. And I do understand why they 
would say this as the two parts of the policy appear  to have the same  terms and conditions. 
However, it seems Lloyds agreed to get this work  done for Mr and Mrs D before it realised 
the property was unoccupied. It says it probably  wouldnt  have met this part of the claim if it 
had known that. So it looks to me as though Mr and Mrs D are better  off because of this 
mistake. But that doesnt mean  it would  be fair to tell Lloyds to compound its mistake and 
pay the contents claim too.
phone calls
Mr and Mrs D told us they werent  happy  with the tone of some of the calls they had with 
Lloyds. And they say they were asked  complicated and unnecessary  questions  they needed  
to be legally literate  to understand. They havent  told us exactly  what  this latter  point 
means. However, having listened to the calls supplied  I cant say the member  of staff was 
Ref: DRN55670763less than polite  and professional at any point. Nor do I think  the questions  were phrased in a 
difficult manner. From what  I heard  it seems  that in one call he was trying to establish the 
circumstances around the claim so he could check if it would be met, and in the second 
explaining why the claim wouldnt be met. I realise  Mr and Mrs D didnt agree with him, and 
its clear they were upset,  but I dont think the member of staff did anything wrong.
unsuitable policy
Finally Mr and Mrs D have suggested the policy wasnt suitable for them when they took it 
out, so it must have  been mis-sold. That hasnt been  part of this complaint, and Lloyds  hasnt 
had a chance to comment on this to date. Mr and Mrs D can approach Lloyds separately 
about this if they think thats appropriate.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 March  2019.
Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5567076