K821x#15Complaint
Miss M says J D Williams & Company Limited  (J D Williams)  irresponsibly lent to her.
Background
I attach my provisional decision of 10 June  2021, which forms part of this final decision.  
In my provisional decision,  I set out why I was intending to partially  uphold  Miss Ms 
complaint and invited both parties  to make  any final comments ahead of my final decision. 
Following this, J D Williams didnt  provide  anything  further for me to think  about or ask for 
any additional time to do so. Miss M didnt provide  anything further  for me to think  about 
either. 
My findings
I have reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I set out in some detail  why I intended to partially uphold Miss Ms complaint in my 
provisional decision. And, in the absence  of anything  further from either party,  I see no 
reason to change  my conclusions.
So having  carefully considered everything, Im still partially upholding Miss Ms complaint. 
Fair compensation  what  J D Williams needs to do to put things right for Miss  M.
Having considered everything, I think it is fair and reasonable  for J D Williams  to put things 
right for Miss M in the following way:
rework the account to ensure that from August 2016 onwards interest  is only charged 
on the first £1,500.00  outstanding to reflect  the fact that no further  credit  limit 
increases should have  been  provided.  All late payment and over limit fees should  
also be removed; and
If an outstanding  balance remains on the account once these adjustments  have been 
made J D Williams  should contact Miss M to arrange a suitable repayment  plan for 
this. If J D Williams considers it appropriate to record negative information on             
Miss Ms credit file, it should backdate this to August 2016.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest,  fees and charges results  in there no longer being  
an outstanding  balance, then any extra should  be treated as overpayments and 
returned to Miss M, along with 8% simple interest  on the overpayments from the date 
they were made (if they were)  until the date of settlement. If no outstanding balance 
remains after all adjustments  have been made, then J D Williams should remove  any 
adverse information  from Miss Ms credit file.
HM Revenue & Customs requires J D Williams to take off tax from this interest.  J D 
Williams must give Miss M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for 
one.
Ref: DRN51256422 
From what  Ive seen, J D Williams sold the outstanding balance on this account to a third 
party debt purchaser.  So it either  needs to buy the account back  from the third party  and 
make the necessary adjustments,  pay an amount to the third party in order  for it to make the 
necessary adjustments, or pay Miss M an amount to ensure that it fully complies with this 
direction.
My final decision
For the reasons  explained above and in my provisional decision of 10 June 2021, 
Im partially upholding Miss Ms complaint. J D Williams & Company Limited should put 
things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 July 2021.
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN51256423COPY  OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
Complaint
Miss M says J D Williams  & Company Limited (J D Williams) irresponsibly lent to her.
Background
This complaint is about  a catalogue shopping account  J D Williams  initially provided to      Miss M in 
September 2011. Miss M was initially  given  a credit  limit of £300. This limit was increased 5 times until 
it eventually reached £2,000.00 in August  2016.  Miss M fell into arrears and her account was 
eventually sold on to a third party. 
Our adjudicator partially upheld Miss Ms complaint  and thought that Miss Ms account  should  have 
been frozen in January  2015. J D Williams  didnt  respond to our adjudicators assessment and so the 
complaint was passed  to an ombudsman.
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable  
and irresponsible lending - including the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry  practice - on 
our website. 
J D Williams needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt  lend irresponsibly. In practice  
this means that it should  have carried out proportionate checks  to make sure Miss M could afford to 
repay what she was being lent in a sustainable manner. These  checks  could take into account a 
number of different things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages  of a lending  relationship, I 
think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.   
But certain factors might  point to the fact that J D Williams should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a consumers income  (reflecting  that it could be more difficult  to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount  due to be repaid  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular  level of income); 
the greater the frequency of borrowing,  and the longer the period of time during which  a 
customer has been  indebted  (reflecting the risk that prolonged indebtedness may signal 
that the borrowing  had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point  where  the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Our adjudicator explained why she thought J D Williams should have  frozen Miss Ms account  in 
January 2015. As J D Williams didnt respond, I dont know what it thinks  our adjudicator got wrong. 
Nonetheless Ive looked at this case afresh and reached  my own conclusions on Miss Ms complaint.  
Having considered  everything, I dont agree with our adjudicators assessment that Miss Ms account 
should have been frozen entirely  in January 2015. I say this because  while Miss M had rarely cleared 
the balance on the account in full, Im satisfied that the balance she was carrying forward was only 
ever a small percentage of the £1,500.00 credit limit. I dont think carrying  a balance of £350  on an 
account with a limit of £1,500.00  in itself demonstrated that the account had become  demonstrably 
Ref: DRN51256424unsustainable or that further checks on Miss Ms ability to afford the credit limit (which to all intents 
and purposes  was affordable at the time it was provided) were  needed.    
That said, while I dont  think that the account should have been frozen  entirely in January 2015,  Ive 
also looked at the overall pattern of J D Williams lending history  with Miss M, with a view to seeing if 
there was a point at which J D Williams should reasonably have seen that any further lending  was 
unsustainable, or otherwise  harmful. And so J D Williams should have  realised that it shouldnt have 
increased Miss Ms credit limit. 
Given the particular circumstances of Miss Ms case, I think that this point was reached in August 
2016. I say this because:
At this point J D Williams ought to have realised Miss M was having  difficulty managing her 
money. Miss M had a relatively  low income  and J D Williams increased her limit to 
approaching double this when any credit check carried out would also have showed  that her 
indebtedness had increased elsewhere. So J D Williams  ought to have realised Miss M was 
already struggling to sustainably repay what she owed and that there was a significant  risk 
increasing her credit limit in these circumstances  would lead to her indebtedness increasing  
unsustainably.
I think  Miss M lost out when J D Williams increased  her credit limit in August 2016 because this 
unfairly prolonged Miss Ms indebtedness by allowing her to use credit she couldnt afford over an 
extended period of time and the interest being added got her into further debt.
So having considered matters, Im intending to issue  a final decision which says that J D Williams 
should put things right in the way Ive set out in the following section of this provisional  decision.
Fair compensation   what Im intending to say J D Williams needs to do to put things right for 
Miss M.
Having considered  everything, Im intending to issue a final decision which says it is fair and 
reasonable for J D Williams to put things right for Miss M in the following way:
rework  the account  to ensure  that from August 2016 onwards interest is only charged on the 
first £1,500.00 outstanding to reflect the fact that no further credit limit increases should  have 
been provided. All late payment and over limit fees should  also be removed; and
If an outstanding balance remains  on the account once these adjustments  have been made J 
D Williams should contact Miss M to arrange a suitable repayment plan for this. If J D 
Williams considers it appropriate to record negative information on             Miss Ms credit file, 
it should  backdate this to August 2016.
OR
If the effect of removing  all interest, fees and charges  results  in there no longer being an 
outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments and returned to Miss 
M, along with 8% simple  interest  on the overpayments from the date they were made (if they 
were) until the date of settlement. If no outstanding balance remains after all adjustments  
have been made, then J D Williams  should  remove any adverse  information from Miss Ms 
credit file.
HM Revenue & Customs requires J D Williams to take off tax from this interest.  J D Williams must 
give Miss M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
 
From what Ive seen, J D Williams  sold the outstanding balance on this account to a third party debt 
purchaser. So it either needs to buy the account back from the third party and make the necessary 
Ref: DRN51256425adjustments, pay an amount  to the third party  in order for it to make the necessary adjustments, or 
pay Miss M an amount  to ensure that it fully complies with this direction.
My provisional decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im intending  to partially uphold Miss Ms complaint and tell  J D 
Williams & Company Limited to put things right in the way set out above. 
So unless the comments and evidence  I get by 24 June 2021 changes  my mind, thats what  Ill tell to 
do in my final decision.
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN5125642