K820x#14complaint
Mr A on behalf of Mrs F has complained about the way a fire claim under her home  
insurance policy was handled by Legal  & General  Insurance  Limited (L&G).
background
Mrs F made a claim to L&G after her tumble dryer caught fire and badly damaged  her home 
in December 2016.
L&G accepted the claim.  It arranged for Mrs F and her family  to stay elsewhere while it 
repaired her property. The repairs were  completed by August 2017.
L&G wanted  to try to recover the claim costs from the manufacturer of the tumble dryer. In 
June 2017 it asked Mrs F for information about where shed bought  it. She thought shed 
bought the appliance  from a local retailer about two years  previously  but she couldnt provide 
any documentation relating to the purchase  she thought it might have been destroyed  in 
the fire.
In September  Mrs F promised to go to the retailer and try to obtain proof of purchase.  In 
December L&G chased Mrs F again  for this since the manufacturer wouldnt accept its 
recovery claim without this information. In February 2018 Mrs F said shed try to get this 
information. L&G said it wouldnt  pay any more of the outstanding claim costs until it 
received this. 
In June 2018 L&Gs solicitors wrote  to Mrs F advising  her that if she still didnt provide the 
documentation requested, L&G might seek to recover from her the £123,000 it had spent on 
her claim. Not long after Mrs F returned a signed  form of authority authorising the retailer  to 
provide information  about the purchase  to L&G.
Mrs F complained to L&G about poor work carried out by its contractor. In particular she was 
unhappy about:
kitchen unit doors not being level and needing  to be re-aligned;
a fault with the kitchen tap;
damage to her kitchen  worktop; and
damage caused to her driveway  by L&Gs contractor.
She was also unhappy  with the way it had handled  her claim.
L&G agreed that the doors needed  to be realigned and that a new tap needed to be fitted. It 
offered a cash settlement of £81 for these works (a replacement tap having been provided  
by the retailer).
It said that the worktop had been damaged by water  pooling  on it over a period of time and 
this could have  been avoided if Mrs F had reported  the problem with the tap sooner. It said 
its contractor had cleaned  off the rust marks on the driveway left by the skip. It didnt think 
the loose slabs  on the driveway had been  caused  by the cleaning process or the skip. It said 
the paving slabs werent suitable for a driveway.
Mrs F brought her complaint to this service. In addition to the damage complained of above  
she said L&G failed to take into account  how difficult it was for her to get the documentation 
Ref: DRN57472662requested as she couldnt easily  leave  home  due to her husbands illness. The solicitors  
letter had caused her great stress.  She also complained about L&Gs complaint handling  
process.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She didnt think  L&G had treated Mrs F unfairly  
or unreasonably.  As Mrs F didnt agree, the matter has been  referred  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Since L&G has accepted that some kitchen unit doors need rehanging and the new tap 
needs to be fitted,  I only need to consider whether it treated Mrs F fairly in offering a cash 
settlement of £81 for her to have this work carried out. I havent seen any evidence that it 
would cost more  than this for Mrs F to have  the work carried  out for this. So Im not 
persuaded L&G treated her unfairly  in this regard.
The parties seem broadly  in agreement that the crack in the worktop is linked to the leaking 
tap. This wasnt mentioned to L&G until February 2018. Mrs F says the leak wasnt  visible at 
first. I appreciate that the leak might  well have  got worse gradually. But I think  its likely that 
it would  have been noticeable well before the time that it caused the worktop  to crack. So I 
dont think it was unreasonable  of L&G to say that this damage could have been avoided  if it 
had been notified of the problem earlier. Mrs F says L&G refused to send anyone out 
because she couldnt provide the documentation  L&G was asking for. But I can see that a 
site visit to inspect this was arranged in March 2018 not long after the damage was notified  
to L&G and by that time the worktop  was already badly damaged.  So Im not persuaded that 
L&G was responsible for the deterioration in the worktop.
I can see from photos that some of the slabs on Mrs Fs driveway are loose and there  are 
some marks  on it. She says that the marks are from the skip and the pressure washing 
removed the mortar  holding the slabs in place. L&G says the remaining marks are away 
from where the skip was placed and that the driveway had sunk  where vehicles had been  
parked on it even though it had only been laid about  two months before the skip arrived.  It 
says the driveway  wasnt made from slabs designed  to bear vehicles.
I have to decide cases based  on what I think is most likely to have happened  in the light of 
the available  evidence. Unfortunately for Mrs F theres  not enough evidence to convince me 
that L&G has treated  her unreasonably in respect  of her driveway. I wouldnt expect 
professional drive cleaning to remove  mortar.  I find the contractors evidence more 
persuasive in this respect.
I can understand L&Gs desire,  having spent so much  on this claim,  to recover  its costs from 
the manufacturer of the tumble dryer. To do this it needed Mrs Fs co-operation.  About a 
year and a half after the fire, it was still waiting for Mrs F to provide the information it needed 
to pursue that claim.  When Mrs F told L&Gs claim handler that she was having difficulties 
getting to the shop  where shed bought the dryer due to caring for her sick husband, the 
claims handler replied that the shop was less than ten minutes  away from her home.
Mrs F took exception to this and thought  L&G should have had more  empathy for her 
situation. I appreciate  how she must have felt. But on the other hand L&G was aware that 
there were four other adults living in the property  and also that Mrs F worked outside the 
home. It was aware that her husband  was unwell but not that of her caring  responsibilities. 
Ref: DRN57472663So I dont  think it was unreasonable for its claims handler to suggest that she should be able 
to find the time to visit the shop.
Mrs F also said the claims handler  was extremely rude to her in February 2018. Having 
listened to the call in question, I dont agree.
It was almost two years  after the fire that L&G instructed its solicitors  to write to Mrs F. She 
felt it was completely  unacceptable to be threatened with paying  the cost of the claim being 
£123,000 if she didnt co-operate with L&G and authorise it to obtain  the necessary 
information from the retailer. I appreciate that this would have been an unpleasant shock for 
Mrs F. But bearing in mind the lack of progress despite its repeated  requests for information  
I dont think L&G acted  unreasonably in taking  this action. I note that shortly afterwards it did 
receive the signed authority it had previously requested.
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 December  2019.
Elizabeth Grant
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5747266