K820x#14complaint
Mr Fs complaint is about the amount of compensation Tesco  Personal  Finance Plc, offered 
following a complaint about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out by Mr F 
in 2002. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this decision Ive only considered the complaint about the commission and profit  share 
Tesco got due to the PPI. I am unable  to consider how the policy  was sold as Im satisfied  
the complaint  wasnt brought in time.  Ive only looked  at whether the offer Tesco has made is 
fair.  
In 2017, following a Supreme Court judgment, the Financial  Conduct  Authority (FCA), 
issued some new rules about  how businesses should deal with complaints about PPI.
The FCA said that if a business got a high level of commission and profit  share from the PPI 
policy  more than 50% of the PPI premium   and it didnt tell the consumer, then that could 
create an unfair relationship between the parties.  So to put that right,  the FCA said that 
businesses should  pay back  the amount of commission  and profit share that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium.
Tesco said that the level of commission and profit share it received did create  an unfair 
relationship. So to put things right it offered to refund the extra  Mr F paid each  month 
because the commission  and profit share  it received was more  than 50% of the cost of PPI 
for the time there was an unfair relationship. It also included 8% per year simple interest to 
compensate Mr F for the time he was out of pocket. 
Ive thought about whether theres anything about  Mr Fs particular complaint and 
circumstances that means Tesco should do something different to put right the unfairness 
caused by not telling him about  the amount of commission and profit share it got. But I dont 
think there is. I think the offer thats  been made is a fair way to resolve this complaint. So I 
wont be telling Tesco to do anything more.   
my final decision
For the reasons  above I think Tesco Personal  Finance  Plc has correctly  worked  out what  it 
needs to pay Mr F. 
Tesco Personal Finance Plc should  update and pay its offer to Mr F if it hasnt done so 
already. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 May 2019.
Ref: DRN53758412Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5375841