K821x#15complaint
Mrs B says Ferratum UK Ltd, irresponsibly lent to her.
background
Ferratum provided Mrs B with three loans between 2017 to 2018.  Mrs Bs lending  history is 
detailed below:
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid Instalments Amount Highest  Repayment
1 14/11/2017 27/02/2018 1 £400.00 £476.80
2 18/04/2018 09/06/2018 1 £200.00 £259.20
3 09/06/2018 11/03/2019* 1 £300.00 £364.80
An adjudicator reviewed Mrs Bs case and thought  that Ferratum shouldnt have given Mrs B 
loans 1-3. The adjudicator said that had Ferratum carried out proportionate  checks  and 
considered the information it had about Mrs B it wouldve seen  she was not in a position to 
take on this borrowing as she had existing commitments. Ferratum didnt agree with the 
adjudicators review and said it carried out adequate  checks and these didnt reveal anything 
of concern. 
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint  was passed to me  an ombudsman  for
a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good
industry practice - on our website.
Ferratum needed  to take reasonable steps to ensure  that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mrs B 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate. But certain 
factors might  point  to the fact that Ferratum should  fairly and reasonably  have done more  to 
establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  any 
loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ref: DRN50853742There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Ferratum was required to establish 
whether Mrs B could  sustainably repay  her loans  not just whether the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow his
is the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without
undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on
time, while meeting  other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow  to
meet the repayments. And it follows  that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly  and
reasonably to realise, that a borrower  wont be able to make their repayments  sustainably if
theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments  without  borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this
context and what this all means for Mrs Bs complaint. I dont  think Mrs B shouldve been
given the three loans  and Ill explain why.
Ferratum says it carried out checks on Mrs B when  she applied  for her loan. This included  
gathering details of her income and existing  commitments. It also says it checked her credit 
report. Ferratum says based  on this information the loan was appropriate for Mrs B.
Mrs B was borrowing a significant amount in light of her income.  So this means Ferratum 
had to carry out thorough checks.  I can see it gathered details of her income and 
expenditure. Its also provided  details of the credit check it carried  out. Within these checks 
Ferratum wouldve been alerted to the fact that Mrs B had active  accounts  11 in one of the 
checks and 13 in another. This shouldve alerted Ferratum to the fact that Mrs B may have 
had existing borrowing  and it shouldve been  looking to build a clearer  picture  of Mrs Bs 
financial situation. I think if Ferratum  had reacted effectively to the information it had 
gathered it wouldve seen Mrs B had other  existing short-term loans, all taken out within  
months of each other and which were running  when Mrs B applied  for her loan.
Mrs B has provided bank statements which show she had loans with multiple other pay day 
lenders and Mrs B had around 4 loans  running  when she applied for her first loan with 
Ferratum.  Based on these loans  its reasonable to say that Mrs B was having  issues 
managing her finances. So whilst  I agree Ferratum carried out checks,  once it had this 
information it was under a duty to properly consider it before lending  to Mrs B.
So it seems  likely Mrs B was relying on short term credit to cover ongoing shortfalls and
further lending  was not appropriate. Which means Ferratum  shouldnt have given Mrs B the 
loans and should put things right.
putting things right  what Ferratum UK Ltd needs to do
Ferratum UK Ltd shouldnt have given Mrs B loans  1-3.
A.)Ferratum UK Ltd should add together the total of the repayments  made  by Mrs B 
towards interest, fees and charges on these loans, including  payments made to a 
third party  where  applicable,  but not including anything it has already refunded.
Ref: DRN50853743B.)Ferratum UK Ltd should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual  payments 
made by Mrs B which  were  considered  as part of A, calculated  from the date Mrs B 
originally made  the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C.)Ferratum UK Ltd should pay Mrs B the total of A plus B.
D.)Ferratum UK Ltd should remove any adverse information it has recorded  on Mrs Bs 
credit file in relation  to the loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires  you to deduct tax from this interest.  Ferratum  UK Ltd should
give Mrs B a certificate showing how much tax youve deducted, if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im upholding  Mrs Bs complaint. Ferratum UK Ltd should
pay put things  right for Mrs B as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman ask Mrs B to accept  or reject my decision
before 11 April 2020.
Chandni Green
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5085374