K820x#14complaint
Mrs J complains that she got poor service when she made a claim on the motor  insurance 
policy she has with Aviva Insurance  Limited  after an accident.
 
background
The front of Mrs Js car was damaged on 2 January 2019 when it was on her driveway.  The 
next day Aviva instructed  a breakdown and recovery service (firm  A) to collect it and take it 
to an approved repairer. The breakdown  service  sub-contracted the work to firm B. Firm B 
took the car to its yard. It remained there  until after Mrs J queried the progress of the repairs  
with the garage  on 9 January 2019.  When Mrs J informed  Aviva,  it said the car would  be 
moved that day. But firm B called Mrs S on 11 January 2019  to say the car was still with it 
and had been damaged  to the rear by one of its vans.
Initially, firm B agreed to pay for the damage. Later on, it said it wanted its own engineer to 
assess the damage. It didnt agree to the garage starting the repair work (which cost around 
£1,300) until 29 January 2019. The garage  then found that parts had to be ordered. 
The car wasnt returned to Mrs J until 15 March 2019. In the meantime, Aviva had offered 
her a replacement car on 25 January 2019,  which she declined. Firm B offered Mrs J £170  
compensation, which she also declined. In her view, shed lost the use of her car for a long 
time and it had lost some  of its future resale  value as a result of the damage  done to it.  
One of our investigators  considered Mrs Js complaint. He said the wait for parts had 
extended the period Mrs J was without her car. He noted that a replacement car had been 
offered. And he didnt  think  there  was any evidence  that the resale value of Mrs Js car had 
been affected. He thought the sum offered to her in compensation  was sufficient. 
Mrs J pointed out that Aviva had said when her car was collected shed hear from the garage 
within three days about the repairs.  Instead,  firm B kept it and it sustained substantial  
damage. She said firm B agreed  to repairs after firm A had said it would pay for them.  Mrs J 
said she had valid reasons not to accept a courtesy  car, so the offer of one shouldnt affect 
the compensation. She said Aviva should  have pushed firm A to offer her more. 
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Had all gone  to plan,  I think  its likely  the garage would have assessed the car and would 
have ordered  the parts in the first week of January  2019. It took around  six weeks  after they 
were ordered to repair the car. Repairs to the front of the car alone would have taken less 
time. But I think it would  probably  still have  been  around mid-February  2019  when Mrs J got 
the car back. Thats not an unreasonable period for repairs,  if theres  a necessary delay 
awaiting parts. So I think the extra time Mrs J was without her car was around four weeks.  
Although she had no entitlement under the policy, Aviva offered Mrs J a replacement car 
from 25 January 2019, to lessen her inconvenience.  From  the file notes Ive seen, Mrs J 
thought if she accepted  the offer it would take even longer to resolve the repair issues. It 
Ref: DRN55119652also seems there are two cars in the family, so she said she didnt need another  car. I can 
see why she may have thought it best to decline the offer of a replacement.  But theres no 
way of knowing whether  that would have had an adverse effect on progress. I think  its 
unlikely  but either way, the offer was there.  So I think  it has to be taken into account  in 
deciding whether Aviva acted reasonably  in the way it dealt with Mrs Js complaint. 
As Mrs J hasnt  expressed any concerns about the repairs to her car, so it seems  they were  
carried out to a high standard. She says firm B told her initially that only a headlight had 
been damaged.  So I can see why she was shocked to discover the damage was more  
extensive than that. But in my opinion, an overall repair cost of just under £1,300 shows that 
the damage was relatively moderate,  rather than substantial, as Mrs J believes.  I dont  think 
she can show that the cars resale value will be affected by the damage  done by firm B.  
Firm A initially  proposed  that £75 compensation was sufficient. The file notes  show that 
Aviva pushed to have that sum raised.  Had firm A not agreed, I think  it would have been  fair 
to expect Aviva to pay extra compensation, as it instructed  firm A. I know Mrs J was 
distressed to find that her car had been  held and then damaged by firm B. That shouldnt  
have happened, but the damage has been put right. She also had the inconvenience of 
being without  her car for longer than should have been necessary. There  should have been 
no undue  delay in having the car repaired - but Aviva did try to limit the effect  of that, which I 
think was reasonable.   
I do sympathise with Mrs J and the situation  she found herself in. But taking everything into 
account, I think £170 compensation is adequate to reflect the unavoidable distress and 
inconvenience caused to her.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 May 2020.
Susan Ewins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5511965