K820x#14complaint
Miss G complains  that Kent Motoring World (KMW) unfairly declined a claim she submitted 
under her motor warranty.
KMW use intermediaries to administer warranties on their behalf,  so any reference to KMW 
should be taken  as including such intermediaries.
background
Miss G holds  a motor warranty with KMW that she took out on 3 March 2018 when she 
purchased her vehicle.  The warranty covers  her car components against  sudden mechanical 
breakdown. She sought to make  a claim for repairs when her vehicle  broke down, as her fuel 
pump had failed and had needed replacing.  
However, KMW  declined  Miss Gs claim for repairs as they considered that the problem was 
due to the age and mileage of the vehicle rather than a sudden  mechanical failure  which 
they said was not covered under the warranty as it would be considered  as wear and tear. 
Unhappy with this, Miss G brought her complaint  to this service.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. He considered the evidence   in the form of 
claim notes   suggested that the fuel pump failure  was an intermittent issue likely caused by 
the age and mileage of the vehicle, which he didnt consider  to fall within the scope of cover 
under the warranty.  Miss G disagreed, so the matter  has been passed to me to determine. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold it.
Miss Gs warranty covers  various vehicle components against mechanical breakdown. 
Mechanical breakdown  is defined  by the warranty as the sudden and unforeseen breakage 
of an item listed within the What  is Covered [section]. But the warranty wording also 
specifies that Failure or breakage, the proximate cause of which  is wear and tear, or items 
which may be considered  to have come to the end of their normal life expectancy, are 
specifically excluded from coverage  afforded by this warranty.
So in light of this, Ive considered whether there  is enough evidence to suggest  that the 
component failure  ought to be covered by the warranty, or is outside  of its scope.
When Miss G bought her vehicle, it already  had around 104,000 miles on the clock.  KMW  
say that the failure of the fuel pump  is most likely a result of the age and mileage of the 
vehicle. There is very little expert evidence available to suggest what the proximate cause of 
the fuel pumps failure was. But from the little evidence that is available, I can see from 
KMWs claim notes that it was reported: 
Vehicle  cutting out and losing power  Fuel Pump  intermittent  issue  delivering pressure to 
the rail  requires replacement part.
Given that the problem with the fuel pump was reported as an intermittent issue, I dont 
consider it can reasonably  be described as a sudden and unforeseen breakage that would 
Ref: DRN50415962bring it within the scope  of the warrantys coverage. And given the age and mileage of the 
vehicle  and in the absence of any evidence to the contrary  it seems more  likely the 
failure was due to wear  and tear rather than a sudden mechanical  breakdown.  As a result,  I 
cant say KMW have acted unreasonably  by declining  Miss Gs claim based on the evidence  
available.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 December  2019. 
Jack Ferris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5041596