K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain  about how Blemain Finance Limited  trading as Together managed 
their account  and in particular  about interest  being charged on fees.  
background
Mr and Mrs M took out an unregulated second  charge  loan with Together in December 2006.
Mr and Mrs M were  involved  in litigation  with Together and a Tomlin Order was made  to 
settle that case in 2011. Mr and Mrs M say that the Tomlin Order hadnt been implemented  
in the terms of the Courts directions as the lender  hadnt removed any of the internal 
charges or professional fees under the terms of the Order. Mr and Mrs M  complained  and 
that the lender accepted  the majority of the issues raised but not the following which  still 
concern them:.
Increased payments from February 2010  to July 2011 amounting to £2,104.
From  April 2006 the lenders charged  interest on a separate fee amount of £6,028 
which they added to the capital  amount of the loan. Mr and Mrs M say that this 
amounts to overpayment interest  of £13,443.
Mr and Mrs M say that the lenders agree that there are no longer any contractual  
debts attached to the account but refuse  to remove the Tomlin Order
Mr and Mrs M say that the lender still claims that there  are £20,000  costs  attached  to 
the account. 
Mr and Mrs M wish the account to be adjusted in the following  way:
Overpayment of £1,800  plus interest  at 10% should be deducted from the mortgage 
balance.
The interest rate charged on the account  should be reduced  to match  an interest rate 
that is fair and representative of the general level of interest rates available.
They should get compensation for loss of earnings
Together should be reported  to the regulatory  body.
Our adjudicator felt that because  we only had jurisdiction to hear those part of the 
complaints that happened  after April 2014 that we could only consider a limited amount 
of these matters. The adjudicator was of the view that we could consider the interest rate 
that was charged  on the account from April 2104 but believed that the rate charged  was 
fair. So, our adjudicator  didnt recommend that this complaint should be upheld. Mr and 
Mrs M disagreed and asked for a review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN50777052As our adjudicator has said we are unable to consider many of the complaints that Mr and 
Mrs M make. Together provided Mr and Mrs M with a loan secured by a second charge on 
their property in 2006. This loan was unregulated at the time it was taken out and we cant  
consider any complaint  about how Together  dealt with this account  before 1 April 2014. We 
can only consider  events after that date.  I have a note that our adjudicator informed Mr and 
Mrs M about  that and that they accept  that this is the case.
Mr and Mrs Ms complaints are in the main about events that happened before April 2014 
such as the interest  on fees when they took out the loan; the interest that accrued  between 
2010 and 2011; the Tomlin Order  and the rate of interest. I can look at Togethers  actions  
after April 2014. I note that in its letter of 30 August 2018 Together accepted that it hadnt  
implemented some parts of what it agreed  to in the Tomlin Order correctly  and as a result  it 
amended Mr and Mrs Ms account. But a complaint  about the failure to implement the terms 
of the Tomlin Order - or any distress that Mr and Mrs M may have felt as a result  of this 
failure - is a complaint about what  should have happened in 2011 and so outside the time 
when we could  consider  the complaint. 
Mr and Mrs M say that there are no longer any contractual debts attached  to the account but 
say that the lender refuses  to remove the Tomlin  Order. Again, as I say above, any issue  
about what was agreed or not in 2011 - including correspondence referring to what  was 
agreed -  is not a matter that under  our rules that we can consider.
As our adjudicator indicated we can consider how Together dealt with the account  after April 
2014. The interest rate that Together charged  on the account is set out in the Tomlin Order  
and was to be 9.8%  until 3 March 2015  and after that at what was called the Final  Rate  
which was also 9.8%.  Although Mr and Mrs M may now be unhappy with those rates  its not 
for me to review them as they were agreed  in 2011. I can look at whether Together  applied 
those rates and the fairness of any charges that Together applied.
I note that in fact Together applied a rate of interest lower than those rates by applying an 
interest rate of 8.65%  from August 2011 onwards. I also note that since  April 2014 that no 
further charges  have  been applied to the account after that date. So for the period covered  
by our jurisdiction I have no evidence that Together  acted unfairly and so I dont uphold this 
complaint.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 December 2019.
Gerard McManus
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5077705