K821x#15complaint
Mr C is unhappy with how Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) handled his motor  
insurance claim, that it recorded it as a fault claim, discriminated against him and didnt 
replace a wheelnut that was broken by the repairer.
background
Mr C was involved in an accident on 2 October 2017 when a lorry came  off a slip road and 
went into the back of his car whilst  he was driving. It caused damage to the rear of the car. 
Mr Cs wife reported the incident  the same day.  
When reporting the matter, Mrs C provided  the policy details but as the call handler input an 
incorrect digit a pet insurance policy came  up. Mrs C then provided  other  details and the 
correct policy was found. Details of the incident  were taken and Mrs C informed the matter 
wasnt Mr Cs fault. Mrs C provided  details of the other driver,  who was a foreign national,  
and she was told that if they didnt want to pay the excess  theyd need to claim against the 
third partys  insurer  themselves. 
Mrs C called RSA again on 5 October  2017 as the approved repairer  wouldnt discuss the 
matter with her and wanted to speak with Mr C. But as Mr C was deaf this wasnt possible 
but the repairer still insisted on this. RSA contacted the repairer  the same day and instructed 
the repairer to speak  with Mrs C.  
The car was subsequently  booked  in for repair  and repairs completed. However,  Mr C was 
unhappy as the repairer  had broken a wheelnut key. He was also unhappy that a manager 
insisted in speaking  with him, despite  being deaf and feels  discriminated against, and that 
the accident was being recorded as a fault claim against him. He complained and RSA 
upheld the complaint to the extent  it had not responded to correspondence as quickly  as it 
could have done and so offered £50 compensation.  It also explained that it hadnt  received 
an admission of liability from the third party insurer. 
Not happy with the outcome, Mr C asked us to look into his complaint.  Whilst we were 
obtaining information to consider it, RSA told us it had received an admission of liability and 
so its outlay had been reimbursed, including the excess. So it refunded Mr C his excess.   
Our investigator looked into Mr Cs concerns and upheld them, to an extent.  He could find no 
evidence RSA had told Mr C he was being held at fault for the accident and that in the initial  
call, Mrs C was informed  it didnt  think it was Mr Cs fault; and the records showed RSA had 
written to the third party insurer notifying it of its belief the third party driver was at fault. 
He also didnt think RSA had discriminated against Mr C. He found there was no evidence 
the insurer was aware  Mr C was deaf.  He thought the call in which a manger insisted on 
speaking with Mr C was had with the repairer,  who equally didnt know Mr C was deaf. When  
Mrs C notified RSA of this it told the repairer immediately. 
However, despite RSA being told the repairer  had sent Mr C a new wheelnut key this hadnt 
arrived and so, on provision of a receipt,  he found  RSA should reimburse this cost. He also 
didnt think RSA acted  fairly when initially  telling  Mrs C that they would need to pursue the 
third party insurer themselves, he therefore  concluded RSA ought  to pay Mr C an additional  
£50 for the distress  and inconvenience  caused.  
Ref: DRN52980482RSA agreed but Mr C doesnt agree  the outcome is fair. He considers the discrimination  and 
worry caused to be much worse than we seem to and the latest offer is an insult.  It ignored 
correspondence and lied about replacing the wheelnut. He gave up pursing this and bought 
this himself which cost him time and money,  as BMW wouldnt deliver  this so he had to pick 
it up.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Although I have only summarised  the background and arguments  above, I would like to 
reassure both parties that I have considered everything that has been provided.  Mr Cs car 
has been repaired. So the only thing left for me to consider is whether the insurer  dealt with 
Mr Cs claim fairly. 
The excess  is the part of an insurance  claim the policyholder must pay, regardless of who is 
at fault. If a policy holder has a need to claim,  its an uninsured loss. So if a third party is at 
fault for an accident,  as was the case here,  Mr C is still liable for the first £350 of any claim 
(the amount  of Mr Cs excess). So RSA wasnt wrong when it told Mrs C they would need to 
pursue the third party for this loss. That being  said, if an insurer  is pursuing a third party  
insurer for its outlay, as it believes the third party is at fault, we would expect the insurer  to 
also ask for the excess as a matter of good practice.  
I can see from RSAs records that it had been writing to the third party  insurer  (its UK agent) 
about the matter,  informing  it that the third party driver was fault. But it wasnt until Mr C had 
asked us to become involved that the third party insurer  admitted liability.  This delay was 
outside of RSAs control. And once it recouped its outlay it refunded  Mr Cs excess. I have 
seen nothing in that process that shows RSA was holding  Mr C at fault for the accident. And 
like the investigator found, RSA records  do indicate it wasnt holding Mr C at fault from the 
outset.  
I have listened  to the call Mrs C had with RSA when she reported the incident. The line isnt 
the clearest so its understandable  RSA couldnt  locate the correct policy when Mrs C first 
rang. This was quickly rectified by the call handler asking for different information. There  is 
no indication  in this call that Mr C is deaf, and Ive not seen any other evidence  that RSA 
was aware of this at the time. 
I understand Mr C feels discriminated against.  But Ive not seen any evidence  that a manger 
from RSA insisted on speaking with Mr C despite  him being deaf. There is nothing  in RSAs 
records that show there was a call between the incident being reported on 2 October 2017 
and Mrs C contacting  RSA on 5 October 2017  as the repairer wouldnt speak with her. So 
like the investigator,  I think it more  likely  this call took place with the repairer.  And as noted  
above, there is no evidence before this that RSA was aware Mr C was deaf and so it 
wouldnt have been able to pass this information  to the repairer.  When Mrs C notified RSA of 
this on 5 October 2017, RSA took steps to notify the repairer after which it dealt with Mrs C. I 
therefore dont  find that RSA discriminated against Mr C and I dont  find its agent insisted on 
speaking with Mr C in the knowledge  that he wasnt able to. 
Like the investigator, I also find that RSA could  have provided better and clearer  information 
to Mrs C about pursuing the third party insurer, particularly  given  what I have said above  
about the excess. I dont think it was clear to Mr and Mrs C that this was in relation to Mr C 
Ref: DRN52980483pursuing a claim but not wanting  to pay excess. And I dont  think  this even needed to be 
brought up given  we would expect this to be pursued  as a matter  of good practice; it didnt 
need to be mentioned until such time as RSA knew it wouldnt be able to recoup this loss for 
Mr C. So I agree confusion was caused  and I think this is likely to have  been  at the heart of 
Mr C asking for his excess back.  So I find Mr C should be fairly compensated for this and 
find £50 to be fair which RSA has agreed to. 
Mr C is understandably  unhappy the repairer  broke his wheelnut  key. And I would expect 
this to be replaced. RSAs  records show it contacted the repairer about this and was told a 
new wheelnut key had been posted  to Mr C on 31 October 2017.  It would appear it didnt 
arrive. This would seem to be as a result  of the vagaries of the postal system  post does 
sometimes go astray. But it not arriving doesnt  mean RSA has lied rather  than it just being 
an unfortunate event.  I find, that on provision  of a receipt, Mr C should be reimbursed the 
cost of a new wheelnut key.
Mr C also believes  he should be reimbursed his costs for having  to pick this up as BMW  
wouldnt deliver this item.  But I have  found a number of outlets  online  that would have 
delivered it, so Im not persuaded RSA need to refund any petrol  costs  for Mr C picking  this 
up in person as this wasnt a necessary outlay.
Mr C remains  unhappy with the delays in communicating with him throughout the claims 
process. RSA has already  agreed it could have  done better and paid Mr C £50 for this. I 
consider this to be fair.
how RSA need to put this right
I agree  that parts of the claim process could have been handled better. To resolve this 
complaint, I require RSA to:
Reimburse Mr C the cost of a replacement wheelnut key on provision of a receipt.  
Pay Mr C £50 (in addition to the £50 already  paid) for the confusion  caused during 
the claims process. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I uphold this complaint  and require Royal  & Sun Alliance 
Insurance Plc to pay Mr C compensation as set out above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 February  2019.
Claire Hopkins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5298048