K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains that Paragon Finance Plc (trading as Idem Servicing) wrongly  reported  to 
Credit Reference Agencies that hed missed payments on his account. 
background
Paragon purchased Mr Ps credit  card debt from a third party in March 2012.  At this time 
Mr P was in a debt management plan and payments were  being made to the account 
through a debt management company. 
The account  was closed after a final payment was made to clear its balance  in September 
2018. But Mr P complains that Paragon incorrectly reported that hed missed payments to 
the account. He says this wasnt the case, and doesnt think his credit report  should be 
impacted. Hes told us it has affected mortgage applications hes made.
Paragon explained  that the account fell into arrears  in December  2015  when reduced 
repayments were received. It said this was reported to Credit Reference Agencies (CRAs), 
together with a debt management status.  And that this was reported correctly, so it couldnt 
amend this information.
Our investigator thought Paragon had reported  this information to the CRAs  correctly. But 
Mr P disagrees. He says that Paragon is the only creditor  who placed a non-payment marker 
on his credit file in this situation. And that had he realised this would affect  his credit file he 
would have sought to find the funds to pay the extra money required.  
So the case has been passed to me review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I know  Mr P will be disappointed,  but Ive 
reached the same conclusions as our investigator  did here. Ill explain why.
Mr Ps debt was transferred to Paragon from a third party in March 2012. To be clear, I am 
only considering  the actions  of Paragon when looking at this complaint.
Paragon has explained that the third party had converted  this debt into a fixed payment loan 
prior to the transfer. Mr P and Paragon disagree  about what the exact payment 
arrangements were at the time the account was passed to Paragon. Paragon say the agreed  
monthly terms were that Mr P would make payments of £44 a month, and this is reflected  on 
his credit report. But Mr P says payments were set at a lot less, around  £16-£18  a month,  
increasing on a yearly basis.
Where evidence is incomplete or contradictory  then I have to base  my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely to have happened. 
Given the amount  of time that has passed  its difficult for me to be absolutely  certain  as to 
what the exact  payment arrangement was. But Paragon has shown us evidence that during 
2011 two monthly  payments of £34.31 and £13 a month were  being made towards  this 
account to the third party. 
Ref: DRN51613882When Paragon took over the account in 2012  it recorded on its system  that payments of £44 
a month  were due. And looking at an historical  statement of payments I can see that 
between March 2012 and July 2015  the debt management company was making payments 
to Paragon for between  £34 and £39 a month, and an additional monthly standing order  
remained in place for £13. So payments in excess of £44 a month  were  maintained  to the 
account for a number  of years.
Paragon wasnt reporting any arrears on the account at this point. So I think,  on balance, its 
likely that £44 a month  was accepted  as the expected monthly  payment at this time subject 
to an annual review.  
In July 2015 the debt management  company representing Mr P contacted Paragon and 
offered a reduced  repayment amount. Paragon initially agreed to accept  repayments  of 
£16.36 a month for 12 months. After further contact from the debt management  company  
towards the end of October 2015  it agreed to accept repayments of £17.11  a month  for 
12 months.
In the interim I can see Mr P contacted Paragon on 2 October 2015 and made a manual 
payment of £76.03 to clear any arrears  that had accrued on the account up until that point.  
But he didnt  make any further standing order or top up payments in addition  to the amounts 
being paid through the debt management company until July 2017. 
Mr Ps credit  report shows that arrears  were first reported on the account in December  2015.  
The Information Commissioners  Office  published  its Principles for the Reporting  of Arrears, 
Arrangements and Defaults at Credit Reference Agencies in 2014. This provides that where 
a temporary reduction  in the payment amount is jointly agreed between  the account  holder 
and the lender, this arrangement will be reported to credit reference agencies.  And that 
during the period of the arrangement arrears may continue  to be calculated  in accordance 
with the contracted terms. 
Looking at Mr Ps credit  report,  this is what happened here. He entered  into an arrangement 
with Paragon (through the debt management  company) to make repayments for less than 
the amount originally  agreed. Which meant that although payments were still being made to 
his account, arrears accrued. This is reflected  by the markers  on his credit  file. I can see that 
his credit file also shows  that this account  was subject to a debt management programme. 
Mr P has suggested his account  should have been defaulted at an earlier  date. He says 
Paragon were the only creditors who placed  these  markers on his credit  file whilst he paid 
the agreed amounts.
In these circumstances, where reduced repayment  arrangements are in place, its 
reasonable for a business not to register a default unless the terms of the arrangement  are 
broken. Looking at the payment history for the account I can see that Mr P maintained  the 
agreed repayments each month. So I dont think it was unreasonable  for Paragon to 
continue the payment plan and not default his account. 
Furthermore Paragon has an obligation to report accurate information to Credit Reference 
Agencies. And Im satisfied that this is what its done  here.  
Ref: DRN51613883I appreciate Mr Ps comments that he didnt know exactly how these  arrangements would be 
reflected on his credit report. And I do sympathise  with him. But he has also told us that 
Paragon sent out proforma  information stating  that his credit file might be affected.  And I can 
see that notes  Paragon made in relation to a phone call it had with Mr P in October 2015 
reference that the reporting of his account to Credit  Reference Agencies was discussed.
Paragon has also shown  us that it dealt with the debt management company acting on 
Mr Ps behalf when setting up these  reduced  repayment plans, rather  than with Mr P directly.  
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr P, but overall I havent  found that Paragon  has acted unfairly or 
unreasonably here.  So Im afraid  I wont be asking it to make any amendments to his credit 
file, or take any further action in respect  of this complaint.
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint for the reasons outlined  above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 April 2020.
Jenette Lynch
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5161388