K820x#14complaint
Mrs K complains that Tesco Personal Finance  Plc sent her an incorrect security code. She 
needed the code to switch  her account  to a product with a more  preferential rate, and shes  
unhappy about the inconvenience caused.
Mrs K is represented by her son, Mr K.
background
Mrs K was sent a security code by text, but when Mr K entered the code into the automated 
system it didnt work. Tescos call handler explained to Mr K that he might have entered  the 
code incorrectly  but he disagreed and was unhappy with this explanation.
The call handler offered to send Mrs K a new security code so they could try again, but Mr K 
refused this offer. He said they would be transferring Mrs Ks account to another provider, 
and asked to log a complaint. He explained  the matter had caused  him inconvenience. 
Mr K then referred Mrs Ks complaint  to this service, where it was considered by one of our 
investigators. But she didnt think it should be upheld. She explained the security  code was 
automated; so she didnt think there  was an opportunity for human  error on Tescos  behalf. 
She also thought  the issue could have easily been  resolved on the day if Mr K had allowed 
Tesco to send Mrs K a new security code.  Mr K disagreed, so Mrs Ks complaint has been 
passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  When the evidence is inconclusive,  as 
some of it is here,  I reach my decision on the balance  of probabilities  that is, what I 
consider is more likely to have happened, in light of the evidence  that is available  and the 
wider surrounding  circumstances.
I cant know whether the error was Tescos, or Mr Ks. But I agree  with our investigator,  that 
given the security code  was automated, it seems unlikely an incorrect code was sent.  Tesco 
also says there havent been any recorded issues with the codes.  So on balance,  it seems 
more likely that Mr K entered the code incorrectly, than Tesco  made an error.
But in any event, although I understand Mr Ks frustration regarding this matter, he chose not 
to allow  Tesco the opportunity resolve  the issue. So even if Tesco had made  the error, in my 
view, I still couldnt  reasonably uphold this complaint.
my final decision
Im sorry  to disappoint Mrs K, and Mr K. But for the reasons explained above, I dont uphold 
this complaint. 
Ref: DRN55651422Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 April 2019.
Vince Martin
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5565142