K820x#14complaint
Mrs T says MBNA Limited mis-sold  her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.  
background and summary to complaint
Mrs T bought the policy in 2002 at the same time as taking a credit  card online. She was 
employed at the time as a buying  administrator and had been  there  eight months according 
to her application. From what shes told us she was entitled to no more  than statutory sick 
pay and didnt have  anything else to pay her card with if she couldnt work. From what shes 
told us, Mrs T was in good  health  at the time and hadnt had any health  issues. 
The policy provided  cover  for accident, sickness, and unemployment, and also had life 
cover, subject to its exclusions and limitations.  It offered  to repay 3% of Mrs Ts credit card 
balance in the event of a successful claim. The life cover would, subject to its terms, clear 
the balance on death. The policy at the time cost 68p per £100 of the monthly outstanding 
balance. The premium  had to still be paid during a successful claim and attracted interest.
MBNA has sent us evidence to show the credit  card account closed in 2007. 
Mrs Ts representative  has made  lengthy  and substantial representations on her behalf. Ill 
not restate  them all here,  but I have read and considered them  all carefully. In summary,  
Mrs Ts representative  says:
MBNA failed to meet the sales  standards which applied  at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on handling 
PPI complaints under DISP App 3, it should be presumed Mrs T wouldnt have taken the 
policy and the complaint  should  be upheld. Mrs Ts representative believes there  to be 
no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a successful 
claim meant  the policy was of inherently poor value  as shown by the low claims ratio. 
The common law duty of utmost  good faith means  MBNA should have told Mrs T about 
the poor value;
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means MBNA should  have  explained the 
significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mrs T and the impact  they would 
have had on her chances of making a claim; and
The information Mrs T received  was misleading. These policies were promoted as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and had a chance to 
give their responses to the adjudicators  opinion.  Mrs T disagreed  with the adjudicators 
opinion for several  reasons. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been  
passed to me for a decision.
 my findings
Ref: DRN54312852Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations 
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account: relevant 
law and regulations;  relevant  regulators  rules,  guidance and standards; relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs Ts. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ts complaint.
This sale took place  in 2002 before the sale of general insurance products like this became 
regulated by the FSA in January 2005.  So the FSAs and the FCAs overarching principles 
for businesses and insurance  conduct rules (ICOB and ICOBS) are not applicable to this 
complaint; nor is the FCAs Perimeter Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2007. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgement in Plevin about 
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgement, arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at the time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance 
Code for private  customers   the GISC Code. 
This sale was made during a period  of industry  self-regulation by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC).  It published the GISC Code, which  set out minimum standards  of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling  insurance, including  PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
MBNA, selling insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for all 
intermediaries (Including Employees of Insurance Companies)  other  than Registered 
Insurance Brokers   The ABI Code.  
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct Marketing/ 
Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
Ref: DRN54312853While not all intermediaries  who sold PPI at the time were a member of the ABI or GISC, I 
consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like MBNA  at the time.  So Im satisfied I should take these codes into account  
when deciding what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable  in the circumstances  of Mrs Ts 
case.
I have also taken account of relevant law in reaching  my decision, including: the law relating 
to negligence, misrepresentation and contract (including the express and implied  duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.
I am also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first 
issued by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating to the 
sale of PPI. This sale took place before insurance mediation became a regulated  activity,  so 
MBNA was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP  App 3 as if they were 
guidance when  considering Mrs Ts complaint.
key questions  
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me the key questions  I need to 
consider in deciding what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this 
complaint, are:
-If MBNA  gave advice, whether it advised  Mrs T with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for her, given her needs and 
circumstances. 
-Whether MBNA gave  Mrs T sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable her to 
make an informed choice  about whether to take the policy,  including drawing to her 
attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions 
of the policy  and significant limitations  and exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mrs T, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent she suffered loss or damage  
and what I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or damage.
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mrs T and 
MBNA, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ts complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below. 
did Mrs T know she had a choice?
MBNA had to make it clear the PPI was optional. 
Mrs T has said she had no interest in PPI and has said it was just included  with her card as 
part of the package. But MBNAs records show Mrs T said yes to PPI during her online 
application for the card  and what we know of MBNAs online application process at the 
time makes me think it likely Mrs T was presented  with a yes or no option  for the PPI.
Ive nothing to make me think Mrs T was pressured into opting for the PPI. Taking everything 
into account, I think its more likely  Mrs T knew the PPI was optional  and agreed to take it 
without undue pressure.
Ref: DRN54312854did MBNA  provide advice?
MBNA says it didnt provide advice during this sale. Taking into account also what Mrs T has 
said, and bearing  in mind  the sale was online,  Im persuaded MBNA didnt provide advice. 
This means  MBNA didnt have to check if the PPI was suitable for Mrs T. Instead, it had to 
give her sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable  her to make  an informed 
choice about whether  to take the policy, including drawing to her attention  and highlighting  
in a clear,  fair and not misleading way  the main provisions of the policy  and significant  
limitations and exclusions.  
the information
MBNA has provided us with Mrs Ts application record  showing PPI was selected. Ive also 
seen policy  terms and conditions which I accept - on a balance of probabilities  - reflect those  
that applied to policies like Mrs Ts.
Looking at the information provided to Mrs T at the time, I dont think MBNA  gave her the 
information she fairly and reasonably needed  to make an informed decision about  whether 
or not to take the policy. 
This sale took place  over the internet. I dont know what  information  the online application 
gave Mrs T about the PPI, but I think its unlikely she wouldve agreed  to take it without 
having at least  a broad understanding of the cover it provided  i.e. life, accident, sickness 
and unemployment  cover. And I think its unlikely she would have thought  it was free.
But it was MBNAs responsibility  to draw to Mrs Ts attention  the important information  i.e. 
the key information about the nature of the cover and any significant  exclusions and 
limitations which might be relevant to her decision. 
Im not persuaded MBNA did enough to do this. For example, I dont think  the true cost of 
the policy was made  clear  to Mrs T, including the need to maintain premiums  during a claim 
or that payments would attract interest. In addition, I cant see that MBNA adequately drew 
to her attention the main provisions of the policy and significant limitations and exclusions.
So I dont  think MBNA gave Mrs T sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable 
her to make an informed choice about  whether to take the policy, including drawing to her 
attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions of 
the policy and significant limitations and exclusions.  
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded that there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mrs Ts representative has raised a number 
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mrs Ts. Ive considered  
these carefully and summarised them  as:
Ref: DRN54312855-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have explained 
the low claims  ratio  what Mrs Ts representative considers  to be poor value  and the 
fact that much of the premium went to the business  rather  than the insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just told 
Mrs T about the limitations and exclusions,  it should have gone  further  and explained the 
significance of them to her. 
Im not persuaded by Mrs Ts representatives views  on this. The duty of utmost good  faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think it unlikely a court would find this extended to the insurer  having to disclose the claims 
ratio information or explaining the significance of the limitations and exclusions  in the way 
Mrs T has suggested.  And, taking into account the law, industry codes and standards of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that MBNA  ought to have done either.
what effect did MBNAs shortcomings  have on Mrs T? To what extent  did she suffer 
loss or damage as a result?
Ive found MBNA didnt  do all it should  have done when it sold this policy  to Mrs T. So Ive 
gone on to consider whether it would  be fair and reasonable to conclude  she suffered loss 
and damage as a result.  To answer  this, I must  decide whether or not she would have still 
taken the policy,  had MBNA done  things properly. 
Mrs T says she wouldnt have taken it and believes I should presume this to be the case 
given the significant failings identified  above.  Ive considered  the representations of both 
sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
As this was a non-advised sale, Mrs T had to weigh up in her own mind the cost of the policy  
against the benefits offered and the potential consequences if she didnt insure against the 
risk of being  unable  to work. 
As Ive found above, Mrs T chose to take this policy. So I consider it reasonable to conclude  
she had some interest in the benefits offered by this type of insurance. But she made this 
decision based on incomplete information.  So what Mrs T thought  she was getting  is not 
exactly what she got. The extent to which this differed is a relevant consideration when 
determining if Mrs T has suffered any loss or detriment. 
In relation to the costs, Im satisfied Mrs T ought  reasonably to have known she would  have 
to pay something for the PPI and that it would cover  a portion of her outstanding balance.  
But I accept MBNA didnt make clear  the on-going cost information. So while  Mrs T didnt 
know some  things, the ultimate position  in the event of a successful claim was not dissimilar 
to what she would reasonably have thought from the information she based her decision to 
take the policy on and found  acceptable.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mrs T thought  she had bought  and 
what she actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to any health  issue  Mrs T knew or shouldve  known 
about at the policy start, or which  shed  seen or arranged to see a medical practitioner 
about during the 12 months  immediately  before  the policy start;
Ref: DRN54312856The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health conditions, 
placing more onerous evidential requirements  to support a claim on those  grounds;
The policy limited, and in some situations  excluded, unemployment  cover  if Mrs T wasnt 
a permanent employee; and
The requirement that to qualify as disabled Mrs T be totally unable to carry out the duties 
of her normal job or any other paid work the insurer thought she was or may reasonably 
have become qualified for in view of her training education and ability  - and not be doing 
any other work, including temporary  work. 
I do accept theres a possibility the limitations or exclusions above might  well have caused 
Mrs T pause for thought  and may well have caused her to conclude the policy wasnt  as 
good as she thought and she might have decided not to proceed. The limitations on the 
cover, when  coupled  with the other shortcomings in this sale, might  have  dissuaded some  
consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mrs T from taking the policy. 
But the evidence  about Mrs Ts circumstances at the time of sale shows the policy  wasnt  
fundamentally wrong for her. She was eligible for its benefits and it provided cover that, 
despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proven valuable  to her should  the insured 
risks have become  a reality. I also havent  seen any evidence to suggest  she wouldve been  
caught by any of the significant exclusions  she didnt have pre-existing health  issues  and 
was in permanent  employment. So I think she still had some good reasons  to take the policy.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were  more onerous than Mrs T might 
reasonably have expected. But its unlikely she wouldve expected to be able to make a 
disability claim without  having to provide some evidence to support that claim.  And while this 
limitation might have dissuaded  some consumers in slightly different circumstances to Mrs T 
from taking the policy,  Mrs T, in her circumstances,  still had some good  reasons to take it.
If Mrs T had known  she could only claim for disability if she were totally  unable to carry out 
the duties of her normal job or any other  paid work  the insurer thought she was or may 
reasonably have become qualified for in view of her training  education and ability (and not 
be doing any other work), it mightve  played into her thinking about what to do. And I accept 
it may have  given her pause for thought   although,  given Mrs Ts circumstances and limited 
other means, on balance  I think she wouldve still been interested in taking the cover. 
Having considered all the evidence and arguments in this case,  I consider  it more likely than 
not Mrs T wouldve still taken the PPI. It was sufficiently close to what she thought she was 
getting and, aside from statutory sick pay, Mrs T didnt have any other means to pay her 
card with if she couldnt work due to accident, sickness  or redundancy. And, in those 
circumstances, I consider it more likely than not she wouldve taken the PPI in any event.
Mrs Ts representatives  say the rules about  how to handle PPI complaints (DISP  App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken PPI, unless there is evidence to outweigh  the presumption. 
They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ref: DRN54312857I have thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, I have found  it would be reasonable to conclude  there  
were substantial flaws  in the sales  process.  In those  circumstances, DISP App 3 says it 
should be presumed Mrs T would not have bought the PPI she bought unless, in the 
particular circumstances  of the complaint, there is evidence to rebut the presumption. 
I am satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude  the presumption  is rebutted  
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Mrs Ts 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  she found  
herself in as a result  of the sale was the same  position she wouldve been in had the breach 
or significant failings  not occurred. 
Mrs T believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including her own comments  that she would not have taken 
the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments.  
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mrs T in the position she would have been in if she had 
not bought the policy.
Thats because,  while I accept its possible Mrs T would not have taken  the PPI, Im satisfied 
that, of the two possibilities,  its more likely  than not she would still have taken the PPI had 
she been given  clear, fair and not misleading information about  the policy she was buying. 
So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable, in those circumstances, to conclude 
MBNA should pay Mrs T compensation, as that would put her in a better position than she 
would have been in if everything  had happened as it should have done.  
Im also aware Mrs T thinks MBNA misrepresented  the terms of the policy  in how it 
described the PPI. While I accept theres a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
MBNAs statements  misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why MBNA failed 
to act fairly  and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  MBNA gave Mrs T, in the way it did, was 
insufficient to meet  the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to have met in 
2002 when providing information  about an insurance  policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mrs Ts representative says a court might take if it were 
to find MBNA negligently misrepresented  the contract to Mrs T and about the remedy a court 
might award if it were  to find that MBNA had been  in breach of its duty of utmost  good faith. 
But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what  is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out, I dont think  it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mrs T in a better  position than if everything had happened as it should 
have done.
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint.
Ref: DRN54312858Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 September  2021.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5431285