K820x#14complaint
Ms B has complained that the interest  applied  to her loan from Everyday Lending Limited
(EDL) was too high.
background
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in March 2021  that I summarise  below.
Ms B was given a loan of £3,000 by EDL in October  2011. The loan was repayable in 36
monthly instalments  of around £126.  The APR charged was 31.2% and the total amount
repayable, including interest  was around  £4,480.
Ms B says she fell into difficulty  repaying  the loan and she entered a debt management plan.
She complains that the interest  applied to the loan was too high and she wants the
remaining balance to be written off.
One of our adjudicators looked  into Ms Bs complaint. He thought the loan shouldnt have
been given to Ms B because he thought she couldnt afford it. EDL said that Ms B hadnt
complained about the affordability of the loan - she had just complained that the interest 
applied was too high.
EDL then agreed that it would look into whether or not the loan had been affordable  for Ms
B. But EDL now thinks that Ms Bs complaint about the affordability of her loan has been
made too late and outside the time limits allowed. EDL says it isnt willing to consider Ms Bs 
complaint about  the affordability  of her loan, but it thinks this Service should decide  whether 
or not this aspect  of Ms Bs complaint has been  brought in time.
EDL didnt say that it thinks Ms Bs complaint about the interest applied to her loan should
be time barred. So as a first step in resolving  this matter I issued a provisional decision 
which dealt solely with Ms Bs original  complaint  that the amount of interest applied to her 
loan was too high. 
I did not make any findings  in my provisional decision about whether or not her later 
complaint about  the affordability  of her loan has been brought  in time - or whether it was in 
fact, affordable. That is something  that will be dealt with separately.
The amount  of interest applied to Ms Bs loan was set out separately on the loan agreement
which she signed. Ms B thinks the interest applied to her loan was too high but from what Id 
seen, the amount and rate of interest charged  for her loan was in line with industry practice 
in relation to high cost lending at the time.
Ms B had difficulties repaying her loan and she entered into a debt management plan. She 
asked that the interest payments on her loan should be frozen  or reduced.  And she wanted 
the outstanding balance  of her loan to be written  off. But I thought EDL was entitled  to 
continue charging  interest  on the loan whilst Ms B was on a repayment plan. EDL says that it 
rescheduled her loan but says that Ms B wouldnt have to pay any more  than the original 
amount. I didnt think EDL had acted unfairly  or unreasonably in this regard.
I am sorry  that Ms B found herself in financial  difficulties, but as I explained, I thought the 
rate of interest applied to her loan was in line with industry practice in relation to high cost 
lending at the time. I said I was not intending to uphold Ms Bs complaint about the interest 
Ref: DRN55771342that was applied to her loan. I asked both parties  to send me any more information or 
comments before I made my final decision.
Both Ms B and EDL have  confirmed that they received my provisional decision but neither 
has made any further comments. The deadline  for further comments has now passed.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I havent  received anything which changes my mind about this matter, I confirm the 
conclusions I reached in my provisional decision,  and I do not uphold  Ms Bs complaint 
about the interest charged in relation to her loan.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I do not uphold this complaint or make  any award against 
Everyday Lending  Limited. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 May 2021.
Sharon Parr
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN5577134