K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain  that Great Lakes Insurance SE cancelled their annual, multi-trip 
travel insurance policy. Reference  to Great Lakes includes reference to its agents.
background
In summary,  in January 2018,  Mr and Mrs Ms took out an annual,  multi-trip travel insurance 
policy and declared  a number of health  conditions, including breast cancer in remission for 
Mrs M. In December  2018, Great Lakes sent a renewal invitation  and the policy renewed in 
January 2019.  In February 2019,  Mr and Mrs M told Great Lakes that Mrs M had been 
diagnosed with terminal, secondary  cancer.
Great Lakes said that it was no longer able to offer the multi-trip policy but it could offer a 
single trip policy  at a higher premium in relation to a cruise Mr and Mrs M had booked  for 
April 2019. Great Lakes  applied  a pro-rata  refund of premium from the multi-trip policy  to the 
new single  trip policy  and Mr and Mrs M paid the remaining balance. 
In response to Mr and Mrs Ms complaint, Great Lakes offered to refund the premium it had 
retained in relation to the 2019 annual policy and increase it to £75 as a gesture of goodwill. 
Mr and Mrs M didnt  accept that. 
Mr M says that hes worked in insurance  for many years and never heard of an annual policy 
being cancelled  in this manner. He says that it was the insurer  who said that they would be 
better served by an annual policy. Mr M says that they are prudent and honest customers  
who recognised  the benefit of an annual travel  policy. He says that they were  aware of the 
possibility of secondary cancer and were comfortable that they had cover in place should 
their circumstances change. 
Mr M says that hes aware that its a condition of the policy that they inform  the insurer  of any 
change in circumstances and that the insurer reserves the right to cancel  cover  but he thinks 
thats unfair. Mr M also complains about  how Great Lakes dealt with their complaint. 
In the complaint form, Mr and Mrs M said they wanted the annual  policy  reinstated  and the 
premium for the single trip policy refunded.
One of our investigators  looked at what had happened. He didnt  think that Great  Lakes had 
acted unfairly. The investigator thought that Great  Lakes had applied the policy terms 
correctly and that they were clearly set out. 
Mr and Mrs M didnt  agree with the investigator. Mr M said that they have no recollection  that 
the relevant part of the policy was pointed out to them.  He said that, given the circumstances 
here, it was very important that the possibility of cancellation be pointed  out to them.  
Mr M said that both the 2018 and 2019  policies should be cancelled  from the outset  and the 
premiums returned. He reiterated that he thought the relevant part of the policy  was unfair in 
relation to an annual policy. 
The investigator considered what Mr M said but didnt change  his view.  As there was no 
agreement between the parties,  the complaint was passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. 
Ref: DRN53440782my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The powers of the Financial Ombudsman  Service are set out in our rules, which determine 
the matters that we can investigate. The rules  dont include powers to investigate  complaint 
handling by businesses. So, I cant consider the part of Mr and Mrs Ms complaint about  how 
Great Lakes handled  their complaint. I realise  Mr and Mrs M may be disappointed by this but 
I cant act outside  my legal powers.  
I can consider whether  Great  Lakes acted in accordance with the policy terms and 
conditions and fairly.
the relevant policy  documentation
The starting point  is the documentation Great  Lakes  sent to Mr and Mrs M. The renewal 
documentation Great  Lakes sent in December 2018 included the following:
Medical Declaration
Please read this section carefully as it may affect your cover.
[]
If, between booking a trip and the departure date, the status of a pre-existing medical 
condition changes, or you are diagnosed with a new medical  condition,  you must tell us as 
soon as possible on [] you will be covered for cancellation of your trip. However,  if you still 
wish to travel, we will advise you if cover is still available  under this policy.  
[] If we are unable to continue cover  we will 
pay a cancellation  claim  for any pre-booked trip, or
give a pro rata refund of your premium if you do not wish to cancel your trip, unless  a 
claim has been made
If we are able to continue  cover we may
charge an additional  premium,  and/or
cancel your annual  policy  and offer cover under a single trip policy for the pre-booked 
trip
The above  provisions are repeated in the policy terms for the 2019 policy. 
has the claim been declined unfairly?
The relevant  rules and industry guidance  say that Great Lakes has a responsibility to treat 
Mr and Mrs M fairly. Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Ms complaint because I dont think  that 
Great Lakes treated them unfairly. I say that because:
Mr M says that it was the insurer who recommended that they take out an annual 
policy in 2018.  Based on what Ive seen, neither the 2018  nor the 2019 policies were 
taken out following  advice from Great Lakes. So, these were  non-advised sales and 
Great Lakes provided information to enable  Mr and Mrs M to decide if the policies 
were suitable for them.  
Ref: DRN53440783Theres a continuing obligation to tell Great  Lakes about a change  in a pre-existing 
medical condition  or a new medical condition. Mr and Mrs M satisfied that obligation 
by telling Great Lakes  about Mrs Ms new diagnosis in February  2019.
Its not the case that Mr and Mrs Ms annual policy couldnt be changed by the 
insurer. The renewal documentation  and the policy set out what Great Lakes  may do 
when it received new medical information.  Its not unusual  for travel policies to 
contain these  sorts  of provisions and I dont think that Great  Lakes acted unfairly in 
relying on them. In general terms, Great Lakes can decide what  risks its willing  to 
take and act accordingly, even where theres  an annual policy.  
Great Lakes didnt  wish to continue to provide an annual  policy  but offered a single 
trip policy for Mr and Mrs Ms pre-booked  trip. In doing so, it acted in accordance with 
the terms and conditions of the policy and fairly. 
Mr M says that he wants both policies cancelled from the outset and a refund of 
premiums. There  are no grounds on which to direct Great Lakes to refund  the 
premiums. Mr and Mrs M had the benefit of cover of the annual policies until 
cancellation of the 2019 policy. I dont think it would be fair to direct Great Lakes to 
refund the premiums.  
my final decision
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr and Mrs M but, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold their 
complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  8 May 2020.
Louise Povey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5344078