K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M, represented  by their daughter Ms M, complain about  the settlement  offer 
Lloyds Bank  General Insurance Limited made when they claimed on their home  contents  
insurance policy.
background
Mr and Mrs M are insured  with Lloyds. They suffered a burglary at their home in which a 
large amount of valuable jewellery  was stolen. So they claimed on their insurance.
Lloyds agreed  the claim, and Ms M agreed the valuation of the jewellery it reached. This 
complaint is about  how settlement is to be paid.
Ms M told Lloyds that Mr and Mrs M wanted a cash settlement so they could themselves ask 
a jeweller to make replacements of the items that had been stolen.
Lloyds was prepared  to offer Mr and Mrs M a cash settlement.  But it offered around £10,000 
 or a voucher, which only be used at certain  jewellers, to the value of around £16,000, 
which was the agreed  value  of the stolen items.
On behalf of her parents, Ms M complained. She said it wasnt fair that Lloyds wouldnt pay 
them the full value of the stolen items in cash. She said it wasnt  right that Lloyds could  
benefit from discounts from its preferred suppliers and that her parents would suffer as a 
result by not getting  the full value  of their claim.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I was sorry to hear of the circumstances 
surrounding the burglary. Im sure it was a very distressing experience  for Mr and Mrs M. 
And I recognise that the sentimental  value of the stolen items  can never be replaced.  What I 
have to consider  here is whether Lloyds has made a fair offer for their intrinsic value.
Ive looked at the terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Ms insurance  policy.  It sets out whats 
covered  which includes items like the stolen jewellery. In the section headed  How we 
settle claims, it says:
We decide how a claim will be settled
We can either repair or replace any item or make  a money payment instead.  
We will pay the cost of replacement as new if available  or otherwise the nearest  
equivalent less any discounts available.
If an item is irreplaceable we will base our payment on expert opinion of its value 
immediately prior to its loss or damage
The point of a contents insurance  policy is to cover economic loss  in other words, to put Mr 
and Mrs M back  in the position they would have been if the burglary hadnt happened,  as far 
as the loss of their possessions is concerned.
But, as the policy says, Lloyds can decide how to do that.
Ref: DRN55305412In this case, Lloyds  gave  the evidence of what was lost, including Mr and Mrs Ms valuations,  
to its own jewellers. The jeweller confirmed the valuation, and confirmed that every  stolen 
item could  be replaced. The retail  cost of replacement was around £16,000  but because  
Lloyds, as a large  customer with regular business,  could obtain  a discount on the retail  price, 
the cost to Lloyds  was £10,000.
In settlement  of this claim,  Lloyds  offered  to replace  Mr and Mrs Ms jewellery.  That would 
have been a fair outcome,  and one that was in line with the policy.
But Mr and Mrs M didnt want that to happen. Instead they wanted their own jeweller to make 
replacements.
In cases like this, the insurer is obliged to indemnify Mr and Mrs Ms losses in line with the 
policy. By using its own jeweller to replace  the items, it would have done that. So its met its 
obligations under  the policy terms  which allow it to choose replacement  rather  than paying 
the cost to Mr and Mrs M.
Lloyds could replace the items   but Mr and Mrs M chose not to accept that. So Lloyds 
offered to pay them the cash  amount  it would  have cost Lloyds to get replacements made  
not the amount it would cost Mr and Mrs M. Thats  because Lloyds could  fulfil its obligations 
under the policy  at a cost to it of £10,000. It wouldnt be fair to expect Lloyds costs to be 
£16,000 because  Mr and Mrs M chose not to accept Lloyds offer of replacement. Ive not 
seen any evidence to suggest Lloyds replacements would be inadequate.
So I think it was fair for Lloyds to offer Mr and Mrs M the choice of a replacement, or of cash 
to the value of Lloyds  costs in making  a replacement. And, because  Lloyds  can get 
vouchers at a discount in the same way, it was prepared  to offer vouchers to the value of 
£16,000 as an alternative.
Taking everything into account,  I think Lloyds has made a fair offer of settlement to 
Mr and Mrs M, and so I will leave to them  to notify it which  of the options  they would now like 
to select.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 April 2019.
Simon Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5530541