K821x#15complaint
Miss C is unhappy with the quality of repair carried out by Royal & Sun Alliance  Insurance  
Plcs (RSA) contractors following a claim for storm damage. 
She is being helped in her complaint by her partner Mr P. 
background
In December 2017 a felt roof on an extension  of Miss Cs property blew off during a storm. 
Her and her family spent the night in a hotel  following which  an inspection was to be carried 
out. But there were  delays  in this being completed  due to bad weather. 
A temporary  cover up was arranged and Miss C told not to use the electrics until they had 
been dried and checked.  This meant some of the property couldnt  be used. A loss adjuster 
visited the property  in January 2018 and work was due to start in February 2018. The 
contractors said the work  had been  completed  in March 2018  but Miss C wasnt  happy with 
the quality of repair carried out. 
RSA agreed the work hadnt been carried out to a satisfactory standard  and arranged for a 
second set of contractors  to rectify  and complete works. Because  of the delays experienced 
to date RSA waived the excess of £150  and made a disturbance allowance payment of 
£1,750. 
In May 2018, work started on the interior of the property. But Miss C remained unhappy with 
the quality of the repair and following a complaint, the contractors walked off site. In 
July 2018, the disturbance allowance was increased to £20 a day and because RSA had no 
other contractors in the area, in August 2018 Miss C was asked to provide a quote for the 
work that needed  completing and rectifying.  
Miss C complained about the poor workmanship and the delays to date - she was unhappy  
the roof hadnt been correctly repaired,  the fascias had gaps  between  them  and the walls 
and guttering  was now hanging over the boundary line with a neighbour. She also said the 
plaster work  in the bedroom  had been  of a poor standard and the bathroom plastering had 
been uneven, with the tiler having  to make  good  with filler. Miss C also had damage to 
external walls and paving slabs where  the contractors had thrown debris to the ground.  She 
also provided a quote  from a builder,  which came  in at over £19,000 not including VAT. RSA 
considered the quote but didnt agree  all the work  quoted for needed completing. Instead it 
made an offer to cash  settle the claim (£4,770.73 including  VAT) and pay Miss C £1,000  for 
the distress and inconvenience  this had caused. 
Not happy with that, Miss C asked us to look into the matter. She provided a number  of 
photographs and an explanation of what she didnt  think had been completed correctly. She 
did, however, accept the payment whilst we were  investigating the complaint. And whilst  the 
investigator was looking  into it, RSA provided a further report which was carried  out in 
October 2018. This suggested that some rectification work needed completing but not the 
amount that Miss C or Mr P thought needed doing.  The investigator asked Miss C to provide 
an independent report but she refused to do so. 
Our investigator upheld  the complaint in part. She didnt think  things had happened  as they 
should. But she did need to take into account that contractors  were now refusing  to attend 
the property because of Mr Ps behaviour.  So she concluded the fair outcome would be for 
Ref: DRN58628892Miss C to obtain three quotes for the rectification work listed  in the latest report and for RSA 
to provide a cash  settlement on that basis. She also found RSA should pay further 
compensation for the delays and inconvenience of £400.   
Miss C didnt agree with the outcome and doesnt think proper account has been  taken  of 
the photographs she had taken previously  and provided more  pictures  of where she believed 
further work  needed  doing. She doesnt agree the settlement is fair and Mr P doesnt believe 
he has behaved badly  towards tradesman.
I issued my provisional decision on 25 January 2019. I said:
There is no dispute here that Miss C has a valid claim under the terms of the policy.  The 
issue at the heart of this matter is whether or not RSA has properly indemnified Miss C 
under the terms  of the policy by putting her property in the position  it was in before the storm 
damage occurred. 
It is unacceptable that Miss C and her family have put up with this level of disruption whilst 
adequate repairs  are carried out. This incident  happened in December 2017,  and yet to date 
she still hasnt had a fully adequate repair carried  out on her property. And so I am satisfied 
Miss C should be awarded a further amount of compensation for the distress  and 
inconvenience this matter has caused  RSA has had two opportunities to get this right and 
still hasnt done  so. I find £400,  in addition to the amounts RSA has already paid, to be fair. 
I turn now to the repairs. I have carefully  considered the pictures  Miss C has provided and 
her time line of events   and I thank her for providing the level of information she has. But 
Im mindful that a number of the pictures  were  taken part way through  the repair  process and 
so I dont think they show poor workmanship.  I have also considered the pictures of the en-
suite bathroom, which I know Miss C is particularly unhappy about.  But walls in buildings are 
rarely perfectly  straight; particularly if the building is old. And buildings do move,  which can 
cause unevenness and even small cracks in plasterwork. So Im not persuaded the pictures 
necessarily show the level of rectification work  Miss C thinks needs doing. 
Miss C has also provided a copy of a quote from a builder.  I note the builder has broken 
down the quote into three  areas,  the roof, the bathroom and the rear bedroom. The quote 
came in at over £19,000, which  is a substantial sum. But the quote isnt broken down into 
much detail and it doesnt  explain  why some  of the works quoted for are necessary  for 
instance the stripping back of all the walls in the bedroom or why new external  lights were 
required or the paving slabs needed  replacing rather than cleaning.  So I dont find the quote  
persuasive. And the insurer isnt responsible for replacing or repairing items that werent  
damaged as a result  of the storm or by the contractors carry out the repair. 
Another inspection  of the work was carried out in October 2018 by a company that 
specialises in validating  claims and settlement  costs. It is part of a bigger company  that 
provides loss adjusting and other types of insurance work. So Im satisfied I, and RSA, can 
rely on the report.
The report  shows that it has taken  into account  what Miss C thinks  hasnt been repaired  
properly, including  a video she has produced of the roof and the wind blowing through. The 
report found:
Although the cracks in the bedroom plastering were likely  due to settlement, the 
plastering was not of an acceptable standard. 
Ref: DRN58628893A showing screw head  wasnt evidence the plasterboard hadnt been  fixed correctly.
The en-suite  had been stripped back to the blocks so no assessment of the repair 
could take place. 
Although the flat roof pools this isnt an issue. 
The fascia being fixed over the weatherboard is acceptable but the gaps could have 
been filled. 
There is no problem with the guttering.
The eaves tiles will need removing and the felt pulled straight and secured. 
The sanitary wear needs can be cleaned. 
There is staining to 18 patio slabs and the painted rendered  walls of the extension.  
The inspection agreed there were  still some problems with the repairs.  And I find that those 
issues listed should be rectified, which Ill come on to later. But as Miss C had had the 
bathroom stripped  she has denied the insurer, or anyone  else,  the chance to inspect  the 
work carried out to see whether or not is was of a satisfactory standard. Ive considered the 
pictures provided by Miss C, but as mentioned  before, walls are rarely  perfectly  straight, and 
I dont find them persuasive evidence of substandard work. In the circumstances, Im not 
persuaded RSA need do anything further  about  the bathroom; it had already repaired  the 
damage, a repair  which  Miss C has chosen  to strip out. 
how RSA need to put this right
RSA has had two opportunities to get this right. So Im not persuaded it would be fair to ask 
RSA to arrange another repair, understandably, Miss C has lost confidence. Im also mindful 
that RSA has been  told contractors are unwilling to attend the property because of Mr Ps 
behaviour. 
So the most appropriate way to redress this is for RSA to provide Miss C a schedule of 
works encompassing those areas  I have set out above. And if any of the items that require 
cleaning cant be cleaned  (the paving  slabs, sanitary wear etc) they should be replaced. 
Miss C is to obtain 3 separate  quotes,  for those works alone, and provide them to RSA. RSA 
is then to pay Miss C a cash settlement average  of the three quotes  taking into account the 
payment it has already  made of £4,770.73.  This means if the average  is less than that sum 
RSA is not required  to pay anymore. But if the average of the quotes is higher than that sum,  
RSA need only pay the difference. Miss C can then use that cash settlement, along with the 
sum she has already  received, to arrange a repair with a contractor of her choice. 
I also require RSA pay Miss C £400  for the continued distress and inconvenience  the 
inadequate repairs have  caused.
RSA said it had nothing  further to add. Miss C disagreed with the outcome reached.  In 
summary she said:
She has pictures of work half way completed  as they were trying to rectify issues  as 
they arose rather than after completion.  
The reason  there  is a quote for the roof is that no one will touch it if they arent 
accredited installers of the product as it will invalidate the guarantee. 
Why should she hope to get the sanitary  ware clean when it should have been 
protected. And the lights  were  included in the quote as they were splashed with resin. 
The latest inspector that came out is part of the same group that initially assessed  
the loss. He didnt look at everything  and is clearly  working  on behalf of RSA. 
Ref: DRN58628894The excuse about cracking due to settlement is laughable. 
The guttering encroaches the boundary line. 
She has sent plenty  of evidence of the substandard work carried out in the en-suite. 
The bathroom was only half completed  when they stripped it out. She shouldnt have 
to accept this. 
Mr P has not been aggressive or rude to any workers  on site  only with people trying 
to fob him off on the phone. She disagrees  traders refused to come  back;  they were  
told not to until the complaint was settled.  
She isnt able to get three  quotes without paying builders to do this and then she 
would be gambling on them being good  tradesman. Why should she have to do this 
when RSA told her to get a quote from her builder. 
This has been very stressful  for her and her family.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments, including  the responses to my 
provisional decision, to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the circumstances of this 
complaint. 
I fully understand  Miss C is unhappy with this situation. And I did find that some  of the works 
carried out needed rectifying and that RSA should pay an additional £400 for the distress 
and inconvenience  for not having  work of an adequate standard carried  out. 
RSA has provided information  showing what works need rectifying. As Miss C disagreed 
another report was carried out. I appreciate this was done by a party  that is part of the same 
overall group that carried out the loss adjusting, but Miss C hasnt provided anything 
comparable, despite  being asked and given an opportunity to do so. If Miss C disagrees with 
the list of works that need rectifying its for her to support her position  by providing 
persuasive evidence.  
I have considered the quote provided  by the builder. But as already explained I didnt find 
this persuasive. It was just a quote. It didnt contain any information about why any previous 
work was substandard and it wasnt clear all of what was quoted  for was something RSA is 
responsible for. This is particularly important given  the large disparity between what  RSA 
agrees needs  rectifying and the builders quote. 
Miss C has said the latest inspector didnt look at everything. But I can see he took a number 
of pictures and agrees that a number of rectification works needed  carrying  out. And his 
inspection went as far as to include  consideration of the video that was taken of the roof 
space. It seems from the report the only area he couldnt inspect was the bathroom. This 
was because Miss C had ripped out the work that had been done. And although she says it 
was only half finished, previous pictures  she has provided shows  it was further  along  than 
that. By ripping out the repair, at whatever stage it was at, means that she has prejudiced 
the position as its now not possible to inspect it.  
Miss C continues to argue  the guttering encroaches the boundary line. But the photographs 
she has provided dont  clearly show that. And it isnt in the report. But I do accept her 
explanation the external lights were included in the quote as they were also splashed with 
resin by the contractors.  
Miss C explains  she has received a quote  for the roof because if its not done by an 
accredited trader for the product  then the guarantee is invalidated. Im not sure the 
guarantee is yet in place, as I understand this only happens when  the works have received 
Ref: DRN58628895final sign off. But even  if it is then Miss C simply needs to arrange an accredited party to 
carry out the work  which is far more reasonable than replacing an entire  roof. 
I understand Miss C says shell  need to pay three traders to get quotes for the works. Im not 
sure why that is, as most contractors will provide a quote free of charge. But if she is 
charged for it, then I think RSA should  refund the charge on provision of a paid invoice 
receipt. 
how RSA needs to put this right
RSA has had two opportunities to get this right. So Im not persuaded it would be fair to ask 
RSA to arrange another repair, understandably, Miss C has lost confidence. Im also mindful 
that RSA has been  told contractors are unwilling to attend the property because of Mr Ps 
behaviour. 
So the most appropriate way to redress this is for RSA to provide Miss C a schedule of 
works encompassing those areas  I set out below.  And if any of the items that require 
cleaning cant be cleaned  (the paving  slabs, sanitary wear etc) they should be replaced. 
Miss C is to obtain 3 separate  quotes,  for those works alone, and provide them to RSA. RSA 
is to then pay Miss C a cash settlement average  of the three quotes  taking into account the 
payment it has already  made of £4,770.73  and reimburse  her for obtaining the quotes on 
provision of evidence  of payment. If the average is less than the sum already paid RSA is 
not required to pay anymore. But if the average of the quotes is higher than that sum, RSA 
need only pay the difference. Miss C can then use that cash  settlement, along  with the sum 
she has already received,  to arrange a repair with a contractor of her choice. 
I also require RSA pay Miss C £400  for the continued distress and inconvenience  the 
inadequate repairs have  caused.
The schedule of works is to include:
Re-plastering the bedroom. 
Gaps in the fascia need to be filled if that hasnt already taken place.   
The eaves tiles will need removing and the felt pulled straight and secured. 
The sanitary wear, external lights,18 patio slabs and the painted rendered  walls of 
the extension, need  to be cleaned of the resin. If thats not possible RSA needs to 
pay an equivalent amount to replace  the items.    
Its for Miss C to decide whether or not to get the quotes given they might  not increase the 
amount RSA has already paid. Regardless of whether she does or not RSA needs  to pay the 
inconvenience award.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I uphold this complaint  and require Royal  & Sun Alliance 
Insurance Plc to pay Miss C compensation in accordance with what  I have set out above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 March 2019.
Claire Hopkins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN58628896
Ref: DRN5862889