K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that Starling Bank Limited  delayed in processing  his cheque  by one working  
day  extending  the time it took.  Hes also unhappy he had to check  it had been received 
instead of receiving a notification. 
background
Mr B sent Starling a cheque by recorded delivery  on 28 February  2019.  It was signed for at 
Starling at 10.49 am on 1 March 2019. Under the FAQs customers should receive 
notification when the cheque is received. As Mr B didnt get notification  he contacted Starling 
via its web chat facility late afternoon and receipt  was confirmed. He was also informed that 
cheques had just been sent up from the post room and would be processed  on Monday 4 
March.  
Not happy with that Mr B made a complaint as he believed the cheque should have been  
processed the same day. Starling didnt uphold  his complaint as it said there  were  occasions 
when cheques couldnt be processed  immediately  and gave examples of backlogs  or large 
amounts being  received. 
Mr B asked us to look into his complaint. Our investigator didnt uphold  it as there were no 
guarantees within the terms and conditions that cheques would be processed the same day. 
Mr B asked for the matter to be referred  to an ombudsman as the terms and conditions 
referred to cheques received in the afternoon  but his cheque  was signed for in the morning.  
The investigator asked  Starling for the reason Mr Bs cheque  processing was delayed.  It 
explained Mr Bs cheque was received after the normal  postal delivery and so other cheques 
needed to be actioned before his (as they were received before his). Any unprocessed 
cheques were held over to the next working  day. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  the 
complaint. I explain why below. 
It is disappointing that Starling didnt provide notification when Mr Bs cheque was received 
as indicated in its FAQs. But I can see Mr B found  out the information he needed when 
contacting it via web chat. 
I can appreciate why Mr B is disappointed  that his cheque wasnt  processed until the next 
working day after receipt. I have considered the terms  and conditions for his account which  
say:
 We will generally process  a cheque on the working day that we receive it. 
However, if for any reason we receive  the cheque  in the afternoon, this may not be 
processed until the following working  day. 
Mr B quite rightly points out that his cheque  was received in the morning, not the afternoon. 
But that part of the terms only relates to what might happen if the cheque is received in the 
afternoon, which I dont  think  is relevant  to Mr B.   The  relevant  part of the terms is we will 
generally. This doesnt say definitely  and so I dont think there is any guarantee within the 
Ref: DRN53559742terms that cheques  will be processed  the same  working day; the use of the word generally 
suggests this is what  is normal  or usual.  
There are many things that could  impact on a business ability  to offer a same day service 
and I note Starling  gave a number of examples  in its final response.  It further  explained to us 
that Mr Bs cheque was received after its post for the day and so there were other customers  
whose cheques were  received  before  his that needed processing. I dont think I could fairly 
say Starling was wrong  to process  those in advance of Mr Bs. And as there are only so 
many hours in a day that inevitably means that on occasion, as it was here, some cheques 
were processed the next working day. 
I understand Mr Bs disappointment that his cheque wasnt processed as soon  as hed like 
but I dont find Starling has done anything  wrong and so I dont uphold his complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 June  2019.
Claire Hopkins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5355974