K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains that Lloyds Bank PLC allowed his account to go overdrawn and then closed 
it. He is also unhappy  with the way in which Lloyds Bank Plc dealt with his complaint.  
background
In 2016 Mr A moved abroad and, before  doing  so, he made efforts to clear his Lloyds bank 
account balance  to zero. Mr A said he wanted  his account to remain open because  he 
intended to start reusing it when he returned to the UK.
In July 2016, Mr As account went overdrawn and Lloyds charged  him fees, which  were due 
to debit the following month.  And in August and September 2016 Mr As account  was still 
overdrawn so further fees were  charged  by Lloyds.  These were  due to debit Mr As account 
in October 2016.  
By 19 September 2016 Mr As account  was back in credit. But, on 26 September  2016,  after 
a payment to a company,  Ill call I, left his account the balance in Mr As account  stood  at 
£0.01. Prior to this point Mr A had been making  regular  payments to I from his Lloyds 
account.
On 3 October 2016 overdraft charges debited Mr As account. This caused  Mr As account  to 
go overdrawn again. And on 31 October 2016  Mr As account  became more overdrawn 
when another  payment to I debited  his account. No further credits were  made  into Mr As 
account so it became  more overdrawn as further charges were  applied by Lloyds in the 
months that followed.  Lloyds transferred Mr As account to its collections team to try to 
recover the amount  owed.  But, after it didnt  hear from Mr A it decided to write  off the 
balance on his account and close it, which it did on 10 April 2017.
When Mr A returned to the UK, in 2018,  he discovered that Lloyds had closed his account. 
He said he hadnt  been made aware  by Lloyds that it was intending to close  his account. 
And he said he told it he was moving  abroad. So, he wasnt  happy  about what  had 
happened.
Mr A complained to Lloyds and asked it to explain why it had closed his account.  Lloyds told 
Mr A it was unaware that he had moved away  from the address  it held for him. And it said it 
told him how his account had become  overdrawn and why it had decided to close it. It also 
said it had written to Mr A at the address it held for him to tell him that it intended to close  his 
account. So, it didnt  think it had done  anything wrong. And it told him that if he wanted to 
open a new account he would need to apply again.  
Being dissatisfied with Lloyds response to his complaint Mr A referred it to our service. But 
our adjudicator didnt  think  Lloyds  had acted unfairly  or done anything  wrong.  So they didnt  
uphold Mr As complaint.  Mr A disagreed with our adjudicator and asked for his complaint to 
be referred to and ombudsman for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  While I sympathise with Mr As situation, 
having considered everything that he and Lloyds have said, Ive reached the same 
conclusion as the adjudicator for broadly the same reasons. I know Mr A feels  very strongly 
Ref: DRN57340042about this matter, which is understandable.  But what I must  determine here is whether 
Lloyds acted fairly and reasonably.
Mr A complained about the overdraft charges that Lloyds applied to his account and the 
payment to I that debited his account on 31 October 2016. So, Ive considered whether the 
overdraft charges were  applied in line with the terms and conditions of Mr As bank account. 
And Ive also thought  about whether Lloyds acted wrongly in allowing Octobers payment to I 
to debit Mr As account. 
Mr A says Lloyds was wrong to allow his account  to go overdrawn when he had no arranged  
overdraft facility. He says it shouldnt have applied  fees because  it shouldnt have allowed 
payments to leave his account when he didnt have  funds available  to cover those 
transactions. 
Having seen Mr As bank statements, I can see that he went overdrawn by £12 in 
September 2016 after two payments by I debited his account. This incurred unarranged 
overdraft fees, which  were due to debit Mr As account on 3 October  2016.  And I can see 
from the evidence  Lloyds has provided that it told Mr A when these charges would debit  his 
account and how much he would be charged. 
The balance left in Mr As account in September 2016 was insufficient  to cover the overdraft 
fees and payment to I that subsequently debited Mr As account in October  2016.  I 
appreciate that Mr A was moving abroad. But he hadnt closed his account.  So, I think he 
had a responsibility to check  whether any payments were due to debit his account. And I 
also think it was his responsibility to ensure that funds were available  to cover  transactions 
that were likely to leave his account to avoid him entering an unarranged overdraft situation.  
Lloyds has provided  a copy of the terms and conditions for Mr As account. Those terms 
clearly set out when  a customers account  can go into an unarranged overdraft. And they 
also state that Lloyds is entitled to charge fees and interest when a customers  spending  
causes them to enter into an unarranged overdraft situation. 
Having carefully considered those terms, Im satisfied that Lloyds  acted in accordance  with 
them when it allowed the payment to I to leave Mr As account when he didnt have the funds 
to cover this transaction. And I also think it was entitled to apply the overdraft charges it did. 
Lloyds also said it couldve applied a default to Mr As credit  file because his account was 
sent to recoveries. But it said it decided not to do that here because  the balance didnt 
exceed £100. Instead it decided to write off the debt and close Mr As account. And I think  
this shows Lloyds was acting fairly and reasonably here.
Mr A told Lloyds  that payments to I shouldnt have  debited his account  as these payments 
shouldve been  cancelled. But I havent seen any evidence that Mr A told Lloyds to prevent 
further payments  to I from leaving his account. So, I cant say Lloyds made an error  in 
authorising the payment to I that debited Mr As account on 31 October 2016. 
I can see from Mr As statements that he was making regular payments to I from his account 
in 2016. Given  the previous debits from Mr As account, Lloyds had no reason to block  
Octobers payment  to I as it appeared to be a genuine transaction.  And so, there was 
nothing to indicate to Lloyds that it wasnt a correct request  for payment. It follows that I dont 
think Lloyds acted unfairly when it authorised that payment.
Ref: DRN57340043Because Mr As account remained overdrawn, and Lloyds  didnt receive  any response from 
him to the correspondence it sent him, it decided to close his account. I can understand 
Mr As frustration  that his account was closed here. He left the UK having cleared his 
balance with the intention to reuse this account  on his return.  He also said he needed an 
account before returning to the UK. So, I can appreciate the impact  this had on him.
But, were not the regulator of banks. This means we cant  tell Lloyds not to close  a 
customers account. But, our service expects banks  to be fair in their dealings  with 
consumers. So, with that in mind Ive considered whether Lloyds acted unfairly in deciding  to 
close Mr As account. And Ive also looked  at whether it acted in line with the terms and 
conditions of Mr As account in doing  so. 
Lloyds is entitled  to end its relationship with Mr A by closing his account provided it complies 
with the relevant terms and conditions of his account. These explain that Lloyds can close  a 
customers bank account for any reason provided  it gives two months  notice in writing. 
Before Lloyds closed  Mr As account  it wrote to him at the address it held. It told him it was 
intending to close  his account  and Mr A was also sent correspondence from a solicitor  about 
the debt he owed in January 2017.  This was three months before Lloyds decided to close  
Mr As account. Mr A said he told Lloyds he was moving abroad in 2016.  So he didnt see 
the letters it sent him. But Lloyds said it had no record of Mr A telling Lloyds he was going 
away or changing his address. And it said that even if it had known Mr A was moving  abroad  
this wouldnt have prevented it closing his account.
Based on the evidence  Ive seen, Im persuaded that Lloyds gave Mr A sufficient warning of 
the steps it was intending  to take in relation to his account. It follows  that Im satisfied Lloyds 
acted in accordance  with the terms and conditions of Mr As account.  And I also think that if 
Lloyds had decided  not to close Mr As account when it did the money he owed would have 
continued to increase as further  charges were applied. Instead, Lloyds took a commercial  
decision to write off the balance Mr A owed and close his account. I think it acted in Mr As 
best interests here. And I also think Lloyds  acted fairly in deciding  to close Mr As account  
when it did.
Lloyds is entitled  to make commercial decisions  that are compatible  with its account terms 
as it has done  here.  Because  thats a decision for it to make, it wouldnt be right for me to 
interfere with that decision.  As our adjudicator has explained, a bank has the right to decide 
if it doesnt want to do business with a consumer in the same way a consumer can decide 
they dont want  to do business  with a particular bank. So, I cant ask it to reinstate Mr As 
account or ask it to overturn its decision to close his account. And, for the reasons Ive 
already given, I cant require Lloyds to open a new account for Mr A either. 
The final part of Mr As complaint is about the service he received from Lloyds when he 
called to complain  about his account being  closed.  He said his calls were prolonged. But, 
from the evidence  Lloyds has provided of the calls that Mr A made  to it in February 2018, Im 
not persuaded its acted unfairly  in the way it dealt  with Mr A over the telephone. I say this 
because I think the representative Mr A spoke with explained clearly  what  had happened to 
cause Mr As account to go overdrawn. And Im satisfied that Lloyds explained why it had 
decided to close Mr As account.  I appreciate that Mr A was unhappy with the way in which 
his call was handled.  But, I can see that Lloyds compensated Mr A £35 to reflect  his 
experience. I think this offer was fair and reasonable.  And its in line with awards our service  
considers to be appropriate in similar situations. So, with that in mind  I wont  be asking  
Lloyds to pay anymore  here. 
Ref: DRN57340044I appreciate the reasons why Mr A brought this complaint  to our service.  And I sympathise 
with the difficulties he found himself  in. But I dont think Lloyds has done anything wrong 
here and, because of this, I wont be asking it to do anymore.
 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2019.
Julie Robertson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5734004