K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that Financial Insurance Company Limited ("FICL") mis-sold him a payment 
protection insurance ("PPI") policy. The complaint  is brought on his behalf by a claims 
management company.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  attached to a store card that Mr H took out in 1996. It 
was sold to him in store.  Its been  agreed in this case that FICL, as the insurer,  should take 
responsibility for the complaint.  To keep things  simple,  Ill refer to FICL as the seller in my 
decision.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  should  be upheld.  Mr Hs 
representative didnt  agree saying,  on his behalf and in summary, that:
Mr H had a reduced need for the policy because he wouldve received significant  sick 
pay from his employer.
If hed been given  clearer information  about  the policy, he wouldve  realised  it wasnt  
suitable for him.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Hs complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Hs complaint and Ill explain why.
Overall, I think its most likely FICL  made Mr H aware he had a choice about buying  the 
policy and he chose  to take it. I say this because the application form included a separate  
section headed  Payment and Purchase  Protection  and the box has been  ticked  to show 
that Mr H wanted it.
FICL didnt  recommend the PPI to Mr H so it didnt have to check if it was suitable for him. 
But it did have to make  sure Mr H got the information he needed to decide if it was right for 
him.
Its possible the information FICL gave Mr H about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But, based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, it doesnt  look like he 
was affected by any of the exclusions or limits  on the PPI cover  and it looks like the PPI was 
affordable. So I think  it unlikely Mr H wouldve made  a different decision if better information 
had bee provided. 
Ive taken into account that Mr H recalls  he wouldve  received six months full pay followed by 
six months half pay from his employer if he couldnt work due to sickness  or an accident  and 
that he had some savings. But the PPI wouldve covered him until he returned  to work, so 
couldve been a useful benefit in addition to his existing arrangements.  It also covered him if 
he became unemployed.
Ref: DRN51695852Overall I dont think Mr H has lost out by anything  FICL might have done wrong.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 March 2019.
Elizabeth Dawes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5169585