K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain  that Ageas Insurance Limited unfairly  declined  their claim for a 
leaking underground  pipe on their buildings insurance policy.
Mr M has been the main  correspondent to both our service and Ageas, so for convenience 
Ill refer to Mr M directly in my decision. Ill refer to Ageas and its agents as Ageas.
background
Mr M was at his property in February  2018 when  he noticed the water  supply  had stopped. 
He contacted Ageas to report the incident. Ageas offered to send a contractor to investigate. 
It then spoke to the policy  broker and advised Mr M could provide his own report, but this 
would need to be validated and may require a site visit and inspection.
Mr M contacted Ageas  and said hed got someone  to carry out the inspection  for free so the 
claim was placed on hold. Mr M sent Ageas  a copy of the report  in April 2018.  The report 
suggested the issue was caused  by root ingress  into the water pipe, and quoted  between  
£15,000 to £19,000 to install a bore hole and fix the water supply.
Ageas appointed a loss adjuster to verify the report and determine the cause of the incident. 
This was initially via a conference call and a video of the leaking pipe provided by Mr M. The 
claim then passed to a further loss adjuster who visited the site. Mr M says he was told it 
would be uneconomical to investigate  the old water supply and a bore hole with a new 
supply pipe would be the best way forward. 
The loss adjuster reported to Ageas he was unable to determine  the cause and extent of the 
damage to Mr Ms water supply. He suggested  the possibility of non-intrusive  tests using a 
specialist water management company.
Mr M initially rejected further tests  being  carried out. He said hed already  had four visits 
which were sufficient to determine  the cause of the defect. Mr M attempted  to negotiate a 
cash settlement with Ageas, which it declined.
 
Ageas agreed  to further tests to try and determine the cause of the defect. During  this time, 
water from the surrounding area flooded into Mr Ms property and caused damage. Mr M 
says that the loss adjusters were  at fault for delaying the claim, which led to the flood 
damage.
After some conversations  with Ageas, Mr M agreed  for further  investigation work to take 
place. Ageas sent a loss adjuster to inspect the internal flood  damage  and a water 
management company  to try to identify the cause of the leak.
The loss adjuster completed a report of the inside of the property. Ageas agreed a cash 
settlement for this part of the claim, which Mr M has accepted. 
The water management  company completed a report for the underground pipes. They said 
the cause of the issue was due to poor maintenance of an inlet pipe. They  stated they 
couldnt find any evidence  of a burst pipe. Ageas reviewed the report  and declined this part 
of Mr and Mrs Ms claim.
Ref: DRN55077322Unhappy with Ageas decision, Mr M brought the complaint to our service. Our investigator 
didnt uphold  the complaint. She reviewed  the reports from both sides and said Ageas had 
done enough to investigate the cause of the issue. She concluded it was most likely that the 
issue was down to poor maintenance of the pipe.
Mr M disagreed with the investigators outcome. Amongst other things, he said:
-he didnt feel his own evidence had been  taken into account
-the issue wasnt down  to poor maintenance; there was no piping on the site over 25 
years old
-the evidence  from the water  management company should be disregarded as they 
trespassed to gain the information
-Ageas  made an offer of settlement  then withdrew it
-he feels that Ageas have been constantly changing their position  on the claim
A second investigator reviewed the complaint and attempted to mediate an outcome. Ageas 
initially said it would support further investigations  to determine the cause of the leak. But it 
changed its position based  on feedback from the water  management  company, and said it 
would no longer be willing to assist Mr M with further investigations.
As the complaint remains unresolved, the matter  has been passed to me to make  a final 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I wont be upholding 
Mr Ms complaint. I know Mr M will be disappointed  with the outcome and I want to reassure 
him Ive considered  everything hes said. Ill explain how Ive reached  this decision below.
I can see from reviewing the claim history that this issue  has been far from straightforward. 
And in my opinion the actions of both parties, at times, havent  been helpful in trying to bring 
this to resolution. Im not going to go into specifics here, as I dont think its relevant to the 
outcome of the complaint.  Instead,  Im going  to set out the facts and evidence Ive relied on 
to reach  my decision.
Ive considered whether it was fair for Ageas to decline Mr Ms claim under the terms and 
conditions of his home  insurance policy. Mr Ms policy covers the cost of repairing or 
replacing underground service pipes for which you are legally responsible for following 
accidental damage . The policy  defines  damage  as accidental physical loss, damage or 
destruction, and it is generally accepted that a blocked pipe would fall under this definition.
Mr M says the cause of the issue is due to root ingress blocking the pipe. Ageas says its a 
result of poor maintenance. The policy excludes  cover for the cost of routine  maintenance, 
and this is what Ageas has relied on to decline this part of the claim.
Ive considered the reports provided  by both parties.  Mr M has provided  a report from the 
contractor he initially approached after reporting the leak. The contractor wrote he had 
limited access  to the pipe,  and says it appears  to be blocked and leaking in several  places. It 
suggests two options  to fix the problem with a quote of £15,000 to £19,000. In my opinion,  
this report lacks detail.  It doesnt  state what it thinks may be causing the blockage, or exactly  
Ref: DRN55077323where these blockages were discovered,  so think it was fair for Ageas to request further  
investigations to determine the cause of the leak.
Ive next considered the reports from the loss adjusters. The first report  was done  remotely  
with Mr M visiting the property. The report refers to Mr Ms initial investigations  thinking the 
damage was caused by roots growing  into pipes and causing them to split, and suspects the 
damage could  be throughout  the length  of the pipe, which is a mile and a half long. The 
report refers to the quote provided for the bore hole installation and notes a cause  wasnt 
provided. It recommends  a site visit by a surveyor to carry out further investigations. 
Mr M has provided the video he sent to the loss adjuster at this stage. The video does show  
water flowing rapidly next to a black pipe. But the video is quite brief and doesnt give much 
context of the surroundings or what may be causing  it. So having considered everything 
I think at this stage it was fair for Ageas to request a site visit given the potential value of the 
claim and lack of firm evidence of a cause.
Ive moved on to consider the site visit by the surveyor. He suspects the most likely cause of 
the defect was due to tree roots causing  a blockage. But without further investigations  he is 
unable to comment on the number, extent, nor location of the blockage. He stated that given 
the length of the pipe, intrusive  tests to find the cause  of the defect could  cost around 
£15,000  including excavations. 
The surveyor says hes discussed the matter with a water management company with a view 
to carrying out non-intrusive investigations at a cost of £3,420. This would enable them to 
understand the problem and get some solid advice on how best to proceed. After receiving 
this report, Ageas agreed to the further investigations.
I think it was reasonable  for Ageas to approve  further investigations, and for the same 
reasons as before. It seems to me that a range of options was considered,  and I dont think it 
was unreasonable for Ageas to want some more  clarity before they proceeded with the 
claim.
Ive next considered the report provided by the water management  company. Mr M says this 
report should be disregarded because the water company trespassed  to gain the 
information. The water  management company says it requested permission from the 
landowner before proceeding.  I appreciate  this is an emotive issue, and its one parties word 
against the other here. Im not going to make a finding on whether the water management 
company trespassed or not  that would be a matter  for the courts.  But based on what Ive 
seen, Im happy to accept  this report as evidence. It is based on a review of the pipes in 
question. 
The water management  companys report identified  three separate  supply lines at a small 
pumping station at the rear of the property. They state they carried out acoustic tests and 
couldnt find any evidence  of a burst to any of the pipes. They  suggested the water ingress 
to the property was caused by poor drainage,  and that a natural spring in the forest was 
overgrown with vegetation, causing  the surrounding area to become waterlogged. They said 
they believed  the cause  of the water  supply loss was due to the water pipe entering the burn 
being incorrectly installed without a filter,  which allowed it naturally clog up with earth. They 
believed the system was around 10 years old and was poorly  maintained over time, which 
led to the blocked intake.  
Ref: DRN55077324The loss adjusters reviewed the report and concluded that as the remedial work would relate  
to the inlet pipe only, this would be considered general maintenance and be outside the 
terms of the policy.
Mr M says the water management company only focussed  on the reserve  supply he installed 
to ensure his property  had water. He also said the investigations were carried  out in the 
summer when there was no water all over the country.
Ive thought carefully about this and considered  the report alongside Mr Ms comments. The 
report from the water management  company shows an aerial view of the property with three  
separate supply  lines connected to it. The main water pipe and reserve pipe are clearly 
marked. The report also contains  a number of photographs showing the layout and start/end 
points of each  pipe. 
On balance, I think the report looked at all the water supplies, and Im persuaded the 
evidence suggests  that the leak was caused  by poor maintenance over time. I say this 
because of all the reports this is the only one that identifies a cause of the leak. It is the most 
detailed report,  drawn  up by experts  in this field. It reviews all the pipes connected to the 
property, and supports  the findings with photographs.  And I havent  see any firm evidence  to 
refute the findings  from the acoustic tests  they carried out, which  suggested there was no 
blockage in the pipes. 
As poor maintenance  isnt covered  by Mr Ms policy and Ive seen nothing to suggest the 
loss of water  was accidental, I cant support Mr Ms point that the claim should be settled as 
accidental damage.
Mr M says Ageas  made him an offer of settlement  but later withdrew it. Our investigator 
asked Mr M if he could  provide any firm evidence of this offer such  as an email or letter.  
Mr Ms not been able to provide this so its difficult for me to say whether an offer was made.  
Its possible the discussions around the cash settlement  for accidental damage inside the 
property were interpreted  as an offer to settle the whole claim. But without  any evidence to 
support this I cant say Ageas has acted unreasonably here.
Ageas have indicated that if Mr M can provide evidence  of whats caused  the leak,  which  
differs from their own conclusions, then they will revisit the claim. I think this is a reasonable 
approach for Ageas to take. But based on the investigations theyve carried out so far, I think  
it was fair for Ageas to decline the claim. So I dont require them to carry out further 
investigations.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  15 March  2019.
Dan Prevett
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5507732