K821x#15complaint
Mr As complaint is about One Insurance Limited not recovering his car under its Gold 
Breakdown insurance  policy.
The details of this complaint are well known  to both parties, so I will not repeat  them  again 
here in detail. Instead I will focus  on giving the reasons for my decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator  for these reasons:
The breakdown  policy said, amongst  other things, that cover was provided  for call out 
and roadside assistance  for the carrying out of emergency repairs.  And if repairs 
couldnt be successfully  carried  out at the scene of a breakdown  One Insurance  
would pay the cost of recovery  of the vehicle to the nearest suitable garage able to 
affect a repair  or recovery to an onward  destination or home address. And the notes 
said One Insurance would always decide  on the best possible way of offering 
assistance. A policy exclusion said the cost of specialist recovery equipment was 
however excluded from cover.
Here One Insurance advised Mr A that specialist  equipment would be required to 
recover his vehicle.  But it didnt consider  all the options available for recovery.  
Despite Mr A mentioning  flatbed  recovery this option  wasnt offered to him and I think 
it should reasonably have  been. If it had been available  specialist  recovery 
equipment wouldnt  have been needed,  recovery wouldve been possible under  the 
terms of the policy and Mr A wouldnt have  incurred and had to pay a £271 recovery 
fee.
As result I dont think Mr As claim was dealt with reasonably or within the terms and 
conditions of the policy. And I think its therefore  fair for One Insurance to reimburse 
the £271 recovery fee he has paid.  
Its also clear  the service Mr A received  wasnt as good as it shouldve  been at times.  
One Insurance has already offered Mr A £50 compensation and one years  free Gold 
VIP membership, for this. Taking  everything into account I think thats fair.
For these reasons, I uphold this complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint about One Insurance  Limited and to put 
things right it should, if it hasnt done  so already:
1.Pay Mr A £50 compensation; 
2.Provide Mr A with one years free Gold VIP membership; and  
Ref: DRN504701123.Pay Mr A £271 as reimbursement for recovery costs he paid plus simple interest at 
the rate of 8% a year* from the date this sum was paid by him until the date of 
settlement.
One Insurance must  pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which  we tell it Mr 
A accepts  my final decision.  If it pays later than this it must also pay interest* on the 
compensation rom the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
* If HM Revenue & Customs requires One Insurance Limited to take off tax from this interest. 
It must give Mr A a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 June 2020.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5047011