K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs S complain  that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) turned down their cancellation 
claim under their travel insurance policy.
background 
I set out the background  to this complaint in my provisional decision, which forms part of this 
final decision. I said I was likely to uphold this complaint and I include an extract here:
Mr and Mrs S have travel insurance  with UKI linked to their joint bank account. 
In late 2018 Mrs S had some pain in her arms. Following  a scan she was prescribed 
medication for nerve  and spinal disc compression.  Towards the end of January 2019 she 
and Mr S booked a holiday for March 2019.  But around a week later she was told that shed 
need disc replacement surgery in February  2019. They  cancelled  the holiday and made  a 
claim to UKI.
UKI turned down  the claim because it was due to a pre-existing condition  and UKI hadnt 
agreed to cover it. UKI said it would have covered the condition  for an additional premium if 
she had called before  booking the holiday.
Mrs S came to us. She said shed been told that surgery wasnt  an option, so there  was no 
reason to think shed  need to cancel her holiday. It was only after she booked the holiday 
that she was told that shed  need surgery. Our investigator thought UKI had been entitled to 
turn down the claim. Mr and Mrs S asked for a review so the complaints  come  to me. 
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im likely to uphold it. 
The policy says that when Mr and Mrs S book a trip they must tell UKI about  any 
pre-existing medical condition. This includes a medical condition  for which  they had 
received advice, treatment or a prescription for medication from a doctor during the last 
12 months. 
Theres no dispute that Mrs S had received  advice,  treatment  and a prescription from a 
doctor in the 12 months before booking the trip. Mr and Mrs S had to cancel their trip 
because of Mrs Ss nerve and disc compression problems, which were pre-existing.  The 
policy said that UKI wouldnt pay a claim for a pre-existing medical condition  which  hadnt 
been declared to it and accepted by it in writing. This means  that on a strict interpretation of 
the policy terms UKI was entitled to turn down the claim. 
But we generally  say that where a policyholder has a long standing rolling policy, as Mr and 
Mrs S had, wed only think it fair and reasonable for a consumer to tell an insurer  when  they 
have a significant change of health.  
The medical evidence  from Mrs Ss consultant neurosurgeon and spinal surgeon is that:
November 2018 - Mrs S had an MRI scan.  
Ref: DRN51554352December 2018 - Mrs S was diagnosed  with cervical nerve and spinal cord 
compression with mild symptoms. She was treated conservatively  and prescribed 
medication. Surgery was not an option. 
11 and 23 January 2019   Mrs S was given  selective  nerve  root block  treatment.
24 January 2019  Mr and Mrs S booked the holiday.
31January 2019  Mrs S had an alarming degree of weakness in her arms and 
deterioration in her pain. Her surgeon advised her to cancel her holiday and he 
booked her in for disc replacement surgery on 21 February 2019.
I dont think there was a significant change in Mrs Ss health until the end of January  2019 
when her consultant  advised her to cancel  the holiday because  she needed surgery.  Until 
that point her consultant had managed her condition conservatively with pain relief  and 
confirmed there was no option for surgery. So while Mrs S experienced pain in her arms she 
was being treated with medication  and nerve  blocks. I dont think  she could reasonably have 
known shed need to cancel the holiday when she booked it. Unfortunately there was a 
sudden deterioration  after she booked  the holiday and her consultant  confirmed that it was 
only then that she was told shed need  surgery.
So I think the fair and reasonable outcome in this case is for UKI to pay Mr and Mrs Ss 
cancellation claim, less any applicable  excess and in line with the policy limits.  I think UKI 
should add interest  to the claim as set out below.
responses
Mr and Mrs S didnt  make any further comments.
UKI disagreed with my provisional decision.  In summary, it said it accepted  that Mrs S didnt 
consider the possibility of having  to cancel her holiday at the time she booked it. UKI said it 
hadnt suggested she should have  done. Rather  it had reviewed  her claim in the light of the 
policy terms. Mrs S had breached the policy conditions by failing to tell it shed been  
diagnosed with a medical condition in December 2018. Had she done so it would have 
charged an additional premium and says the claim may have been covered. Id not said in 
my decision  what UKI should have  done differently.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought carefully about UKIs comments but they dont change my opinion  about the fair 
outcome to this complaint. As I said in my provisional decision I accept that on the strict 
policy terms UKI could turn down the claim because it hadnt agreed  to cover Mrs Ss 
condition before she booked the holiday.  But in looking  at whats fair and reasonable I have 
taken into account  that Mrs S didnt consider shed had a significant  change in health  that 
shed need to tell her travel insurer about.  She had some pain which was being treated 
conservatively. 
The reason  I said that Mrs S couldnt reasonably have anticipated that shed need to cancel 
the holiday so soon after it was booked was because this is something I take into account 
when deciding whether its fair for an insurer to pay a cancellation claim.
Ref: DRN51554353In earlier  correspondence  UKI has said it would have covered Mrs S. It decided not to pay 
the claim but Im looking at whats fair and reasonable. And its fair in the circumstances of 
this complaint for UKI to pay Mr and Mrs Ss claim for the cancellation of their holiday due to 
Mrs Ss sudden  and unexpected  health  deterioration  requiring surgery.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given I uphold this complaint. I require U K Insurance  Limited to pay 
Mr and Mrs Ss cancellation claim,  in line with the policy limit and subject  to any applicable 
excesses. UKI must add interest* to the claim payment at the simple  rate of 8% per year 
from the date of claim to the date of settlement. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  24 October  2019.
Amanda Maycock
ombudsman
*If UKI considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income  tax from 
that interest,  it should tell Mr and Mrs S how much  its taken off. It should  also give Mr and 
Mrs S a certificate  showing this if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs  if appropriate.
Ref: DRN5155435