K821x#15complaint
Miss Rs complaint is about the handling  of a claim under  her home emergency insurance 
policy with British Gas Insurance Limited.
background
Miss R contacted British  Gas as there was a problem with her bathroom sink. A contractor 
attended on 30 March  2018 and replaced  the waste and trap. Miss R called British Gas 
again two days  later, as she had found  the sink was leaking again.  Another contractor 
attended the same day and replaced  the popper  plug for the sinkhole.
Miss R complained to British Gas, as she was unhappy with the way the repairs were  carried  
out. She says the engineer had caused  scratches around the plug hole as he had tried to 
remove the sealant using a sharp knife. Miss R also says that the engineer had used clear 
sealant when  replacing the plug and she had to ask him to change it to white sealant, as it 
was before and to match the rest of the bathroom.  Miss R also says the sealant was not 
applied neatly.
British Gas doesnt accept that it caused any damage to the sink. It says the scratches were 
present before the second contractor attended on 2 April 2018. However, it offered £50 
compensation for the delay in dealing with Miss Rs complaint. 
From British Gass file, I can also see that in early September  2018  the contractors used by 
British Gas agreed to arrange for a third party repairer to attend to repair  the scratches. I can 
also see mention of an offer of £100 loss of attraction compensation. However,  British  Gas 
has since said it did not agree to do the repairs; and I cant see that the additional 
compensation was ever offered to Miss R. 
One of our adjudicators looked  into the complaint. He recommended  that it be upheld, as he 
considered it more likely than not that the second  contractor did cause the scratches  when 
attending on 2 April 2018. The adjudicator therefore  recommended that British Gas should 
arrange for the repair of the scratches;  and also for the sealant to be redone as the pictures 
show it was not been  left it in a good  condition. If it isnt possible to repair the sink, the 
adjudicator recommended  that British Gas consider  a suitable replacement  or cash  
settlement to be agreed with Miss R. In addition to the £50.00 compensation offered by 
British Gas for the delay in responding to the complaint, the adjudicator  also said it should  
pay £100.00 compensation.
British Gas doesnt accept the adjudicators assessment, so the matter  has been  referred  to 
me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both Miss R and British  Gas have provided  photographs  of the sink, which they both say 
support their respective positions. 
Miss R has provided photographs which she says are of the sink after the work  was carried 
out, showing scratches around  the plughole and that the sealant was not smooth. 
Ref: DRN59607882British Gas has provided photographs, which it says were from before the work was carried  
out as they show  white  sealant and in which the scratches are visible.  However, Miss R says 
she asked the contractor to replace the clear sealant with white  sealant and therefore that 
these photos were in fact taken after the work was completed by the second  contractor.  
Having compared  both sets of photos, the sealant in both appears  to look the same (with  the 
unevenness) so it does  seem likely to me that the photos British Gas has provided were  
taken after the work  was carried  out.  
I also note that the first contractor didnt mention any scratches on the job reports he 
completed. It is usual  for contractors to note any existing damage before starting any work 
themselves. Miss R has said that the second  contractor  did point out the scratches to her but 
only after the work was done. If the scratches had been there before he started work, Id 
have expected him to point them out to Miss R and record them  before starting work on the 
sink.
 
Having taken everything into account, I am satisfied that it is more likely than not that British  
Gass contractor caused the scratches. I also consider that the sealant has not been applied 
to a reasonable standard. I agree with the adjudicator that this should be rectified and that 
British Gas should pay some compensation for the trouble caused to Miss R. 
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  against British Gas Insurance  Limited and require it to:
arrange for the sealant to be re-done  and magic repair  of the scratches. If it is not 
possible to repair then British  Gas should arrange for or pay for a replacement sink; 
and
pay £100.00 compensation  (in addition to the £50 already offered) as compensation 
for the distress and inconvenience caused  by the handling of this matter,  including  
the delay in dealing with the complaint, the repair not being carried out properly on 
the first visit. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 March  2019.
Harriet McCarthy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5960788