K821x#15complaint
Mrs R says Financial  Insurance  Company Limited (FICL) mis-sold her a payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy. 
background
This complaint is about a store card PPI policy Mrs R took out in 2001. It was added to her 
account at some point  after the card had been  set up.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. FICL disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so the 
complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Rs case.  
Ive decided to uphold Mrs Rs complaint  because  I dont  think FICL gave Mrs R clear 
enough information about the policy. I say this because she had at least  six months sick pay 
and six months savings, which means  she could have met her credit card repayments for 
over a year without the policy. So I think Mrs R probably wouldnt have wanted the policy if 
shed properly understood the cost and benefits. 
I dont think Mrs R wouldve bought the policy if FICL had given her enough information 
about it. So, I think Mrs R has lost out because of what FICL did wrong. 
Ive taken into account FICLs comments, including what it said about  Mrs R saying she had 
sick pay thats more  than FICL would expect given how long shed been in her particular job. 
But Im satisfied that Mrs R has been  consistent  throughout  the complaint in terms of her 
sick pay. And FICL  has provided  no evidence to show that what  shes  said is likely  to be 
wrong. So I still think I should uphold the complaint.
putting things right
FICL should put Mrs R in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI.
A.FICL should find out how much  Mrs R would  have  owed  when she closed her credit 
card account if the policy hadnt  been added.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges. 
FICL should then refund  the difference between what  Mrs R owed when she closed her 
account and what  she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Mrs R made a successful claim under the PPI policy, FICL can take off what  she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her.  
Ref: DRN56807092B.FICL should add simple interest on the difference between what Mrs R would have 
owed when she closed her account  from when  she closed it until she gets the refund. 
The interest rate should  be 8% a year. 
C.If  when  FICL works out what Mrs R would have owed each month  without PPI  Mrs R 
paid more than enough  to clear  her balance, FICL should  also pay simple interest on the 
extra Mrs R paid. And it should  carry on paying  interest  until the point when Mrs R 
wouldve owed FICL  something on her credit card. The interest  rate should be 8% a 
year. 
D.FICL should tell Mrs R what its done to work  out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires FICL to take off tax from this interest. FICL must give 
Mrs R a certificate showing  how much  tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mrs Rs complaint.
Financial Insurance  Company Limited should  put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs R to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 August 2019.  
Phillip Lai-Fang
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5680709