K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs B say HSBC UK Bank  Plc mis-sold  them a mortgage payment  protection  
insurance (PPI)  policy.  
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out in 1993. 
Our adjudicator recommended  the complaint be upheld. HSBC  disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.
Ive considered what HSBC has said, but Ive still decided to uphold Mr and Mrs Bs 
complaint. This is because HSBC recommended the policy to Mr and Mrs B but I dont think  
it was suitable  for them. Mr B had a serious operation about 13 years  before. Although  he 
says he recovered  fully, I think the nature of the illness  was one that had a reasonable 
chance of recurring.  But, if it had, under  the likely terms of the policy,  he wouldnt have been 
able to claim for any resulting time away from work.  I dont have clear evidence that HSBC  
properly enquired about this when recommending the policy,  nor that it clearly warned 
Mr and Mrs B about this limitation  in the policy.
I dont think Mr and Mrs B would have bought the policy  if HSBC  had made  it clear  it wasnt 
suitable, or if HSBC  had given enough  information  about the policy. So, I think  Mr and Mrs B 
have lost out because of what  the business  did wrong. 
fair compensation
HSBC UK Bank Plc should  put Mr and Mrs B in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt 
taken out PPI. The policy should  be cancelled,  if it hasnt been cancelled  already, and HSBC 
UK Bank Plc should:
Pay Mr and Mrs B the amount they paid each  month for the PPI
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back.  The 
rate of interest is 8% a year.
If Mr and Mrs B made a successful claim under  the PPI policy,  HSBC UK Bank Plc can 
take off what they got for the claim from the amount it owes them.  
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires HSBC UK Bank  Plc to take off tax from this interest.  
HSBC UK Bank Plc must  give Mr and Mrs B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off 
if they ask for one.
Ref: DRN55211862my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. 
I require HSBC UK Bank Plc to pay Mr and Mrs B compensation in accordance  with the 
calculation of redress set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  22 April 2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5521186