K821x#15complaint
Mr S complains that Aviva Life & Pensions  UK Limited incorrectly calculated the premium  he 
would need to pay for a waiver  of premium  policy on his pension contributions. And he 
says that information Aviva gave to him about  the cost of that benefit in 2003 was incorrect.
background
Mr S started a pension  plan in 1997. That pension was sold to Mr S by a company that has 
since been taken  over by Aviva. So Aviva is responsible  for the complaint that Mr S has 
made. And for simplicity I will refer to Aviva, rather than the predecessor company, 
throughout this decision.
When Mr S started his pension he asked  to include a waiver of premium  (WoP) benefit. 
That benefit would ensure  that Mr Ss pension  contributions continued to be paid should he 
be unable to work due to illness or injury. Aviva  declined  to offer this benefit to Mr S in 1997 
due to his previous medical history. But it agreed to review that decision after the pension 
policy had been  in place for a year.
In 1999 Mr S again applied to take the WoP benefit  and provided  some medical information 
to Aviva.  At that time Aviva agreed  to provide the benefit to Mr S but told him that he would 
need to pay an increased cost due to his medical  history. Mr S accepted the cost that Aviva  
quoted to him and the benefit was added to his pension plan. 
In 2003 Mr S became a member of an occupational  pension  scheme.  So at that time he 
reviewed his pension  plan with Aviva and asked for some  information about the cost of the 
WoP benefit.  Aviva told him that the benefit cost £5.73 per month. Mr S decided to continue  
with his pension  plan with Aviva and made  no changes to his contributions.
In 2018 Mr S asked  for some further  information from Aviva.  At that time he was told that the 
cost of the WoP had risen  to £50.52  each  month.  Mr S was surprised by that increase and 
asked for some further information from Aviva. He was told that the information hed been 
given in 2003 had been incorrect and the monthly  cost he was actually being charged then 
was £12.61. That cost had then increased, as per the terms of the benefit,  in line with 
increases in Mr Ss regular contributions  and his age.
Mr S complained to Aviva about  his WoP  cost both in terms of how it had originally been 
calculated in 1999, and the incorrect information  hed been  given in 2003. Aviva wasnt  able 
to show Mr S how it had originally calculated the cost of the benefit as this was commercially 
sensitive. Aviva did accept that it had given Mr S incorrect information  in 2003. But given that 
Mr S had actually paid the correct cost for the WoP benefit it didnt think he was due a 
refund. Aviva did however pay Mr S £250  as an apology for the incorrect  information  he 
been given in 2003 and the time it had taken to answer his complaint. Mr S was unhappy 
with that response  so brought his complaint to this Service.
Mr Ss complaint has been  assessed by one of our investigators. She ultimately thought  that 
if Mr S had been given  the correct information in 2003 hed have decided to cancel his WoP 
benefit and stop paying the monthly  cost. So she asked Aviva to refund the costs  that Mr S 
had paid since 2003 by refunding them to his pension plan.
Ref: DRN58596852Aviva didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide.  This is the last stage of our 
process. If Mr S accepts  my decision it is legally binding  on both parties.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice  at the time.
In deciding this complaint  I have taken account  of the submissions that have been made by 
Mr S and by Aviva. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are conflicts, I have made my 
decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words I have looked at what 
evidence we do have,  and the surrounding  circumstances, to help me decide what I think is 
more likely to have  happened.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service.  This service isnt intended  
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct  
Authority. Instead  this service looks to resolve  individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide  that something  has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things  right by placing the consumer,  as far as is possible, in the position 
they would  have been if the problem hadnt  occurred.
I will first consider the cost that Aviva set for the WoP benefit  applied to Mr Ss pension  plan 
in 1999. I understand the reluctance of Aviva  to share full details of how it has derived that 
cost with Mr S. That information  is commercially  sensitive.  But I can reassure Mr S that 
Aviva has shown us how it calculated the cost it set for his WoP benefit. But of course it isnt 
for me to decide here whether those  costs were fair or not  that again was a commercial 
decision for Aviva based on what its underwriters  decided about Mr Ss specific  
circumstances. I think  the most  important  thing to note here is that Aviva clearly disclosed 
the cost to Mr S in 1999 and he agreed  to pay it.
In 2003 Mr S asked  Aviva  for information about  the cost of the WoP benefit. Aviva doesnt  
routinely provide these costs to its customers in their annual statements  but is happy to 
provide them  on request.  So it isnt entirely surprising that Mr S hadnt  been able to track 
how the cost of the benefit had changed  over the years. 
At this stage I think it worth  providing  a little more explanation for Mr S about how his 
monthly cost was made up. His monthly  cost comprised the premium he would have paid if 
no increase had been applied plus 100%  of an additional premium.  But, for the avoidance of 
doubt, the additional premium is less than the basic premium. 
I have considered that the price Aviva  quoted in 2003 was less than Mr S agreed  to pay in 
1999. That might  have suggested that Mr S should  have known what  Aviva told him in 2003  
was incorrect. But Mr S has said that hed understood the increased cost would only apply 
for one year.  While I cant find anything  to support that, and so suggest that Aviva was unfair 
in continuing to apply the increased cost, I think it might  explain why, at the time, Mr S wasnt  
surprised that the monthly cost of the benefit had fallen.
Ref: DRN58596853Aviva accepts that the information it gave to Mr S in 2003 about his monthly cost was 
incorrect. But from what Aviva has shown me about  the costs  of Mr Ss WOP policy  that 
information wasnt representative of the normal  premium that would have been charged if 
Aviva hadnt  applied an increase to Mr Ss policy. The actual non increased cost was in fact 
a little higher.
Given that I have found, and Aviva accepts, that the information given to Mr S in 2003 was 
incorrect, what I need to decide here is whether Mr S would have done  something different if 
hed been given the right information.  
Mr S has told us that he was reassessing his pension provision at that time since he had 
recently joined an occupational pension scheme.  He has said that he found the cost he had 
been quoted by Aviva, of £5.73 per month,  to be acceptable. But he says he wouldnt have 
agreed to keep the WoP benefit  if hed known the actual cost was £12.61.
I have no way of knowing  for certain what Mr S would have done if Aviva  had given him the 
correct information  in 2003.  What  I do know is that Mr S appears to have found £5.73 an 
acceptable cost.  And I have no reason  to doubt what he says about  £12.61  being a cost he 
wouldnt have been prepared to pay given the pension  options now open  to him through  his 
occupational scheme.  
If Aviva had given Mr S the correct information  in 2003 he would have had a simple  choice - 
to continue paying £12.61  per month for the WoP  benefit, or to cancel  that benefit. He 
wouldnt have had any option to pay a reduced amount (such as £5.73) for his cover. So it 
seems to me that the cancellation of the cover would have been  the most  likely outcome in 
2003 if Aviva  had notified Mr S of the true cost.
I accept that Mr S could  also have  decided to stop paying pension  contributions to Aviva 
altogether. But I havent  seen enough evidence to make me think the WoP benefit was so 
important to Mr S that he would have stopped contributing to the Aviva  pension if he thought  
the WoP  was too expensive.
I think it most likely  that, if Aviva had told Mr S of the correct  cost of the WoP benefit in 2003 
hed have cancelled  the benefit. So Aviva needs  to refund the premiums he has paid since  
May 2003 by adding  the additional amounts back into Mr Ss pension plan so they will 
receive the appropriate investment returns from the dates they were  originally  deducted.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ss complaint and direct  Aviva Life & Pensions UK 
Limited to put things  right as detailed above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 May 2019.
Paul Reilly
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5859685