K821x#15complaint
The complaint is that CashEuroNet UK LLC (trading as QuickQuid)  lent to Mr C 
irresponsibly.
background
The background to this complaint, and my initial findings on it, can be found  in my 
provisional decision which is attached to and forms a part of this final decision.
QuickQuid responded  to the provisional decision  to say it had nothing to add.
Mr K, on behalf of Mr Cs estate, made some comments about the way my findings had been  
expressed in my provisional  decision. Essentially Mr K said it was unclear if I had concluded  
QuickQuid had lent irresponsibly to Mr C, contributed to his dependency on payday  loans 
(whether knowingly or not), or should have known Mr C had been  in financial difficulty  and 
that further loans  may have been  making  his situation worse.
The case  has now been returned to me to review.
my findings
Ive considered again all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As with my provisional decision,  Ive 
taken into account  the law along with relevant  regulatory guidance  and good industry 
practice at the time.
Neither party to the complaint has says it disagrees  with the fundamental findings I made in 
my provisional decision. These were that it had been wrong of QuickQuid to give Mr C loan 
4, but had not fallen short  of what was required of it in terms of giving  him advice about his 
debts. I also found  QuickQuid had handled Mr Cs account poorly after his death, causing 
inconvenience to his estate. I dont intend to depart from these fundamental findings,  but Ive 
considered Mr Ks points  carefully. 
irresponsible lending
I was clear in my provisional decision that I didnt think it was responsible  of QuickQuid to 
give Mr C loan 4. It follows that I consider this to have been  an irresponsible  lending 
decision. 
Ref: DRN52049942knowledge of financial difficulty  and dependence  on payday loans
In my provisional decision I said that  when Mr C applied for loan 4  it should have been 
concerned about  his ability to repay  even  small amounts of credit. This was because  hed 
struggled to repay his previous loan.  So I do agree  QuickQuid should have suspected  Mr C 
may have  been  experiencing  financial difficulties. This formed part of my reasoning  for 
saying QuickQuid should have taken steps  to verify his income and expenditure before 
agreeing loan 4.  
What I thought QuickQuid  would have  discovered had it carried  out proportionate checks  
should have confirmed that Mr C had financial difficulties: at the time Mr C applied  for loan 4 
he had no source of earned income. He was reliant  on borrowing from individuals, his bank 
(in the form of an overdraft) and high-cost short-term lenders. Mr C also received student 
loans (which hed not have  to repay  for some years),  but these were  used up within a couple 
of weeks of receiving them due to the extent of his other debts.
I said in my provisional decision that a responsible lender with proper insight into Mr Cs 
finances would have considered there  was a high risk that his financial situation was 
unsustainable. Further high-cost short-term lending  would  be unlikely to improve this 
situation and in fact risked  making it worse over the medium to long term. This is something  I 
would have expected to be considered as part of a responsible lending  decision.
Mr K has also asked  if QuickQuid contributed to Mr Cs dependence on payday  lending. 
Given what Ive said above I think its fair to say that, by the time he applied  for loan 4, Mr C 
was dependent on lending from a variety of sources   not just payday lending.  Any lending  
by QuickQuid which perpetuated his indebtedness could be said to have contributed to this 
overall dependence. I think QuickQuid  in wrongly giving Mr C loan 4  contributed to the 
overall picture, although I do think its important to say that there  may have been  other  
factors which negatively influenced  his financial situation, such as delays in the financing of 
his student loans.
putting things right
In my attached provisional decision I concluded QuickQuid shouldnt have given Mr C loan 4 
 and had handled the account poorly  after his death. These conclusions remain the same, 
and for the same  reasons.  QuickQuids offer  to write off the outstanding debt and pay £100 
compensation  seems  to me to be fair bearing  in mind the impact of its actions on Mr Cs 
estate. QuickQuid must therefore do the following:
Write  off any remaining  balance on loan 4 and take steps  to ensure that the debt is 
not pursued again in the future.
Pay £100 compensation. It will need to discuss with Mr K how this is to be paid.
Ref: DRN52049943my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, and in my attached provisional decision, I uphold this 
complaint and direct CashEuroNet  UK LLC to take the actions outlined  in the putting things 
right section above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K, on behalf  of 
Mr Cs estate, to accept  or reject my decision before 21 February  2019.
Will Culley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN52049944COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
The complaint is that CashEuroNet  UK LLC (trading  as QuickQuid) lent to Mr C irresponsibly.
background 
Mr C took four loans with QuickQuid between December 2014 and March  2016.  Ive included some  of 
the information weve  received about these loans in the table below. Where  Mr C added extra  
borrowing to a loan (known as topping up), this is represented by a letter.
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid AmountHighest 
Repayment
1 12/12/2014 15/01/2015 £100.00 £124.27
2 01/08/2015 17/09/2015 £100.00 £124.80
3 30/10/2015 04/02/2016 £100.00 £124.00
3A 21/11/2015 04/02/2016 £125.00 £284.40
4 03/03/2016 Outstanding £100.00 £128.00
Mr C had some  difficulty  repaying loan 3 after he topped it up, but was able to do so in February 
2016. Mr C also had difficulty repaying loan 4 and contacted QuickQuid to arrange reduced 
repayments. QuickQuid agreed on 16 March 2016  that Mr C could pay £24.60 two days  later,  but it 
appears no payment  was received.
In late May 2016, Mr C died. His mother  contacted QuickQuid by email on 7 July 2016 to notify it of 
her sons death. She attached a death  certificate, said there were no funds  in the estate and asked 
that the account  be closed.  QuickQuid replied  the next day to say it was sorry  to hear of Mr Cs death 
and that it would review  the death certificate. Over  the next month QuickQuid sent a large  number of 
emails addressed to Mr C variously  demanding  repayment of loan 4, stating  it would  sell the loan to 
debt collectors or offering  repayment plans.  These emails stopped on 12 August  2016.
There appears to have  been  no further contact from that point  on until 14 June 2017 when Mr Cs 
father, who Ill call Mr K, made  a complaint. Mr K said he believed QuickQuid had not undertaken 
proper checks before  it lent to Mr C and asked  for evidence of the checks  that had been  carried out. 
He noted that Mr C had not been employed and had been  borrowing from other short-term lenders. 
He also expressed his view that instead of offering  him loans, QuickQuid should have referred  Mr C to 
debt counselling.
QuickQuid sent its final response to the complaint on 9 August 2017. It rejected the complaint,  noting 
that Mr C had applied for relatively small  loans and it felt the checks it had carried  out were  
proportionate. It said it had analysed Mr Cs credit report along  with the information  hed provided  to 
support his applications  and his lending  history with the company. Having done so, it had generated a 
score for Mr C which it said had been high enough  to lend to him. It said the evidence didnt support 
an assertion that Mr C had been dependent on short-term loans.
Mr K then referred the complaint to this service. He added at this point that Mr C had provided very 
unrealistic information about his finances when he applied for his loans and this was something 
QuickQuid should have realised. 
QuickQuid then wrote to us maintaining that it didnt  agree that it had been wholly  irresponsible to 
lend to Mr C, but offering  to write off the remaining  balance on loan 4 as it accepted it should  have 
carried out further  checks  before providing  this loan.
A number  of adjudicators  then investigated the case. I dont intend to give a detailed account of our 
investigations and the results of these, but Ill summarise our conclusions below:
Ref: DRN52049945QuickQuid had carried  out proportionate checks before agreeing loans  1 to 3, but not loan 4 
or the top-up to loan 3.
Proportionate checks would  not have  revealed that the top-up to loan 3 was unaffordable so it 
was not wrong of QuickQuick to agree  this.
QuickQuid had already agreed that it should  have  carried  out further checks before giving  Mr 
C loan 4 and offered  fair redress, so there was no need  to investigate this point further.
QuickQuid had handled matters poorly  after Mr C had died but had since apologised for this 
and had offered £100 compensation.
It hadnt been unreasonable of QuickQuid to rely on the information Mr C had given on his 
application form for loans 1 to 3.
QuickQuid had signposted Mr C to debt counselling  on a number of occasions but was not 
obliged to offer debt counselling instead  of a loan.
Mr K disagreed with these findings. He asked for us to investigate loan 4 further.  An adjudicator then 
looked into loan 4 and concluded that although QuickQuid had not carried  out enough  checks  before 
giving Mr C this loan,  if it had carried out enough checks she didnt think  this would  have made  a 
difference.
There was some further correspondence but ultimately  no agreement could be reached on the case, 
and it has now been passed to me to decide.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Ive taken into account the law along with any relevant regulatory  
guidance and good industry practice at the time.
QuickQuid had to assess Mr Cs applications for borrowing to check if he could afford to pay back  the 
amounts hed borrowed  without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was proportionate 
to the circumstances.  It then needed to assess whether  based on the information  it had gathered  
from its proportionate checks  Mr C could afford to make his repayments in a sustainable way. The 
industry regulator has explained that repayments  are sustainable  if theyre  made from income or 
savings, and while maintaining existing commitments.
The remaining issues for me to decide  in this case  in terms  of whether QuickQuid lent responsibly  
relate to loan 4, so I will focus on this loan in my decision. Ill also consider the advice QuickQuid gave 
to Mr C about his situation,  and the way QuickQuid handled his account  after hed died.
adequacy of QuickQuids checks  before  agreeing loan 4
QuickQuid appears to have relied on the results of a credit check,  along with Mr Cs self-declared 
income and expenditure,  when deciding whether  to give him loan 4. Mr C had last updated his income 
and expenditure information in June 2015. Hed said his income was £700 per month and his 
expenditure was £275 per month.
Based on my experience of how it lent at the time, QuickQuid gave  consumers the option of 
amending their income and expenditure each time they applied for a loan. So it would appear that 
when he applied for loan 4 Mr C had confirmed the figures hed previously given were  correct  or at 
least he hadnt said they were wrong.
However, I think QuickQuid  should have  been concerned  at this stage about  Mr Cs ability to afford  
even small  amounts of credit,  given  hed struggled to repay loan 3. I think a responsible lender would 
have considered it was possible the income and expenditure information  Mr C had given was no 
longer correct, and it should have taken steps to verify this and get some  detailed insight into his 
financial situation before agreeing loan 4. I think some of the results returned by QuickQuids  credit 
Ref: DRN52049946search reinforced the need  to do this  specifically  there was an indication in the results that Mr Cs 
stated income  might  not be accurate.
QuickQuid has recently explained that it would  ask to see a borrowers bank statements in certain 
circumstances before  it would agree to lend to them. An example would be if there were reasons to 
question the figures provided  by the borrower.  Given what  Ive said above, I believe QuickQuid had 
reasons to question Mr Cs income and expenditure, so I think it would have been reasonable of it to 
ask to see some bank  statements before  agreeing loan 4.
what would further checks have shown?
I think  an analysis of Mr Cs recent bank statements would have shown that he was a student and 
unemployed. QuickQuid would have seen he was receiving student loans, but I think  it would also 
have been apparent that he was using those loans to repay debts  he owed  to other businesses and 
individuals. 
Mr C received around £4,929 in student  loans  on 3 February  2016.  This is an unusually high amount 
and I understand this was the case because Mr Cs student funding had been delayed and he was 
effectively receiving a double  instalment.  After  covering  his rent, living costs, and repaying money 
hed borrowed during  the time his funding  had been delayed, Mr C went £23 overdrawn on his current 
account on 16 February  2016. His overdraft limit appears to have been  £450, so this meant he had 
around £425  to live on for around one and half months (when his next student loan instalment was 
due to arrive).
I think  a responsible lender  which had proper insight  into Mr Cs finances would have considered 
there was a high risk that Mr Cs situation was unsustainable. Because  hed needed to repay, with 
interest, money hed borrowed during a period with no income, he was already  in a position where it 
would be difficult for him to cover his normal living  costs without further borrowing. It was likely  that 
this would  cause a similar  scenario to arise  when he received his next student loan instalment and 
I think  this is something QuickQuid would have appreciated had it carried  out proportionate checks. 
I dont think it was responsible  to lend to Mr C in those circumstances.
advice regarding Mr Cs debts
Mr K has said QuickQuid should have referred Mr C to debt counselling, or provided  him with tailored 
advice when it ought  to have found  out he was in financial difficulty. 
The regulators rules and guidance didnt require  lenders to give tailored advice in situations  like this. 
The rules said that lenders should take  appropriate action where there are signs of actual or possible 
repayment difficulties. The regulator  noted  that such action should generally  include notifying the 
borrower of the risk of escalating  debt,  and providing  contact details  for not-for-profit debt advice 
bodies.
QuickQuids emails to Mr C  including  those it sent after he missed payments  included links to a 
government-run money advice  website,  and a page on its own website which  contained links to not-
for-profit debt advice bodies.  QuickQuid  also sent Mr C a factsheet from the regulator, containing 
similar information,  when he fell behind  on loan 3. So while I understand Mr Ks view that a greater 
level of advice  would have been appropriate, I think QuickQuid did what was required of it at the time.
handling of the account  after Mr Cs death
QuickQuid has offered  to pay £100  compensation for the way it handled Mr Cs account after he died 
 for example sending emails to the wrong  address,  addressing  its correspondence incorrectly and 
sending inappropriate debt collection  emails.  Given the sequence of events I can understand why 
QuickQuid has offered  to pay compensation.  
Ref: DRN52049947The rules of the Financial  Ombudsman Service say Im able to make an award for any distress or 
inconvenience caused  to a complainant.
In this case the complainant would have been Mr C but it is now his estate. So any award  I make for 
distress and inconvenience  must reflect the impact  on his estate rather than the impact on anyone  
representing him (such as Mr K  who I dont  doubt has been  distressed  by these events). 
Bearing this in mind,  I think the amount  QuickQuid has offered is fair, taking into account the impact of 
its actions  on Mr Cs estate.
putting things  right
QuickQuid shouldnt  have  given Mr C loan 4. Its already said it will write  off the debt and I think  this is 
the right thing to do here especially as I understand there are no funds  in Mr Cs estate to repay it. It 
also handled  Mr Cs account poorly after his death,  causing some inconvenience to the estate. 
QuickQuid has offered  £100 compensation for this, which I think  is fair for the reasons Ive explained  
above.
So, I intend to direct  QuickQuid  to take the following actions (if it has not already done so):
Write off any remaining  balance on loan 4 and take steps to ensure that the debt is not 
pursued at any point  in the future.
Pay £100  compensation. It will need  to discuss how this is to be paid with Mr K.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  explained in this provisional  decision, I intend to direct CashEuroNet UK LLC to take 
the actions outlined in the putting things right section above.
I now invite  both parties to the complaint to put forward any further arguments  or evidence they want 
me to consider, by 23 November 2018.
Will Culley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5204994