K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that he was mis-sold a regular  payment protection insurance (PPI) policy by 
Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays).
background
Mr S took out a credit card in August 1999. A few weeks later after the credit card was 
agreed he was sold a PPI policy over the phone by Barclays. 
The policy cost 0.69p per £100  of the balance on Mr Ss credit card. A successful claim on 
the policy wouldve  paid 10% of the outstanding balance  on the credit card for up to 12 
months per claim if Mr S was unable to work due to accident or sickness or lost his job.
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld. He thought  their wasnt enough 
information to show the policy wasnt presented as optional and that the policy  provided a 
useful benefit.  
Mr S disagreed. He says he thought  the policy was mandatory and didnt need it.
So the complaint has come  to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account  when deciding Mr Ss 
complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ss complaint.
Barclays had to make it clear to Mr S he had a choice in taking the policy and that he chose 
to take it. The policy was sold over the phone a few weeks after Mr Ss credit card account 
was opened. I dont know what was discussed  with Mr S at the time he was sold the policy 
but Ive seen a copy  of his original credit card application where he was given  the option to 
select to take PPI or decline it. Mr S selected to take PPI on the application form but for 
reasons that are unclear  the policy wasnt set up. 
But because PPI was applied to Mr Ss account  a few weeks after the credit card account 
was opened and he was given the option to take PPI on his credit  card application, I think  he 
wouldve understood he didnt have to take PPI to have the credit card. And I think  PPI was 
likely applied  to his account because following a phone call with Barclays he chose to take it 
 I havent seen anything to suggest  otherwise. 
I dont know if Barclays recommended Mr S take the policy  so to be fair to Mr S I am going to 
treat the sale as if Barclays  advised Mr S to take the policy. What this means is that Barclays 
not only had to provide information about the policy in a clear, fair and not misleading  way so 
that Mr S could make an informed choice about  buying it. It also had to make  sure that if it 
were to recommend  the policy that it was suitable  to his needs and circumstances.
I dont know if Barclays did take all the steps it shouldve. But I think the policy was a suitable  
recommendation for Mr S for the following reasons:
Ref: DRN55634432He was eligible  for the policy  and it doesnt  look like he wouldve been caught by any 
of the main exclusions in the terms and conditions of the policy which  couldve made 
it difficult to make a successful claim. 
At the time of the sale Mr S says he had savings  and was entitled  to sick pay which  
he could use to make his repayments  if he couldnt work. But the policy wouldve paid 
out on top of this and covered him for up to 12 months if he was unable to work or 
lost his job. So I think the policy wouldve provided a useful benefit to Mr S in his 
circumstances. 
There was nothing  to suggest that the policy wasnt affordable to him at the time. And 
if he no longer wanted  the policy he couldve cancelled  it.
I also need to consider  whether Barclays gave  Mr S information in a way which  was clear, 
fair and not misleading so that he could make a proper choice about whether or not he 
wanted to take the policy  out. 
I dont know if Barclays did provide all the proper information but even if it hadnt for the 
same reasons that the policy was suitable and based on what  Mr S has told us about  his 
circumstances at the time, I think he wouldve still taken out the policy  if hed been given all 
the proper information on the policy.  
And so it is for this reason  I wont be upholding Mr Ss complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I do not uphold Mr Ss complaint  against Barclays Bank UK 
PLC.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 March  2019.
Caroline Davies
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5563443