K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Lloyds  Bank Plc mis-sold  Mr J payment protection insurance  (PPI).
background
This complaint is about a monthly  premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 2002. 
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mr J disagreed with the adjudicators  
opinion and so the complaint was passed to me. I reached a similar view to that of the 
adjudicator, but Mr J had sent new information  about what happened when he bought  the 
PPI policy. I wanted  to make sure everyone  had a chance to comment on my view of the 
case, taking into account that new information. So, I wrote a provisional decision and asked 
for comments and further evidence. I said:
Mr J says: 
When I was taking out the mortgage  I was told that I needed the cover. There  
was no question on whether I wanted it or not, just you need this and thats the 
cost of it. At the same  time I was told that I needed  their building and contents 
insurance cover which I also took but subsequently cancelled  within  the first 
month once I had been informed by another party that I did not need to have  
them provide  the insurance.  Around the same time I was told by the same 
manager that I needed to upgrade  my bank account  to one which  provided  
additional benefits (for a monthly fee) because I asked for a debit card. I later 
changed back to the type of account I initially  had once I realised this was a 
waste of money and simply untrue. When I had first enquired about  a mortgage I 
was told by the same man that as I had never  taken  on any debt before I had a 
poor credit rating and that I should  take on a credit card to "up" my rating prior to 
getting the mortgage. At the time of taking out the mortgage I had no reason not 
to trust a manager  in the bank when he told me I needed these things, after all he 
was a professional  and I had never  taken  on any debt prior to this so it was all 
new to me. 
Where someone has said another person or organisation has done something 
wrong, fairness requires  that they present evidence that this probably  did happen. It 
wouldnt be fair to require someone to prove  they didnt do something,  especially 
when it was such a long time ago. In Mr Js complaint I only have Mr Js recollections 
of what happened   and this was about  17 years ago; and it would be difficult for me 
to assess how well he has remembered all the details, even if he himself is sure of 
things. And another problem I have, in making a decision on this, is that I couldnt 
know the exact words  used by the bank  manager  and the tone in which they were 
said. It isnt necessarily wrong to strongly  advise someone to buy an insurance 
policy, even if the adviser  is partly  motivated  by making a sale  as long as the policy  
is actually something  worth recommending. The closer it gets to making someone 
feel they have  no real sensible alternative  to taking the policy,  the less acceptable it 
is. But, as I say, I cant be sure exactly what was said. And it wouldnt be fair to say 
the bank did something wrong unless I had stronger  evidence of this. 
I can see also that Mr J says he soon  cancelled the building insurance and bank 
account, which he says he was pressurised into taking around the same time. But he 
kept the PPI going for quite some time, according to the records.  So its also possible 
that, at the time, he did think the PPI was worth having, even  if he doesnt now recall 
Ref: DRN52939392that. I accept  though  that he says I have never willingly  paid for anything I dont 
need.
Lloyds says it recommended the PPI to Mr J, but it doesnt look as if it was 
unsuitable, based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time. Being unable  to 
pay a mortgage  can lead to significant difficulties. The PPI would have paid benefits 
at the same  time as Mr J received any employer sick pay, and potentially for longer. 
It would have paid unemployment benefits  in addition  to any redundancy pay. And it 
would have put off the time when  he would need  to fall back on any savings. This all 
would have put Mr J in a more secure position, if he eventually lost income  due to 
long term sickness or unemployment.  And Ive not been told anything to suggest he 
couldnt afford the PPI when he took it out. So I think the PPI would have been 
potentially useful; and so, if Lloyds did recommend the policy, I think  it would have 
been a suitable recommendation. 
Its hard to know how well Lloyds explained the costs and benefits of the policy. But I 
dont anyway think full and clear information about  the costs  would  have affected  
whether Mr J took the PPI.
Its possible Lloyds didnt  clearly point out the main things the policy didnt cover.  But 
its unlikely Mr J would have been  affected by any of these. Its likely he was eligible 
for the policy, and hed be paying for it monthly, so he could cancel it at any time 
without further  cost if his situation changed.
So I dont  currently a see a reason  to fairly  say the PPI was mis-sold. 
I didnt receive any further comments or evidence in response to my provisional decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
For the reasons  set out in my provisional  decision,  I dont think the PPI was mis-sold.  
my final decision
I am not upholding  Mr Js complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 October  2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN52939393
Ref: DRN5293939