K820x#14complaint
Its been agreed in this case that Financial Insurance  Company Limited (FICL), as the 
insurer, should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to 
FICL as the seller  in my decision.
Mrs C says FICL mis-sold  her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy on a store  card.
background
The background to this complaint, and my provisional findings,  can be found in my 
provisional decision which Ive attached  below  and which forms part of this final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither FICL  nor Mrs C has provided  any comments or new information for me to consider. 
As I havent received anything which requires comment, I see no reason to change my 
provisional decision.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 July 2019.  
Jenny Giles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN50843502copy  of provisional decision
complaint
Its been agreed in this case that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL), as the insurer, 
should accept responsibility for the complaint.  To keep things simple, Ill refer to FICL as the 
seller in my decision.
Mrs C says FICL mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy on a store  card.
background
This complaint is about  a PPI policy taken out on a store  account in 2003.
The policy cost was £1.00  per £100 Mrs C owed on her store card. The policy  would have paid 15% 
of the outstanding balance on the card each month if Mrs C couldnt work  because she had an 
accident, was unwell or lost her job. The policy also provided life cover as well as price  and purchase 
protection.
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. FICL disagreed so the complaint has been passed to me.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account  in deciding Mrs Cs case.
I intend to not uphold Mrs Cs complaint. Ill explain why.
FICL had to make it clear to Mrs C that the policy was optional and get her consent  before
PPI could  be applied to the account.  Ive been given  a copy of the application form completed by Mrs 
C at the time of the sale and I can see that there is a section to apply for Account Cover   the name 
used by FICL for PPI. In this section it says you should only sign if you want to take out Account Cover.
Mrs C has signed the section to confirm she wanted  the cover. If Mrs C didnt want  to take out the PPI 
she could have left this section blank. And Mrs C has signed the overall application form which  
suggests it reflected  what she wanted.
So based on what Ive seen and been told, I think FICL made it clear the policy was optional and Mrs 
C chose  to take it out, knowing she could refuse it if she didnt want  it.
Mrs C has said that she received advice  from FICL about the policy. But from looking at the paperwork 
supplied, I dont think FICL did recommend the policy to Mrs C. So it didnt have to check  if the policy 
was right for her. But FICL  did need to make sure it gave Mrs C clear  enough  information  about  the 
policy to enable her to decide for herself if she should take the policy.
Its possible the information FICL gave Mrs C about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve been. But 
even if FICL  had given her better or clearer information, I dont think  it would have made a difference. 
I still think she would  have taken out the policy. I say this because Mrs C was eligible for the policy 
and she wasnt affected by any of the main limitations to the cover, such  as having unusual  working 
arrangements or suffering  from a medical  condition  of which she was already aware.
When making this complaint  Mrs C told us that she didnt  need the policy as she was entitled to over 
12 months sick pay from her employer and she also said she had the equivalent of over 12 months 
Ref: DRN50843503salary in savings and insurance.  Our adjudicator said that that amount of sick pay was generous and 
so he didnt take this into account in his assessment. But he did say that, as Mrs C told us she had 
the equivalent of a years  salary in savings  and other means, he felt if Mrs C had been made  aware 
of the true costs  of the policy, she wouldnt have  considered it good value  for money. So the 
complaint was upheld.
FICL disagreed with the adjudicator. It said that the sick pay benefit  was very generous, considering 
the job role that Mrs C said that she did. FICL also asked for clarification of the actual savings  
amount, how accessible they were and if they were marked for a specific purpose.  FICL  also 
queried whether there was other insurance  and asked for evidence  of this. Unfortunately,  Mrs C has 
been unable to provide any more information, except to say that she would have been paid for an 
indefinite period  if she was off work  due to sickness and that she has no details  about her savings 
as such  a long time has passed.
Ive thought about this very carefully and I appreciate that it is 15 years since this store card and PPI 
were taken out. This does mean that recollections  can be affected over time. Ive noted  that Mrs C 
was not able to tell us how long she had been  working for her employer when  she took out the PPI 
and so it seems she cant remember all of the details. So I do need to consider what  I think it more 
likely in these situations.
Taking into consideration  Mrs Cs job role, I think  its unlikely that she would have  received sick pay 
indefinitely. There are some occupations which do receive generous sick pay benefits,  such as some 
public sector positions,  but even these  rarely  provide full pay for 12 months.  So, while Mrs C may 
believe she would have received full pay for as long as she was off work due to accident or sickness,  
without persuasive  evidence to show this was the case, I think any sick pay would  more likely be paid 
for less than this time period.
And in relation to her other means, Mrs C has once again said she cannot  recall the details of her 
savings, including  the amount she had or her salary at the time.  If I was to accept Mrs C did have 
savings that totalled more  than one years salary,  I would  expect Mrs C to have known, roughly,  what  
she was earning in order  to be able to say that the amount she had put aside would have covered her 
earnings for that time period.  Ive considered  what
Mrs C has told us and while I think she may have had some savings, I dont have anything  to show 
that these funds would have been significant enough to mean  the PPI policy would have been of no 
benefit to her.
Im also aware  that there is an indication  that Mrs C may have had another  insurance policy  which  
she says covered her for illness or unemployment. We have very little information available; such  as 
whether there was a deferral  period before the cover would pay out, what  it did cover (whether  it 
paid her full salary or was to cover an individual expense  for example loan repayments), or how 
long the policy would provide cover for. Without this type of information I cant  say for certain that 
this other insurance  would  have provided like for like cover with the policy  provided by FICL and 
therefore I cant fairly uphold her complaint on this point.
So, when taking  everything  into account, I dont think Mrs C has lost out as a result of anything that 
FICL may have done wrong.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  stated  above, I currently dont intend to uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN5084350