K820x#14complaint
Mr M says Financial  Insurance Company Limited (FICL)  mis-sold  him a payment protection 
insurance (PPI)  policy  alongside a store card (ending 7288). 
background
Mr M applied  for a store card in 1997. At the same  time he was sold PPI. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr M disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ms case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ms complaint.  Ill explain why.
Mr M was sold PPI in store. Mr M says he unaware that the PPI had been added. Ive seen a 
copy of his store card application form. There is a separate  section solely for PPI which Mr M 
has ticked to confirm  he wanted PPI. 
So Im satisfied that the form made  it clear  that Mr M didnt have to take out the PPI and that 
he chose to take it out. - although I can understand why he cant remember this as 
completing a form in store over 20 years  ago is unlikely to be a memorable experience.
Ive seen nothing  to suggest  FICL recommended the PPI to Mr M, so I think its unlikely that 
it did. So it didnt have  to check  if it was right for him. But it did have to make sure Mr M got 
the information he needed to decide if it was right for him. 
Mr M was eligible for the policy and it doesnt  look as if he was affected by any of the main  
things the policy didnt cover. So, I dont think having more information about  the policy 
exclusions and limitations would have made any difference to Mr Ms decision to take out 
PPI. 
Mr M told us he received statutory sick pay from his employer  in the event he was unable  to 
work because of an accident  or sickness.
The PPI would have  paid out a benefit if Mr M couldnt work as a result of accident,  sickness 
or unemployment. It would have  covered  15% of what Mr M owed on the card at the point of 
claiming  and would have carried on paying this amount each  month until Mr M returned to 
work or the outstanding balance had been cleared. As Mr M only received statutory sick pay, 
the PPI could have  been a useful  benefit  at whats likely  to have been a difficult time if Mr M 
needed to claim. 
Mr M has said his family could have helped  him meet any repayments  if needed, so didnt 
need the PPI.
Ref: DRN50795602I dont doubt that Mr Ms family would have helped  him in a time of need, but peoples  
circumstances can and do change  and they might  not have been in a position to help when 
needed. Plus Mr M was solely responsible for meeting his store  card repayments. Insurance  
is there to protect against the unforeseen and having it in place meant that Mr M wouldnt 
have needed to rely on his family  and would have had the peace of mind  that his 
repayments would be met in the event he was unable to work because of an accident or 
sickness, or if he lost his job.
I dont know if FICL  explained  the cost of the policy clearly enough for Mr M to understand 
what the real cost of the policy was for him. But I think if Mr M had properly understood the 
cost and benefit provided he still would  have thought the policy potentially useful. Ive seen  
nothing to suggest that paying for the PPI was a problem for Mr M  and Im satisfied that he 
took it out when  he didnt  have to. 
Looked at overall, I dont  think having clearer information would have put Mr M off taking out 
the policy, given  his situation at the time.
This means  that, even if FICL didnt give Mr M all the information  it should have done when it 
sold him the policy, I dont  find that Mr M has lost out as a result of anything that FICL did 
wrong. So it doesnt need to do anything to put things right. 
Ive taken into account Mr Ms comments in response to our adjudicators opinion, but for the 
reasons above,  these  points dont change my conclusion.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 October  2019.
Matthew Horner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5079560