K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains about a decision  that Bank  of Scotland  plc (trading as Halifax)  made  to close 
his account. 
background
Mr A had two current accounts with Halifax, one in his sole name and another  which  is a 
joint account. He also had a credit card account with Halifax.  He complained about a 
decision made by Halifax  to close all of his accounts. But then it said that it would keep the 
joint account open. It didnt offer that for the sole account.
We dont have permission  from the other party on Mr As joint account  to consider this 
complaint, so the treatment of that account  wont form part of this case.
Mr A said that hed had similar problems with an account at a different bank since  then, so 
he wanted to know whether  Halifax  had done  anything that had caused  these problems  
elsewhere.
Mr A has told us about his medical  and personal  situation. Because  of this, he said that he 
needs an account for his benefits. He said he thought Halifax was discriminating against 
him. 
Halifax said that it reviews its customer accounts to see if it remains  appropriate for Halifax 
to provide customers with services. Its terms and conditions allow  it to do this. And those 
terms also allow Halifax to stop providing banking services to any customer,  provided  it gives  
that customer the right amount of notice. 
Halifax said it had taken  a decision,  in line with the terms and conditions  of Mr As accounts, 
to close his accounts. It said that it gave him a little more than the required 60 days  notice. 
But it had also given  Mr A a right of appeal against  its decision.  Hed gone into a branch and 
appealed. Halifax  had considered what Mr A said, and it had changed its mind about 
whether or not to close  his accounts.  
Halifax said that Mr A had already instructed it to switch his sole account  to a different bank, 
before Halifax changed  its mind  about the account closure. So it couldnt just keep that open  
for him. It went  ahead with the switch instead. 
Halifax said that it hadnt passed  any information to any outside agency or database  which 
would prevent Mr A from opening an account  elsewhere. 
Mr A put in a subject  access  request,  to see the data that Halifax held on him. He said that 
he thought that Halifax  had discriminated against  him, because of large  amounts of money  
that were paid into his account. He said that these were totally  legitimate.  Mr A said he 
queried why he had to prove where money  going into his account came from, when the 
account showed where the payments came from. Some money was paid in by his employer. 
Other amounts  were from shares  he sold, and some money was from an insurance  company 
who paid a claim he made. 
Mr A said that he still thought that Halifax had discriminated against  him. And he said that all 
this could have  been avoided if Halifax had just rung and asked him where the money  came  
from, instead of starting to close his account. 
Ref: DRN53595772Our investigator didnt  uphold this complaint. She said that Halifax  doesnt have to give a 
customer a reason why its closing  an account. And it can end its relationship with a 
customer, as long as it follows the terms and conditions of the account, and it doesnt 
unlawfully discriminate. She didnt think that Halifax had done anything  wrong in giving Mr A 
notice of account closure. 
Halifax had then changed its mind in response to Mr As appeal.  Our investigator thought 
this suggested  that Halifax  wasnt intending  to discriminate against Mr A. She said that 
Mr As sole current  account wasnt kept open  after Halifax had changed  its mind,  but that 
was because hed already  asked  for it to be switched  to another  bank. She didnt think  that 
Halifax had done  anything which might mean Mr A would have problems opening another  
account. 
Our investigator said that she didnt think Halifax had done anything  wrong.  And she said 
that she hadnt found any evidence that Halifax had discriminated against Mr A on grounds  
of his disability.  
Mr A didnt agree with that. He said that this case had left him scared to spend his own 
money, in case a bank  then decided to close his account. He said that the only thing  he 
could see in the notes hed obtained from Halifax was concerns about large amounts of 
money going into his account. He said that not being able to spend his own money was 
having a severe  impact  on him, and his credit score had gone down since  he switched 
banks. So he wanted an ombudsman to consider this complaint. 
Mr A said that Halifax had told him that in order to keep his accounts  open, he must  stop 
spending on his credit card. 
Our investigator said that Halifax was entitled to ask its customers  about transactions on 
their accounts. She realised it had been  difficult for Mr A to get to a branch, but she didnt 
think Halifax was aware of the health  conditions that would mean  Mr A would find that 
difficult, before he appealed. 
Our investigator said that Mr A hadnt  mentioned  the issue  with credit card spending  before. 
Mr A then told us that the decision to agree to his appeal  was subject to the condition that he 
would have to stop paying for things  on his credit card. Halifax  said that this hadnt been  
raised with it before.  
Our investigator said that Mr A had only been advised about  spending  on his credit  card.  
There was no intention  to stop him using his credit  card for himself.  Our investigator said that 
this advice was intended to benefit him, rather than stop him using  that card. 
Mr A said that he wasnt advised  what to do; rather,  he was told. Telling someone that a 
particular form of spending has to cease isnt advice. Our investigator asked whether Mr A 
wanted to send any further evidence  of how his credit card had been managed, both before 
and after this advice,  so that she could  consider  this point.  Mr A said he didnt think that was 
necessary, because his main concern  was the decision  that Halifax had taken  to close  his 
account. 
Mr A wanted  his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman, so the case was passed  to 
me for a final decision.
 
Ref: DRN53595773my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive reached the same overall conclusion  
on this complaint as our investigator, and for broadly  the same reasons. 
Halifax took a decision to close Mr As accounts.  As our investigator explained, its entitled to 
take this decision, as long as it acts in line with the terms  and conditions  of Mr As account, 
and as long as it isnt discriminating against him on grounds of his disability. 
I think that Halifax acted  in line with the terms and conditions of Mr As account. And I dont 
think it discriminated against him on grounds of his disability. Ill explain why I think  that.
Our investigator explained that banks dont  have to say why they took a decision to close  an 
account. Thats broadly right  they dont  have to give detailed reasons. The most common  
reason is simply that a bank feels the way a customer  is using  their account isnt compatible  
with its criteria or business model.  And sometimes there can be legal or regulatory reasons 
why this is the case  outside the control of the bank itself. 
But, in any event, we would expect Halifax to be able to show  us that it hadnt taken this 
decision for reasons  related to Mr As disability, arising from his medical  conditions.  And its 
done that. I dont  think  this decision  was related to Mr As disability, and I dont think  it was 
made because of any large  payments  that came into his account as a result of that disability. 
As Mr A has said, Halifax could see where  those payments came from.
Mr A said that Halifax had told him to go to a branch to appeal.  Like our investigator, I dont 
think that Halifax realised  how difficult this would be for Mr A. It wasnt aware of Mr As 
circumstances at the time. I think that if it had realised,  then it wouldve offered a different 
way for him to appeal. 
When Mr A did appeal,  Halifax changed  its mind. It said it wouldnt close his accounts.  
But Mr As sole current  account  wasnt kept open. I think  this was only because hed already 
asked Halifax to move that account elsewhere.  I dont think that Halifax did anything  wrong 
when it switched Mr As account, as hed asked it to. And I havent seen anything  to suggest 
to me that Halifax took any step, at this or any other  time, that would affect  whether  Mr A 
could open an account elsewhere.
Mr A also said that he was told to stop paying  for things for friends,  using his credit card.  
Halifax has told us that Mr A was making  very large  purchases for friends on his card. It 
asked him not to do this in future. 
I know that notes on Mr As file show that Halifax told him that this must  cease.  But I think  
the wording used in those  notes is just likely to be shorthand notes made by Halifax. I do 
think that Halifax was giving Mr A advice.  
I dont think that Halifax  did anything wrong  when  it gave Mr A this advice. It had been 
concerned by some transactions on his account. So much so that it thought  it might  have to 
close the account. It then decided  to keep Mr As accounts open, but advised him not to pay 
for things  for his friends any more.  I think that Halifax was trying  to tell Mr A that this sort of 
thing would worry it, as it may be that Mr A was being taken advantage of. And if he didnt 
Ref: DRN53595774want to have to explain  transactions  on his account to the bank in future, he should avoid 
that sort of spending. 
I dont think theres any suggestion  that Mr A cant spend his money on himself.  I dont  think 
thats something that he needs to worry about or be frightened  of.
Ive considered carefully what Halifax has done  in this case, and I dont think  its done  
anything wrong. So, although I know that Mr A will be disappointed, I dont think  this 
complaint should  be upheld.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 March 2019.
Esther Absalom-Gough
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5359577