K820x#14complaint
Mrs C and Mr Ms complaint is about  the advice they received from Santander UK Plc in 
relation to the repayment of their mortgage  loans in 1992 and 1996. They consider they 
should have been told to fund a larger repayment  vehicle in 1996 because the 1992 one was 
known to be inadequate. As a result, Mrs C had a shortfall in the amount she needed  to pay 
off her mortgage at the end of the term and had to re-mortgage for a further period. 
background
Mrs C and Mr M told us that in 1992 they were put forward  by their local authority for a 
shared ownership  scheme to purchase  their own home. Under the scheme,  they would 
purchase a 50% share in a property with the remaining 50% being owned by a housing 
association. Monthly rent would be paid on the part of the house owned by the housing 
association. 
Mrs C and Mr M found a suitable property  and approached Santander for a mortgage of 
£36,500 over 22 years.  The mortgage was sold on an interest-only basis  with an endowment  
policy to be used as the repayment  vehicle. The relevant section of the application form said 
that an endowment  policy  with Provider  1 would be attached to the mortgage.
The endowment policy with Provider 1 was a full endowment policy  in Mr Ms name, but 
paying out on the death of either him or Mrs C. The policy had a sum assured of £12,000  to 
which bonuses would  then be added.  It was taken out in 1989 and matured in 2014. 
In 1996, Mrs C and Mr Ms financial position changed. Mrs C had gone back  to full-time 
work. So they approached Santander  for further  borrowing  to purchase the remainder of the 
property from the housing association. Santander sold Mrs C and Mr M a second 
endowment policy to cover the new borrowing. The policy was with Santanders own life 
assurance arm and had a target of £36,500 and a term of 18 years. 
In 2003 Mrs C and Mr M separated. Mrs C continued paying the premiums to the 
endowment policies and changed the mortgage so it was in just her name. Subsequently, in 
2004 Mrs C moved, repaying the mortgage and taking  a new one. 
In 2014 both endowment policies matured. The policy with Provider 1 matured with a value 
of slightly over £25,000. Mrs C has confirmed the proceeds of this policy  were  split between 
her and Mr M when it matured, so at least some and possibly all of the maturity value was 
used for purposes  other than reducing the mortgage debt.
The policy sold in 1996 by Santander  matured for slightly under £14,500. Mrs C and Mr M 
complained to Santander at the time; Santander upheld the complaint and paid redress.
There was some confusion over the mortgage arrangements  and in 2018 Mrs C complained  
to Santander on the basis that she and Mr M hadnt  been advised to take out a policy to 
repay the mortgage in 1996,  when  they should have been. 
Following investigation  into the circumstances of the complaint, the above facts were  
discovered. They were communicated to Mrs C and Mr M. They  were  asked if they wanted  
to withdraw their complaint, given that they had been sold a repayment vehicle in 1996.  
Ref: DRN53979682Mrs C and Mr M said this was the first time since 1992 the mortgage  arrangements had 
been fully explained to them. Whilst the information  clarified the circumstances surrounding 
their mortgage, they still felt the advice Santander had provided them in 1996 was 
inadequate. This was because they believe  Santander would have had the knowledge that 
the policy with Provider  1 wouldnt repay the first half of their mortgage. As such,  they think 
Santander should have advised them  in 1996  to make provision for the shortfall by 
increasing the target value of the endowment  it sold them  to £47,500.  They believe 
Santander would have known from the start that the two policies combined wouldnt pay off 
their £73,000 mortgage. 
As Mrs C and Mr Ms complaint  had changed somewhat, we asked Santander if it would 
consent to us considering it immediately, rather than it doing so first. It agreed  and so the 
complaint was passed to me to consider.
I issued a provisional decision on 16 August 2019. In that decision I set out my conclusions 
and reasons for reaching them. Below  is an excerpt of that decision.
Santander upheld  a complaint about the suitability of the 1996 endowment policy  and as 
such, I will not comment on this in any way. I will restrict  my consideration to the mortgage 
repayment arrangements entered  into in 1992  and what, if anything, Santander  should  have 
recommended in 1996 in relation to them.
The policy attached to Mrs C and Mr Ms mortgage  was a full endowment policy with a sum 
assured of £12,000. This policy was not sold to Mr M for the purpose of repaying a 
mortgage, however,  that doesnt  meant it wasnt suitable for that purpose.
A full endowment guarantees to pay out its sum assured at the end of the term. If investment 
conditions are right, it will also have annual bonuses added  to the sum assured. Once added 
those bonuses were  guaranteed to be paid at maturity. In addition, there was also the 
possibly of a terminal bonus being  added at maturity. In 1989 when Mr Ms policy  was sold, it 
would have been expected to mature at a figure greatly in excess  of the sum assured  likely 
multiple times that figure.  
A low cost with-profits endowment, which likely would have been  the type of policy sold to 
Mrs C and Mr M in 1992 had they not used the existing policy,  works in a similar way. They 
too have a sum assured  to which bonuses are added throughout the term, only its called a 
basic sum assured.  The basic sum assured and attached bonuses are also guaranteed to 
be paid out at maturity.  However, a low cost endowment will also have a target  value. This is 
the amount the policy aims  to produce at maturity and the amount of life cover it provides. 
The target value  of a low cost endowment is usually in the region of three to four times the 
basic sum assured.  The difference between  the figures is the amount of bonuses it is 
calculated at outset  should be added to the basic sum assured. The balance  between the 
basic sum assured,  the amount of bonuses needed to achieve  the target  value are based  on 
some assumptions about growth within the fund and costs to administer the policy  and pay 
for life cover.  
So, in 1992,  Mr Ms existing policy would have been considered likely to have a maturity  
value sufficient to repay  the mortgage they took out at that time. The only significant  
difference between  it and any low cost with-profits endowment Mrs C and Mr M could have 
been sold at the time was the amount  of life cover attached to it. A low cost endowment 
would have had additional life cover  attached  to it. 
Ref: DRN53979683The only shortfall  in provision caused  by linking the existing endowment to the mortgage was 
that if Mrs C or Mr M had died during  the term, only around a third of the mortgage would 
have been paid off. That, in of itself, wouldnt be sufficient to say using the existing 
endowment for the mortgage was inappropriate as a repayment vehicle. A simple  life cover 
policy could have been sold to cover that shortfall and probably should  have been.  However,  
given Mrs C and Mr M havent needed to make a death claim and they have saved the 
money such a policy would have cost them, I dont  think theyve suffered any detriment in 
not being sold such a policy.
Given the above, in 1996 when Mrs C and Mr M went to borrow  additional funds, other than 
in terms of life cover,  there was no obvious  shortfall in the repayment  vehicle that needed 
covering. So I cant  find that Santander was negligent in not recommending Mrs C and Mr M 
take out a larger endowment policy than they needed for the new lending.  Whilst the policy 
with Provider 1 didnt  perform as well as would have been  expected  when it was sold and 
subsequently used for the mortgage, that was due to poorer  than anticipated investment 
returns, which Santander couldnt  have  been  aware of in 1992 or 1996.  
Having considered all of the circumstances  surrounding Mrs C and Mr Ms mortgage  
arrangements, I am not persuaded Santander  should  have  recommended  they take action to 
cover a funding shortfall in 1996,  when such a shortfall wasnt known about.  Although  there 
was a shortfall in the amount of life cover  linked to the mortgage, I dont think  Mrs C and 
Mr M have  suffered any detriment due to it and will have  saved  the cost of providing the 
additional cover.
Santander confirmed  it accepted my provisional  decision. 
Mr C and Mr M said they had no further  evidence they could provide. Whilst they understood 
my decision,  the issue they had is that in 1992  and 1996 the arrangements were never 
explained to them properly. Had they been, they could have made  some  provision for when 
the mortgage ended in 2014. They still feel they should receive some compensation.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments, including  Mrs C and Mr Hs 
recent comments, to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint.
I note Mrs C and Mr M have said they didnt understand the arrangements and had they 
been adequately explained in 1992 and1996, they could have made  provision for the 
shortfall they were  faced  with at maturity. However,  there was nothing wrong with the 
arrangements at the times the mortgages were  taken out  the two policies would have been 
expected to pay out enough to clear  the mortgage  at the end of the term. So in 1992 and 
1996 there wouldnt have been anything for Mrs C and Mr M to make provision for. 
The shortfall in the amount Mrs C had to pay off her mortgage debt was down to two things. 
The first of these being that the endowment used in 1992 didnt perform  as well as expected.  
This was common for such policies  and wasnt something that could have been anticipated 
in 1992 or 1996. The second was the fact that at least some of the proceeds  of the policy  
werent used for the mortgage. 
Whilst I have considered Mrs C and Mr Ms further comments, I cant  find that the 1992  
arrangements were unsuitable  for them. Nor can I find that Santander should have been  
Ref: DRN53979684aware of any problem with the earlier policy already  attached  to the mortgage  in 1996, when 
it sold them  a top-up policy.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules  of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mrs C and Mr M to accept or reject my decision 
before 20 October  2019.
Derry Baxter
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5397968