K821x#15complaint
Mr S says Elevate Credit International Limited  trading  as Sunny lent to him irresponsibly. He 
says he couldnt  afford  the loan repayments.  He thinks  that Sunny shouldve  seen this and 
not lent to him. 
background
This complaint is about seven instalment loans Sunny  provided  to Mr S between 
January 2016  and August  2016.
loan 
numberdate 
startedamount 
borrowedterm 
(weeks)date ended
1 28/01/2016 £150 24 15/04/2016
2 19/02/2016 £100 24 13/05/2016
3 28/03/2016 £100 24 08/07/2016
4 15/04/2016 £100 24 02/09/2016
5 13/05/2016 £100 24 05/08/2016
6 22/07/2016 £150 24 30/09/2016
7 05/08/2016 £100 24 23/12/2016
Our adjudicator partially upheld the complaint. He thought that Sunny  shouldnt have 
approved loans 4 to 7. Sunny disagreed  with the adjudicators opinion so the complaint has 
been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Sunny needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Mr S could 
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account  a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early  stages  of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might  be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Sunny  should fairly and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
Ref: DRN53345772the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
The loan payments being affordable on a strict  pounds and pence  calculation might be an 
indication a consumer  could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt  automatically 
follow this is the case. The industry  regulator defines sustainable as being  without  undue  
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  the 
repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to 
realise, that a borrower wont be able to make  their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely 
to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr S complaint. Ive decided to uphold Mr S complaint 
in part and have explained why below.
Mr S didnt disagree with our adjudicators  opinion about loans 1 to 3. Because of this I dont 
think there is any ongoing disagreement  about  these loans. So I wont  be making a decision 
about this lending. But they were  part of the borrowing  relationship Mr S had with Sunny. So 
they are something  I will take into account  when considering the other loans  he took.
As our adjudicator explained I think the amount and frequency  of the lending by loan 4 
indicates that Mr S was having problems managing his money. This was his fourth month  of 
borrowing around the same amount and he wasnt always repaying the loans he had. He 
repaid loan 1 early.  But he started  loan 4 at the same time as he was making  the 
repayments to loans 2 and 3. And he repaid loan 2 on the same day he started loan 5 (loans 
3 and 4 remained  outstanding).  So Mr S wasnt managing to reduce  his indebtedness. I think  
Sunny should  have  noticed this and not lend to him. So Im upholding Mr S complaint about 
loans 4 and 5. 
And I think by loan 6 the lending had reached the point at which Sunny should reasonably 
have seen that further lending was unsustainable,  or otherwise harmful.  And so Sunny 
should have realised that it shouldnt have provided  any further loans.  I say this because:
Sunny  ought  to have realised Mr S was not managing to repay his loans sustainably  
at all. Mr S had taken  out six loans over 6 months.  So Sunny ought to have  realised it 
was more likely than not Mr S was having to borrow further to cover the hole 
repaying his previous  loans was leaving in his finances and that Mr S indebtedness  
was increasing unsustainably.
Mr S first loan was for £150  and loan 6 was for £100. Mr S had borrowed around 
these amounts, each  month, over the time he borrowed from Sunny. At this point 
Sunny ought to have known that Mr S was not likely  borrowing to meet  a temporary  
shortfall in his income but to meet an ongoing need. 
Ref: DRN53345773Mr S wasnt making any real inroads to the amount he owed Sunny. His 
indebtedness increased to £350 by loan 3 and didnt  decrease until he repaid his last 
loan. Loan 7 was taken out over 7 months after Mr S first. Mr S had paid 
comparatively large amounts of interest to, in effect, service a debt to Sunny over an 
extended period.
I think that Mr S lost out because Sunny continued  to provide borrowing from loan 6 onwards 
because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr S indebtedness by allowing him 
to take expensive credit intended  for short-term  use over an extended  period of time.
the number  of loans and the length of time over which Mr S borrowed was likely  to 
have had negative  implications on Mr S ability to access  mainstream  credit  and so 
kept him in the market for these high-cost loans.
So, Im also upholding  the complaint about loans 6 and 7 and Sunny should  put things right.
putting things right  what Sunny needs  to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr S paid on loans 4 to 7;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement*;
remove any negative information  about loans 4 and 5 from Mr S credit  file;
the number  of loans taken from loan 6 onwards means any information  recorded 
about them  is adverse. So all entries  about  loans 6 and 7 should be removed from Mr 
S credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Mr S a certificate  showing  how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I partly uphold  Mr S complaint.
Elevate Credit International Limited should  put things right by doing what  Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 December  2019
Andy Burlinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5334577