K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
1998. Mr and Mrs B took a further  advance in 1999  and the policy was amended to reflect 
these changes. Mr and Mrs B say Lloyds Bank  PLC mis-sold them the PPI.
background
The background and circumstances leading  up to this complaint, which includes Mr and Mrs 
Bs circumstances  at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy  benefits,  limitations  and 
exclusions of cover arent disputed. So I havent repeated  all of this information  here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.
Mr and Mrs Bs representative disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion   they didnt raise 
any new or additional points but repeated the same complaint  points and arguments theyd 
previously made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations;  regulators  rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.  
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some  example  final decisions  that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Bs. I havent set out that detailed 
information here but Ive taken into account  all relevant considerations in deciding  Mr and 
Mrs Bs complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised  my reasons 
for this conclusion below:
 
I think Lloyds made  it clear that Mr and Mrs B didnt have to take out the PPI and they 
chose to take it out in both 1998 and 1999.  Ill explain  why. 
Mr and Mrs B arranged  were sold the PPI during  a meeting. Lloyds has provided the PPI 
application form Mr and Mrs B completed  at the time. This form briefly outlines the cover 
and Mr and Mrs B have chosen  the policy split. I dont know what  was discussed  during 
the meeting, but I wouldve expected Mr and Mrs B to read over the form and to have 
had an opportunity to raise any questions they had at the time before signing it.
In 1999 Mr and Mrs B arranged a further  advance and the policy was amended. At the 
time Mr and Mrs B completed  further,  separate paperwork for the PPI. I think  its likely 
Ref: DRN56225222this followed discussions with the adviser  about  their circumstances and increased 
borrowing. 
So taking everything into account, I think its more likely  that Mr and Mrs B knew  the 
policy was optional and they agreed to take it out without undue pressure.
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs B so it had to check  that the PPI was right 
for them in 1998  and when the further  advance was arranged in 1999. And the evidence 
about Mr and Mrs Bs circumstances at the time of both sales,  shows that the policy 
wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for them. For example Mr B was eligible for the 
cover and although they had existing means they still seem to have had a need for 
cover. 
There was nothing  about Mr Bs employment  or occupation at the time of both sales 
which would have  made it difficult for him to claim. Although Mr B says he had a medical 
condition when  the PPI was taken  out I dont think it was wrong for Lloyds to have 
recommended it. I say this because  the conditions Mr B has told us about were  managed  
with treatment and medication. Mr B hasnt told us about any on-going  issues  he had 
because of these  conditions, and they dont appear to have impacted his ability to work  
or resulted in extended periods of time off work. There were also no additional 
restrictions on cover for mental health  and back problems.
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs B on both occasions about the PPI 
wasnt as clear  as it shouldve been.  But Ive found  that they chose to take it out - so it 
looks like they wanted this type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Mr B 
as I concluded  above, or too dissimilar to what they reasonably thought  they were buying  
from the information they were  given. It also looks like it was affordable  so it seems like 
it would  have been useful for them if something went wrong. Because of this I dont think 
Mr and Mrs B would have declined the cover  had Lloyds done  anything more.
Overall, I consider that Mr and Mrs B would have  still taken out PPI. I think  the policy could 
provide a useful  benefit in a difficult time, given their circumstances at the time. I also think 
the policy was sufficiently close to what its likely they thought  they were  getting. And in 
those circumstances,  I think  that they would have taken out the policy  in any event.
Mr and Mrs Bs representative has raised  a number of what  I consider  to be general  
complaint points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These  general  points include: a 
claim that the Financial  Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying  the regulators rules  
and guidance  for handling  PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because  of 
the number of significant exclusions  and limitations of cover  coupled with the low claims 
ratio; and the duty of utmost good faith meant Lloyds should  have disclosed the poor value 
and explained  the significance of the limitations  and exclusions  and the impact  it had on the 
chances of making  a claim.
But Mr and Mrs Bs representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts  
and circumstances  of Mr and Mrs Bs individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI 
complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr and Mrs Bs particular  
case. But these  points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions  about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint   for the reasons Ive set out above I 
dont uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN56225223This means  Lloyds doesnt have to do anything  to put things right.
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  Mr and Mrs Bs complaint  so I make  no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  26 September 2021.
Chandni Green
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5622522