K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain  they were mis-sold an endowment policy to repay a mortgage by 
The Prudential Assurance Company  Limited (previously Scottish Amicable).  They complain 
the policy was unsuitable as they didnt want to accept any risk and were  led to believe they 
would get an additional lump sum over and above the target  sum at maturity. They also 
complain they were sold additional  benefits  they didnt know  about at the time (PPI). 
background
In 1998 Mr and Mrs M were engaged and buying their first home together. They were both 
employed and didnt have any dependants. They needed a mortgage of just over £53,000 to 
buy the property  they wanted. 
They were  recommended an interest  only mortgage  supported by an endowment policy  with 
Scottish Amicable. The policy  was set up with a 25-year  term to match  the mortgage term 
and was invested 100% into the With Profits  fund. They were also recommended  critical 
illness cover  and waiver of premium benefit (not PPI) which  they agreed to. 
The last premium was paid into the policy in April 2002 and the policy  surrendered in 
February 2003. Prior to that Mr and Mrs M were sent projection letters informing them their 
policy was on track  to achieve the target sum at maturity.  
In 2018 Mr and Mrs M complained about  the sale of the policy  and the mortgage. Prudential  
explained it wasnt responsible for the sale of the mortgage and didnt uphold the complaint 
about the endowment policy; it was satisfied the recommendation made was suitable. Our 
investigator also concluded the sale of the policy was suitable for them; she was satisfied it 
was commensurate with their recorded  attitude to risk. Mr and Mrs M have asked for the 
matter to be reviewed.  They dont believe the endowment was suitable and are unhappy 
about the addition of PPI. 
In advance of me issuing  this final decision,  I explained to Mr and Mrs M that they hadnt 
been sold PPI with their endowment, they had been  sold:
Critical illness  which pays out a lump sum on diagnosis of a specified critical 
illness; and
Waiver of premium benefit  which pays the endowment premium if off work with 
illness for a specified period of time. 
Mr and Mrs M have  replied to say they are complaining about the whole sale,  they had 
existing policies in place and so they shouldnt have been sold the extra  benefits.  They  
believe the whole sale to have been  a farce. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I have come  to the same 
overall conclusions  as the investigator  and for broadly the same  reasons. 
Mr and Mrs M have  complained they were led to believe  the policy would reach  the target 
amount and pay an additional lump  sum.  Mr and Mrs Ms policy was invested 100%  into the 
With Profits fund. This was a pooled investment, investing into equities,  bonds, cash  and 
Ref: DRN53819702other areas. With Profits  funds are accepted within the industry as being a low risk 
investment area. 
The performance of the fund was dependant on the performance of the underlying 
investments. Im not aware  there was any guarantee within  the policy itself that it would 
reach the target sum on maturity. I accept the policy might have been sold in a positive light,  
with the prospect of a lump sum in addition,  but that is far from providing a guarantee. Im 
also mindful of the sales documentation that Mr and Mrs M signed - the reason why letter  
which explained the possibility of a shortfall  if the policy didnt achieve 7% growth. Overall, I 
dont uphold their complaint  they were led to believe the policy was guaranteed.  And as the 
policy wasnt guaranteed to reach the target  amount, it follows  I dont find it was guaranteed  
to achieve a lump  sum in addition either.
 
I have gone on to consider whether the recommendation was suitable.  Having  considered 
this carefully, I find it was because:
Although Mr and Mrs M dont appear  to have had any investment experience this 
doesnt preclude them from having  a mortgage endowment policy  if they were willing 
to accept the risk. 
The fact-find records Mr and Mrs Ms attitude to risk as cautious. The With Profits  
fund is accepted to be a low risk investment  and is commensurate with a cautious 
attitude to risk. I have  considered the arguments that there  wasnt  a no risk option 
and so this might  not be truly reflective of their attitude to risk. But I have taken  into 
account that the reason why letter did warn Mr and Mrs M of the possibility of a 
shortfall and they accepted the recommendation despite that information (they signed  
the reason why letter on 4 September 1998).
Im also satisfied Mr and Mrs M were in a position  to take a low level of risk. They  
were engaged, with no dependants. Both were in employment and had disposable 
income after taking  the new mortgage  into account, with which  to build up savings to 
protect against any possible shortfall. I have seen nothing to suggest, and they 
havent sought to argue, the premium wasnt affordable for them. 
The policy included life cover, critical illness cover and endowment premium 
protection. This meant the mortgage  was protected should Mr or Mrs M be diagnosed 
with a specified critical illness (or die) and the endowment was protected if they 
couldnt pay premiums due to being  sick. Given the severe consequences of not 
being able to maintain mortgage repayments, and the likely drop in income should 
one of them die, or be diagnosed with a critical illness,  I dont find the 
recommendation unsuitable. Mr and Mrs M say they had existing cover in place at 
the time.  But the fact find specifically records they didnt have any other  life or critical 
illness cover  at the time  a document whose  legal declaration they signed  to say the 
information was correct. 
The adviser did a comparison with a repayment mortgage. So Mr and Mrs M knew  
there were other options available for repaying their mortgage, that didnt rely on an 
investment. 
The endowment  policy  was portable  to other  mortgages. As first-time buyers  it would 
be reasonable to assume there  would  be further  moves in the future.  
Overall, I find the recommendation was suitable for Mr and Mrs Ms needs  and 
circumstances at the time. It follows that I dont uphold this complaint or make  an award 
against Prudential.  
Ref: DRN53819703my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  6 February  2020.
Claire Hopkins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5381970