K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains about five personal  pension plans he set up with Barclays  Bank UK Plc. 
Mr B is represented in this complaint by a claims management company (CMC).  
background
Mr B set up five personal pension plans (PPP)  through  Barclays  as follows:  
Policy A (ending 193) was an appropriate personal pension  (APP) set up in March  1990 
to enable Mr B to contract out of the State Earnings Related  Pension Scheme (SERPS). 
Contributions stopped  in October  1993  when Mr B ceased to be a member of his 
occupational scheme.  Total contributions just under £3,239. 
Policy B (ending 812) was also set up in March 1990 with gross monthly contributions  of 
£30.67 which stopped  in December 1996.  Total contributions  just over £5,183.
Policy C (ending 455) was set up in November 1991 with gross  monthly  contributions of 
£30.66. Total contributions just under £3,800.  
Policy D (ending 773) was set up in March 1998  with gross monthly contributions of 
£69.34. Total contributions just under £5,894.
Policy E (ending 094) was set up in November 2000 with gross monthly contributions  of 
£30.39. Total contributions just under £1,445
Mr B stopped contributing to policies B to E in April 2005 when they became  paid up. In 
2003 Mr B started  with a new employer and joined its pension scheme which he later cashed  
in. And in 2012 Mr B transferred all his Barclays pension plans to another  provider. 
Policies B and C were  in scope for the industry-wide pension  review in 2001  so Barclays 
reviewed the sale of these  plans. Mr B had been a member of an occupational pension 
scheme at the time he started these plans. But Inland Revenue rules  didnt  permit  him to 
contribute to a personal pension plan whilst  being a member of an occupational scheme. So 
after consulting the trustees of the occupational scheme Barclays  advised Mr B of his three  
options: 
(i)he could receive  a refund of the ineligible premiums (plus  interest  but less tax relief) 
and retain his membership of the occupational scheme;
(ii)he could retain the PPPs and waive his rights under the occupational  scheme for the 
period between March 1990 and April 1993  (when he ceased to be a member).  
(iii)Or he could  transfer the premiums hed paid into Additional Voluntary Contributions  
(AVCs) in the scheme. 
Mr B chose the second option to retain the PPPs and waive his membership of the 
occupational scheme.  He signed the acceptance form on 8 May 2001. 
Policy A was taken  out prior to the pension  review, but as the occupational  scheme  was 
contracted-in to SERPS Barclays said it was appropriate for Mr Bs National Insurance 
rebates to remain invested in the policy. This policy only had accumulation  units  and was 
unable to be incremented.  
Ref: DRN56268562Barclays explained when  Mr B asked to increase his monthly  contributions it wasnt possible 
to top up a plan which  was in arrears, so a new plan was set up. But doing so hadnt  led to 
Mr B paying  more charges as they would have been  the same  if Mr B had paid into an 
existing plan or established a new one. Barclays said policies  D and E were set up as Mr B 
hadnt responded to the five-year check required by the Inland Revenue. And at the time 
Mr B didnt have an occupational  scheme to contribute to because  he was self-employed. 
But it offered  £100 for the poor handling  of his complaint. 
Mr Bs representatives complained to this service in 2018 that having five separate  plans 
wasnt in Mr Bs best interests and was done  for the benefit of Barclays  sales staff.  And that 
being a manual worker Mr B couldnt know if the compensation proposed following the 
pension review in 2001 had been  correct. 
An adjudicator looked into the complaint  and didnt think Barclays  needed  to do more.  He 
said we couldnt  look into the first three  plans as theyd  been dealt with under the pension 
review. And Barclays had already responded to a complaint Mr B made himself about having  
multiple plans in 1999. The response to that complaint explained that a benefit of a PPP is 
the ability to stop and start contributions once the first years  contributions  are made  in full. 
While its not necessary to make  up any arrears, it isnt possible to add an increment to a 
policy thats in arrears which is why a new policy was set up each  time Mr B wished to 
increase his contributions. This response  gave referral rights to the Personal Investment 
Authority, a predecessor  dispute resolution scheme. As Mr B hadnt referred his complaint 
within six months of the date of the 2 June 1999 final response  letter  this service  could only 
consider the final plan (Plan E ending 094). The adjudicator said this plan was an increment 
to policy  D (ending  773) to which contributions  continued to be made. There  was no set up 
charge and the allocation  rate for contributions was 100% so he didnt think the advice was 
unsuitable. 
Since then theres  been some back and forth with Mr Bs representatives in which they have 
asked for copies of correspondence and queried various  points. But the first adjudicator 
maintained his view that we couldnt  consider complaints about the first three policies, so 
since mid-2019 the case was waiting for an ombudsmans  decision.
In 2020 the case was reviewed by a second adjudicator who thought we could consider 
complaints about  the pension review, as theres special provision in the FCAs DISP rules 
about that. Barclays accepted this and consented to us considering the complaint. 
So in January 2021 the adjudicator issued his view on the merits but didnt uphold the 
complaint. He was satisfied Mr B wasnt worse off for having five separate policies. He said 
Mr B differed  from the majority  of pension review cases  as he was already a member of his 
employers occupational scheme when  he was advised to take out the first two PPPs.  
This meant he hadnt suffered  a loss, as Inland Revenue  rules meant he couldnt contribute 
to both occupational and personal pension schemes. While the scheme  was categorised  as 
an occupational  pension scheme it only provided  members with a one-off lump sum payment 
at retirement and no other ongoing benefits. The adjudicator  said Mr B was a member  of the 
scheme for about  158 weeks between March 1990  to April 1993 and would have qualified for 
£8.50 per week of membership, which meant  a one-off payment at age 65 of £1,343. But 
Mr B couldnt have that and the Barclays plans  which were  worth considerably more, so 
theres no financial loss. And Barclays revised  offer of £200  compensation was enough. 
Mr Bs representatives disagreed, saying a number of complaint points hadnt been 
addressed. They thought  it wasnt clear  Mr B had actually been in arrears when he 
Ref: DRN56268563requested to top up his contributions. And they thought the best advice under the regulatory  
standards at the time would have been to allow Mr B to make additional lump sum 
contributions when he wished, rather than commit to regular monthly  contributions.  They  
said flexibility would have  been useful to Mr B as he was self-employed  and might 
experience cash  problems. And doing this would have made Mr B better  off as it avoided 
purchasing worthless  initial  units. They said the first policy  falling into arrears in 1992  
should have been a red flag for Barclays as it signalled Mr B might be in financial difficulty. 
And while they accepted there  was no difference in the set-up  costs,  they still thought  overall 
Mr B was potentially worse off due to fund switch and other  charges.
So its been  passed to me to make a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Im not going to uphold it. 
Let me explain why.
Pension review
I think the first adjudicator  in 2018  was mistaken  to say we couldnt  consider complaints 
about policies  A, B and C as they had been  dealt with under phase 2 of the industry  wide 
pensions review established in 1994. But I agree  with the second adjudicator that Mr B 
hasnt suffered a financial  loss. Thats  because  Inland Revenue rules  about tax relief  didnt 
allow contributions to both an occupational and personal pension  plan at the same time so 
his contributions to the PPP were ineligible. The letter sent to Mr B in April 2001 confirmed 
the review had been carried out in accordance with guidance issued by the PIA. Mr Bs 
advisors say its unfair for Barclays to carry out the review itself and it should have been 
done by an independent  team. But there was careful  oversight by the regulator at the time. 
And we generally  accept  that businesses carried out the reviews  correctly given the amount 
of industry awareness  and scrutiny. 
The review  in 2001 only considered policies B and C as policy A had been established to 
enable Mr B to contract-out of SERPS. Mr B was given three options to deal with his 
ineligible contributions to policies B and C which were arrived  at after discussions with the 
trustees of the occupational scheme.  The letter  offered a free helpline for any queries Mr B 
had, and if he disagreed with the outcome he could ask a senior manager to carry out a 
further review as part of the PIA complaints procedure. The letter also made  Mr B aware he 
had the right to seek independent financial advice, although at his own expense. And 
because the review was designed to draw a line under potential  mis-selling  complaints, the 
letter does make clear any redress is accepted  in full and final settlement. 
From what  Ive seen Mr B didnt raise  a query, ask for a review by a senior  manager  or seek 
financial advice. And it seems he chose the second  option to maintain his PPPs and waive  
his right to a lump sum benefit under  the occupational scheme without being influenced by 
Barclays. So I cant say hes been  treated  unfairly  here.
Were the plans in arrears?
Mr B representatives arent  convinced  Mr Bs plans were actually in arrears and want to 
know if he was given  the opportunity to make up the shortfall  when he wished to increase his 
contributions. Their research suggests Mr B would have been permitted to make  up the 
missing contributions without needing  to start a new plan. I think its likely  Mr B knew  hed 
Ref: DRN56268564missed some payments  and wanted to address  this by increasing his monthly  contributions 
going forward. Barclays wrote to Mr B dated 16 January 1992 to explain he couldnt increase 
his monthly contributions to policy 812 (Policy B) from £23 to £46 as it was a month in 
arrears. So a new policy ending 455 (Policy  C) was set up to accept £23 a month with the 
original policy also running alongside. But the letter  gave him the opportunity  to make up the 
missing payment Should you wish to pay the missing contribution on [policy ending 812] we 
will require a cheque for a remittance of £23. Mr B didnt make up the missing  payment, but 
he was contributing £46 a month  as he wished,  until contributions to both plans  stopped in 
December 1996.   He was clearly aware of his right to cancel as in the same letter Barclays  
acknowledged Mr Bs instructions  to cancel another policy  (ending  601).  
Why did contributions stop and recommence?
Mr Bs representatives suggest his contributions  stopped  due to cash flow problems linked to 
his self-employed  status. And so he should  have been given  the option to make lump sum 
contributions rather than monthly  ones. The template policy information shows  that 
contributions to these  policies  could  be made  monthly, annually or by way of a single 
premium. 
I dont have the application  forms for every plan,  but I have looked  at two. One was signed  
by Mr B in January  1998  and the second in August 2000.They were completed by different 
Barclays advisors.
In the first application  form dated January 1998  (to set up policy D) the advisor recommends 
Mr B recommences  contributions into his pension plan to provide income in retirement. The 
box is ticked denoting there has been  a change in his employment status and the referenced  
note says Client  was an employee  when the policy originally started  and is now self-
employed therefore premiums need to be taken gross.  The Inland Revenue  Certificate  of 
Eligibility is no longer  applicable (which is the reason my premiums stopped in the first 
place). I think the certificate  of eligibility is likely  to be the Inland Revenue  five-year check  
referred to by Barclays which I presume confirms  eligibility to tax relief on pension 
contributions. Its not clear  if this would have been sent to Mr B or to his previous employer. 
But either way it seems his change  of employment  status led to his contributions stopping in 
1996.The second  application form signed in August 2000 (for policy  E) is for a top-up to a 
Barclays  Retirement Account.  Unfortunately the quality of the scanned  copy is poor so its 
not possible to clearly read the advisors  recommendation, but it suggests  Mr B was 
recommended to contribute the maximum amount permitted by the Inland Revenue.  It looks  
as though on both occasions  Mr B requested to top up an existing pension but as the 
existing plan numbers  were recorded  on the application forms it looks like he was aware he 
had several plans at the time.
Mr B complained to Barclays  in May 1999 after being questioned by his accountant about his 
pension contributions. He said he was told rather than increasing his contributions to his 
original policy it was the correct procedure to take out another  policy. It doesnt appear he 
was challenging  the policies being  in arrears, its seems more  likely he didnt really  
understand why new policies  were  set up rather than paying  the increased  level of 
contributions into the existing  policy  and assumed this was for Barclays  benefit. 
Barclays response to Mr B in June  1999  explained the new policies were  established as it 
wasnt possible to increase contributions to a plan which was in arrears. I dont think its 
likely Barclays would  have told Mr B his policy was a month in arrears if that hadnt been the 
case. And Mr B had been  given the opportunity to make up the missed premiums if hed 
Ref: DRN56268565wished. I dont agree this situation should have  raised a red flag or suggested  Mr B was in 
financial difficulties, but his income may have fluctuated  if he was self-employed. 
Did having multiple  plans represent  poor value?
Mr Bs representatives have said it would have been better for Mr B to make flexible lump  
sum contributions to his pension plans instead of making regular monthly contributions.  Ive 
seen nothing to suggest Mr B wanted to make  lump sum contributions.  As he stopped 
contributing completely in 2005  I think he could  have complained about that sooner if it was 
important to him. 
Mr Bs representatives say setting up a new plan was inherently bad value for Mr B as the 
first years  premiums were used  to purchase  capital  units  and only after 12 months were 
higher value accumulation units purchased. But Barclays  has confirmed this actually  made 
no difference as whether an increment is applied  to an existing policy or a new one is set up 
the first years premiums  would always be allocated to initial  units. So Im satisfied  this didnt 
financially disadvantage him. 
Increased charges
Mr Bs representatives say Mr B could  be worse off having separate plans  rather  than 
amalgamating them, as any plan with a value of less than £2,000 would be subject to a 
minimum fund switch  charge of £10 or 0.5%  once the annual free fund switch had been 
used. This could cost Mr B as much as £500  as he approaches  retirement and wished to 
move into lower risk funds such as gilts. Barclays has advised policy D was invested  in a 
managed fund and an equity fund,  and policy E was invested in the equity fund which  they 
consider to be suitable for Mr B at the time. 
The last plan was set up in 2000  when Mr B was in his early thirties,  and even though some 
of the plans were  set up with a retirement  date of 50, which  was permitted  at the time, he 
was still about  twenty years  away from retirement so unlikely to be thinking about  de-risking 
his funds. Mr B transferred all his plans to another provider in 2012 which  means hes likely 
to have lost the right to take benefits before age 55, which will be in 2023. So it doesnt seem 
likely he would have needed  to de-risk  his funds while they were  with Barclays. So I cant 
say he has suffered a financial loss in relation to fund switch charges. 
Summary
Im sorry  its taken  so long to reach this point. I understand why Mr B would question  why he 
had five separate policies and be suspicious that this was to benefit the advisors who set up 
the plans. But having looked  at everything  carefully I dont think thats the case. 
For whatever reason,  Mr B missed or stopped making contributions  and the plans fell into 
arrears. When  he was in a position to make up the missed payments he couldnt simply top 
up the existing  policy and a new one had to be set up. Barclays  perhaps could have 
explained this more clearly to Mr B and reassured him that this wouldnt  cause  him any 
financial detriment. 
Ive seen nothing  to show the options  given to Mr B when  it came  to light hed been making 
ineligible contributions to a PPP were  unfair.  And as he accepted the option  to keep his 
PPPs rather  than receive a refund and maintain his right to a lump  sum at retirement from 
his occupational scheme in full and final settlement it wouldnt  be fair to revisit that again.  
Ref: DRN56268566I think the later points raised by Mr Bs representatives relating to lump sum contributions,  
and potential increased charges have been made with the benefit of hindsight  and Ive seen 
nothing to show Mr B has been treated unfairly  in relation to these. 
It took a long time for Mr B to receive answers to his queries, so I think  Barclays revised offer 
of £200 for this is fair and I wont  be asking  it to do anything further. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 April 2021.
Sarah Milne
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN5626856