K820x#14complaint
Miss G has complained that Lloyds Bank  PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold her a number  of packaged 
bank accounts.
Miss G has given  several reasons why they were mis-sold. These  include the following:
Miss G does not remember agreeing  to them and they were  upgraded without her 
knowledge. 
Miss G was not made aware she was being  charged for her accounts.
Miss G was told that she was not eligible  for a fee-free account and had to take out a 
packaged account. 
Miss G says she was led to believe she had to have the accounts to take out a 
loan/overdraft/mortgage. 
Miss G was told she was eligible for travel insurance but later found out she wasnt.
Miss G says she tried to cancel it but was forced  into keeping it.
 
background
Miss Gs account history is as follows:
Fee-paying Select  account  sold some  time prior to September 2001
Downgraded to a fee-free Classic  account in July 2002
Upgraded to a fee-paying Select account in September 2003
Upgraded to a fee-paying Premier account  in June  2008
Downgraded to a fee-free Classic  account in January  2011
Account closed in July 2011
An ombudsman has already decided that our service is unable  to consider Miss Gs 
complaint about  the Select  account that was sold prior to September  2001.
One of our adjudicators then assessed Miss Gs complaint about the Select and Premier 
accounts sold in 2003 and 2008,  and he did not think  they were  mis-sold.
Miss G disagreed, so the matter was referred for an ombudsmans decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained  our approach to complaints about packaged bank  accounts  on our website.  
And Ive used that to help me decide  this complaint. I think  it may also help to explain that 
where matters are in dispute and evidence is missing or incomplete, as is the case  here,  I 
need to decide what I think was most likely to have happened, based  on everything that is 
available.
Ive started off by considering whether Miss G was given  a fair choice.
Miss G says that she felt she had no choice but to agree to the accounts, and says she was 
led to believe that fee-free accounts were  not available to her. But Miss G had (prior to the 
Select account sold in September  2003) held a packaged account  and downgraded it to a 
Ref: DRN59568762fee-free account  in July 2002. Therefore, I think Miss G was aware that fee-free accounts 
were generally available and that she could change back to a fee-free account at any time if 
she no longer wanted  or needed  a packaged  account  as she did in January 2011.
Miss G has also said she was led to believe she had to have the packaged  accounts  to get a 
loan/overdraft/mortgage. I can see that Miss G had taken out many loans, as well as a credit 
card and an overdraft prior to agreeing to the Select and Premier  accounts. So again  I think  
Miss G was aware she didnt need  the packaged accounts to obtain lending. And I note that 
Miss G has said she doesnt recall even agreeing to the packaged  accounts,  which  raises 
doubts about the plausibility of her other comments that she felt that she had no choice but 
to agree to these  accounts. So taking everything  into account, I think Miss G was more likely  
than not given a fair choice and I think that she agreed to the Select and Premier  accounts 
knowing they were  optional.
Lloyds recommended the accounts to Miss G. This meant it had to make sure the accounts 
were a good fit for her circumstances.
A note recorded on Lloyds  customer  notes  system,  from the time of the Select account sale,  
says ACCOUNT CONVERTED  TO STAFF SELECT- Mobile ins cover. And I understand 
that Miss G had a mobile phone and later went on to register  one under the insurance cover. 
Lloyds has also provided evidence to show that Miss G was driving by that point too, so I 
think Miss G was able to benefit from the Select account breakdown  cover  too. And as the 
Select account was the cheapest account to contain  these  benefits,  I think that Lloyds 
recommendation that she upgrade to the Select account was not unreasonable.
When the Premier account  was sold, it provided worldwide travel insurance, enhanced 
breakdown cover, mobile phone cover, ID aware  cover and home  emergency  cover.  It also 
provided other benefits such  as a £500  interest  free overdraft benefit, with lower  interest  
rates (compared to a fee-free  account)  on balances overdrawn by more than that amount - 
up to the arranged limit. 
Lloyds has provided  evidence to show that the Premier account was recommended  for the 
ID aware (which includes providing  access to credit reports). This was not available on any 
other packaged account. It has also provided evidence to show that Miss G claimed on the 
breakdown cover in 2010, and registered  phones under the insurance in December  2008  
and March 2010, and she successfully claimed  on the phone insurance in April 2010. I 
understand that Miss G was regularly using  her overdraft, so couldve made use of the 
Premier account overdraft  benefits  too.
Lloyds has also provided evidence (obtained from the insurer) to show  that Miss G claimed  
on the home emergency cover in January 2010.  Miss G says that this is not true and that 
she never claimed on the policy.  However  the report, that we shared with Miss G, contains  
very specific information, including the date of claim, the event claimed for, Miss Gs name, 
account number  and the address  which  matched the address Lloyds had registered  for her 
at the time. So based on the evidence that was provided by the home emergency insurer, 
this strongly indicates  that Miss G did claim on this product.
So taking everything into account, I think that Lloyds recommendation was not unreasonable  
in the circumstances. It seems that Miss G had a need for, or was able to use, a number of 
the Premier accounts  insurance and banking  benefits. And as outlined above,  I think Miss G 
agreed to the recommendation  knowing it was optional and that she didnt have to agree to it 
if she didnt want to.
Ref: DRN59568763As well as making sure the accounts  were right for Miss G, Lloyds also had to give Miss G 
important information  about the accounts,  so that she was able to make an informed 
decision about taking  out the packaged  accounts.  
I accept that Miss G might not have been  given all of the important information about all of 
the features  and benefits of the accounts  when  they were sold to her. But the evidence 
suggests she was given at least some  information  about the accounts and associated 
benefits. For example  the note from the Select  sale suggests that the mobile  phone  
insurance was discussed  with Miss G. And the Premier account application form that Miss G 
signed also indicated  that the benefits were discussed with her too. And based on everything  
that Miss G has said, Ive not seen anything to suggest that Miss G wouldve been put off 
from agreeing to the packaged accounts,  had she been given more  information about them. 
So taking everything into account, I dont think the Select or Premier  packaged  accounts  
were mis-sold.
Finally, Miss G has said that she tried to downgrade her account  many times but was 
prevented from doing so. Miss G has provided our service with no details about her attempts 
to downgrade.  I have  looked through Lloydss records, and I cant  see that any requests  to 
downgrade were  received, but not actioned. On the contrary, I can see that Miss G called 
Lloyds on 31 December  2010 and she told Lloyds she was in financial difficulties due to a 
cycle of charges  on her account, so Lloyds  arranged for the Premier  account to be 
downgraded to a fee-free  account. So as far as I can see, the account  was downgraded 
when Miss G asked for it to be.
my final decision
Because of the reasons  given above, I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 September 2021.
Thomas White
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5956876