K821x#15complaint
Mr W complains that the car he acquired  through a hire purchase agreement (HPA) with 
Blue Motor  Finance Ltd was not of satisfactory quality.
background
Mr W entered into a HPA with Blue Motor in January 2018 to acquire  a used car. Later that 
month a warning light came on, Mr W contacted the warranty  company and was told to take 
the car for repair. The repairer was reluctant to change only the thermostat so Mr W had to 
pay £80 while the warranty company  covered the labour and other costs. In April,  Mr W 
noticed the coolant was leaking. He contacted the warranty company again  and was told he 
would need to contribute £300 towards the repair costs.  The repair didnt go ahead.
Mr W says he raised his concerns about  the car not being fit for purpose with the dealer in 
May 2018 but he was told there  was no proof  of this. In June 2018, smoke was coming from 
the wheels and it was found the brake calibres  had seized damaging the braking  system. 
The warranty company  told him it didnt cover seizures and Mr W spoke to the dealer which 
agreed to undertake the repair to the braking system. Following the repair the car was 
returned to Mr W on 13 June but then wouldnt start on 15 June. Mr W spoke to the 
manufacturer and an inspection  took place at his home where he was told water  had got into 
the electronic  computer  unit (ECU) but this would need to be looked into in the workshop.
The car was recovered to the garage  on 25 June and the issue  with the ECU confirmed. 
After a number of conversations, Mr W says he was told by the dealer the car would need to 
be taken to a garage where it could oversee the repairs. The car was collected  and taken  in 
for repairs on 3 July 2018. Over  the following weeks Mr W says he had to chase for updates 
and although he raised a number of issues with the car only the ECU was being fixed. He 
also says that he wasnt provided with a courtesy  car and instead  had to hire cars which he 
was then not reimbursed  the full amount for. The car was returned  on 16 August 2018.
Mr W says that when  the car was returned there was damage to it. He says it took a number 
of months to get this repaired.
In September  2018, Mr W reported  issues with the cars suspension and the boot not 
opening. He then encountered further issues requiring repairs  costing around £670.
Given all of the issues Mr W has experienced he says the car wasnt  fit for purpose.
Blue Motor  says that Mr W contacted it in June 2018  about an issue  with the cars ECU. An 
inspection report was carried out which found  the faults and said that on balance  these 
issues would  have  been developing at the point of supply. Based on this it arranged for the 
repairs to be carried out. It says the car was allegedly damaged  during this process  and so it 
arranged for the necessary repair to take place and confirmed a courtesy car would be 
provided while this happened.
Our investigator upheld  this complaint.  She thought the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at 
the point of supply and recommended  that Mr W be allowed to reject  the car, have  his 
agreement cancelled, and deposit returned. She also thought he should be paid an 
additional amount to cover the loss of use he experienced, refunded the costs  he had 
incurred for hire cars,  and be paid £300 compensation due to the inconvenience he had 
suffered. 
Ref: DRN51228352Blue Motor  didnt accept  our investigators  view. It accepted  that Mr W had encountered  a 
number of issues and that it took longer than normally expected  to resolve  these. It said this 
was due to problems with diagnostics and the decision about where repairs should  take 
place. It said Mr W had accepted the repairs. It said that the damage  that occurred to the car 
wasnt accepted  by the repairer and so it covered  the costs of this and although this took 
time to rectify the delay  wasnt its fault.  It said it reimbursed Mr Ws hire charge costs based 
on the invoices  provided and covered the costs of repairs  it was liable for. It said repair was 
a reasonable remedy  and rejection of the car wasnt required.
Blue Motor  said it was investigating the more recent issues raised by Mr W. While  it didnt  
accept the rejection of the car and associated actions it did agree to pay £300 compensation 
for the stress  and inconvenience  caused  by the issue with the car.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr W entered into a HPA with Blue Motor to acquire  a used car. Under the regulations,  Blue 
Motor can be held liable if the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of supply. 
Satisfactory quality takes into account  the age and mileage of the car and also considers 
issues such as durability. In this case the car was almost five years old had been  driven  
almost 78,000 miles at the point of supply.
Mr W experienced an issue  with the car within the first month.  This was repaired under 
warranty and while I appreciate Mr Ws comments about extra  parts and costs being 
incurred I accept that the required  repair was carried out and the costs associated  to this 
covered. Had this been the only issue with the car then I would say this was a reasonable 
remedy.
However, around three months later Mr W experienced a further issue, this time with the 
coolant valve. He was told he would need  to contribute to the repair  cost and this wasnt  
undertaken. 
In June 2018, around six months after acquisition the brake callipers seized.  Repairs were  
carried out at no cost to Mr W, again  I do not find this unreasonable.  However a couple of 
days later the car wouldnt start and a fault was found with the ECU. At this point, given 
Mr W had only had the car around  six months,  had experienced  a number of issues, and 
following repairs further issues had arisen,  I think it would have been reasonable for him to 
have been allowed to reject the car.
Instead of rejection, the car was taken for repair. An inspection  was carried  out which 
confirmed the issue with the ECU was more  likely  than not developing at thee point of supply 
and so again repairs were authorised. I note the comments about repairs being a reasonable 
remedy, although I think it reasonable that other options should  have been given to Mr W at 
this time. The evidence had shown faults present from the point of sale and the number of 
issues experienced the first few months showed  the car wasnt sufficiently durable. On this 
basis I think it reasonable to accept  the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of 
supply and although repairs had been  attempted all issues  hadnt  been resolved.
Ref: DRN51228353Mr W then had an extended  period without his car and had to hire alternative  vehicles  and 
while most costs were refunded he did still suffer a shortfall and the inconvenience  of having 
to arrange the hire and pay the deposits. He had to chase  on a number of occasions to 
understand what was happening to his car.
Mr Ws car was returned and he noticed  it had been damaged,  he then noticed further issues  
with the car which Blue Motor says it is investigating.
Taking a view of what is fair and reasonable in this case, I think  that Mr W should have been  
allowed to reject his car when the issue with the ECU was confirmed. Had this happened he 
would not have been liable for any repair costs after this date. Because of this I think it fair 
he is now allowed to reject the car and he should  be refunded  any repair costs he has 
incurred since June  2018.
When a car is rejected  it is usual that we recommend it is collected at no cost to the 
consumer, the HPA is cancelled with nothing  further owing, and the deposit  is refunded  
along with interest.  I think this is fair in this case.
Mr W was without his car for an extended  period and, in general, courtesy cars werent 
provided. He was required to hire cars in order to remain mobile  and I think  it reasonable the 
costs of this are reimbursed. Blue Motor has said that refunds of £932.03 have  been  
provided against Mr Ws costs of £1,045.44. It has explained that Mr W accepted  he would 
pay the additional costs. However, given Mr W needed to hire a car I think  it reasonable he 
wanted to hire a car similar to his and that the full costs of the hire should be refunded. Mr W 
has provided a list of payments that he says werent reimbursed in full. I have looked  through  
these. Based on the information provided  it appears Mr W didnt receive refunds for £113.41 
of hire charges  costs,  which  I think should  be refunded. As I find the hire costs  should be 
refunded I havent  required a refund of payments  be made for loss of use as I dont think it 
fair that Blue Motor is required to pay for both.
That said I accept that Mr W suffered a loss of enjoyment because  of all the issues  with his 
car and by having long periods without its use. Because of this I think  it fair that 10% of all 
payments are refunded along  with interest.   
Mr W has been caused distress and inconvenience over an extended  period.  Our 
investigator recommended he be paid £300 because of this and Blue Motor agreed. Given 
what I have seen regarding the issues and the amount of time Mr W has had to spend 
dealing with the issues and hiring  cars I think this is reasonable. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Blue Motor Finance Ltd should:
1.end the agreement with nothing further  to pay;
2.collect the car at no further cost to Mr W;
3.refund  the deposit (recorded in the HPA as £500);
4.refund  any repair costs incurred by Mr W since June 2018,  (invoices  to be provided);
5.refund  a further £113.41 for the hire costs Mr W incurred (£1,045.44 less £932.03 
refunded);
6.refund  10% of all payments made under the agreement to reflect  the loss of 
enjoyment Mr W has experienced; and 
7.pay £300 for the stress and inconvenience the issues with his car have caused him.
Ref: DRN51228354Items 3, 4, 5 and 6 are subject to 8% simple interest  from the date of payment  to the date of 
settlement.
If Blue Motor Finance  Ltd considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr W how much its taken off. It should  also give 
Mr W a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs  if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 October  2019.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5122835