K821x#15complaint
Mr J says Elevate Credit International Limited, trading as Sunny, irresponsibly lent to him. 
background
This complaint is about one running  account credit  facility  and 18 instalment loans Sunny 
provided to Mr J between December 2014 and December  2017. The running  account credit 
facility was Mr Js first account with Sunny and is referred  to as Loan 1 below. All the 
instalment loans were  repayable by six monthly instalments. All the accounts have been 
repaid. Mr Js lending  history is as follows:
Loan number  Date of 
loanRepayment date Loan amount 
1. 11/12/14 30/4/15 £350 (credit 
limit)
2. 14/3/15 21/5/15 £150
3. 17/5/15 21/5/15 £200
4. 20/7/15 30/9/15 £300
5. 17/8/15 14/1/16 £150
6. 22/10/15 14/1/16 £200
7. 8/12/15 14/1/16 £600
8. 28/6/16 2/7/16 £150
9. 18/10/16 29/10/16 £300
10. 19/11/16 28/4/17 £400
11. 16/12/16 31/5/17 £400
12. 9/1/17 30/6/17 £200
13. 17/1/17 30/6/17 £400
14. 13/5/17 4/10/17 £500
15. 8/6/17 27/11/17 £500
16. 15/7/17 27/11/17 £400
17. 26/7/17 27/11/17 £300
18. 14/11/17 27/11/17 £950
19. 23/12/17 15/1/18 £700
In its final response letter,  Sunny said that at certain points its product may not have been 
suitable for Mr Js needs. It offered to refund  the interest and charges paid on Loan 1 and 
pay 8% simple interest on the refunds. It said that there were no adverse entries on Mr Js 
credit file to remove as Mr J had paid the loan on time.
Mr J rejected Sunnys  offer.
our adjudicators view
Our adjudicator recommended  that Mr Js complaint  should be upheld in part. She 
concluded that Loans 6 onwards  shouldnt have been given to Mr J.
Sunny disagreed with the adjudicators recommendations.  It said that Mr Js pattern of 
borrowing showed that his borrowing may have become unsustainable by Loan  6. So it was 
prepared to make an offer on Loans 6 and 7. Sunny also said that after Loan 7 was repaid, 
there was more than a five month  gap before Loan 8 which it said was a significant length  of 
Ref: DRN52278102time for Mr J to have  improved the state  of his finances. So it said that Loan  8 onwards was 
a new chain of lending. And from Loan  13 onwards, Mr Js borrowing pattern was 
unsustainable. So it agreed to refund interest from Loan 13 onwards. Sunny also said that its 
settlement offer no longer  included Loan 1.
Mr J rejected Sunnys  offer.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr J 
and to Sunny on 13 November  2019.  I summarise my findings:
Id said that as Sunny had offered to settle Loans  6, 7 and 13 to 19, Id not investigated  
these loans below.  But I would include the redress for these  loans in my compensation 
award.
I noted that when  Sunny  lent to Mr J the regulator  was the Financial  Conduct  Authority 
(FCA) and relevant regulations and guidance included its Consumer Credit  Sourcebook  
(CONC). The CONC contained guidance for lenders about responsible lending. 
I said that Sunny needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this meant that it should have carried out proportionate  checks to make  sure Mr J 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I thought  less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.   
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Sunny  should fairly and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors included:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer had been  given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated  
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There might  even come a point where the lending  history  and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrated that the lending was unsustainable.
I thought it was important  to say that Sunny was required to establish whether  Mr J could 
sustainably repay  his loans  not just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict 
pounds and pence calculation. 
I explained that the loan payments  being  affordable on this basis  might  be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it didnt automatically follow  this 
was the case.  This was because the CONC defined sustainable as being without undue  
Ref: DRN52278103difficulties and in particular the consumer  should be able to make repayments, while meeting 
other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow  to meet  the repayments. 
And it followed that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly  and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wouldnt be able to make their repayments  sustainably  if they were unlikely to be 
able to make  their repayments without borrowing further. 
Id carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all meant for Mr Js complaint.
I explained that Sunny had made a number of checks before it lent to Mr J. It appeared that 
from Loan 2 it had asked him for details  of his monthly income and expenditure. Mr Js 
declared income for Loans  2 to 5 was around £1,285. This had increased to £1,785 for 
Loans 8 to 12. Mr Js declared expenditure ranged from £475 to £875  for those loans.
Sunny had also checked Mr Js credit  file before agreeing to the loans. It had provided us 
with a summary of the results of its credit checks. It appeared from the summaries  Id seen 
that there  wasnt any adverse information such as bankruptcy, IVAs or debt management  
plans that I thought should have caused  additional  concerns to Sunny. 
Wed received a credit  report  from Mr J and Id referred to this in my decision.
Loan 1
I noted that Mr Js running account credit facility had a maximum credit limit of £350. If this 
amount was withdrawn, the credit  agreement provided it would be repaid by five monthly 
payments of around  £130. I could see that Sunnys credit checks  showed that Mr J had no 
active short  term loans, although  he had taken out two short term loans in the previous three  
months. It had also been 44 months  since hed had a defaulted account. Overall  Id not seen 
anything in the results  of those credit checks that I thought should  have  caused  Sunny 
additional concerns about Mr Js financial situation. 
But as I couldnt  see any income information on Sunnys business file before Loan  1, I 
couldnt say that Sunny  had made proportionate checks before providing Loan 1 to Mr J. In 
order to assess what proportionate checks would have likely  shown,  and in the absence  of 
any income information Sunny had used in its assessment, I would have normally looked at 
the borrowers bank  statements.  I could see from Mr Js bank statements in the month 
before Loan 1 that hed received a total income of around £1,540.  I thought it was likely  that 
he would  have declared this amount to Sunny if asked. I noted  that the maximum repayment 
amount was around £130. I didnt think the repayment amount was so large that it was 
obvious it wouldve  caused Mr J financial  difficulty.
So given Mr Js repayment  amount and what was apparent about his circumstances at the 
time, I didnt  think it wouldve been proportionate for Sunny to have asked  him for the 
amount of information  that would have  been  needed  to show the lending was unsustainable.  
And there wasnt anything  in the information  Mr J provided or the information  Sunny 
shouldve been  aware of, which meant it wouldve been proportionate to start verifying what 
he was saying. So I didnt  think  Sunny  was wrong to give Loan 1 to Mr J.
Ref: DRN52278104Loan 1 was still outstanding when Mr J took out Loan 2. Sunnys credit check  showed that 
Mr J had no payday loan balances and it was three months since  his last payday loan. The 
highest monthly repayment on Loan 2 was £45.60. This meant  that Mr J would be repaying 
total monthly loan repayments of around £176  for around a month. I could see that Mr J 
declared an income of £1,285 and expenditure of £800. I didnt think  the total repayment 
amounts were so large that it was obvious they wouldve caused Mr J financial difficulty.  And 
I didnt think at that stage  of its relationship  with Mr J that Sunny had any reason to doubt the 
information hed provided. I didnt think it was unreasonable for Sunny to rely on Mr Js 
declared disposable income of £485.  
Given Mr Js repayment amounts, what was apparent about his circumstances  at the time, 
and his history with the lender, I didnt  think it wouldve been proportionate  for Sunny to have 
asked him for the amount of information  that would have been needed to show  Loan 2 was 
unsustainable.  
And there wasnt anything  in the information  Mr J provided before Loan 2 or the information 
Sunny shouldve been aware of, which meant it wouldve been proportionate  to start 
verifying what he was saying. So I didnt think Sunny was wrong to give Loan 2 to Mr J. 
Loan 2 was still outstanding when Mr J took out Loan 3. There  was very little information  
shown on Sunnys credit check  before this loan.  I could  see that Mr J had credit  expenditure 
of £46 but there was nothing else of concern. The highest monthly repayment on Loan 3 was 
£59.28. This meant that Mr J would be repaying  total monthly loan repayments of around  
£105 for several months.  I could  see that Mr J had again declared an income of £1,285  and 
his expenditure  had reduced to £575. I didnt think the total repayment amounts were  so 
large that it was obvious they wouldve caused Mr J financial difficulty. And again  I didnt 
think that Sunny had any reason to doubt  the information Mr J had provided. 
Given Mr Js repayment amounts, what was apparent about his circumstances  at the time, 
and his history with the lender, I didnt  think it wouldve been proportionate  for Sunny to have 
asked him for the amount of information  that would have been needed to show  Loan 3 was 
unsustainable.  
And there wasnt anything  in the information  Mr J provided before Loan 3 or the information 
Sunny shouldve been aware of, which meant it wouldve been proportionate  to start 
verifying what he was saying. So I didnt think Sunny was wrong to give Loan 3 to Mr J. 
Mr J took out Loan 4 around two months after repaying Loans 2 and 3 which  had both been 
repaid early.  The loan amount had increased to £300 with six monthly repayments of around  
£87.34. Mr J had declared  an income  of £1,285 and expenditure of £475. I could see that 
Sunnys credit check showed that Mr J had credit expenditure of £499. I also noted that Mr J 
had declared credit  commitments of £50 to Sunny. But even after taking into account the 
credit commitments  shown on Sunnys credit check, I still didnt think the repayments  on 
Loan 4 were so large that it was obvious  they wouldve caused Mr J financial difficulty.
And given  Mr Js repayment amounts, what was apparent about his circumstances at the 
time, and his history  with the lender, I didnt think it wouldve  been  proportionate for Sunny to 
have asked him for the amount of information  that would have been needed to show  Loan 4 
was unsustainable.  So I didnt think Sunny was wrong to give Loan 4 to Mr J.
Mr J took out Loan 5 whilst he was still repaying Loan 4. This meant that hed be repaying 
total monthly loan repayments of around £132  for around five months. Loan 5 was Mr Js 
fifth loan in around  eight  months. I thought by the time of Loan 5 that Sunny should have 
Ref: DRN52278105been concerned  that Mr J might have been  reliant  on its lending. And I didnt think it was 
reasonable for Sunny to base its assessment before Loan 5 on the information  provided by 
Mr J without taking steps to independently check what hed declared. So I thought  it might  
have been proportionate  at this time for Sunny to have independently  reviewed the true state  
of Mr Js finances. This was to make sure Mr J was in position to make the repayments 
sustainably. As far as I could see Sunny didnt do this. So I needed to think  about what  
Sunny wouldve seen if it had carried out proportionate checks. 
I would normally look at the borrowers bank  statements to see what  proportionate checks 
would likely  have shown.  Mr J had provided  some information about his financial 
circumstances which included his credit report and bank statements. Having looked at these, 
I could see that Mr J had two outstanding short term loans with other lenders as well as 
Loan 4. So he was already committed to repaying  those lenders around the same  time as 
hed be repaying  Loans 4 and 5. I thought that the extent of Mr Js other short term 
borrowing should have  put Sunny on notice that he was having serious problems managing 
his money. So I didnt think that Sunny  should have given Loan 5 to Mr J.
Id looked at the overall pattern of Sunnys lending with Mr J to see if there was a point at 
which Sunny  should  reasonably have seen that further lending was unsustainable, or 
otherwise harmful. And so Sunny should have realised that it shouldnt  have provided any 
further loans.  
Given the particular  circumstances of Mr Js case, I thought  that this point was reached by 
Loan 6. I said this because:
By Loan  6, Mr J had been borrowing from Sunny for over ten months.
From  Loan 2 and other than Loan 4, Mr J was repaying at least one other  loan to 
Sunny when he borrowed another from it.
Mr J wasnt  making  any real inroads  to the amounts he owed Sunny. Loan  6 was for 
the same  amount  as hed drawn first on Loan  1. And Mr J had paid large amounts of 
interest to, in effect, service a debt to Sunny over an extended period.
I could see that as Sunny didnt stop lending at this point, Mr J went  on to take out another  
13 loans in the following 26 months. I thought that Mr J had lost out because Sunny 
continued to provide borrowing from Loan  6 onwards because:
These loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Js indebtedness by allowing him 
to take expensive credit intended  for short-term  use over an extended  period of time.
The number of loans  was likely to have had negative implications on Mr Js ability  to 
access mainstream credit and so had kept him in the market for these high-cost 
loans.
The fact that most  of the loans were  repaid didnt mean that they were  repaid 
sustainably, or without causing Mr J undue difficulty. 
Id taken into account that Sunny  had said that there was a gap of almost six months 
between the repayment of Loan 7 and Loan  8 being taken out. Id noted that Sunny had said 
this was a significant length  of time for Mr J to have  improved the state of his finances.  But 
Id disagreed. Sunny would have been aware from its own lending  that there was an 
established pattern  of borrowing and it ought  to have been concerned about this irrespective 
of the length of pause in Mr Js applications. Id also noted that Sunnys credit check  before 
Loan 8 showed that he had a balance of active payday loans of £700. It also showed that a 
payday loan had been taken in the previous month and two had been  taken out in the 
Ref: DRN52278106previous three months. So I also didnt think Sunny could have concluded from its credit 
check that Mr Js finances  had improved. 
And when  a consumer  borrowed numerous loans over a long period of time, it was most 
likely that the loans werent being  used for their intended purpose of temporary cash  flow 
problems. As Sunny  knew,  the FCA had made it clear in a recent letter  to CEOs of high cost 
lending firms that a high volume of relending..might be symptomatic of unsustainable  
lending patterns. And I thought that was the case here.
So, subject to any further representations by Mr J or Sunny my provisional  decision  was that 
I intended to uphold this complaint in part. I intended  to order  Sunny to:
Refund all interest  and charges Mr J paid on Loans 5 to 19 and pay interest of 8% 
simple a year on such refunded interest  and charges from the date they were paid to 
the date of settlement*;
Remove adverse  entries about Loan 5 from Mr Js credit file;
Remove all entries about Loans 6 to 19 from Mr Js credit file. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Mr J a certificate showing how much tax it was taken off if he asks for one. 
Mr J responded to my provisional decision to say that he was content  with it and had no 
further information to add relating to this.
Sunny responded to my provisional decision to say, in summary, that:-
-With regard to Loan 5, it noted that Id said that an independent review was needed. 
But it said that it had undertaken  an independent review and took into account  all 
credit commitments  reported by the credit reference  agencies.
-I had given disproportionate weight to Mr J having two other  short term loans.
-I should have  considered other factors such as Mr J repaying  his loans on time, using 
a small percentage  of his monthly income  to make the repayments and that he had 
sufficient disposable income to make  the repayments.
-With regard to Loans 6 and 7 and my reference to a pattern of lending,  it said that I 
should also consider other factors. For example, that Mr J repaying more than one 
Sunny loan at a time doesnt mean  that continuing  to lend was unsustainable. It also 
said that the amount of Loan  6 wasnt higher than previous loans so Mr Js overall  
indebtedness wasnt increasing.   
-With regard to Loan 8 onwards, it was concerned that I didnt consider a six months 
break to be relevant.  It also said that I referred to its records  showing a payday  loans 
balance of £700 prior to Loan 8. It said that this was incorrect  and that Mr Js total 
monthly credit commitments  were  £56.
-It was incorrect to assume that the number of loans  impaired  Mr Js ability to access
mainstream credit. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Ref: DRN52278107I note Sunnys comments about  Loan 5. But the fact that Mr J repaid the loans on time, used 
a small percentage  of his monthly income  to make  the repayments and appeared to have 
sufficient disposable  income, doesnt  show that the repayments were sustainable. 
By the time of Loan 5, I think Sunny should have done more than it did. By then, Mr J had 
taken out five loans with Sunny in around eight months. Given  Mr Js income  and the level
of repayments, proportionate checks were  likely  to have established a much  fuller picture of 
his financial position.  I think proportionate  checks here wouldve meant  that Sunny took 
steps to verify the information  Mr J provided about  his financial situation. I dont think it was 
sufficient here for Sunny to take into account  the credit commitments reported to the credit  
reference agencies.  Not all relevant  information  is available to a prospective lender from the 
credit reference agencies. 
Im satisfied that proportionate  checks before Loan  5 would have shown  two short-term 
loans being taken out from other lenders in the week before Loan  5. These totalled £400. 
Mr J was committed to repaying these at the same time as he was repaying Loans 4 and 5. I 
think it should have  been clear to Sunny that Mr J was facing serious problems managing his 
money and unlikely to be able to repay  Loan  5 in a sustainable  manner.  So, I remain  of the 
view that Sunny shouldnt have  given  Loan  5 to Mr J.
With regard to Loans 6 and 7 I note Sunnys comments about the pattern of lending. As I 
said in my provisional decision, I think that theres a point at which  the pattern of
lending, in itself,  indicated that the lending wasnt sustainable. Im satisfied  that point is at
Loan 6 in this case.  By then, Mr J had taken out six loans in around ten months  and
he hadnt yet repaid  Loan 5. And Loan 6 was for a larger amount than Loan 5. 
I note that Sunny said that Mr Js overall  indebtedness wasnt  increasing. But the amount of 
Loan 6 was the same or higher than all but one of Mr Js previous instalment loans. And all  
of Mr Js future loans were for the same  amount or higher  than his first instalment loan 
amount. And although the loan amounts  fluctuated,  the total amount being  borrowed at any 
one time was usually  far higher than the individual loan amount as Mr J was on most 
occasions borrowing  more than one loan at a time from Sunny. So I disagree that Mr Js 
overall indebtedness wasnt increasing.
I note that Sunny said that its records didnt show a payday loan balance  of £700 prior to 
Loan 8. But I have checked  its affordability  sheet again and can see that £700  is shown  as 
the balance of active payday  loan accounts  in the column for Loan  8.
With regard to the gap before Loan 8, as Ive said above I think  Sunny would have  been  
aware from its own lending that there was an established pattern of borrowing before Loan  8 
and it ought to have been concerned about  this irrespective of the length of pause  in Mr Js 
applications.
I remain of the view a prospective lender would consider  the number of short term loans
negatively. I think that in addition to the removal of negative information about Loan  5, all
information about Loans 6 to 19 should  be removed  from Mr Js credit  file.
Considering everything, I think that the redress I set out in my provisional decision is fair.
Ref: DRN52278108my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part. In full and final settlement of this 
complaint, I order Elevate  Credit International Limited, trading as Sunny, to:-
1.Refund all interest  and charges Mr J paid on Loans 5 to 19;
2.Pay interest of 8% simple a year on such refunded interest  and charges from the 
date they were paid to the date of settlement*;
3.Remove adverse  entries about Loan 5 from Mr Js credit file; and
4.Remove all entries about Loans 6 to 19 from Mr Js credit file. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Mr J a certificate showing how much tax it was taken off if he asks for one. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  30 January 2020.
Roslyn Rawson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5227810