K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain  about the interest which has been charged to their account with 
National Westminster Bank Plc.
background
Mr S is unhappy about the interest  charged  on his overdraft from October 2017 to February  
2018. He feels  that hes been  overcharged  and has been unable  to work out what rate of 
interest the bank has used to calculate  interest on a daily basis.
In its final response NatWest said its records showed that Mr S had a £10,000  overdraft 
facility, to which a £6.00  monthly  arranged overdraft usage fee and debit interest  calculated  
on a daily basis at the notional annual rate of 18.28% applied.  NatWest also provided Mr S 
with a breakdown  of the charges and debit interest applied to his account since  October 
2017.
Mr S wasnt  happy with NatWests response  so he complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She said that the fees and charges applied to 
Mr Ss account were in line with the terms and conditions of the account.
Mr S didnt agree. He wanted to see the overdraft agreement and said he didnt understand 
how the daily rate of interest had been  calculated. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the terms and conditions of Mr Ss account. These say there  is a monthly  fee 
of £6.00 when the arranged overdraft facility is used. They  also say that the interest  rate for 
using the overdraft facility is18.28%.
Ive looked at Mr Ss statements and Im satisfied that the fees and interest  hes been 
charged since August  2017 are in line with the terms and conditions  of the account.
Mr S has said he doesnt understand how the daily rate of interest is calculated. The daily 
rate is calculated by reference to the annual rate of 18.28% and the daily amount of interest 
changes based  on the amount of the overdraft which is being  used and for how long it is 
used.
I appreciate that Mr S doesnt  think he signed  an overdraft agreement. Hes asked to be 
provided with a copy. NatWest has explained  that Mr S wouldnt have been asked to sign an 
overdraft agreement because the overdraft was applied to the account once it had been  
agreed with Mr S and approved by the banks systems.
Im satisfied that Mr S was aware  that he had an overdraft facility because  Ive seen a copy 
of an overdraft confirmation letter which was sent to him when the overdraft was applied. Im 
also satisfied that the overdraft  charges and rate of interest are clearly set out in the terms 
and conditions of the account.
Ref: DRN53247592Taking all of the available information  into account,  Im unable  to say that the fees and 
interest have been applied  to the account  in error. So I wont  be asking NatWest to refund 
anything.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 August 2019.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5324759