K820x#14complaint
Its agreed  in this case that Financial Insurance Company  Limited (FICL),  as the insurer, 
should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill just refer to FICL in 
my decision.
Mrs L says FICL mis-sold  her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a policy Mrs L took out with a store card in April 1998.  It was added 
to her account when she filled in a leaflet in the store whilst shopping.
Mrs L mainly said that PPI wasnt explained,  she didnt ask for it and she wasnt  made aware 
it was optional. Mrs L also says that the tick in the PPI part of the form wasnt done by her 
and she wouldnt have  taken out the PPI as she didnt want any extra  cost.  
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs L disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  
and she has asked for a review. So this complaint comes to me to make a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website  and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ls case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ls complaint. Ill explain why.
It isnt reasonable  to expect Mrs L to remember exactly what  was discussed when she took 
out PPI so long ago. So what  Mrs L says isnt enough on its own for me to be able to uphold  
her complaint. I have  to look at all the information  available and decide what I think is most 
likely.  
FICL has given us a copy of Mrs Ls store card application. Theres a tick in the PPI part of 
the form, next to where it says Yes, I want  my Account covered by Payment and Purchase 
Protection Insurance Please debit  my Account with the relevant monthly  premium  until 
further notice . I dont know what (if anything) was said about the PPI. But even if the form was 
filled in by the salesperson for Mrs L to sign, I think its reasonable to expect Mrs L wouldve 
first read through anything she was asked to sign. And I think it wouldve been clear from the 
paperwork that it was up to Mrs L to say if she wanted to have PPI added on. 
Mrs L signed the completed application so it seems  to me that she must  have agreed with the 
information on the form at the time  even if, understandably,  she has forgotten this now.  So, 
on balance, I think Mrs L was aware the policy was optional and it was added  to her account  
when she indicated that she wanted  to take it out.
FICL shouldve given Mrs L enough  clear information  to decide if the policy was right for her. 
Its possible some information FICL gave Mrs L about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve  
been. So I need to consider if Mrs L wouldve  acted differently, and not bought the policy, if 
clearer information had been provided. 
Ref: DRN59272132The policy couldve  paid a benefit  for up to 12 months per claim each time Mrs L was off 
work sick or if Mrs L lost her job unexpectedly  and was out of work. In the event of a 
successful claim, the policy couldve cleared her card balance  if Mrs L wasnt able to go back  
to work for a full 12 months.  Mrs L hasnt mentioned having any other means  she couldve 
relied on to cover her store card monthly repayments if she wasnt working. So I think Mrs L 
couldve benefitted from having PPI if shed needed to claim.  
It doesnt look as if Mrs L was affected  by any of the things  the policy didnt cover when she 
took it out. So, I dont think  having  more information  about the policy exclusions and 
limitations wouldve  put Mrs L off taking it out. 
I dont think its likely  that FICL gave Mrs L clear  enough information  about the costs of the 
policy. But Mrs L chose to take out the policy when she didnt have to  so she seems to 
have wanted it at the time. And she indicated on the application form that she was happy to 
pay to have it. Looked  at overall, given the benefits PPI offered  Mrs L, I think it unlikely she 
wouldve made a different  decision if better  information had been provided.  On balance 
I think shed still have  taken out the policy. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above,  I dont uphold Mrs Ls complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 September  2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5927213