K822xcomplaint
Ms W complains that National House-Building Council (NHBC) unfairly  declined  her building  
warranty claim after she relocated her boiler to her living room.
background 
Ms Ws property was built in about 2008, and she held a ten-year NHBC building warranty 
policy. In November 2016, she was given an at risk gas safety notice by a gas engineer 
during her annual boiler service. The notice confirmed two issues:
-the lack of inspection hatches for the flue run
-the proximity of the flues termination to other  openings
The developer that built Ms Ws property  offered  to retrospectively fit inspection  hatches, but 
she says because the flu run couldnt be located, the only option was to reposition her boiler.  
In June 2017, Ms W made a claim under her NHBC building warranty policy for the costs 
she had incurred, and her estimated losses. She made the following points:
-Ms W had spent  six months trying  to resolve  the problem, liaising with the developer  
and the management company. The process  involved speculatively removing parts 
of her ceiling  to try to locate the flue run, without  success.
-The initial resolution was to reposition  the boiler to an external facing wall, and part of 
the ceiling  was removed in the living room to accommodate the new flue. Ms W had 
booked a hotel  for the night she would be without water.  However, the gas engineer  
discovered that it wasnt possible to install a flue in the ceiling space due to the 
ceiling joists the developer had used to fix the ceiling.  
-Ms W said they decided to utilise the opened-up  ceiling and run an extension  to the 
existing copper pipes to allow  the boiler to be sited in her living room, also on an 
external facing wall. Ms W said the work required a hotel  stay for two nights.
-Ms W explained  she was unhappy about having  to have her boiler sited in her living  
room, and she was seeking advice from an architect on how to disguise the boiler  
and reduce the noise levels. She also noted  that she was concerned the boilers  
location would impact the propertys value and future sale. 
-Ms W said she had the invoices for the ceiling removal, the boiler installation, and the 
two hotel stays; and there would be further  invoices for the outstanding repairs  and 
decorations, and the solution for sound proofing and disguising the boiler.
-Ms W also suggested that compensation should  be paid up to 10% of the original 
purchase price, due to the propertys likely reduction in value.
Section three of the policy  terms cover  defects to a flue which  cause a present or imminent  
danger. The terms define a defect as a failure  to comply with an NHBC requirement  in place 
at the time of the build.  Section four also covers repairs to heat producing  appliances where 
theres a present or imminent danger because the home doesnt comply  with the building 
regulations that applied  at the time of construction.
Ref: DRN53171302NHBCs claim declinature relied  on there being no failure in the flue, and the flue termination 
point simply not complying with current regulations. However, its complaint response relied 
on the gas safety notice only being at risk rather than immediately  dangerous  with both 
options available for selection on the form. NHBC also highlighted the repairs had been 
undertaken before the claim was made  and it wasnt given an opportunity  to inspect.
Ms W brought a complaint  to this service about  NHBCs claim decision. It was considered by 
one of our investigators, but she thought NHBC had applied the policy  terms fairly  and she 
noted the requirement for inspection hatches came after the property was built. Because        
Ms W remained unhappy, her complaint was passed  to me to decide.
I contacted NHBC regarding the following:
-Having viewed a photo of the flue termination  point, NHBC agreed that the clearing 
distance to an air vent didnt meet the building regulations at the time of the build.
-Although the appliance wasnt marked immediately dangerous on the safety notice, 
it was marked at risk. The notice also contains  a warning that, for reasons  of safety, 
an appliance  at risk shouldnt be used. NHBC accepted the notice was sufficient to 
consider the boiler  a present or imminent danger.
-In view of the above  two points, NHBC accepted the requirements  of section four 
were met in respect  of the flues termination.  NHBC agreed  that it should  now 
consider the reasonable costs  of rectifying this non-compliance  and offer 
compensation for the incorrectly declined claim.
-However, NHBC explained that, at the time of construction, inspection  hatches were 
not an NHBC requirement or a building regulation, so neither the requirements of 
section three or four have been  met for this issue.
I issued my provisional decision in June 2020.  I explained that I intended to partly uphold  the 
complaint and I asked  both parties  to respond before I made my final decision. In my 
provisional decision, I said: 
I have considered  all the available  evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I will set out my provisional findings under  the following three headings: Inspection hatches, 
flue termination and claim settlement, and compensation.
inspection hatches
When responding to our investigators assessment, Ms W clarified that her claim isnt about 
the inspection  hatches, its about  the unsafe  siting of her boiler and flue. But regardless, her 
policy only responds if there was a breach  of an NHBC requirement contained in its 
published Standards,  or a building  regulation  breach, at the time of construction.  
NHBCs requirements that were in place when the property was built required gas service 
installations to comply  with gas safety  regulations,  along with some other requirements 
contained in the Standards. 
Ref: DRN53171303So, for me to decide NHBC should cover  the installation of inspection hatches, or rather, the 
only viable  alternative  Ms W says she was left with, I would need to be persuaded there was 
either a breach of gas safety or building regulations, or a breach of another requirement  
contained in NHBCs  Standards, when  the property was built. However, Ive not seen or 
been shown anything which persuades me thats  the case here.
Ms W accepts inspection  hatches werent  a legal requirement at the time of construction.  
However, she points towards several  publications,  including NHBCs own newsletters, to 
show the installation  was unsafe.
Ms W hasnt  provided the publications she has referred to, but I have been able to find some 
of them.  Having done so, I accept the issue of inspecting flue runs in voids  was being  widely  
discussed before her property was built. However, Im sorry to say, thats  not enough here. 
NHBC has explained that the Gas Safety Register  didnt  require inspection hatches to be 
fitted for concealed  flues until late-2010,  some  two years after Ms Ws property was built.  
Homeowners then had until January 2013  to retrospectively fit hatches,  after which gas 
safety engineers  were  to consider a boiler system  at risk. Ive seen information that 
supports what NHBC says.
So, although  I accept  the issue of inspection  hatches and safety was being  widely  discussed  
before Ms Ws property was built, this isnt the same  as the gas safety  or building  regulations 
in place at the time, or an NHBC requirement  contained in its Standards,  being breached. 
Because Ive not seen there was such a breach, Im not persuaded that NHBC needs to 
consider Ms Ws claim for retrospectively fitting  inspection hatches or for the issues that 
arose due to the difficulties with identifying the location of the flue run.
flue termination and claim settlement
NHBC accepts  that the flue terminations proximity to another opening breached  the building 
regulations that were  in place at the time of construction, and it ought to have  considered 
this aspect of Ms Ws claim under section four of the policy  terms. So, whats left for me 
decide is how NHBC should settle this part of her claim.
I acknowledge the policy terms require a claim to be notified  to NHBC before any works  are 
carried out, which didnt  happen here. But Im persuaded it would be fair and reasonable for 
NHBC to take a reasoned approach to determine  the remedial works that would have likely 
been required to rectify  the termination breach and settle the claim on that basis.
Therefore, Im persuaded that NHBC should settle  Ms Ws claim by paying  her an amount  
equal to the likely value of the covered works,  less any applicable  policy excess. 
If the boiler and/or flue would have needed  to have been relocated in order  to rectify the flue 
termination breach,  then it follows  that NHBC should  consider all the costs and losses Ms W 
has claimed for to determine which of those are covered by her policy.  However, if NHBC 
considers it would have simply been able to reposition the termination,  to comply with 
regulations, its liability  would be limited to these  costs.
NHBC should determine the remedial works  that would have likely been required to rectify 
the flue termination, and therefore  the claim settlement  amount, before  responding to my 
provisional decision. Ms W is also free to make  submissions  about this. I will consider 
whether the settlement offered is fair.
Ref: DRN53171304For the avoidance of doubt, I understand Ms W is claiming for: 
-a new boiler and its installation; 
-the attempts  to locate the flue run and the subsequent ceiling repairs;  
-two stays in a hotel  whilst the works  were completed;  
-sound proofing and concealment of the new boiler; and 
-the loss of value to her property
NHBC should comment on whether it considers any of these costs  would  fall under the claim 
settlement for the flue termination remedial  works.  Again, Ms W is also welcome to 
comment.
compensation
Im persuaded NHBC unfairly declined part of Ms Ws claim, and some  of her upset could 
have been avoided had the claim been  fairly considered and a contribution towards her 
costs made.  I intend to award £250  compensation in recognition of this. 
I appreciate that Ms W has suffered  considerable upset due to whats  happened,  but at this 
stage, Ive not seen  anything  to suggest a significant  proportion of her claimed  costs  would 
have been settled had the flue termination  issue been accepted as a claim. Therefore, Im 
not persuaded that I can reasonably decide NHBC is responsible  for all the upset shes 
suffered.
In response to my provisional decision,  NHBC  provided a scope of works to rectify the flue 
termination breach,  for £1,008. NHBC explained the easiest  solution would have been to 
move the extract ventilation terminal to the left, away  from the gas appliance flue. NHBC 
noted that Ms Ws apartment  has a suitable service  void allowing access  to the extract 
ducting, which could  have been repositioned further  to the left via a small opening in a 
ceiling. The scope  also allowed for the associated  internal and external repairs, and 
scaffolding. 
Ms W also responded to my provisional  decision.  Ms W explained the decisions taken about  
her boiler would have  remained the same whether her claim had been accepted based on 
the flue termination point, or the inaccessibility of the flue for safety inspections. She said 
there wasnt any option other than to replace and relocate the boiler,  to allow  for a flue 
termination point  in a safe position. Ms W said her gas engineer  would support her 
assertions. 
Ms W also reiterated her costs and losses, and she provided various photos and invoices to 
support her complaint.
my findings
I have reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where evidence  is inconclusive or 
incomplete, I have reached  my decision on the balance of probabilities  this means
I have determined what I consider is more likely  to have happened, based on all the 
evidence that is available  and the wider surrounding  circumstances.
Ref: DRN53171305I thank both parties for responding to my provisional decision. I dont doubt what  Ms W says 
in respect of having  to relocate her boiler due to the need to install  inspection  hatches and 
the difficulty she had with this. However, as previously explained, for me to decide that 
NHBC should be responsible for those associated costs or losses,  I would need to be 
persuaded that there was a breach of regulations or NHBC Standards in respect of 
inspection hatches,  or the flue run, at the time of the build  and thats not the case.
Alternatively, I would need to be persuaded that the boiler and/or  flue would have needed to 
have been relocated to rectify the flue termination  breach. I acknowledge Ms W believes the 
same works would have  been required to remedy the flue termination breach, however, she 
hasnt provided  anything persuasive to support what she has said here. Whilst on the other 
hand, NHBC has provided a detailed explanation of the works it would have undertaken to 
remedy the issue, i.e. it would have repositioned the extract  ventilation  terminal,  to move  it 
away from the flue termination. Overall, Im more persuaded by NHBCs relatively detailed 
conclusions about  the required works than Ms Ws unsupported assertions, and Im not 
persuaded her costs  or losses  would have  been  incurred but for the issues with the 
inspection hatches   which arent  covered. As such,  Im not persuaded NHBC can 
reasonably be held responsible for the costs or losses Ms W has claimed  for.
For these reasons, and the reasons I outlined in my provisional decision,  Im satisfied  its fair 
and reasonable for NHBC to simply contribute towards Ms Ws costs based  on what its 
liability would have  been to address the breach that was covered by the policy,  i.e. the 
clearing distance  between the flu termination and the air vent / extract ventilation. On 
balance, I accept its scope of works given its content and supporting  explanation. 
So, in conclusion, Im persuaded that a fair and reasonable  outcome to Ms Ws complaint is 
for NHBC  to settle her claim by paying her £1,008 (less the policy excess,  if one applies). It 
should also compensate Ms W £250 for the upset it caused her by the incorrect claim 
decision in the first instance.
my final decision
I appreciate Ms W will remain  disappointed,  but for the reasons Ive set out above, I uphold 
this complaint in part. My final decision  is National House-Building Council should:
-settle the claim by paying Ms W £1,008 (less  any applicable policy  excess)
-compensate Ms W £250  for unfairly declining her claim outright
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 September 2020.
Vince Martin
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5317130