K821x#15complaint
Mrs K complains about issues shes experienced with a car supplied with finance from 
Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited.
background
In March 2018 Mrs K was supplied with a car and entered into a hire purchase agreement  
with VWFS.
In July 2018 Mrs K experienced issues with the car losing  power.  She contacted the 
dealership who diagnosed  a fault with the control unit under the gear lever.
There was a delay  in the car being  repaired  whilst the dealer waited for the part. During this 
time Mrs K had an accident  in the car which she says was caused as a result of the car 
losing power and cutting out. Damage was caused to the passenger side.
The repair to the control unit was completed on 13 September  2018.
Mrs K continued to experience issues with the car losing power. She returned it to the 
dealership in October 2018. Fault codes were  found which related  to heating and signal 
issues but no faults were  diagnosed. The car was handed back to Mrs K in November 2018.
Soon afterwards the car lost power again. Mrs K returned the car to the dealership on 29 
November 2018  and again  in  January  2019. In January  2019  the dealership said there  was 
a fault with the gear controller unit and ordered  the part. The gear controller was replaced  
again in January 2019.
Mrs K says shes  still experiencing  the same issues. The car was returned  to the dealership  
again in February  2019.
Mrs K wants  to reject the car. In its final response VWFS said the control unit had been 
repaired successfully. IT offered Mrs K compensation  for the inconvenience  of the fault 
occurring and having to wait for the part to be delivered. 
Mrs K wasnt  happy with the response and complained  to this service.
Our investigator upheld  the complaint and said the fault with the gear controller hadnt  been 
successfully repaired and recommended  that Mrs K be allowed  to reject the car.
VWFS didnt  agree. It said the control  unit under  the gear lever was repaired successfully on 
the first attempt and that all of the subsequent issues were unrelated.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because VWFS has supplied the car under a hire purchase agreement  theres  an implied  
term that it has to be of satisfactory quality. Cars are of satisfactory quality if they are of a 
standard that a reasonable person would expect, taking into account all of the relevant 
circumstances such as (amongst other  things) the age and mileage  of the car.
Ref: DRN53380952In this case, the car was supplied new. With this in mind, I think  its fair to say that a 
reasonable person would expect the level of quality to be higher than a used  car. And that it 
could be used free from defects for a  considerable period of time.
In order to uphold  this complaint I would need  to be satisfied that the car wasnt  of 
satisfactory quality at the point of supply.
I can see that Mrs K began reporting problems with loss of power and the engine cutting out 
in July 2018. This was within the first 6 months  of the point of supply.
Mrs K contacted the dealership and a fault was found with the gear control unit. The unit was 
replaced in September 2018.  Prior to the repair, Mrs K had an accident  in the car which  she 
says was caused by her losing control  when  the engine cut out. The accident happened  in a 
car park with which Mrs K was very familiar. So on balance I think  its more likely than not 
that the accident happened as a result  of the fault with the gear control  unit.
Under the Consumer  Rights Act a business  is allowed one opportunity  to repair  a fault. If the 
repair is successful then the customer doesnt have  the right to reject the car.
This is where Mrs K and VWFS disagree.  Mrs K says the fault wasnt  successfully repaired 
because she continued to experience the same  issues with loss of power and the engine 
cutting out following the repair. VWFS  says the repair  was successful and that any 
subsequent problems werent related to the original fault.
From the information available  I can see that the car was returned  to the dealership  in 
January 2019.  A fault was found and the gear control unit was replaced for a second time. 
Based on this I cant agree with VWFS  that the first repair  was successful. And because  the 
first repair wasnt  successful, Im satisfied that Mrs K has the right to reject the car.
Ref: DRN53380953my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I uphold the complaint.
I require Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited to put Mrs K back in the position she 
would have been in had she not entered into the agreement. It should:
End the agreement with nothing further  owed by Mrs K.
Allow Mrs K to reject the car
Show the agreement  as settled on Mrs Ks account
Refund the deposit together  with 8% interest per annum  from the date of payment  to 
the date of settlement, taking into account  the fact that the deposit  includes the value 
of a part exchanged car and the cost of pre paid servicing.
Refund the road tax paid for by Mrs K.
Reimburse Mrs K for the cost of repairs in relation to damage caused to the 
passenger side
Refund Mrs K £369.70 for her loss in having  to wait one month for the car to be 
repaired in August/September 2018
Pay compensation of £250
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 August 2019.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5338095