K822xcomplaint
Miss A complained that National  Westminster Bank plc wouldnt reimburse seven  
transactions that were made using her debit card. She said she neither made  nor authorised  
them. She also complained that the bank  blocked her account  and wouldnt  allow  her access 
to funds for some time while it investigated what  had happened.   
background 
Miss A said that she had been called away at short notice to attend  a family emergency  
abroad. She was living at the time with her boyfriend  in shared accommodation, where  she 
kept her banking details, including her PIN, in a drawer  in a locked room.  In the hurry to 
travel abroad, she didnt  take her debit card with her. 
Miss A also explained she and her boyfriend  had intended to credit  her account with nearly  
£2,500  money they would use to pay for accommodation. Because of the family 
emergency, he paid that money into her account, using her card, while she was away.  
Also during  Miss As absence abroad, she says her boyfriend met with a friend,  who went  to 
their accommodation  for a meal. While he was there, her boyfriend let him into their (locked) 
room so he could  use the en-suite bathroom.  She believes  he took her card and banking  
details (as well as those of her boyfriend)  at that time, and later used them  to make the 
disputed transactions,  totalling just over £170. She says her boyfriends  bank refunded  the 
payments on his account almost immediately, but NatWest  wouldnt do the same on her 
accounto. She also explained that, as a result of the banks actions in blocking her account, 
she had to pay some £200 more  than would otherwise have been the case for flights.  (She  
had to travel  abroad  on more than one occasion.)     
Miss A referred the case to this service. One of our investigators issued a preliminary 
assessment. He was satisfied that Miss A hadnt  made or authorised  the disputed 
transactions, and neither had she been so careless with her card and security details that 
she should be held responsible for them. The investigator also recommended  that the bank 
pay Miss A £200 in recognition of the distress  shed suffered and £200 to cover the 
additional cost of flights. 
NatWest accepted the investigators view and offered to settle the complaint on the basis 
hed suggested.  Miss A however didnt consider that the £200 in recognition  of her distress 
was sufficient. She said, amongst other things, that the stress of having to deal with the 
police while she was studying and sitting exams was very difficult and embarrassing.  She 
asked that an ombudsman review the complaint.   
    
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because NatWest  accepted the investigators  overall assessment, I dont need to review his 
findings about the facts of this case. Theres no longer any dispute about the disputed 
transactions, since the banks agreed to refund  them. 
Ref: DRN59320302The issue  which  has not been resolved is that of an appropriate payment for the distress the 
bank caused Miss A and the inconvenience to which shes been  put. Shes suggested a 
payment of several  thousand pounds is merited, but Im afraid I dont agree. I believe the 
circumstances here,  as explained by Miss A, were such that the bank was entitled to 
investigate further  before agreeing a refund.  And there were some inconsistencies in her 
account of what  had happened. I take the view that the offer of £200 is broadly in line with 
the awards the ombudsman service would make  in similar cases. 
As Ive said,  the bank  has made  an offer in line with the investigators recommendations. I 
will however  make a formal award,  so that it will be enforceable should that be necessary.   
my final decision
My final decision is that, in order to resolve Miss As complaint, National Westminster  Bank  
plc should refund the disputed transactions and pay her a further £400. Under the rules of 
the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept or reject  my 
decision before  17 October 2019.
Michael Ingram
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN5932030