K820x#14complaint
Mr H has complained that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) unfairly  increased  his motor 
insurance premiums.
In bringing this complaint Mr H has received  help from a friend,  Ms C. 
Reference to UKI includes its agents.
background
Mr H took out a UKI policy in 2012. Prior to the policy renewing in 2017  Ms C checked  online 
and saw that other insurers would offer polices considerably cheaper than UKIs renewal 
price. Mr H isn't internet savvy. So he thought UKI had charged him inflated premiums  
because of his reduced ability to shop  around  for other policies.
Mr H brought his complaint about that to us. Our adjudicator didn't think UKI had done 
anything wrong. Mr H didn't agree so his complaints been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not going to uphold 
it. 
I've seen that from 2012 Mr Hs premium changed each year. It went down in 2013  and 
increased after that. By the time it was due for renewal in 2017  the premium  was around 
£500 more than Mr H had paid in 2012.  Mr H thinks that UKI has taken advantage of him 
because he isn't an internet user and so would find it difficult to explore the market and 
challenge UKIs prices.
I've seen that the most  significant  increase in Mr Hs policy came in 2015, after Mr H had 
reached a significant  age milestone. At that time his premium increased by around £265.  I 
can understand that Mr H might find such a sharp  price rise difficult to justify. So Ive thought 
about whether  or not that was fair.
Were not the insurance industry  regulator. So its not my role to say how much an insurer 
should charge,  what factors  it should  assess,  or how much risk to attach  to each of those 
factors. Insurance is essentially an assessment of risk. And we generally take the view that, 
providing they treat people fairly, insurers are entitled to charge what  they feel they need to 
in order to cover a risk.
Insurers consider many  factors when setting premiums.  And each insurer  will take its own 
approach as to how to do that. When deciding how much to charge for their policies insurers 
will make an assessment of how likely  it is that their policyholders  will make  a claim and how 
much they might have  to pay out for those. And a consumers age is often a significant factor 
in that assessment. But each insurer will assess factors differently. If an insurer believes that 
individuals in certain age categories  pose a higher risk then its entitled to charge a higher 
premium. And as long as they treat consumers fairly, that is they treat consumers with the 
same circumstances in the same  way, thats not something we would think  it was fair to 
interfere with.  
Ref: DRN59253812UKI has provided us with some information  about  how Mr Hs premium has changed  over 
the years. That information is commercially  sensitive so I can't share  it with him. But its clear  
that the age related increase was in line with UKIs  pricing structure. And I think  its 
calculated his premium  as it would for others  with similar circumstances. So I think thats fair.
Ms Cs commented that the situation is unfair because shes been  able to find a cheaper 
premium for Mr H online. But as I've said above  each  insurer will make its own assessment 
of the risk a policyholder presents. So some insurers will offer cheaper premiums than others 
for consumers with the same circumstances. But the fact that one insurer  is cheaper than 
another doesn't mean  that the more expensive of the two has done anything  inherently 
unfair. 
I've thought very carefully about  whether or not UKI treated Mr H fairly. I note Mr H didn't 
contact UKI following the significant increase in his premium in 2015. Although he had 
phoned it a year earlier to ensure that the renewal process  was going through.  In 2016 the 
premium increased by less than 10%,  which -  while  still a significant rise -  wasnt  
necessarily out of keeping with price  rises  in the industry more generally,  particularly given 
that insurance premium  tax was increasing  around  that time. And I'm aware that UKIs 
renewal invitation  letters in 2017  reminded customers like Mr H that they might benefit  from 
shopping around. And Mr H did just that and bought a policy from another  provider. So he 
clearly wasn't disadvantaged  at that point.
Having looked  at Mr Hs situation very carefully  I don't  think  UKI has treated him unfairly. 
This wasn't  a case where UKI simply increased Mr Hs premium  relentlessly with no 
correlation to the risk that he presented.  As I've described above while it generally went up, 
in one year it actually went down. And the most significant rise was caused  by Mr H reaching 
an age milestone. So the premium increase reflected UKIs perceived  change in risk. And I 
don't think  the premium  rise following that was excessive. Then, the next year Mr H was able 
to explore the market and find a cheaper  premium, albeit that he had help in doing so. So 
hes taken advantage of the market at that point. But I don't think the fact that didnt happen 
sooner means  that in Mr Hs specific circumstances UKI treated him unfairly.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 July 2019.
Joe Scott
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN5925381