K820x#14complaint
Mr and Ms F complain Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold them an interest only mortgage  in 2004. 
background
In around July 2004 Mr and Ms F took out a 15 year interest only mortgage  with Lloyds Bank  
PLC for around £486,000, which was secured on their property. 
In 2007 Mr and Ms F divorced. Ms F stayed in the property and took responsibility for paying  
the mortgage as part of the divorce  settlement,  although they both remained parties to the 
mortgage agreement.
In early 2010 Ms F sold the property  and paid off the mortgage. She says as a result of 
taking out the mortgage  she suffered considerable financial hardship and loss, and her 
existing ill-health was affected. She says the mortgage was mis-sold to her and Mr F for a 
number of reasons  which Ill refer to below. 
Ms F is also unhappy about the way Lloyds  dealt with her complaint.
Lloyds didnt uphold  her complaint about the sale of the mortgage  but offered her 
compensation for issues that arose when she made her complaint to Lloyds. Ms F was 
unhappy with Lloyds response, so she complained to this service. 
Our investigator considered whether Lloyds had lent to Mr and Ms F irresponsibly. She didnt 
think it had and she thought the compensation Lloyds had offered Ms F was fair. Ms F didnt 
accept our investigators view. So, Ive reviewed everything afresh to come to a final decision  
about Mr and Ms Fs complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
To consider this complaint  I need to take into account any rules,  regulations  and guidance 
about mortgage lending that were in place when  the mortgage was taken  out. At that time 
there was voluntary guidance in the Mortgage  Code  which set out basic standards  of 
conduct for lenders.
 
I summarise below what I think are the key points Ms F makes  in relation to her complaint. 
Id like to reassure Ms F that Ive taken into account everything shes  said even if I dont 
mention it specifically here: 
The mortgage was taken out at a time when the house wouldnt have increased 
enough in value for them to be able to pay it off when they retired.
The term of the mortgage went beyond Ms Fs planned retirement age of 60 and she 
had no means of paying when  that happened.
Lloyds didnt advise  them  about  ways of repaying the mortgage. 
Since the mortgage involved consolidation  of some debt, they should have been 
advised on and offered alternatives,  but werent.
Ref: DRN55804252They could have  afforded a repayment  mortgage  at the time, which  would have been  
more suitable.
The value of the property had gone  down by the time Ms F came  to sell it in 2010. 
She had to spend a lot of money doing  the property up so she could get it out of 
negative equity before  she sold it. To do that she had to borrow money from family.
Paying off the mortgage caused  her considerable financial hardship, affected  her 
mental health and led her to retire earlier than she wanted  to. She had difficulty  in 
affording another place to live once  shed sold the property.
Im sorry  to hear about  the very difficult time Ms Fs had financially and with her personal 
circumstances and health over the past several  years. But for reasons Ill explain, I dont 
uphold her complaint  about Lloyds.
I agree  with our investigator that the evidence shows responsibility  in this case for advising 
Mr and Ms F about  a suitable mortgage  was the brokers, not Lloyds, so I cant consider  a 
complaint about  mis-selling by Lloyds.  I can consider whether Lloyds acted responsibly in 
lending to Mr and Ms F. 
Under the Mortgage Code, Id expect Lloyds,  as the lender, in plain language, to have 
provided Mr and Ms F with a general  description  of the repayment vehicles that might be 
available, told them what would happen  if they didnt have suitable arrangements to repay 
the mortgage at the end of the term and explained whose responsibility it was to make sure 
an adequate repayment method was in place.  
I can see from the mortgage documents Lloyds made clear the mortgage was interest  only 
and Mr and Ms F would still owe the amount  they borrowed at the end of the term. I cant 
see that Lloyds  told Mr and Ms F about alternative  repayment  vehicles.  Lloyds has said if 
nothing was said on the application  form about  repayment it would accept sale of the 
mortgaged property as the repayment  vehicle. I think that was reasonable at the time. And I 
dont think the absence of any specific wording about alternative repayment  vehicles  
impacted Mr and Ms F in the circumstances  of this complaint since Ms F sold the property 
before the end of the term.
Ms Fs argued  Lloyds  didnt make clear to her that she couldnt  rely on the value of her 
property increasing  sufficiently to pay off the mortgage and buy an alternative home in the 12 
years between taking  out the mortgage  and her planned retirement age. As I understand it, 
she put the property on the market before she retired,  so I dont think  this made  a difference  
to Ms F. In any event  Lloyds obligations  didnt go as far as that under  the Mortgage  Code.  
And even  if they had, there a number  of things I wouldnt  have expected Lloyds to be able to 
predict or advise Ms F about  including the changes  that happened later in her personal  
circumstances, when  or why she would choose to sell the property, its value at the time of 
the sale and that shed  retire earlier than the age of 65 shed mentioned in the mortgage 
application. 
I understand Ms F was several  months  in arrears with the mortgage payments  when  she 
sold the property  as shed been  unable to work and didnt have enough income to pay her 
bills. But I dont think the mortgage was unaffordable when she and Mr F took it out. Ms Fs 
argued she and Mr F should  have  been  advised at the start about taking a repayment 
mortgage, which she says would have been  affordable  even though  the monthly payments 
Ref: DRN55804253would have been higher.  I think Lloyds reasonably assessed the affordability and risks 
associated with the mortgage taking  into account  the value of the property, the loan to value 
ratio and Mr and Ms Fs income and existing debt.  
Bearing everything in mind I think Lloyds acted fairly and reasonably  and I dont uphold Ms 
Fs complaint that Lloyds lent irresponsibly. 
I think the compensation Lloyds offered Ms F for errors in its handling  of her complaint was 
reasonable, so I wont interfere with that.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Ms Fs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Ms F to 
accept or reject my decision  before  25 September 2020.
Julia Wilkinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5580425