K820x#14complaint
Mrs H complains that when she returned a car at the end of her hire agreement, Ald 
Automotive Limited charged her for two scratches which  were  barely  visible.
background
In 2016 Mrs H hired a new car for two years. At the end of the agreement, she returned the 
car. The car was inspected in her presence, and the car was filmed. Two scratches  were  
identified, but Mrs H says they are not visible in the video. She says the inspector was not 
competent. As evidence of this, she says the car was reported to be dirty, but since then Ald 
has conceded that the car was actually  clean, and has apologised. Nevertheless, Ald insists  
that its inspectors  are fully trained, and that the scratches are visible  in the video.  It says that 
both scratches exceed the maximum permitted by the relevant guidelines.
Photographs of the scratches were subsequently  taken. Mrs H says the scratches are hardly 
visible to the human  eye, and that in any case they are not deep  and do not reach  the primer 
level. She says she should  not have been  charged  for them,  and that the charges (which 
total £454)  are too high.
Mrs H brought this complaint to our Service, but our adjudicator  did not uphold it. She said it 
was clear from the photos that the scratches did reach the primer, so Ald had been entitled 
to charge for them.  She said it wasnt within the remit of this Service  to decide how much it 
was fair to charge. Mrs H maintained that the damage had been exaggerated, and so she 
asked for an ombudsmans decision.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I do not uphold it. I will explain why.
The guidelines  relied on by Ald are the British  Vehicle Rental and Leasing Associations 
guidelines, which are the industry standard. To summarise, they say that scratches are 
acceptable (and so customers  should  not be charged for them)  if they are less than 25mm 
long and the primer is not showing. I think it is clear from the photographs that both 
scratches are much longer than that, and so I dont  need to decide whether the primer is 
showing, because  whether it is or not, the scratches still fall outside  the acceptable limits set 
out in the guidelines.
I accept that the scratches are hard to see, except in a close-up in a photo. But that doesnt 
mean that Ald cant charge for them, because they still exceed the limits in the guidelines. 
Hard to see isnt one of the exceptions in the guidelines.
I dont agree with our adjudicator that our Service cant  consider whether  the charges are 
fair. But just because it may have been possible for Mrs H to get the scratches  repaired 
more cheaply  elsewhere doesnt necessarily mean that Ald overcharged her. I think  £454 for 
two scratches on two different panels  is not so unreasonable that it would be fair for me to 
interfere with it.
my final decision
So my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN51697232Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 July 2020.
Richard Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5169723