K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B are unhappy about  the way in which Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc 
(RSA) handled their claim  under  their home  insurance policy following a flood in their 
kitchen.
background
In January 2018 Mr and Mrs B made a claim to RSA after a leak from a pipe in the kitchen  
caused damage to the floor.
RSA appointed a loss adjuster (C) to manage  the claim. C inspected  the damage and said 
the floor would have  to be dried  out by taking up the existing  laminate. RSA arranged for 
contractors (R) to remove  the laminate and install drying equipment.
Mr and Mrs B have  said that when R took up the floor it didnt put any protection  on the 
exposed concrete floor and it started  to break  down. This resulted in family members  walking 
concrete through the property on the bottom of their shoes which  caused damage  to wooden 
floors in other areas  of the property. 
RSA asked R to assess  the damage to help determine whether the marks on the wooden 
floors were  consistent with how Mr and Mrs B said the damage  occurred. R said there were 
marks on the wooden  floors but that these were  likely to be due to due to wear  and tear.
Mr and Mrs B were  unhappy with the delays by C in preparing  a schedule of works and 
providing a cash  settlement figure.  They were also unhappy that the scope  of works didnt 
include the damage to the wooden floors and that there were  delays in settling their contents 
claim.
RSA responded  to say it wasnt prepared to cover  the cost of replacing the wooden  floors 
because R hadnt  been able to say that the sole reason for the damage was due to the 
transfer of concrete from the kitchen floor to other areas of the property. But it acknowledged  
that there  had been delays and that it hadnt  handled the claim in line with Mr and Mrs Bs 
expectations, in respect  of which it offered  to pay £150 compensation.
Unhappy with RSAs  response,  Mr and Mrs B brought their complaint to this service. The 
investigator who reviewed Mr and Mrs Bs complaint said that although there had been 
delays in the loss adjuster providing  a cash settlement figure,  the scope of works  had been  
prepared fairly. The investigator thought that RSAs decision that the damage to the wooden 
floors was due to wear  and tear was a fair one, because she wasnt persuaded, having 
looked at the pictures, that the marks on the floor were caused  solely  by concrete pieces. In 
relation to Mr and Mrs Bs contents claim, the investigator agreed that there had been delay, 
some of which RSA was responsible for, but that overall the contents claim had been 
handled fairly.
Mr and Mrs B didnt  accept the investigators view and have requested a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN56626002Ive thought about whether there was unreasonable delay in the handling of Mr and Mrs Bs 
claim. The claim was reported  to RSA on 22 January 2018 and RSA arranged for the 
damage to be inspected on 30 January 2018. The drying of the rooms  affected by the water 
leak was in progress  until 21 February 2018. I appreciate that this felt like a long time to Mr 
and Mrs B, but I can see that there  was significant  water damage with high levels of moisture  
and humidity in the affected arears, so I dont  think RSA acted  unfairly in not arranging  
repairs until it was certain that the room had dried  out completely.
I can see that by 27 February  2018  Mr and Mrs B had requested  a cash  settlement because  
of a delay in when RSAs  appointed builder could  start.  C attended the property on 15 
March 2018 to prepare a scope of works and the report was provided to RSA on 27 March 
2018. The scope  of works was incorrect because it included repairs to the wooden floors 
which hadnt been damaged as the result  of an escape of water.  It was another  month 
before the correct  cash settlement figure was provided to Mr and Mrs B.
Looking at the timescales and taking into account the fact that Mr and Mrs B had to chase C 
several times about the progress of their claim, I think there was an unreasonable delay in 
handling the claim. However, I can see that RSA has paid compensation of £150  for the poor 
service encountered,  which  I think is a fair and reasonable amount.
Mr and Mrs B have  said that the cash settlement  figure  wasnt  enough to repair the damage.  
Ive looked at the scope  of works which was used to provide  the cash  settlement. The works 
are in line with the damage identified and I havent seen anything to suggest that theres  
been an error or that the figure  hasnt  been  calculated fairly. I appreciate that Mr and Mrs B 
have said that their builder told them they would need three times the cash settlement figure 
offered by RSA. However, this was on the basis that the work  included replacing the wooden 
floors, which  was something  that RSA had declined to cover.
I can see that Mr and Mrs B disagreed with the cash settlement figure because it didnt 
include anything for the damage to the wooden floors. RSA arranged for the wooden  floors 
to be inspected. The report notes that the floors  were  approximately  4 years  old, that Mr and 
Mrs B had a pet dog, and that the floor had been  subjected to daily use of walking across 
from outside. It concluded that the marks on the floor couldve been due to general wear and 
tear.
Ive looked at the pictures but I cant be certain that the marks and dents, which appear 
relatively slight, have  been  caused  by pieces of concrete.  Taking everything into account, I 
think RSAs decision that the damage  to the wooden floors was likely to be due to wear and 
tear was fair. Its possible  that small pieces  of concrete from the kitchen couldve caused 
damage to the wooden  floors but I dont  think RSAs expectation  that Mr and Mrs B should  
have taken steps to prevent this type of damage  happening by placing a suitable covering 
over the wooden floor was unreasonable.
Ive reviewed Mr and Mrs Bs contents claim, which included towels, stools  and a dog cage. 
RSA agreed to cover these items  on 14 February 2018 so Im unable to say that there was 
unreasonable delay. I can see that there  was an additional  claim  for a washing machine 
which was delayed, partly  because Mrs B sent the details to an incorrect email address and 
partly because RSA initially quoted  a cash settlement based on an incorrect  model. I agree 
that RSA made an error here but ultimately  the amount  offered  for the washing machine  
exceeded the amounts quoted on the websites provided by Mrs B, so I think that overall the 
claim was handled  reasonably and the amount offered was fair.
Ref: DRN56626003Based on everything  Ive seen, I think the cash settlement figure was fair. I appreciate that 
Mr and Mrs B are unhappy about  the wooden flooring, however, Im satisfied that RSAs  
decision not to cover the cost of replacement was reasonable,  based on the conclusions  in 
the report. I agree that there were delays  in the handling of the claim generally but I think the 
compensation offered by RSA was fair.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  27 Junel  2020.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5662600