K822xcomplaint
Mr N complains that he entered into a loan agreement with Carnegie Consumer Finance 
Limited (Carnegie) after relying  on a number of misrepresentations by Carnegies agent  
and credit broker.
background 
In April 2017, Mr N signed up to a training course  leading to a trade qualification.  Most  of the 
learning could  be done by Mr N at home in his own time with some weekend  practical  
classes. This suited Mr N because he was married and had a full time job. The course  was 
provided by a training organisation which Ill call T. The cost was £7,145  plus a registration  
fee of £50.
It seems  Mr N had seen  an advertisement for the course and expressed interest to T. As a 
result, T sent one of its advisers to talk to Mr N at his house.  Following what  the adviser told 
him, Mr N signed up for the course. To pay for it he also signed a loan agreement with 
Carnegie under which he agreed to pay the cost by 43 monthly instalments of £165 a month.
Mr N became unhappy that the course  arrangements werent as the adviser had told him. He 
complained to T and said he wanted to cancel  the course and recover  what he had already 
paid. T said after Mr N signed  for the course  and the loan agreement he had a three week  
cooling off period during which he could cancel the course and the loan. But he hadnt  done 
so. It said he couldnt  now cancel these.
Mr N then complained  to Carnegie.  He said the adviser had misrepresented  a number of 
matters. He had relied on what  the adviser had said, and so had entered into the course 
agreement and the loan agreement. He now wished to withdraw  from both agreements  
because of these  misrepresentations.  Briefly, the misrepresentations  he complained of were:
that he would receive  details  of his personal  tutor within 21 days  he hadnt heard 
from a personal tutor;
the adviser told him he could withdraw  from the course at any time if it wasnt  what 
he expected. But when he approached T to do so he was told he had signed up to a 
loan agreement with Carnegie which he couldnt withdraw from. He said he didnt 
know he was entering into a loan  he thought it was a pay-as-you-go  scheme with T 
that he could withdraw  from at any time;
he says he was told by the adviser that the practical training sessions could be done 
at the weekend at a local training centre.  But when he rang to book  these he was told 
the local centre only did weekday  training sessions. For weekend  training sessions 
he would  have  to travel over 100 miles to another part of the country.  In the Plan  of 
the Course booklet it said some training also required a full weeks attendance. He 
said he wouldnt have signed for the course if he had known he couldnt do the 
practical sessions locally at the weekend.
Carnegie didnt  accept his complaint. It said it wasnt possible  to know what  was said at     
Mr Ns meeting with the adviser. So it didnt accept the course  and loan had been 
misrepresented. It said:
the loan agreement was clearly a loan, being  headed Fixed Sum Loan Agreement;
Ref: DRN54003362the Plan of the Course handed  to Mr N by the adviser  contained full details of the 
number and duration of the practical training sessions and assessments Mr N was 
required to attend;
the details  needed to contact tutors were sent to Mr N on 20 April 2017,  and T had 
confirmed Mr N had contacted tutors on a number  of occasions;
as regards the location  of practical  workshops and assessments, Mr N had signed a 
declaration on his enrolment contract  which said: 
            4. The location  and times of my practical  sessions will be agreed and advised at the 
point in my self-study  program where I become  eligible  and meet the appropriate 
requirements, as highlighted in the plan of the course
Ts terms and conditions also said:
11. Practical sessions will take place at a venue  of our choice.
However T had now offered, as a gesture  of goodwill, to pay Mr N £40 per day towards his 
attendance at weekend courses  elsewhere in the country. T had also agreed that the course  
could be extended  if delays occurred due to the location of the training. Mr N didnt accept 
this offer and complained to us. He still wanted to cancel the course  and his loan.
Our investigator recommended that this complaint should be upheld. The course was 
specifically set up for practical  courses  to take place at the weekend.  This was important to 
Mr N because he worked full time and had a family to support. So she thought  it more  likely 
than not that the adviser had told Mr N he could  attend the practical courses locally.
She thought  Mr N wouldnt have taken the course and the loan if he had been told he would 
have to travel 100 miles for the practical training, even if offered some financial support.  She 
thought he had relied on what the adviser told him to take the course  and the loan. She 
didnt think the wording in the documents was sufficiently prominent to displace  this in Mr Ns 
mind.
On the other points  Mr N had raised, she thought, in summary:
Mr N had made contact with tutors and support had been provided;
the documents provided to Mr N beforehand explained  the nature of the course  
both theory and practical  sufficiently clearly;
enough information was provided  for Mr N to understand he was taking out a loan to 
fund the course.
To put things right, the investigator  recommended that Carnegie unwind the credit 
agreement and refund  all monthly payments  made by Mr N.
Carnegie didnt  accept the investigators recommendation. It still didnt agree there was 
evidence of any misrepresentation  by the adviser sufficient to allow Mr N to cancel the 
course and the loan.
However, it said T had confirmed that another local training centre  was now providing 
weekend practical  training.  T had offered, as a gesture of goodwill, to meet  reasonable travel 
costs of Mr N attending  this centre, subject to these being agreed in advance  and Mr N 
providing receipts.
Ref: DRN54003363The investigator still thought there had been  a material misrepresentation - that the weekend  
practical training  would be provided  locally. However  she thought what Carnegie  was now 
proposing was a reasonable  solution  in the circumstances. She thought if the location now 
available had been offered originally Mr N would have signed up for the course.
She thought  Carnegie should also pay Mr N compensation  of £100 for the trouble and upset 
Carnegie had caused him, and for this solution  not being offered to Mr N earlier. Carnegie 
accepted the investigators recommendation. Mr N responded to say, in summary:
he only signed up for the course  because the adviser told him the practical  sessions 
would take place locally and were on weekends  only. This would fit his working 
schedule and would be close  to home.  The adviser didnt tell him some of the later 
training required  a one week attendance;
if T had offered the solution it now proposed when he first complained in January 
2018, he would have considered accepting it. The theory modules he had learnt 
would then have  been fresh in his mind. It was now more than a year since he had 
read the course materials, and he would now have to restart the course from the 
beginning;
he wouldnt complete  the course until two years after he had planned to do so, and 
his circumstances  had changed in the meantime;
the adviser told him he was signing up to a pay-as-you-go arrangement with T which  
he could cancel at any time.  He wasnt  told he was signing up to a loan agreement;  
and
he still thought  the course  had been  misrepresented to him by the adviser. He had 
lost trust in T and wanted to cancel the course  and the loan.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr N complained in January 2018 that the course was misrepresented  to him by Carnegies 
adviser, as a result of which  he signed  up for it in April 2017, some eight months previously. 
The only evidence for this is what Mr N says the adviser told him. Carnegie disputes that 
there was any misrepresentation.
Our investigator didnt  accept that some  of the matters Mr N complained about were  
misrepresented to him, namely about
notification of tutors,
about the nature of the course, and
about not being aware he was entering into a loan agreement with Carnegie.
I agree  with the investigators conclusions on these  matters  for the reasons  she explained.
However the investigator accepted that it was more likely than not that the adviser did tell  
Mr N that he could attend weekend practical training at a local training  centre.  She thought 
this would have  been important to Mr N because  he worked full time and was married.
She thought  he wouldnt  have signed up for the course if he had known  that weekend  
practical training  could  only be provided at centres more than 100 miles away  from his 
home. She didnt think the written documents provided to Mr N at the time he signed  for the 
Ref: DRN54003364course, including the Plan of the Course  document, were sufficient to displace what  the 
adviser had told him.
Carnegie has now confirmed that T can arrange  weekend training at another  local centre, 
and will reimburse Mr Ns reasonable travelling expenses to this. It has also agreed to pay 
Mr N compensation of £100 for the distress and inconvenience it has caused him. Like the 
investigator, I think this is a reasonable solution to Mr Ns complaint. 
Mr N says the adviser also said only weekend practical training sessions were required.  He 
has since found that he must also attend  some week  long practical sessions.
I cant say what was said at the meeting with the adviser. However I think  the adviser is less 
likely to have said this because the Plan of the Course document  which was handed to Mr N 
at the meeting with the adviser makes clear  that such sessions were required later in the 
course.
Mr N also had the opportunity to read this document  and cancel the course  and the loan 
agreement within the cooling  off period of some three weeks  if this aspect was unacceptable 
to him. So Im not persuaded  that the requirement  for some  week  long practical training 
sessions was misrepresented to Mr N.
I understand that it would  have been  preferable if the availability of another  local training 
centre had been  offered to Mr N when he complained in January 2018,  and that to resume  
his training now will cause  him some  inconvenience.  His completion of the course will now 
be later than he had originally planned.
I think this is recognised in the compensation of £100 which Carnegie has agreed  to pay 
him, and reimbursement  by T of travel expenses. I dont agree  its sufficient  for me to say the 
proposed solution is unreasonable,  or that Mr N should now be allowed to cancel the loan 
and the course.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part, and order Carnegie Consumer Finance 
Limited:
1.to arrange  for T to reimburse  Mr Ns reasonable travelling expenses  to weekend 
training at another local centre, subject to these  expenses  being agreed in advance 
with T and Mr N providing appropriate  receipts  to T; and
2.to pay Mr N compensation of £100 for the distress and inconvenience  it has caused 
him.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 August 2019.
Lennox Towers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5400336