K820x#14complaint
Mr T complained that Lloyds Bank  plc mis-sold  him payment protection insurance (PPI) 
when he took out a personal loan. He said that he didnt know  hed bought  PPI at all. 
background
Mr T applied  for a loan of £2,900 in a branch of Lloyds in 1995 and bought a single premium 
PPI policy  at the same time. This sort of PPI policy had to be paid for up front in one single 
payment. It cost about £556 and this amount  was also lent to Mr T by Lloyds and attracted 
interest. Both the original loan and PPI loan were to run for 18 months.  
Our adjudicator in this case said the complaint shouldnt be upheld  but Mr T disagreed and it 
has been passed to me for an ombudsmans  final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Having done this Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ts complaint.
These events took place  some time ago and neither Lloyds nor Mr T is able to send me the 
original loan agreement  or other documents from the sale.  Given  how long ago it was, this 
isnt unusual. But Lloyds  did send in an example of a form which it said wouldve been used 
in Mr Ts case.
Ive seen a number of very similar sales from around  this time period and am familiar with 
the documentation Lloyds normally used. So in making a decision in this case, Ive taken 
account of what  both parties  have told me, but Ive also used my knowledge  and experience 
of how these particular  PPI sales were usually carried  out. 
Mr T says he didnt  realise hed bought PPI with this loan. As this was all over 23 years  ago, 
its obviously possible that what Mr T is able to remember may have been affected by the 
passage of time. 
I say this because  using what I know about  the Lloyds sales process I think its more likely 
that there  wouldve been a discussion in the branch about the loan and whether Mr T wanted 
to have PPI with it. Based on that discussion,  I think Mr T would have then been given a loan 
agreement which offered a yes or no choice as far as buying PPI was concerned. And I 
think the box to have PPI wouldve had to have been selected for the PPI to be added. The 
example form we were  sent reflects this. I havent  seen  anything that suggests Mr T might  
have been treated differently than other  customers,  so I think  this is most likely what  
happened.
That means I think Mr T would have been given an option on the form about taking the policy 
out and would have been able to see he didnt have to any PPI cover if he didnt want  to. I 
therefore think its likely he gave his consent to buying the PPI policy  with his loan.
Ref: DRN51342132Lloyds says it recommended this policy  to Mr T which means it had a duty to make sure that 
it was suitable  for his situation. I looked  carefully  at his circumstances of that time to help me 
decide about this. From what Ive seen, he was eligible  for the cover  and I dont  think  hed 
have been caught by any of the major exclusions we tend to see in these types of policy.  
So whilst I cant say why he took out the PPI, I can understand how he could  have had a use 
for it. The loan and the PPI policy both ran for the same  term lengths and because of this, 
and the things Ive mentioned above,  I think the policy was suitable for him.
Lloyds also had to give information about  the policy that was clear, fair and not misleading. 
I cant know what was actually said to Mr T during his meeting with Lloyds or whether he 
was told everything he should have been. However, on Lloyds loan agreements Ive seen 
from this period - and on the example it showed me regarding this case - the cost of the 
PPI was prominently set out. It showed the cost of both the loan and PPI policy over the term 
and the monthly  repayments for each.  In some of the agreements  Ive seen, it didnt always  
show the interest that would be added to the PPI clearly enough. 
However, in this particular  case, the interest  on the PPI part of the loan wouldve amounted  
to less than £75 over the full term, and I dont  think this would  have made a difference to 
whether Mr T would have  still bought the policy. I think hed have  still bought it, even though 
Lloyds might not have  done everything  right. 
Overall, I think Mr T made a choice  to buy the cover  and it was suitable  for him. And I think 
the document that he signed  during  the sale wouldve showed him that it wasnt a 
compulsory part of his loan. 
Mr Ts representative  made two additional points. First it told us Mr T was looking to keep 
costs down when  he took out this loan. But it hasnt sent any evidence to support this 
comment, so it hasnt changed my decision. Second,  it says Lloyds should explain why it 
thought the PPI was suitable  for Mr T. It refers to a PPI factsheet  from 2011 to support this 
question. This loan and PPI were sold in 1995   so I cant  say a factsheet  from 15 or so 
years later is relevant.  But I have  explained above why I think  the PPI was suitable, given Mr 
Ts circumstances.
I do appreciate that Mr T has had complaints he made about other policies upheld. So I do 
understand why he might  think  this one should be too. But each decision I reach is based 
only on the circumstances surrounding  that particular complaint, so this doesnt affect my 
decision.  
Ref: DRN51342133my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ts complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 March  2019.
Sue Peters
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN5134213