K821x#15complaint
Miss T says Elevate Credit International Limited (trading as Sunny) irresponsibly lent to her.
background
This complaint is about forty-seven payday  loans Sunny provided to Miss T between 
January 2016  and June  2018.  
Our adjudicator partially upheld Miss Ts complaint and thought  the loans from five onwards 
shouldnt have been given. Sunny made a different offer to the one our adjudicator  
recommended, but Miss T didnt accept  it, so the complaint has been  passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Sunny needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Miss T could  
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Sunny  should fairly and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Sunny was required to establish 
whether Miss T could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course,  the loan payments being  affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
Ref: DRN55201612meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Ts complaint.
As our adjudicator explained, a proportionate  check for loan five wouldve shown that Miss T 
was likely to be having difficulties managing her money, and that it was therefore likely  that 
she wouldve had problems repaying  this, or any subsequent loans sustainably.
And I agree. Looking  at Miss Ts credit report, I can see that by the time Miss T applied for 
loan five, she already  had multiple  outstanding debts  with other lenders  and Sunny 
shouldve been  aware of this when she made her application. I also think that Sunny 
shouldve decided not to continue the lending relationship at this point as it wouldve been 
likely that Miss T would have struggled  make sustainable repayments.
Ive also looked  at the overall pattern of Sunnys lending history with Miss T, with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which Sunny should reasonably  have seen that further lending 
was unsustainable,  or otherwise harmful. And so Sunny should have realised that it 
shouldnt have provided any further loans.  Our adjudicator  thought that this point was 
reached by loan eight  however Im of a slightly different opinion.
Given the particular  circumstances of Miss Ts case, I think that this point was reached by 
loan ten, not loan eight.  I say this because:
At this point Sunny ought to have realised Miss T was not managing  to repay  her 
loans sustainably. Miss T had taken  out ten loans within four months and Miss T had 
been indebted to Sunny for this entire time.  So Sunny ought to have realised it was 
more likely than not Miss T was having  to borrow further to cover  the hole repaying  
her previous loans  was leaving  in her finances  and that Miss Ts indebtedness.
Miss Ts first loan was for £200 and loan ten was for £100  but loan ten also took 
her combined monthly repayments  to the highest they had been so far. At this point 
Sunny ought to have known that Miss T was not likely borrowing to meet  a temporary 
shortfall in their income but to meet  an ongoing need. 
From  ten onwards  Miss T was provided with a new loan within days or weeks  of 
settling a previous  one. 
Miss T wasnt  making  any real inroads  to the amount she owed Sunny. Loan  forty-
seven was taken  out over two years after Miss Ts first. Miss T had paid large 
amounts of interest to, in effect,  service a debt to Sunny  over an extended period.
I think that Miss T lost out because Sunny continued to provide borrowing from loan ten 
onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Miss Ts indebtedness by allowing  
him to take expensive  credit intended for short-term use over an extended  period  of 
time.
Ref: DRN55201613the number  of loans and the length of time over which Miss T borrowed was likely to 
have had negative  implications on Miss Ts ability to access mainstream  credit  and 
so kept her in the market for these high-cost loans.
So, Im also upholding  the complaint about loans five to nine and loans ten to forty-seven, 
and Sunny should put things right.
putting things right  what Sunny needs  to do
refund  all interest and charges Miss T paid on loans five to forty-seven;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information  about loans five to nine from Miss Ts credit file;
the number  of loans taken from ten onwards means any information recorded about  
them is adverse.  So, all entries about  loans  ten to fort-seven should be removed from 
Miss Ts credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest.  Sunny must  give Miss T a 
certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Miss Ts complaint. Elevate Credit  
International Limited (trading as Sunny) should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 July 2020.
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5520161