K822xcomplaint
Mr A complains that Nelson Insurance Company  Ltd declined a theft claim under his motor 
policy.
background 
Mr A had motor insurance with Nelson and made a claim when his minibus  was stolen. He 
told Nelson that hed been sat in the back of the vehicle cleaning  the seat and when he got 
out again, a thief had jumped in and drove away.
Nelson declined the claim stating it was excluded  because the keys were  in the ignition at 
the time the vehicle was stolen. Mr A was unhappy about Nelsons decision to decline the 
claim and so he complained. But Nelson maintained its position  and so, with the assistance 
of representatives,  Mr A complained to this service,  asking  for £20,220  for the vehicle.
Mr As representatives have said that he was actually pushed away  as the thief was about 
to enter the vehicle and that the wording of the exclusion doesnt  apply to the situation,  
which theyve  described  as a carjacking. They argue Mr A didnt leave  the vehicle at 
any time and was close enough to it to make the theft unlikely. And they also argue that 
the exclusion wasnt highlighted in the insurance  certificate or the policy documents nor 
was it bought to Mr As attention  when he bought  the policy.
Our investigators recommended that the complaint should be upheld.  He noted Mr A had 
been very close to the car and this would have been  a reasonable deterrent. He accepted  it 
had been a carjacking and concluded it wasnt fair or reasonable for Nelson to rely on the 
exclusion to decline the claim. He recommended that Nelson should settle the claim by 
paying Mr A the market  value of the car, plus interest from the date of the claim. He also felt 
it should pay him £200 compensation.
Nelsons asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.  Its argued that Mr A 
didnt tell the police that hed been pushed  away from the car by the thief and he didnt 
mention it when he made the claim either, submitting a call recording as evidence of this. Its 
also argued that theft is excluded if the keys are in the ignition and that the exclusion doesnt 
require the vehicle to be left unattended. This is because the issue is whether the vehicle 
was safeguarded;  which Mr A failed to do by leaving the keys in the ignition,  allowing 
someone to get into it without being seen.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint  and Ive reached the same conclusion  as 
our investigator, for broadly the same  reasons.
The policy excludes  any loss or damage  arising  from theft or attempted theft whilst  the 
ignition keys of your vehicle have been left in or on your vehicle. I accept Mr A left his keys 
in the ignition. But due to the circumstances here, I dont think  its fair or reasonable for 
Nelson to apply  its exclusion. Ill explain why.
Theres no dispute that Mr As vehicle  was stolen and that he was very close  by at the time. 
But, the crux of this complaint is whether the nature of the theft means  that Nelsons decision 
to exclude the claim based on the fact that the keys were in the ignition  is unfair.  
Ref: DRN54871372When we look at these  types of complaints,  we consider all of the circumstances.  We pay 
particular attention to where  the vehicle  was at the time and whether the driver was in a 
position to deter the thief or make a theft unlikely to take place. We also consider what was 
fair and reasonable in all of the circumstances. 
Mr As representatives have argued  that the wording of the exclusion isnt clear, but Im 
satisfied that it is. However,  I accept  it falls short of being clear on the issue of whether it 
encompasses situations such  as this one  sometimes known as a carjacking  - where a 
vehicle is stolen while somebody is still in it. 
Mr A maintains that he emerged from the back of the vehicle and was pushed away with the 
use of physical force by the thief. Hes made a statement  in which  he states, I was then 
about to go to the front door and to retrieve my keys and lock up the van before  joining my 
wife and family in the house. As I did so a [ ] male appeared  in front of me. He pushed  me 
backwards and then got into the drivers seat of the vehicle. I staggered  backwards but I did 
not fall to the floor as he pushed me. The male got into the van and he immediately pushed 
the button to lock all of the doors. I tried to open  the door but I was not able to do so.
Nelsons argued  that Mr A didnt initially say he was pushed and that it doesnt  now accept 
thats what happened. The police  report  records  that Mr A had been cleaning the rear seat of 
his car and the keys had been  left in the ignition.  As he shut the back door a male  got in and 
drove off, and its right that theres  no mention  of Mr A having  been pushed. Ive also listened 
to the claim call and, again,  theres no mention of a push. I think  its significant that Mr A 
didnt mention hed been  pushed to either the police or Nelson. I understand this was a 
stressful situation and that its possible to miss out key facts in such  circumstances, but this 
is a very significant part of the account  and I think Nelsons reluctance to accept  this element 
of the account  is reasonable.
However, Nelson accepted  Mr As original account, which Im satisfied  does fall outside the 
basic circumstances of vehicle theft.  Even though he had left the keys in his vehicle, he 
never left the vehicle  unattended  he simply got in the back  seat to clean  it and then got out 
again to retrieve  his keys. During  the time that Mr A was in the back of the vehicle, the 
drivers door was closed  and the ignition was switched off. 
I accept the exclusion  doesnt require the vehicle to have been left unattended,  but it was 
included in the policy to avoid liability in circumstances where vehicles are stolen while they 
are left most  susceptible to theft and, in this situation, I dont think Mr A was acting recklessly 
or unreasonably  or failing to safeguard his vehicle. And I dont think its fair that Mr As claim 
isnt covered because  his vehicle was stolen just moments  after hed got out of the backseat,  
albeit without the use of physical force. And therefore I dont think  it was fair to apply the 
exclusion.
I think Nelson should settle the claim.  It should  also pay Mr A £200  compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience he has suffered as a result of the way this claim has been 
handled.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and I direct Nelson Insurance Company  Ltd to:
reconsider the claim without applying the exclusion.
Ref: DRN54871373pay Mr A 8% simple interest  a year on the settlement from the date of the claim to 
the date it makes the payment
pay Mr A £200 compensation. The compensation is to be paid within  28 days of the 
date on which we tell Nelson Insurance Company Ltd Mr A accepts my final decision 
(if he does). If it pays later than this then interest* will have to be added  to the unpaid 
amount from the date of my final decision until settlement is made.
* HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Nelson Insurance  Company  to take off tax from this 
interest. Nelson Insurance Company must  give Mr A a certificate showing how much  tax its 
taken off if he asks for one. He may then be able to reclaim the tax from the tax authorities if 
appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 31 August 2019.
Carolyn Bonnell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5487137