K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs J say The Royal Bank  of Scotland Plc (RBS) mis-sold them a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr and Mrs J took out a PPI policy in 2001  in one of the banks branches at the same time 
as they applied for a mortgage.  The policy gave them accident, sickness and unemployment  
cover. They  paid a monthly amount for it. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs J disagreed so the complaint was 
passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our general  approach to complaints about  the sale of PPI is on our website  and Ive 
followed it here.
Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint.  Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs J say they felt pressured to buy PPI and were made to think  they had a better 
chance of getting a mortgage if they took it. I cant know what was said in the meeting  or how 
the PPI was presented to Mr and Mrs J. So I have thought carefully  about  their comments and 
looked at the available paperwork.       
The bank no longer has the page  from their mortgage application form that relates  to PPI. It 
explains this is because  that section would have  been  sent to the insurer. So it has provided a 
sample of that page, along  with the rest of their form.  I can see this set out the options  to 
select or decline PPI, asking a number of eligibility  questions if it was selected. It also included 
a separate direct debit mandate for the PPI. I think its most likely  Mr and Mrs J completed this 
page selecting PPI. I say this as if they had declined the cover its most likely the page would 
still be there in the copy of the mortgage application that the bank has. And Ive found no 
wording on that page  that I think could reasonably have led Mr and Mrs J to think  they had to 
take out PPI.
Mr and Mrs Js signed mortgage  offer said The Borrower has instructed the Bank to provide 
Loanguard with full accident, sickness and unemployment payment protection insurance. This 
suggests to me it was presented as optional to Mr and Mrs J. On their mortgage quotation the 
cost of the PPI was set out separately.
Ive thought about Mr and Mrs Js point that they were put under pressure but I cant  find 
enough other evidence to support their recollection. And whilst I dont doubt its their honest 
recollection of the meeting I have to take into account how long ago it was and how that 
might affect what they remember. Overall,  given the balance of the evidence,  I think  RBS 
made it clear  the PPI was optional, and Mr and Mrs J agreed to take it out. 
Ref: DRN54453602RBS didnt recommend  the PPI to Mr and Mrs J so it didnt have to check the policy  was 
right for them. However, it had to give clear, fair and not misleading information about the 
PPI so they could  make  a properly informed choice.
Its possible RBS didnt  give Mr and Mrs J as much  information as it shouldve  done. But 
I dont think better information  wouldve put them off taking out the PPI. I say this because:
Mr and Mrs J were eligible for the cover and wouldnt  have been affected  by any of the 
main things not covered by the policy. 
Mr and Mrs J told us they were entitled  to at least six months  sick pay and they had 
savings worth  around three  months salary.  But the PPI wouldve paid out in addition to 
any work benefits for up to 12 months. It would have allowed them to use any savings to 
cover other living expenses whilst not working,  or to keep them intact  for future needs. 
Mr and Mrs J were  borrowing  quite a large  sum over a number of years secured against 
their home, so given the consequences  of missing mortgage repayments  I think  the PPI 
wouldve been useful if they were sick or lost their job(s).  
The cost of the policy was made clear on their mortgage quotation form and the PPI was 
competitively priced and apparently affordable. 
It follows I dont think Mr and Mrs J lost out because of any problems with the sale. Mr and 
Mrs J say that RBS has upheld several  other  PPI complaints they made.  I can only comment 
here on the merits of this complaint, but would add that the outcome of each mis-sale 
complaint will vary based on a number of factors including, but not limited to, the credit  
product; how it was sold; the policy terms and conditions; and the value it offered. 
my final decision
My decision  is I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision  before  7 March 2019 .
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5445360