K822xcomplaint
Mr G is unhappy that Lloyds Bank Plc has incorrectly linked him and his address to one of its 
customers with a similar name.  Mr G wants the bank to compensate  him for the stress hes 
suffered and the damage to his reputation.
background 
The evidence in this case is detailed, running to several hundred pages of documents,  all of 
which Ive read and considered. Im very aware that my decision summarises  this complaint 
only briefly and in my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed  
on what I think is the crux of the matter here: how has Mr G been  affected  by the actions of 
Lloyds? 
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal  nature  of our service  as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres  something Ive not mentioned,  it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every  individual  point or argument  to be 
able to reach what I think is the right outcome. 
I wont repeat all the events which led Mr G to complain.  There are several reasons for this. 
The history  is set out in detail  in the opinion letters written by the investigator. All the parties 
have received and read these letters, so everyone  is aware  of the background. Our 
decisions are published, so its important that I dont include any information in this decision 
which might  identify Mr G. So for those reasons, I will refer only briefly to whats  happened 
rather than providing  an exact timeline  of the events which Mr G has complained about.
Briefly, in 2011, Lloyds incorrectly created a link between Mr G and one of its customers, 
who Ill call Mr X. They shared the same  first and last names, and had the same  date of 
birth. But they had different middle  names. 
This link has caused Mr G numerous problems since  that time. Hes told us its affected  his 
credit score. Mr G says,  among other things, this has meant: he was unable to get a 
business mortgage; he was refused a personal mortgage; the only credit available to him is 
at extortionate interest rates;  hes been chased by numerous companies for debts that arent 
his; and, hes had to defend himself against  court  action for these debts. Mr G also said this 
issue has had a very detrimental effect  on his personal life, health and integrity.
When Mr G complained to Lloyds, the bank accepted it had incorrectly  linked him to Mr Xs 
address. It asked the credit reference  agencies  (CRAs)  to remove  this link. Lloyds also 
asked Mr G to get in touch to talk about how hed been  impacted by this. Mr G then sent a 
detailed letter outlining how hed been affected.  
He explained  that he wanted  Lloyds to pay him £10,000 for defamation  of character,  and a 
further £7,000 in special  damages for his losses relating to his mortgage applications, 
training costs and out of pocket expenses. Lloyds didnt respond either to this letter or Mr Gs 
follow up letter chasing a response.  
Some months later, Mr G was contacted  by a debt collection agency, which Ill refer to as C. 
It seems  Lloyds  had previously sold on a debt for Mr X to C. It had been  chasing Mr G for 
payment of this debt for some years. It seems that Lloyds hadnt informed C that this wasnt 
Mr Gs debt. 
Ref: DRN51748782As Lloyds  hadnt  responded  to Mr Gs request for compensation,  and as he was still having 
problems over this issue, he brought his complaint to us. One of our adjudicators  looked  into 
this case. She thought Lloyds should  pay Mr G £2,000 for the trouble and upset hed 
experienced. Lloyds accepted this. But Mr G didnt. 
In short,  Mr G told us hed lost more than this when  he was trying to buy a pub in 2012 and 
his mortgage application was refused. Mr G then looked at his credit  file. He was very 
annoyed to see that poor credit for Mr X was still showing on it despite  Lloyds  saying it had 
already removed the link. 
As Mr G didnt  agree with the adjudicators view, his complaint has been passed to me for a 
final decision. I would point out that Im very aware  Mr G has raised complaints against 
various other  companies about him being  incorrectly mistaken for Mr X. But I need to make it 
clear here that my decision only deals with how the actions  of Lloyds have affected Mr G. I 
cant take into account how the actions  of other business have affected  him when deciding 
whats a fair and reasonable amount of compensation  for Lloyds  to pay to him. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided the £2,000  
Lloyds has agreed  to pay Mr G is a fair and reasonable  amount of compensation for this 
issue. Ill explain why. 
I can see that Mr G has experienced a substantial amount of problems and distress over a 
number of years due to this issue. I really do appreciate how this has had, and continues  to 
have, a big impact on him. But in reaching my decision in this case,  I have to put aside my 
natural feelings  of empathy and consider  the case impartially  and fairly,  based on the 
evidence.
Also, where the evidence is incomplete,  or unavailable, as some of it understandably is here 
due to the passage of time, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities. That is, what  
I consider is most likely to have  happened in the light of the available evidence  and the wider  
surrounding circumstances.
I dont need to decide if Lloyds has done  anything wrong here.  Thats because Lloyds 
accepts it incorrectly linked Mr G to Mr X. This means I need to decide what the bank must 
do to put things right. 
I totally agree with Mr G that the situation  he finds himself in is through no fault of his. But 
that doesnt mean its all down  to Lloyds  and as Ive already said, Im only looking at the 
actions of Lloyds  in this decision. I can see from the available evidence  that other financial 
businesses have also linked Mr G to Mr X. So Im satisfied that the problems hes had over 
the years  arent all due to Lloyds. 
For example, Mr G sent our adjudicator  a more recent copy  of his credit file. This showed 
him linked to Mr X. Mr G told us this meant  Lloyds  hadnt removed the link even though  it 
said it had. But thats not quite right. We checked with the relevant CRA. It confirmed the link 
to Mr Xs address was nothing to do with Lloyds.  This link had been  made  by a totally 
different business.  Weve  already provided Mr G with the details of this business.  
Ref: DRN51748783I can also see that Mr G was being  chased by a business Ill call A, for a debt belonging  to 
Mr X. This debt had been sold onto A by a totally different bank to Lloyds. The available  
evidence shows that Mr G was being chased for this debt as far back  as March 2014.  Ill 
repeat here, this was nothing to do with Lloyds. So, I cant  fairly and reasonably expect 
Lloyds to compensate  Mr G for all the considerable troubles hes experienced. 
For completeness, I can see Mr G highlighted an extract from his recent  credit  file. This 
showed his wife had a link to a Lloyds bank mortgage. Mr G says his wife never ever had 
any financial  dealings with Lloyds. But again, thats not quite  right. Mr G told us the name of 
the business his wife had a mortgage  with. I appreciate Mr G might not be aware of this, but 
that mortgage company was part of the Lloyds Banking Group. Thats  why the entry  appears 
on his credit file as Lloyds. 
Ill now turn to the compensation Mr G asked  Lloyds for. He told us it was his long held 
dream to run a pub. But when he tried to get a mortgage in 2012 to buy the freehold of a 
pub, his application was turned down. Quite understandably,  given the passage  of time, 
Mr G hasnt provided us with any evidence of why this application  was rejected. 
But I can see he told us he had to pay £540  for a survey and around £4,625 in legal fees. 
Mr G maintains his application was declined because Lloyds actions in linking him to Mr X 
had affected his credit file. But I dont accept that. 
When someone applies for a mortgage,  whether thats for a business or a residential 
property, its normal for a credit search to be done during the very early stages. Any 
problems on the credit search are then known right at the start of the application. 
If the prospective lender Mr G was dealing had an issue  with his credit file, I think its more  
likely than not that this would  have  been raised  straightaway, before he needed  to pay for a 
survey or incur  extensive legal costs. So, on balance, Im not satisfied that this application 
was rejected due to the link with Mr X. It follows  that I cant fairly  and reasonably  hold Lloyds 
responsible for Mr G not being able to buy the pub, or for the costs he had to pay. 
Mr G also said he and his wife applied  for a mortgage in 2015.  Hes provided a letter from 
that prospective lender saying this application was declined due to adverse information  on 
his credit file. I accept this. But that doesnt mean this was down to Lloyds.  
I say this because  I can see that there was adverse information on Mr Gs credit  file before 
this application  was made. Some  of this information related to a debt that was totally 
separate to the Lloyds debt that C was wrongly chasing Mr G to pay. 
So, even if Lloyds hadnt incorrectly linked Mr G to Mr X, Im not satisfied this mortgage 
application would have been approved. Taking into account what  I know  about the usual 
lending criteria of this prospective lender, and also the nature of this adverse information  
unrelated to Lloyds   on Mr Gs credit  file, I think its more likely than not that this mortgage 
application would have been refused in any event,  even  if Lloyds  hadnt  linked him to Mr X. 
I know Mr G is also concerned  that hes been able to see details  on his credit  file that relate  
to Mr X. Hes worried that, in turn, Mr X may be able to see some of  his  (Mr Gs) details. I 
have no authority or power to obtain Mr Xs credit  file. So I cant confirm if any of Mr Gs 
details are showing on it, or if they are, that this is down to Lloyds.  
Ref: DRN51748784But the available evidence doesnt  show, even if this is the case, that Mr G has suffered  any 
financial loss because  of it. Also, I can confirm Ive taken Mr Gs concerns  around this into 
account when  thinking about  what is a fair and reasonable  amount of compensation. 
I know that Mr G feels very strongly that its up to the businesses involved here to sort this 
problem out. Hes previously told us he doesnt  care which business does this. Hes also 
said that these  businesses should, at our insistence, abide by the rules, clear  his record  and 
repair his credit score. 
As weve previously told Mr G, were not a regulator.  We have no power to insist that a 
particular business,  such as Lloyds, doesnt break  any rules  or to punish  or fine a bank if it 
does. Thats a matter  for the relevant regulator.  
In an ideal world, I would like to completely resolve  this issue for Mr G. But, as Ive outlined,  
numerous financial businesses, not just Lloyds,  have  made  an incorrect link between  him 
and Mr X. There  is nothing our service can do, or instruct Lloyds to do, to stop any other 
business from making this link in the future. 
But Mr G can take steps to mitigate this problem. I know hes incredibly frustrated with this 
whole affair and just wants it to stop.  But to try and do this, there  are some actions that he 
needs to take,  however unfair and unjust he feels this may be. 
As weve previously told Mr G, I strongly  suggest  that he contacts the main  CRAs in the UK 
to seek their help about putting a Notice of Correction on his credit file. This would  allow him 
to put an explanation on his credit file about  the incorrect links to Mr X. 
I would also suggest  talking to the CRAs  about whether a formal financial disassociation 
from Mr X would be appropriate in his circumstances and help prevent  this issue from 
causing problems  in the future. These  actions are something that Mr G would need to do 
personally. Theyre not something  our service, or Lloyds, can arrange for him. 
I know Mr G feels  that putting a note on his credit file may make getting credit  more difficult  
in the future. But a Notice of Correction  gives him the opportunity to explain this issue to 
prospective lenders.  I think such a course  of action is likely to cause Mr G minimal problems 
when compared  to those hes been experiencing. Again, the CRAs will be able to give Mr G 
full details of these options. 
Notwithstanding the above, its clear Mr G has been seriously affected by the issues  with his 
credit file. As Ive already  detailed, Lloyds isnt responsible for all of this. But it accepts it 
incorrectly linked Mr G to Mr Xs address.  This clearly contributed  to the problems Mr G has 
had. 
In respect of the Lloyds debt that C was incorrectly chasing Mr G to pay, hes has had to 
endure various letters and phone calls over a long period of time. He even  had to defend  
himself when C started legal action  again him. That Ive only included brief details here 
shouldnt diminish  the effect  that I know these  issues have had on Mr G.
Its clear to me that this has caused  him a substantial amount of stress, anxiety and 
inconvenience. So I think Lloyds  should  pay Mr G £2,000 to reflect  this. Im satisfied that this 
is a substantial amount  that fairly  and reasonably  reflects the trouble and upset  Lloyds has 
caused him. 
Ref: DRN51748785I know Mr G has previously stated, quite  clearly, that he isnt going to accept any amount of 
compensation until this matter is sorted  out. Hes perfectly entitled  to take that position, just 
as hes perfectly entitled to reject my final decision. 
But it would be remiss of me not to point out that if Mr G feels  unable to accept my decision, 
neither he nor Lloyds  will be bound by it. This means the bank  will be under no obligation at 
all to pay him £2,000.  
My final decision marks the end of our process.  If Mr G doesnt accept my decision, and hes 
under no obligation whatsoever  to do so, he would be free to pursue this matter  through 
other means, such as the courts, should he wish to do so. 
As Ive already  said, our service is a free alternative to the courts. Im sure Mr G will be 
aware that taking  legal action is often very expensive.  If this is something he wants  to 
pursue, he may wish to seek independent  advice before  doings  so. 
my final decision
My final decision is that Lloyds Bank Plc should pay £2,000 to Mr G.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 May 2020.
John Miles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5174878