K820x#14complaint
Ms D complains that Nationwide Building Society failed to cancel a standing  order from her 
account. She also complains that she was given misleading information about  a person 
linked to her account.
background
Ms D says she was added as a joint account holder to her cousins account as he was 
unwell. She says her cousin passed  away in May 2016 and she told Nationwide  to cancel  
the outgoings from the account. Ms D says in 2018  she started using  the account again  and 
noticed that a standing  order  for £3.50  a week was still active. She says she would like the 
money that was mistakenly taken of about £400  refunded.
Nationwide says it didnt  receive a request to cancel the standing order  and in any event  Ms 
D received statements at the time and ought  to have noticed it was still in place. Nationwide 
has offered a gesture of goodwill payment of £50.
Ms D didnt accept that explanation and brought her complaint to us. Our investigator looked  
at the complaint and thought overall  that Nationwide hadnt made a mistake.  The investigator 
thought Ms D had told us that she hadnt  used the account and hadnt  noticed the money  
being taken out. And that there was no evidence on Nationwides  records  that it had been  
told to cancel the standing order or had received a signed instruction as it normally  requires. 
The investigator also thought Ms D had received account statements and ought to have  
noticed the payment and thought the gesture of goodwill offer fair and reasonable.
Ms D doesnt accept that view and says Nationwides actions  are unjust as she asked  it to 
stop all outgoings.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to a similar 
overall view as the investigator for similar  reasons. I realise Ms D will be disappointed by my 
decision.
I dont doubt that Ms D must have  made  contact with Nationwide  at the time of the passing  
away of her cousin. I say that as I can see that the account was then in Ms Ds sole name 
and that regular payments into the account were no longer made. I also have no doubt that 
Ms D would have wanted any payments out of the account to stop. But I would have 
expected a record on Nationwides systems of any request to stop a standing order  and in 
accordance with its policies I would have  expected  written confirmation of that. Im satisfied 
that Nationwide doesnt have a record of any instructions to stop the standing order.  So I 
cant fairly conclude  that it did receive those instructions and failed to carry them out.
I appreciate Ms D says she did tell Nationwide to stop the standing  order.  But in any event 
Im satisfied that Nationwide sent statements to Ms D in the months following the passing  
away of her cousin. And I think  Ms D ought  to have monitored the account and noticed if the 
standing order was still being taken. I also think it likely that as the standing  order  was for 
only £3.50 its possible that it wasnt noticed  by Ms D.
Ref: DRN53627552Overall I dont think Nationwide has acted unfairly  or made a mistake and so it follows  that I 
cant fairly order it to refund the £400.  I hope Ms D will raise  the issue  with the organisation 
that received the money as she may be able to obtain a refund from it.
I can see that Nationwide in a telephone call has offered Ms D £50 as a gesture of goodwill. I 
will leave it to Ms D to decide if she wishes to accept that offer.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 November 2019.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5362755