K820x#14complaint
Mr W has membership of a group, private medical insurance policy via by his employer. He 
complains that BUPA  Insurance  Limited  misled  him about the annual limit of cover  for 
out-patient consultations,  therapies and diagnostic tests.     
background
In 2018, Mr W had consultations and with a urologist  and a dermatologist. He also had some 
diagnostic tests. On 10 July 2018,  Mr W spoke with BUPA. He says that BUPA  told him the 
cost of his treatment would be £40 less than the cap of £1,500 and that there wouldnt be a 
shortfall hed have to pay. So he proceeded with the treatments. Subsequently, Mr W 
received invoices amounting to over £500,  which BUPA said were his responsibility, as the 
cap had been  exceeded. 
Mr W says that if hed known the true position,  he would have delayed one of the treatments 
until after renewal of the policy on 1 November 2018. He wants  BUPA to cover  the 
outstanding costs. 
One of our investigators  looked at what had happened. She didnt think that BUPA had 
treated Mr W unfairly. The investigator said that, overall, BUPA  explained the position in 
relation to the annual limit clearly and fairly.  She said that BUPA  told Mr W that there may be 
a shortfall.
Mr W didnt agree with the investigator. He said that BUPA didnt send him anything in 
writing or provide details. Mr W said that BUPA doesnt know the cost of what it authorises  
and didnt tell him to ask the hospital or consultant himself, so its impossible  to understand 
whats been approved and whats yet to be considered. Mr W asked that an ombudsman 
look at his complaint,  so it was passed  to me.
There were subsequent exchanges between  Mr W and the investigator,  which  I wont  repeat 
here except  to say that Mr W was keen that we obtain recordings of his phone calls with 
BUPA in autumn 2018. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear that Mr W has very strong feelings about this matter. However, I trust that he will 
not take as a discourtesy  the fact that I focus on what I consider to be the central  issues,  that 
is, whether BUPA misled him about  the annual limit of cover for out-patient consultations, 
therapies and diagnostic tests. 
This service was set up to provide an informal  alternative  to the courts  for consumers who 
have complaints about business  actions.  We decide  cases  with the minimum of formality.  
We dont have powers to compel witnesses to give evidence or to question  witnesses under 
oath. Im satisfied that BUPA made reasonable attempts to locate the recordings of the 
phone calls to which Mr W has referred. BUPA says it cant  trace the calls. Its sometimes 
the case that calls either  arent recorded or retained or cant be traced. In any event, Im 
looking at whether BUPA misled Mr W in July 2018,  as thats what he complained  to BUPA  
about.  
Ref: DRN56499892The starting point  is the policy,  which provides that theres a limit of up to £1,500 each year 
for out-patient consultation, therapies and diagnostic tests. The membership guide defines 
year  as the period beginning on the renewal date and ending on the day before the next 
renewal date. In Mr Ws case, the renewal  date is 1 November. The membership guide  also 
contains the following:
When  you receive private medical treatment you have a contract  with the providers of your 
treatment. You are responsible for the costs you incur in having private treatment . 
However, if your treatment is eligible treatment we pay the costs that are covered  under 
your benefits. Any costs, including eligible treatment costs, that are not covered under 
your benefits are your sole responsibility.
Ive listened to the recording of the phone call of 10 July between Mr W and BUPA. I dont 
think that Mr Ws recollection  of that call is accurate. BUPA told Mr W that there was a 
remaining £469 of the £1,500 limit and £220 of that was already  allocated, so there was a 
remaining £249. It also said that there  will be a shortfall. BUPA said that without knowing 
whats required and what will be billed,  it couldnt  say how much  the shortfall would be. It 
didnt say that the cost of Mr Ws treatment would be £40 less than the cap of £1,500  and 
that there  wouldnt be a shortfall.
Mr W mentioned  other calls which he says are relevant to the outcome of this complaint. As 
Ive outlined above I think BUPA has tried to find them.  But, in any event, those calls took 
place after the authorisation and as part of the complaints process. So I dont think  they are 
central to the outcome of this complaint. 
Mr W says that BUPA  doesnt know the cost of what it authorises.  I dont think  thats quite 
right. BUPA explained to Mr W that it authorises  treatment but its payment depends on Mr W 
having remaining  allowances.  It was open  to Mr W to ask BUPA  for written  information about 
what it had paid or to delay treatment. 
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr W but I dont think that BUPA misled him. There are no grounds  
on which to ask it to pay the outstanding invoices. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 October  2019.
Louise Povey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5649989