K821x#15complaint
Mr B complains about the poor service  he received  from Revolut Limited when his account 
was blocked and his funds withheld.
background
Initially Mr B complained about Revolut blocking access to funds in his account after he 
transferred £7,000 into it. The funds  have now been  returned to Mr B and he isnt concerned  
that Revolut closed his account. But he is unhappy about the service he received from them.  
Mr B said it was very difficult  to contact Revolut and a manager changed her mind about  
unblocking his account. He said his complaint  was reviewed by an inexperienced member of 
staff and it was unfairly declined. He said Revolut kept his funds longer than necessary  and 
paid it to his closed account despite his advice to the contrary. Mr B wants compensation 
and interest for his bad experience. 
Revolut said it couldnt tell Mr B the reasons why it blocked his account as this was sensitive 
information. It said it follows  its legal  and regulatory  responsibilities to review  accounts and 
had treated him correctly. 
The investigator said Revolut acted in line with its terms  and conditions  and its legal  and 
regulatory obligations. But he said Revolut hadn't always  responded to Mr B and wasnt  
clear in what it needed, but hadnt caused  unnecessary delays. He said Revolut returned 
Mr Bs funds  to his closed  account  after Mr B had said it was closed and it should  refund his 
financial loss in dealing  with this and £100 compensation for its service  failings.
Mr B disagreed saying  wed missed  the point that Revolut didnt conduct  checks  when he 
opened his account, as required by law, and we hadnt followed legal principles. He said 
wed failed to consider that his money  had been frozen and the problems this caused  him 
whilst abroad and he wanted to be properly compensated. Mr B requested  an ombudsman 
review his complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked carefully  at Revoluts handling  and decisions  about  Mr Bs account  to see if it 
followed its procedures and treated him fairly.  Having said this, banks  have set procedures 
in place for monitoring accounts and they have legal  and regulatory obligations to follow. Our 
role is to check whether  Revolut followed the correct procedures,  and where  it hasn't we ask 
the business to put things right for the consumer.
Revolut said it conducted checks  on Mr Bs application for an account and acted under the 
terms and conditions of his account.  Ive seen Revoluts electronic  checks on Mr Bs account  
application and this appears  to meet the requirements at the time. From Revoluts terms and 
conditions its clear  it has the authority to review, block and close customer accounts. 
Revolut, in common with all banks,  can take this action without giving  their customer 
reasons. That is disappointing for Mr B, but our service cant compel Revolut  to explain its 
actions to him.  
Ref: DRN50404262Mr Bs transfer to his Revolut account  breached the terms of the account. I can see from the 
records that Revolut  advised Mr B his account was under review  and responded to his 
complaint a week after the transfer. It agreed to refund his money a week  after this  two 
weeks from when it blocked  his account.  To this point there  was no delay, but by sending  the 
money to Mr Bs closed  account Revolut caused an unnecessary delay of a short  period.
Mr B said the investigator hadnt considered that his money was frozen and the impact this 
had upon him. The investigator did consider this and concluded that Mr B should  have  
charges associated with retrieving  the money refunded. He didnt award further 
compensation for this as he hadnt  found that Revolut  caused unnecessary  delays, and 
neither have I in Revoluts  conduct  of its regulatory responsibilities. 
I can well understand  Mr Bs frustration and stress  at the time taken to return his money.  
Revolut made a mistake  in allowing this to be refunded to a closed account when it held 
information about this, and some  of its communications were poor. A short delay ensued and 
Mr B had to make  further  contacts to correct  this problem. Revolut has apologised to Mr B 
for the inconvenience  it caused, but I agree  with the investigator that it would be fair for 
Revolut to reimburse Mr B for his financial costs  in dealing  with this, and £100 compensation 
for the impact its service failings had upon  Mr B.
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given it is my final decision that the complaint  is upheld  in part. I 
require Revolut Limited to pay Mr B any evidenced  costs he incurred in obtaining  the money 
Revolut paid into his closed account. I also require  Revolut Limited to pay Mr B £100 
compensation for the delays and frustration its poor service  caused him.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 July 2019.
Andrew Fraser
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN5040426