K820x#14complaint
Mr O has complained that Aviva Insurance  Limited took a payment under his credit card to 
renew his car insurance policy against  his permission.  
background
Mr O received a renewal invitation from Aviva as his policy was due to expire by 15 
September 2018. He said that on 10 September 2018 he went online to a third party pay 
website to pay for his renewal premium - but there  was an agreement to collect future 
payments at renewal which he wasnt happy to accept. So Mr O said he changed  his mind 
and decided not to pay through this method  and closed  the screen. 
He said that about half an hour later he went back online to check and discovered  that Aviva  
had collected  the payment. He said it had used his credit card details which  he used  to pay 
for his policy  the year before.  He said Aviva had done this without his permission. 
Mr O contacted Aviva by email on a number of occasions but didnt receive a reply.  
In October  2018 Aviva  acknowledged Mr Os complaint and in November 2018 it said it 
hadnt automatically renewed  Mr Os policy. This wasnt  an option under Mr Os policy. It 
said Mr O had made the payment online.
Aviva said it was aware of a problem with some email correspondence. It apologised for its 
poor service and offered to pay Mr O £30 compensation  if he provided bank details for it to 
pay to.
Mr O remained  unhappy and asked  us to look at his complaint. Our investigator  couldnt find 
any evidence to show that Aviva had done anything wrong. 
Mr O didnt agree. He believes we should  carry out a more thorough investigation. He said 
he didnt authorise  the payment to be taken  from the credit card Aviva used. He said his 
credit card provider told him it wont be able to tell him the source of the transaction   but will 
co-operate with our investigation. 
So the case has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont intend to uphold 
it. 
Aviva has provided a screenshot of the renewal invitation it sent to Mr O. It says that he must  
renew his policy  before  11.59 on 14 September 2018 to continue his car cover. There was a 
link for Mr O to open to log in to his account and pay for the renewal premium. 
When an insurer has agreed  to automatically renew  a policy  for a policyholder, the wording 
in the renewal invitation usually explains that the insurer will try to collect  the payment from 
the existing details. Thats not the case here.  Avivas  renewal invite says that Mr O has to 
login and pay. Mr O did login and intended to pay via a third party site. This is where Mr O 
says he changed  his mind. 
Ref: DRN55881402Aviva said Mr O paid for the renewal  premium. Mr O said he didnt. From the information 
provided by both parties, Im more persuaded that  for some reason  Mr O most likely 
authorised payment for his renewal premium. I understand he said that he closed the 
window and didnt  pay. But there appears to have  been some  doubt as he went  back online 
to check about  half an hour later. Mr O said this is when he discovered  that the renewal 
premium had been made. 
I know how strongly Mr O feels that Aviva took the premium from his credit card without his 
permission. But I cant safely conclude that Aviva did this. 
Aviva has checked the Motor Insurance Database and theres no record of Mr O being dually 
insured for his car. It said that because Mr O made  the payment  on 10 September 2018  
and his renewal  date was 14 September 2018   he could have cancelled  the payment  
without incurring any cancellation fee.
Aviva accepts that it provided Mr O with some poor service  as it knew it had problems with 
receiving and sending  from some email accounts. In recognition of this, it offered to pay 
Mr O £30 compensation which I think is reasonable. Mr O can let Aviva know  within  the next 
28 days if he wishes to accept this payment. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 August 2019.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5588140