K820x#14complaint
Mrs H says St Andrews Insurance Plc mis-sold  her an insurance policy.
Halifax Insurance Ireland Limited sold this policy. But St Andrews Insurance  Plc has 
accepted responsibility for the sale and agreed  to be responsible for dealing  with this 
complaint. So Ill just refer to St Andrews  in my decision.
background
Mrs H took out the insurance during a phone call after shed applied for a personal  loan in 
2009. She paid a monthly amount for the policy. It was called Life Stages Repayments 
Cover and paid £200 a month if she couldnt work  owing to illness  or injury,  or lost her job.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs H disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
Mrs H mainly says that she had sick pay benefits from her job that she couldve relied on so 
she didnt need  the policy  and if the costs and benefits and the policys  optional nature had 
been made clear, then she wouldve  declined it. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  In doing so Ive taken into account all 
relevant rules and guidance, as well as the law and good practice at the time of the sale.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Hs complaint. Ill explain why I say this.
From what  Ive read and been told, I think its likely she took out the policy  by phone  
probably whilst still in the branch straight  after arranging the loan. Theres no call recording 
available. But Ive taken  into account what this service knows more widely about how 
St Andrews  usually sold this insurance over the phone  around this time. Ive seen nothing to 
show that St Andrews didnt follow  its normal  sales process  here. 
The script that St Andrews says wouldve been used for the call uses the word  optional  
when describing  the policy.  It shows that the sales advisor wouldve been prompted to ask if 
Mrs H was happy to go ahead and it includes information about the policy  cost and benefits. 
It also suggests the call wouldve  probably been made after the loan had been arranged,  so 
Mrs H wouldve known she didnt have to take out the cover  in order  to get the credit. 
It appears Mrs H decided  she wanted the cover  when speaking with the advisor  on that call. 
I say this because  St Andrews wrote to her shortly afterwards setting out details of the 
insurance shed  chosen, showing that Mrs H was covered  including what  it would  cost.  
This letter started off by saying: Thank you for choosing  our optional Halifax  Life Stages  
Repayments Cover. It also included information about her right to cancel the policy  if she 
didnt want it. 
The insurance would help protect  Mrs Hs financial position if she was made unemployed or 
if she was unwell and unable to work. I think its likely that during the phone call, when the 
policy was discussed,  Mrs H decided  she did want  the benefits  the policy offered. 
Ref: DRN59179112Taking all this into account, I think its likely that St Andrews made Mrs H aware  that she 
had a choice about buying  the insurance.  And it was added to her account when she chose 
to take it.
St Andrews  accepts that it recommended  the insurance to Mrs H and from the paperwork 
Ive seen I think thats correct. So it had to check it would be suitable for her. And it seems  to 
have been right for her, based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time.   
Mrs H was eligible for the cover.
Mrs H tells us she couldve relied  on getting  6 months  full sick pay followed by 6 months 
half pay from her employer. But I think this insurance still couldve been useful. It wouldve 
paid out in full for up to 12 months  per claim in the event of accident  and sickness.  So it 
provided better protection than Mrs H couldve relied  on getting through  her employer. And it 
wouldve paid out on top of sick pay, providing  Mrs H with a useful benefit at a difficult time  
especially if she had some extra costs  as a result of being sick or disabled.   
This insurance wouldve also paid out for up to 12 months for any one claim if Mrs H lost her 
job and became unexpectedly  unemployed. It wouldve paid more than enough to cover the 
monthly repayments on her loan.  And Mrs H couldve made repeated  claims on the policy , 
giving her long term protection over the loan term.
Mrs H told us she didnt have any other means  to rely on to make her monthly repayments  if 
she wasnt working. And shed borrowed the money over quite a long period. So, looking at 
her circumstances at the time, I think the policy  was suitable. 
There were some things the policy didnt  cover.  But it doesnt  look as if Mrs H was affected  
by any of the main  conditions limiting the policys benefits. So I dont think  that knowing more  
about the policy terms and conditions wouldve put Mrs H off taking  out this insurance as 
shed have got all the policy benefits she was expecting. 
Looking at the phone script, I think St Andrews  wouldve explained what  the cost of the 
policy would be  and this information was also set out in a schedule that Mrs H was sent 
shortly afterwards. If she hadnt wanted to pay for the insurance this letter  included  
information explaining that she was able to cancel the insurance at any time without losing 
out financially. As far as Im aware, she didnt take any steps  to do that.
Its possible some of the information  St Andrews gave Mrs H about  the policy wasnt  as 
clear as it shouldve  been.  But I think she still wouldve decided to buy the policy if shed  
been better informed  as it gave her useful protection in her particular situation.  I dont think 
better information wouldve stopped her buying  it.
 
This means  I dont  think that Mrs H has lost out as a result of anything that St Andrews may 
have done wrong.  So it doesnt  need to do anything  to put things right.
Ref: DRN59179113my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Hs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs H to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 August 2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5917911