K821x#15Complaint
Miss B complains  that the car she acquired  through a hire purchase  agreement (HPA) with 
Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited  (VWFS) wasn't of satisfactory quality. She 
wants to reject the car.
Background
Miss B entered into a HPA with VWFS in May 2018  to acquire a new car. She says that on 
the same  day she collected  the car she experienced an issue  with the electronic handbrake. 
She initially thought  this was due to driving  an unfamiliar car but after experiencing the issue  
on a number of occasions she booked the car in for investigation. This happened in 
July 2018 and she says she was told there was a fault but that there wasn't a program 
available at that time to resolve this and so she was given advice on how to deal with the 
situation.
In October  2018, Miss B says she almost crashed because of the issue with the handbrake. 
She took the car into the dealer and was provided with a courtesy car while  her car was 
investigated. She says she was told an update had become  available and that the issue had 
been resolved.
In February 2019,  Miss B says the issue occurred again and so her car was returned  but this 
time no fault was found. She says she was told she needed to turn her engine on in a certain  
sequence but says this wasn't explained to her when she acquired the car or set out in the 
users' manual.
In May 2019, Miss B says the issue occurred again  and again  no fault was found.  Miss B 
says the fault is intermittent and she is concerned about the safety  of the car.
VWFS says that the car had been inspected by the dealer and no fault has been found.  It 
further says the issue was being caused  by driving  style.
Our investigator didn't uphold this complaint. She said that Miss B reported  the fault in the 
first six months and so it was reasonable that a repair had taken place. She said that the 
dealer and manufacturer were saying  the car is now fault free and that driving style could be 
the cause of the issue reoccurring. She said that as more than six months had passed  and a 
repair had been  undertaken  it was now Miss B's responsibility to show  that a fault remained 
that was present at the point of supply. She said without  this she didn't find she could  say 
VWFS had done anything  wrong.
Miss B didn't accept our investigator's view. She noted our investigator had referred  to a 
recall notice regarding  a fault with the car. She said the car isn't now fault free as she is still 
experiencing the same issue.
Miss B also provided a response  from a third party, acting on her behalf,  that said the car 
was clearly not of satisfactory quality and that repairs may have been attempted but the car 
was still experiencing issues. The third party said the issue  was a safety concern as it was 
with the braking system and that the onus was on VWFS to show  the car had been repaired.
My provisional conclusions
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. I concluded in summary:
Ref: DRN51957472it was reasonable  to accept that there was an issue with Miss B's car's handbrake 
that was present at the point of supply. Repairs were attempted but Miss B said the 
issue hadnt been resolved;
tests on the car since the attempted repair hadn't confirmed the fault. But Miss B had 
always said the issue was intermittent and had been  consistent in her description of 
the problems she was experiencing. Therefore I didnt find I could say that because 
the fault wasn't replicated when the car was tested  that this necessarily  meant the 
fault no longer  remained;
on balance, I thought it more likely than not that Miss B was experiencing an ongoing 
issue with the handbrake.  Given this, and the nature of the issue,  I thought  it fair that 
Miss B be allowed to reject the car;
Miss B had reasonable use of the car and was provided with a courtesy car while  her 
car was being investigated. Therefore I found it reasonable that she was liable  for the 
payments due under the agreement;
Miss B has been caused inconvenience  by having to deal with this issue and I 
thought compensation of £200 was reasonable.
VWFS responded to my provisional decision.  It said that Miss B had been able to use the car 
and it said that no fault had been  confirmed. It reiterated its suggestion  of an independent 
inspection. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconsistent or contradictory, I have  made  my decision based  on the balance of probabilities  
- that is what I consider  is most  likely to have  happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances.
Miss B entered into a HPA with VWFS to acquire  a new car. Under the regulations,  
specifically the Consumer Rights Act 2015  (CRA 2015), VWFS  can be held liable if the car 
wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of supply.  When considering satisfactory quality  
aspects such as the durability, safety  and fitness for purpose are considered  in the context of 
the cars  age and mileage. In this case the car was new at acquisition  and so it is reasonable 
to expect the car to be free from faults  including any minor  defects.
As I set out in my provisional  decision I find, on balance, it is more  likely than not that 
Miss Bs car had an issue with the handbrake that was present or developing at the point  of 
supply. I further find it more likely than not that after a repair  attempt the issue  was ongoing. I 
note the comments  made  by VWFS about  a further  inspection however as I explained in my 
provisional decision I think the fairest resolution  to this complaint is for Miss B to be allowed 
to reject the car and have her HPA unwound.
Along with rejecting the car, Miss B should  also be refunded  the deposit she paid (along with 
interest) as this was part of the original  HPA which is now being unwound. Miss B has said 
that she paid a deposit of £2,225.03 but the HPA includes an advance payment of 
£1,234.98. 
Ref: DRN51957473I asked for further clarification of the deposit amount paid. VWFS said that Miss B part 
exchanged her previous vehicle as part of the transaction and that the previous vehicle had 
negative equity. So while  I appreciate Miss B may have believed all her payment was going  
towards her new agreement it appears that part was required to settle her previous 
agreement.
There has then been conflicting evidence provided in regard to the amount  Miss B 
contributed to the agreement. VWFS  said that the vehicle order  form didnt  contain  the final 
figures and provided  evidence of the amounts included in the HPA. It says that Miss B paid 
£1,826.03 which after the deduction  of the negative  equity left a net contribution  of £234. 98. 
The dealer  then contributed a further £1,000.  I can see that this has been  recorded in the 
system and is reflected  in the HPA. However,  Miss B has provided evidence showing  she 
paid a total of £2,225.03 to the dealer that is £399  more than the £1,826.03. I havent been 
provided any further information to explain the difference between  these two figures. 
Given the conflicting evidence in regard  to the deposit amount I have, on balance, relied on 
the information that has been included in the HPA in regard to the amount of deposit paid 
towards the agreement  and so on balance I accept that Miss B made  a net contribution of 
£234.98.
I understand the current mileage of the car to be over 16,000.  Based on this I find that 
Miss B has had reasonable use of the car. I can also see she was provided with a courtesy  
car while her car was being investigated.  Therefore I find it reasonable that she is liable for 
the payments  under  the agreement to date.
Miss B has raised concerns about  how long it has taken for this decision to be finalised. She 
has said that during  this time she has had to make further payments even though  she has 
acquired a new car. I can understand why Miss B is upset at the time it has taken to resolve 
her complaint however it has been  necessary to understand  the information  provided in 
regard to the deposit. 
Miss B has been caused inconvenience  by having to deal with this issue.  Ive thought about  
the impact the situation has had on Miss B, and the worry shes  had - particularly as the fault 
related to the cars braking system. Having done so, I think  its appropriate  that VWFS 
recognises this by paying her £200 compensation.
Ref: DRN51957474My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Volkswagen Financial  Services (UK) Limited  
should:
collect the car at no cost to Miss B and cancel Miss Bs HPA with nothing further owing;
refund  Miss B the deposit she paid along with 8% simple  interest* from the date the 
deposit was paid to the date of settlement;
pay Miss B £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience she has been 
caused;
remove any adverse information  that may have  been recorded  in regard to this 
agreement from Miss Bs credit  file.
If Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited  considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to withhold income tax from that interest, it should tell Miss B how much  its taken 
off. It should  also give Miss B a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can 
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 February  2020. 
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5195747