K820x#14complaint
Mr H is unhappy his claim for fire damage  has been declined  by Legal & General Insurance 
Limited (L&G) under his residential property owners insurance policy.
background
In October  2018 a property owned by Mr H had a fire. The property was rented to a tenant.
L&G said an electrical  fault caused  the fire, and the fault was due to an overloaded power  
board as the property had been converted to grow cannabis. L&G has said although the 
policy has cover  for the cultivation of drugs it declined the claim because Mr H hadnt 
completed credit reference checks for the tenant  as per a term and condition  within  the 
policy.
Mr H agreed that no credit  checks were carried out, however he feels  that L&G didnt inform 
him that this was a requirement  of the policy, and hed like it to cover  the claim.
When our investigator first looked into the complaint, she recommended  that L&G continue 
to look into the claim,  as she felt that L&G hadnt proven that the failure  of the electrical 
supply had been caused by an illegal  activity,  so she didnt think it could  rely on an exclusion 
linked to this.
L&G agreed. It obtained further information from the fire service who attended  the fire at the 
property. Based on this evidence, L&G declined  the claim again for the same exclusion.
Mr H has provided an electrician and a fire report to evidence why he thinks  the fire wasnt 
caused by the cultivation  of drugs. Our investigator felt the evidence  from the fire service 
was more persuasive and that it was fair for L&G to rely on it for the cause of fire. She 
therefore felt it was fair for L&G to apply the exclusion as Mr H hadnt met the terms of the 
policy. Our investigator also said Mr H had been  supplied with the schedule,  KeyFacts  and 
policy documents, she felt L&G had made Mr H aware that a requirement  for a claim 
regarding damage  due to cultivation of drugs would require him to have  carried out credit 
reference checks.so  she didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Mr H didnt agree he said he didn't understand how more weight could be placed  on one 
fireperson's version of events and not the other. So the complaint has been  passed to me to 
make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, and whilst I appreciate 
this will disappoint Mr H, Im not upholding his complaint and Ill explain why.
Firstly Ive looked at the policy and I can see there is cover  for damage caused by fire there 
is also separate cover for damage  arising  from cultivation of drugs. The latter contains a 
number of exclusions one of which L&G thinks allows it to decline the claim. So I need to 
decide which of the two sections the claim should be considered  under. That will be based 
on if I think the fire was ultimately caused  by the tenant growing  cannabis  or an unrelated  
cause. 
Ref: DRN56589752It isnt for me to determine how the fire started;  I'm considering whether L&G has fairly  
declined the claim. I can see L&G have relied  on the information it obtained from the fire 
service that attended  the fire. The fire service said in its opinion the fire was caused  because 
there was a production of numerous  cannabis plants and the electricity metre had been 
bypassed. It says the fire started  due to an electrical set up on the wall in a bedroom and the 
bundle of wires coming out of that had overheated significantly, the wires then went  into 
another box in the loft and the fire had then spread through  the bedrooms  and the loft. In its 
opinion the wiring from the cannabis factory was the cause of the fire.
Mr H has had a report done by an electrician on 13 April 2019 in summary he said that the 
landing area was the area with most damage, which potentially  could've been  the area 
where the fire started. He said there was no evidence of installation of additional  wiring  to 
supply any grow area there. He also mentioned that the room next to the landing  didn't have 
any additional wiring  to supply itself as another grow room,  only the properties original wiring  
accessories, such as sockets  and light accessories. In his professional opinion the 
installation that was put in to supply the grow rooms showed a clear understanding of what 
was required to do so. This is reiterated by the fire service who commented  that it had been 
a well set up operation with complex electrical work.
The electrician also said the site boards which had been used are used  in common  practice 
within building sites when  a property has been  stripped  out completely and they provide a 
safe working environment for anyone utilising power accessories, i.e. builders. The 
electrician has said that the site boards  were  used to bypass the electrical meter, but they'd 
still provide a safe electrical connection  for equipment.  The electrician says that "It is in my 
opinion, if a fault were  to have occurred, the safety  cut outs would  have disconnected  within 
a specified time, this preventing a chance  for further  fault to cause harm  or damage to 
consumer or property."
Having listened  to the call L&G had with the fire service and taking into account Mr Hs 
electrician report. I still think its more likely than not that the fire started due to the electrics 
in the house being  tampered with. I haven't  been shown that the electrical rewiring had 
nothing to do with the fire; whilst I've considered the electrician's report  and opinion,  Im 
more persuaded  by what the fire service saw at the time of the fire.
Mr H has also had a company which offers fire prevention and fire safety advice, complete a 
report on 15 July 2019. The director of the company, who also inspected  the property,  was a 
fire fighter for many  years and his role involved completing fire reports  and post fire 
investigation. In summary  he says that he believes the fire would've  been started 
deliberately (although he couldnt test for hydrocarbons due to the amount of time gone by) 
or accidently in the lounge area which would've  been drawn  upwards  and spread  along  the 
first floor. In his opinion, he says it's very unlikely  that the damage in the lounge  would've 
been caused by a fire that started on the first floor.
L&G have considered the report  and have said there  is little evidence to support  that the fire 
was started deliberately, or that this report is a thorough  forensic examination of the cause of 
the fire. Ive also considered the report, I don't feel its persuasive  there  is no evidence to 
confirm how a deliberate or accidental fire started. So I think  its fair for L&G to rely on the 
information provided by the fire service  that were  at the property at the time of the fire and 
not on a report  completed  some  months  later.
Taking everything into account  I think it more likely than not that the fire was a result of the 
electrics being tampered  with for the cultivation  of drugs.  I havent  seen any evidence  to 
Ref: DRN56589753show that the cause of fire isnt a result of anything to do with cannabis growing. So I think 
its reasonable for L&G to consider the claim under this section of the policy.
The exclusion that L&G are relying on to decline the claim in the policy  is under section13  
cultivation of drugs:
We will not pay for loss or damage:
a) if You or Your  managing agent have not carried out or cant  provide evidence of 
tenant referencing
b) if You or Your  managing agent have not received credit references for Your 
Tenant showing a satisfactory score from a licenced Credit Referencing Agency
c) if You or Your managing agent  have not obtained and recorded details of Your 
Tenants bank account and received at least one months rent from that account.
Mr H obtained his insurance through a broker, so he didnt have a direct  relationship  with 
L&G at the time of the sale of the policy. He said there isn't anything  in the documents that 
he received from the broker to say that he had to get credit references done  on the tenants, 
and he wasn't aware that this needed  to be done. This case is against L&G and not the 
broker, so I'll only be commenting  on the actions of L&G.  L&G are entitled  to rely upon the 
terms of the policy  when considering a claim and so Ill consider if I think  L&G has declined  
the claim fairly in line with the policy terms and conditions.
L&G are relying on part b of the exclusion mentioned above as Mr H hasnt carried  out 
credit referencing on the tenant. Mr H accepts  that he hasnt completed these checks.
L&G as the underwriter of the policy, set out the terms and conditions and what is and isn't 
covered. It's the responsibility of the customer to ensure that they've read the full terms and 
conditions of what they're  taking out, and any exclusion which could prevent a claim being 
made on the policy. I'm satisfied that L&G provided clear and specific terms on the policy  
document. Due to the nature of this type of policy, I don't consider the term that L&G have 
put in the policy to be unreasonable I therefore consider that the claim has been fairly 
declined in line with the terms of the policy and I wont  be asking L&G to do anything  further  
on this complaint.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons Ive given above. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or reject  my decision 
before 30 September 2019.  
Angela Casey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5658975