K820x#14complaint
Mr T says Coventry Building  Society  (Coventry) mis-sold him two mortgage payment 
protection insurance (MPPI) policies.
background
Mr T took out two MPPI policies with a mortgage.  The first policy  covered him for accident, 
sickness and unemployment and the second policy covered him for unemployment only.
From what  Ive seen, Mr T took the first policy in August 2000, and it ran until January 2001.  
Coventry has let us know that this policy was offered as a six-month  free trial, and Mr T 
didnt pay any premiums  for it. So as Mr T hasnt  lost out on anything  as a result, I havent 
considered that sale.
The second  policy  started in December 2003  and Mr T says it was sold during a phone call 
with Coventry. It ran until January 2007, when Mr T paid off his mortgage.  
Our adjudicator didnt  think the policy that started in 2003  had been  mis-sold. Mr T disagreed 
with the adjudicators opinion, so the complaint  has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ts case.  
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ts complaint.  Ill explain why.
When Mr T initially raised his complaint he explained that the policy was initially offered to 
him for free, and he forgot to cancel it at the end of the free period due to various events 
happening in his life. And I can certainly  understand, from what hes said, why cancelling the 
MPPI might not have  been  a priority for him. After  our adjudicator sent his opinion to Mr T, 
Mr T responded. He then said that he felt Coventry  made him take out the MPPI policy  in 
order to get the mortgage.
Im not persuaded that Mr T was under the impression that he had to take the MPPI policy  in 
order to get the mortgage. I say this because  Mr T explained that he took the policy  on the 
basis that it was initially  free. Hed also previously  held an MPPI policy,  which  hed been able 
to cancel. So I think he was aware that he had a choice, and if he didnt, I cant see any 
reason that Coventry wouldve offered the policy for free at all. 
Ive also looked  at sample documents that I think its likely Mr T wouldve  been needed to 
complete in order to take the MPPI. This wouldve most likely  been a separate MPPI 
application form in which Mr T wouldve needed to select the type and amount of benefit he 
wanted, and hed have needed  to sign and return that form. If in fact he didnt want the 
cover, I dont think hed have done that. 
So having  considered all of this, I think its more  likely than not that Mr T was aware that he 
didnt have to take but he chose to take it because he wanted it.
Ref: DRN55646372I havent seen  anything to make  me think that Coventry recommended  the MPPI to Mr T. So 
it didnt have to check if it was right for him. 
Mr T says he didnt  need the MPPI  because he was earning a good  salary and had an 
investment property which provided  him with extra income. Hes also explained that he 
wouldve been entitled to generous sick pay from his employer and he had a fairly large 
amount of savings.
Ive thought about the means  that Mr T had in place to make  his mortgage repayments  if he 
was unable to work.  But they dont make me think that Coventry was wrong to sell the MPPI 
to him. Coventry wasnt required to take Mr Ts circumstances  into account in this much 
detail, so I think it was for Mr T to decide  whether the MPPI couldve been  any use to him. 
The policy wouldve paid out in addition to anything else Mr T had in place,  for up to 12 
months per claim. Im also mindful  that the policy  covered him for unemployment  only  
which I think is the result of a conscious decision on Mr Ts part to cover what I think was 
most important to him. 
I note that Mr T made an unemployment claim on the policy in 2004. So I think  he mustve 
had enough information about it, in order to know what he was covered for and how to make  
a claim when he needed to. 
Its possible that Coventry couldve explained  the cost of the policy  better than it did. But 
because I think Mr T wanted the policy, even  if Coventry had explained the costs better, I 
think Mr T would still have  bought  it. 
Its also possible Coventry didnt  point out the main things the policy didnt cover.  But Mr T 
doesnt appear to have  been affected by any of those things  such  as unusual  working 
arrangements.
Ive taken into account Mr Ts comments, including what hes said about Coventry not 
reviewing the level of cover provided by the MPPI  policy following him making overpayments  
on his mortgage.  I realise  that with hindsight Mr T might feel that this resulted in him having  
excessive cover. But Coventry  wasnt required  to review the cover that was already in place,  
and nor would it have known that Mr T had planned  to make overpayments  at the point the 
policy was sold. So this doesnt make me think Coventry had acted unfairly.
Having thought very carefully about  everything Mr T has said,  I dont think this MPPI policy 
was mis-sold to him. So Coventry doesnt  owe him any money.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ts complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 March  2019.
Sam Wade
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5564637