K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs O say Nationwide Building Society mis-sold them a payment protection 
insurance (PPI)  policy.  
background and summary to complaint
Mr and Mrs O bought  the policy in 2003  at the same  time as taking out a loan. They  applied 
for the loan and PPI policy over the internet. 
The policys  one-off upfront  premium of £405.40  was paid in advance  by being added  to the 
loan (a single premium)  where it attracted interest  over the term of the loan. The loan was 
repayable over a 36 month term and the policy term matched that of the loan.  The monthly 
loan repayment  was £137.93  with the PPI costing  an additional £12.42 making  the total 
monthly repayment £150.35.  
The policy only provided cover for Mr O for accident,  sickness,  unemployment and life  
subject to its exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay Mr and Mrs Os monthly loan 
repayment for the remaining  term in the event  of a successful disability claim and 12 months 
in the event of unemployment. 
At the time,  Mr O was employed  as an engineer  and Mrs O was employed as an 
administrator. They  have told us they were entitled  to up to 3 months each of sick pay and 
had no other  means of repaying their loan should they be unable  to work. They were both 
entitle to some redundancy pay. Mr O has said he had a medical  condition  at the time of the 
sale. Because the policy only covered  Mr O, Ive only considered his personal  circumstances  
in relation to the benefits of the policy. 
Nationwide has sent us statement to show that the loan account  closed in December 2006.
Mr and Mrs Os representative has made lengthy  and substantial  representations on their 
behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr and Mrs Os representative says:
Nationwide failed  to meet  the sales standards which  applied  at the time. In those  
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  APP 3, it should be presumed  Mr and Mrs O 
wouldnt have taken  out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr and     
Mrs Os representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Nationwide  should 
have told Mr and Mrs O about the poor value; 
Ref: DRN51411452The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Nationwide  should have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mr and Mrs O 
and the impact they would have had on their chances of making a claim; and
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr and Mrs O disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion for several  reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Os. I dont intend to set that 
out in much detail  here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Os complaint
This sale took place  in 2003 before the sale of general insurance products like this became 
regulated in January 2005.  So, the FSAs  (and FCAs) overarching  Principles for Businesses 
and insurance  conduct  rules  (ICOB and ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint, nor is the 
FCAs Perimeter guidance  (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2006. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance 
Code for private  customers   the GISC Code. 
This sale was made during a period  of industry  self-regulation by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC).  It published the GISC code, which  set out minimum standards of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling  insurance, including  PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
Nationwide, selling insurance at this time:
Ref: DRN51411453The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
 
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Nationwide at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take the ABI code and 
these other  publications into account when deciding, what  is in my opinion,  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of Mr and Mrs Os case. 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, contract  (including the express  and implied duty on professional advisers to give 
advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence; the law relating to the utmost  duty of good 
faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness). 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Nationwide was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were  
guidance when  considering Mr and Mrs Os complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all circumstances of this 
complaint, are:
-If Nationwide gave  advice, whether  it advised  Mr and Mrs O with reasonable care 
and skill  in particular, whether the policy was appropriate or suitable for Mr O, 
given his needs and circumstances. 
-Whether Nationwide gave Mr and Mrs O sufficient, appropriate and timely information 
to enable them to make an informed choice about whether  to take out the policy,  
including drawing  to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions of the policy  and significant  limitations  and 
exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr and 
Mrs O, I must then go on to consider whether and to what  extent Mr and Mrs O 
suffered loss or damage and what  I consider  would amount to fair compensation for 
that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr and Mrs O 
and Nationwide, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Os complaint. Ive set out my 
reasoning below. 
Ref: DRN51411454did Mr and Mrs O know they had a choice?
Nationwide had to make it clear that the PPI policy was optional. 
Nationwide has confirmed  that the loan was applied for online; theyve sent screenshots  
showing their online process, and I think its more likely this represents  what Mr and Mrs O 
would have seen  at the time. This shows there  was a separate section  for PPI that had a 
brief description of the cover and a yes or no tick box option. Because  they ticked yes and 
specified that the cover should  be for Mr O alone, the loan agreement that was sent to them 
set out that Mr O was the insured party. It also set out the cost of the PPI separately  to the 
cost of the loan and listed it as an optional feature.  
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mr and Mrs O knew the policy  was 
optional and they agreed to take it out without undue pressure. 
did Nationwide provide  advice?
Both Nationwide and Mr and Mrs O agree that advice wasnt  provided  during this sale.  
This means  Nationwide  didnt have to check if the PPI was suitable  for Mr O. Instead,  it had 
to give them sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable Mr and Mrs O to make 
an informed choice about whether to take out the policy,  including  drawing to their attention  
and highlighting   in a clear, fair and not misleading  way  the main provisions of the policy 
and significant  limitations and exclusions. 
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr and Mrs O were given a broad description  of 
what the policy was intended to cover  (that is that the policy  would protect their payments if 
Mr O was unable to work through accident,  sickness and unemployment.)  I have reached 
this conclusion because  the screen  shots  showing the online process shows  it gave a brief 
description of the PPI cover.  Including that it covered  against  accident and sickness  or losing  
your job. And I think Mr and Mrs O knew that the single premium being  added to the loan 
was £405.40,  the interest  added to the premium was £41.72,  the total cost was £447.12,  and 
the monthly cost was £12.42 (as this information  was, in my view,  sufficiently  clear  on the 
loan agreement Mr and Mrs O signed.). 
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Nationwide gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit - or about the exclusions or limitations before Mr 
and Mrs O agreed to take out the policy. 
So I dont  think Nationwide gave Mr and Mrs O sufficient, appropriate and timely information 
to enable them to make an informed choice about  whether to take out the policy,  including  
drawing their attention  and highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading way  the main 
provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and exclusions.  
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded there were significant failings in this case.
Ref: DRN51411455In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr and Mrs Os representative has raised  a 
number of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr and  
Mrs Os. Ive considered these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr and Mrs Os representative considers to be 
poor value   and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business rather than 
the insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr and Mrs O about the limitations  and exclusions,  it should  have gone further 
and explained  the significance of them  to them. 
Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Os representatives views on this. The duty of utmost 
good faith in insurance law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose 
material facts and not to make material misrepresentations.  While I cant be certain what a 
court would say  I think its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer  
having to disclose the claims ratio information or explaining the significance of the limitations 
and exclusions in the way Mr and Mrs O has suggested. And taking  into account the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude that Nationwide  ought to have done either. 
What effect did Nationwides shortcomings  have on Mr and Mrs O? To what extent did 
Mr and Mrs O suffer  loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that Nationwide didnt  do all it should  have  done  when it sold this policy  to Mr and 
Mrs O. So Ive gone on to consider whether  it would  be fair and reasonable to conclude Mr 
and Mrs O suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide whether or 
not Mr and Mrs O would have still taken out the policy, had Nationwide done things properly. 
Mr and Mrs O say they would not have taken  it out and believe I should  presume  this to be 
the case given  the significant failings identified above. Ive considered the representations  of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
As this was a non-advised sale, Mr and Mrs O had to weigh up in their own minds the cost of 
the policy against the benefits offered and the potential  consequences if they didnt insure  
against the risk of being unable to work.  
As Ive found above, Mr and Mrs O chose to take this policy  out. So I consider that its 
reasonable to conclude  they had some  interest  in the benefits offered by this type of 
insurance. But they made this decision based on incomplete information. So what Mr and 
Mrs O thought they were  getting is not exactly what they got. The extent to which  this 
differed is a relevant consideration when determining if Mr and Mrs O has suffered  any loss 
or detriment.  
As Ive already  said, the information Mr and Mrs O were given about the cost was clear.  But 
the information about other aspects of the policy, such as the benefits, limitations and 
exclusions wasnt as clear  as it should have been. 
Im not persuaded Nationwide made clear exactly what Mr and Mrs O would get back  in 
return in the event they made a successful  claim.  But I think  its unlikely Mr and Mrs Os 
Ref: DRN51411456expectations about what the policy would  pay in the event of a claim (an amount sufficient to 
meet their loan payments)  were significantly different to what  the policy  actually did.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr and Mrs O thought they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions  that Mr O knew about or 
ought to have known about  before the start date of the policy  or for which he received 
treatment or advice for during the 12 months before the start date; 
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr O 
wasnt a permanent employee.
I do accept that there is a possibility the limitations  and exclusions above  might well have 
caused Mr and Mrs O pause  for thought  and may well have caused them to conclude  that 
the policy wasnt as good as they thought and they might have decided not to proceed. The 
limitations on the cover, when coupled with the other shortcomings in this sale, might  have 
dissuaded some  consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs O from 
taking out the policy.  
But the evidence  about Mr Os circumstances at the time of sale shows  that the policy  wasnt 
fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. He was eligible for its benefits and it provided 
cover that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable  to him should  the 
insured risks have  become a reality. Although Mr O says he had a medical condition some 
time before the policy was taken out, I dont think better information about this exclusion  
would have put him off agreeing to it. I say this because the condition occurred eight years 
before the sale and while Mr O did take around a week  off work at that time,  he hasnt 
mentioned having any ongoing issues in relation to this. 
And I havent seen  any evidence  to suggest  he wouldve been caught by any of the other 
significant exclusions. So I still think he had some good reasons to take the policy  out. 
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Mr and Mrs O would 
have expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some evidence  
to support that claim.
To make a disability claim, Mr O needed  to be totally  unable to any work. I dont think this is 
likely to be too different  to what he would have expected to make a claim. After all, the online 
application form says the policy provides cover if you cant  work due to accident  or illness  or 
if you lose your job. So it seems  unlikely he would have thought hed been  able to make a 
successful claim  if he was still working.
The policy did provide  a pro-rata refund if it was cancelled  early, so the policy provided 
flexibility if Mr and Mrs O decided to repay the loan early and cancel the policy.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs O would still have taken out the policy. The policy  was sufficiently close  
to what its likely they thought they were getting  and provided benefits that would help him 
manage the consequences  were  Mr and Mrs O made redundant, or unable to work  through  
accident or disability.  In the circumstances I consider  it more  likely than not that Mr and    
Mrs O would have taken  out the policy in any event notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Ref: DRN51411457Mr and Mrs Os representatives say the rules  about  how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP 
App 3) make it clear that, where a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr and Mrs O would not have bought the PPI they bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted  
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Mr Os 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr and 
Mrs O found themselves in as result of the sale was the same position they would have been 
in had the breach  or significant failings not occurred.  
Mr and Mrs O believes  the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), Im only doing  so because I dont consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs O in the position they would have been in if 
they had not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept its possible they wouldnt have taken out the policy, Im 
satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not that they would still have taken  
out the PPI had they been given clear, fair and not misleading information about  the policy 
they were buying.
So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable  in those circumstances, to conclude 
Nationwide should  pay Mr and Mrs O compensation, as that would put them in a better 
position than they would  have been in if everything  had happened  as it should have done.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs Os representative says a court  might  take 
if it were to find Nationwide  had been in breach of its duty of utmost  good faith. But this 
doesnt persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mr and Mrs O in a better position than if everything had happened as 
it should have  done. 
Ref: DRN51411458my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs O to 
accept or reject my decision  before  30 April 2021.
Rebecca Norris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5141145