K820x#14complaint
Mr B says Home Retail Group Card Services Limited misled  him about when a payment 
would become due. And hes unhappy with the charges, and interest, resulting from the 
arrears that followed.  Home Retail Group  Card  Services Limited  is the provider of Mr Bs 
Argos store  card.
background
Mr B made a £9.99  purchase on his Argos  card on 3 October 2018. He says at the time he 
was told hed have  56 days  to pay this off, without  charges or interest being applied.  But his 
payment was actually  due by 19 November 2018   as detailed on his October 2018 
statement.
Mr B didnt make the payment until 2 December 2018, by which time a late payment fee had 
been charged and interest  applied. Mr B considers this to be unfair,  bearing  in mind the 
advice he received. And he feels a further  fee shouldnt have been  applied, because he was 
in the process  of complaining about the first one.
Mr B also said hed tried to make the payment on 15 October  2018  but found  the login 
process to be unreasonable and ended up being locked out of his online Argos account. 
Argos agrees he may have been  misadvised about  the 56 days. But it considered the fees 
and interest to be charged correctly because even if it had misadvised him in the first 
instance, it had later provided  the correct information on his statements.
Mr B remained unhappy  so brought his complaint to our service. An investigator  looked into 
his concerns and didnt  find that Mr B had been  treated unfairly. As this didnt resolve  his 
complaint, Mr B asked  for an ombudsman decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For the avoidance of doubt my decision relates  to the issues initially  raised by Mr B, those 
considered by Argos in its final response  letter and those summarised above. Overall, I 
agree with the conclusion reached by our investigator, Ill explain why.
Argos accepts it may have misadvised Mr B, about  how long he had to repay  the £9.99. But I 
dont believe  this caused any detriment because Mr B didnt need the 56 days  to make  the 
repayment. He says he tried to make it within just two weeks  of the purchase  and was only 
prevented from doing so because of Argoss security process. And although he had difficulty 
logging on there  are other ways of making payments.
Mr Bs next statement said he owed the minimum  amount of £5.00, with payment due by
19 November 2018. So I believe  it would have been  apparent the earlier  advice might have 
been wrong. And the statement included details of the different ways to pay, so even though  
Mr B couldnt do so on the Argos website he had other options.
Mr B didnt make the minimum  payment  of £5.00  by the date it was due so I think the late 
payment fee and interest were  reasonable. Estimated  interest  had been included  in the 
Ref: DRN58552982statement and the various fees that can be incurred are detailed  on the back  of it, as well as 
in the account terms and conditions.
I understand why Mr B thinks  a fee of £12.00 on a purchase of £9.99 is excessive. But the 
fee isnt there to reflect the card balance  or the value of the purchase. Its detailed within  the 
terms and conditions and the statements put Mr B on notice that fees can result from late (or 
insufficient) payments so I dont think the charge was applied  unfairly.
I also understand why Mr B feels it was unfair for Argos to apply a second late payment fee 
after hed paid the £9.99, and whilst  his complaint  was being looked  into. But because of the 
initial fee, Mr Bs payment  hadnt  been  enough  to bring his account up to date so the second 
fee was correctly applied in line with the terms and conditions.
Even though  a complaint  was being  looked  into payments are still required and if theyre  not 
made, or arent made in full, then fees will be applied. And I dont think  thats unfair because 
theyre detailed  on the statements.
Mr B has made clear  his frustrations with the login process for his Argos account.  But it isnt 
for us to look more  widely at a businesss website login process. And the security processes 
have to be robust in order to protect  customers from unauthorised access. In this case, 
although I can accept  that Mr B has had some difficulties, he could have made  payments 
another way.
I appreciate hes said thats  difficult due to his hours, but hes contacted us using a smart 
phone and Argos has shown us records of online payments being made in October and 
December 2018  as well as January and February  2019. Mr B also told us he uses internet 
banking, so he can make  payments  of his choice that way if he continues  to have difficulties 
with the Argos  system.
Overall, I dont  think Mr B has lost out as a result  of the advice he said he received and I 
dont think it was unreasonable  for Argos to apply  the charges to his account.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint.
  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 September  2019.
Will Weston
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5855298