K820x#14complaint
Mr K is unhappy AXA Insurance  UK Plc (AXA) has declined a claim he made under his 
buildings insurance  policy.
background
Mr K has explained he noticed that the roots from a tree on his neighbours property had 
lifted some  bricks on his driveway.  So, he contacted  AXA to make  a claim for the damage to 
these under his buildings insurance policy. 
AXA told Mr K that the damage to his driveway wasnt  covered in this instance.  It said that 
for the damage  to be covered it would need  to have been caused by an insured peril in his 
policy. It noted that in this instance the damage  wasnt caused by any of the insured perils  
the policy provided cover for. So, it said it couldnt  provide  further assistance on this 
occasion.
Mr K didnt feel this was fair. He felt the damage to part of his driveway should be covered. 
And he was concerned that the tree roots  might  cause damage to underground services at 
his property in the future.  Because  of this Mr K referred his complaint to this service  for an 
independent review.
Our investigator considered Mr Ks complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. He said 
that Mr Ks policy only provided cover  for damage  caused by certain perils  and because  
the damage in this instance wasnt caused by one of those perils,  AXA had acted fairly in 
declining Mr Ks claim.  
He also noted  that the only insured peril in the policy that could be relevant to Mr Ks loss 
was the one covering damage  caused  by subsidence and heave. But he said this only came  
into operation if Mr Ks main house  was also damaged by the tree roots.  It wasnt enough  for 
the driveway alone to be affected. Because the main house  wasnt affected in this case  he 
didnt think there was anything further  AXA needed to do.
Mr K didnt agree. He reiterated that he felt AXAs decision to decline his claim was unfair.  
He said that damage  caused by tree roots should be covered under  his policy. And he noted 
that AXA had declined his claim without investigation the matter.
Because Mr K didnt  agree,  this complaint has been  referred to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold this complaint.  Ive explained why below. 
Ive reviewed Mr Ks policy documents to see what cover his policy provides. As is common 
in many residential buildings insurance  policies Mr Ks policy provides cover for damage  to 
his property caused by certain  events. These are listed in the policy,  and include damage 
caused by events such as theft, fire, subsidence or heave. So, Im satisfied that for the claim 
to be covered it does  need to have been  caused by one of these events. And it is for the 
policyholder to show one of these  events apply  and therefore that they have a valid claim.
Ref: DRN53582282AXA has said Mr Ks claim isnt covered,  because  none of the events  in the policy  apply. Ive 
thought about whether AXAs decision to decline this claim is reasonable. And I think it is. I 
havent seen any evidence to show the damage to Mr Ks driveway was as a result of one of 
the insured events listed in his policy.  And as above it would be for Mr K to show  an insured 
event applies here.
Mr K has explained hes concerned  AXA didnt  investigate the matter further. And that future 
damage may be caused by the tree root growing and affecting underground  services at his 
home. But, an insurance policy doesnt provide cover for maintaining a property  or 
stopping damage  that might occur in the future. So, I dont  think  AXA needed  to take action 
to look into this at this stage.
my final decision
Given the above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. So, I dont require 
AXA Insurance UK Plc to do anything more.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 July 2019.  
Rachel Woods
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5358228