K821x#15complaint
Miss F says Financial  Insurance  Company Limited (FICL) mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Miss F took out a store card with PPI in January 1996 whilst shopping in the store.  
The policy covered Miss F if she was too ill to work or had an accident or if she lost her job 
unexpectedly and was out of work. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Miss F disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion. She mainly feels the PPI wasnt properly explained and she didnt need it given 
her sick pay arrangements at work and the other  ways she couldve made the monthly  
repayments on her store  card.   
The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
what I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
Im currently planning to uphold Miss Fs complaint because I dont think  she wouldve 
bought the policy if she had been  given clearer information about  its cost and benefits.
FICL needed to make sure it gave Miss F clear enough information about the policy  so she 
could decide for herself  if she should  take it out. 
Its my understanding that the PPI monthly cost was £1.00 per £100 of the outstanding  
balance  and Miss F may have been  told this. But I dont think its very likely that the 
policys true cost and benefits were explained  clearly enough to allow Miss F to work out 
whether PPI offered her any useful  benefit  it was worthwhile for her to buy. For example, 
I dont know if FICL  explained  to Miss F how interest  might be added  on or if shed have to 
continue to pay the premiums during a claim.
Miss F originally told us (and FICL) that apart from sick pay, she had no other way of making  
the monthly repayments if she wasnt working.  When our adjudicator investigated further,  
Miss F said that:
-her employer wouldve paid her full sick pay for 6 months then half pay for the 
next 6 months,  and
-shes sent us information that shows she had £1000 in savings and £3,500 
invested in shares, which she bought around the time she took out the PPI. 
Looking at her employment  and what shes told us about her work arrangements, I think it is 
plausible that her employer wouldve paid the amount of sick pay Miss F said, for as long as 
Miss F told us, if she was off work  sick. 
Ref: DRN58335332And, looking at the information shes provided (supported by the transaction details shown 
on the financial businesss  letter headed  paper) it looks like what she now says about her 
financial position at the time is correct.  
So, looking  at her financial  situation  overall,  I think that the policy offered her only limited 
value given the other means she couldve relied on when  she took it out. 
On balance, based on all the information  Ive seen, I dont think  Miss F wouldve bought the 
policy if FICL had given her clear  enough information about the cost and benefits  to be able 
to decide if it was good value for her. So, I think Miss F has lost out because  of what  FICL  
did wrong.
what the parties said in response to my provisional  decision 
Neither party has made any further  comments.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this complaint.
Having done so, and as no further comments have been received in response to my 
provisional decision, I still think its fair to uphold this complaint for the reasons I explained in 
my provisional decision. 
putting things right
FICL should put Miss F in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI. 
How it does this will depend on whether Miss Fs store card account is still active or has 
been closed.
I believe the policy has been cancelled, but if Miss Fs account is still active, the policy 
should be cancelled  if it hasnt been  cancelled already and:
A. FICL  should find out how much Miss F would owe on her store card if the policy 
hadnt been added to it.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges.
FICL should then refund  the difference between what  Miss F owes and what she would  
have owed.
If Miss F made a successful claim under the PPI policy, FICL can take off what she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her.
Ref: DRN58335333B. If  when FICL works out what Miss F would have owed each month without PPI  
Miss F paid more than enough  to clear her balance, FICL should also pay simple  interest 
on the extra Miss F paid.  And it should  carry on paying interest until the point when 
Miss F wouldve owed FICL  something on her store  card.  The interest rate should be 8% 
a year.
C. FICL  should tell Miss F what its done to work out A and B above.
If Miss Fs account has been closed : 
A.FICL should find out how much  Miss F would  have  owed  when she closed her store 
card account if the policy hadnt  been added.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges. 
FICL should then refund  the difference between what  Miss F owed when she closed her 
account and what  she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Miss F made a successful claim under the PPI policy, FICL can take off what she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her.  
B.FICL should add simple interest on the difference between what Miss F would have 
owed when she closed her account  from when  she closed it until she gets the refund. 
The interest rate should  be 8% a year.
C.If  when  FICL works out what Miss F would have owed each month  without PPI  
Miss F paid more than enough to clear her balance,  FICL should also pay simple  
interest on the extra Miss F paid. And it should  carry on paying  interest  until the point 
when Miss F wouldve owed FICL something  on her store card. The interest rate should 
be 8% a year.
D.FICL should tell Miss F what its done to work  out A, B and C.
If the lender has already repaid any commission amount to Miss F that relates to this PPI 
sale, that sum can be deducted by FICL  from the redress shown above.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires FICL to take off tax from this interest. FICL must give 
Miss F a certificate showing  how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
Ref: DRN58335334my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and direct Financial Insurance  Company Limited to pay Miss F as set 
out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 December 2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5833533