K820x#14complaint
Mr W says that British  Gas Insurance Limited (BGIL for short)  has treated him unfairly  
regarding appointments for his boiler  service, the customer service  he received and its offer 
of a gesture  of goodwill  regarding what happened  under his home emergency policy.
background
Mr W says that BGIL  has treated him unfairly.  He booked a service  for his boiler to be 
carried out at the beginning  of November 2018. The day before BGIL called Mr W to say it 
had to cancel  as the engineer was needed elsewhere. On that call Mr W confirmed his boiler 
was working fine. Mr W was then disappointed  to discover a service appointment wouldnt 
be available until late January 2019.  So BGIL offered  £30 for the inconvenience.  Mr W 
wasnt happy so he complained asking  for a service much sooner, to refund an amount 
equivalent to the cost of the service  and £100 in compensation.
BGIL says a goodwill  gesture of £95 has been  sent to Mr W. This is made up of the £30 
offered and a refund  of the cost of the service (£65). It feels this position is fair in the 
circumstances.
Mr W didnt agree. So he complained here and the investigator didnt uphold  his complaint. 
Mr W remains unhappy, so this complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This decision doesnt address how this service has looked into Mr Ws concerns. Im only 
looking into the merits of the complaint Mr W has with BGIL.  
Largely speaking the events around  what happened are agreed  between the parties. BGIL  
accepts it moved a servicing  appointment at short notice, and that it didnt provide a service  
in Mr Ws contractual year 2017/18. And it agrees there was some delays which meant  there 
was a long time between  services of Mr Ws boiler. Its also clear  that when Mr Ws boiler  did 
need a repair,  BGIL attended quickly and well within reasonable time (Mr W isnt 
complaining about that appointment).  In essence all that is in contention is the award  for 
what has happened here.
Having considered the entirety of the matter I dont think this complaint should  be upheld. I 
say this for the following  reasons.
Firstly, having considered what has happened Im satisfied  BGILs  position in 
paying/refunding a total of £95 is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Mr W doesnt think so. He rejects  this position  in the strongest possible terms. He says this 
service is saying minimum compensation for failings is acceptable and asks why  would 
companies have  any incentive to provide better service, when they know  they won't be 
punished where it hurts? It is not for this service to award punitive compensation. This 
service instead needs to consider what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. 
Ref: DRN50959212I do not consider  any further award  is appropriate in these circumstances. Mr W has not 
suffered any significant  financial loss as a result of what has happened. Im not persuaded 
that hes suffered  substantial distress or inconvenience.  I say this because  although  Mr W 
has made clear hes very unhappy with the position  of BGIL  hes not persuaded me that its 
position is unfair or unreasonable  in the circumstances or pointed to significant 
consequences of what went  wrong.  So I think the offer made  fairly  reflects the distress and 
inconvenience suffered.
Mr W has also pointed  to a previous situation where  BGIL made an award to him. This may 
be so. But this service  looks at each complaint on its individual  merits. Im satisfied that no 
further award is needed here.
So all in all I think BGIL has treated Mr W fairly.  As such I wont be asking it to do anything 
more.
I appreciate Mr W will be disappointed by this but unfortunately Im satisfied the position  
taken by BGIL is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. As such I dont  require it to do 
anything more.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I do not uphold the complaint against British Gas Insurance  
Limited. So it needs to do nothing further  about this particular complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr W to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 April 2019.
Rod Glyn-Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5095921