K821x#15complaint
Mr D is unhappy about the way Aviva  Insurance Limited has handled a claim on his 
commercial insurance policy. Mr D is bringing the complaint on behalf  of a business  (D).
background
Mr Ds business premises had a fire. This caused  substantial damage and his business was 
forced to close. Mr D made a claim  to Aviva under his commercial  property and business 
interruption insurance.
Aviva instructed forensic  experts (B) to inspect the site. B said there  was evidence of debris 
around equipment  which couldve  caused  or contributed  to the spread of the fire. As 
conditions in the policy included clear space  around equipment and areas being kept clean 
and clear B said Mr D may have been in breach of the policy terms. Based on this advice, 
Aviva provisionally declined the claim.
Mr D didnt accept Avivas  decision. He obtained a forensic report, statements from the fire 
brigade, and instructed  a loss assessor.  After much back and forth between  the parties, 
Aviva agreed to cover the claim around 9 months after the fire.
When assessing the loss of earnings  under business interruption insurance, Aviva  said D 
was underinsured  by 9%. So, it deducted  this proportion from the claim settlement. Mr D 
didnt accept this. He brought his complaint to this service.
Effectively Mr Ds complaint points are:
Aviva  initially declined  the claim unfairly;
There were  delays  in the claim being accepted after Mr D had provided evidence to 
show it should be covered;
Ds losses havent been recovered  in full due to Avivas deduction  for underinsurance;
Due to Avivas actions, Mr D has had to pay a forensic expert and a loss assessor to 
assist with the claim.
Aviva said its decision  to decline  cover  was correct based on the information it held at the 
time. But that it had made it clear to Mr D the decision was provisional. Aviva said it was 
prepared to reconsider its position on receipt  of further evidence.  After this was provided, 
and its further investigations  were complete,  Aviva  accepted the claim  minus  the deductions  
for underinsurance. Aviva also said it would pay half of the cost for the forensic repot 
(£1,500) and offered  £500 in compensation for any service errors and delays it caused.
Our investigator upheld  the complaint. He felt Aviva  had acted  fairly  when it provisionally 
declined the claim  based on the evidence it had at that time. He also accepted Aviva was 
entitled to deduct a proportion of the settlement for underinsurance. But our investigator said 
Aviva should  cover  the cost of the forensic report in full. He said the details in the report had 
helped get the claim  dealt  with and so Aviva  should pay for it. Our investigator also said this 
applied in part to the loss assessors involvement too. So, he said Aviva should  pay 50% of 
the loss assessors  fees (£1620). In relation  to the £500 compensation he said this was a fair 
offer based  on the circumstances.
Aviva accepted these  recommendations and agreed to pay the rest of the forensic report  
fees and the £1620 for 50% of the loss assessors costs. But Mr D didnt accept this. He felt 
Ref: DRN56015012the £500 compensation didnt adequately reflect the delays and trouble and upset hed been 
subjected to by Avivas actions. So, the complaint was passed on to an ombudsman for a 
final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ill address Mr Ds 
complaint points separately. 
claim declined
Getting experts such as B to inspect and validate commercial fire claims like this one is fairly 
standard within the insurance industry.  I think its fair to say that Aviva is entitled to accept 
Bs expert opinion. Ive reviewed the report, and based on this, I think  it was reasonable for 
Aviva to have concerns  that the policy conditions had been breached. B did make links 
between the policy conditions and the spread  of the fire. So, I think Avivas provisional  
decision to decline the claim was reasonable.
delays and compensation
Following the rejection  of his claim Mr D provided  further evidence to Aviva.  This showed 
that the breach in the policy  conditions wasnt material  to the loss. But the claim wasnt 
accepted for several months and Mr D thinks Aviva should offer more  than the £500  it has 
offered so far. Mr D feels it shouldve accepted  the claim a lot sooner.
I havent seen  anything that indicates  to me that Aviva caused unnecessary or avoidable 
delays. Aviva was conducting  an investigation  into the policy  breach  and whether  this was 
linked to the fire. I dont think this is unreasonable. So, Im not asking  it to increase the offer 
of £500 its already made. I think the £500 compensation offer is fair.
underinsurance
When dealing with the claim for business  interruption, Aviva said it identified that Mr Ds 
business was underinsured. It said the value of the risk was 9% higher than the sum insured.  
I can see that the relevant policy term Aviva are relying on is:
If at the time of the Damage the Sum Insured is less than the sum produced  by applying the 
Rate of Insured Profit  to the Annual  Turnover,  proportionately  increased  where  the Maximum 
Indemnity Period exceeds 12 months,  You will be Your own insurer for the difference  and 
bear a rateable  share of the loss.
So, I think its reasonable for Aviva to deduct 9% from the claim settlement based  on its 
calculations and the policy terms and conditions.
As our investigator has said, if Mr D is concerned about the amount D was insured  for, hed 
need to raise this with his broker. I cant hold Aviva liable for the cover Mr D has in place, as 
it didnt sell him the policy.
financial losses
Ref: DRN56015013Mr D has incurred the cost of a forensic  expert  and a loss assessor. As Aviva has agreed to 
reimburse the full cost of the forensic report,  I dont need to comment on this. But Ive 
considered what  it should  do about the cost of the loss assessor.
Were not always persuaded that the cost of a loss assessor should be paid by insurers.  This 
is because its ultimately the customers decision whether they chose to instruct one or 
represent themselves.  And if they do instruct one, they enter into that agreement  with the 
loss assessor on the basis that they will pay its fees.
However, in some instances  we do find that insurers should  cover the cost, whether in full or 
in part. And this is usually in circumstances  where we think  the claim wouldnt  have  been  
successful without the professional help a loss assessor  brings to the claim.
In this case, Mr D told our service he felt out of his depth with the claim as hes not an expert 
in insurance. And he needed someone to guide  him. Given  the value of the claim and the 
impact it had on his business,  I think it was reasonable for Mr D to appoint  a loss assessor.  
Especially given that Aviva had provisionally declined the claim very early  on. I think  the 
expert services were needed. So, I think based  on what our investigator asked Aviva to do 
its offer to meet 50% of these costs (£1,620) is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
my final decision
I uphold the complaint. I require Aviva Insurance Limited to:
pay the full cost of the forensic report - £3,000;
pay 50% of the loss assessors fees - £1,620;
pay £500* compensation  for distress  and inconvenience.
*Aviva Insurance Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days  of the date on which we 
tell it Mr D accepts my final decision.  If it pays later than this, it must also pay interest  on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 April 2020.
John Quinlan
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN5601501