K821x#15complaint
Miss N complains about issues shes experienced with a car purchased  with finance from 
Vauxhall Finance  plc.
background
In November 2015 Miss N was supplied with a car and entered into a conditional sale 
agreement with Vauxhall Finance.
Miss N experienced  issues  with an intermittent loss of power. She reported this to the 
dealership but it wasnt able to replicate the fault.
Miss N complained to this service about this issue and it was dealt with under reference  
1894-7691, with the recommendation that Miss N obtained an independent report to 
evidence the issue. 
Miss N obtained an independent report but the engineer  was unable to replicate the loss of 
power issue.
Miss N is also concerned that the coil pack has been replaced on the car twice. She feels  
that this is indicative  of a problem  and wants to reject the car.
In its final response,  Vauxhall Finance said that neither the dealership  nor the independent 
inspection had found a fault in relation to the intermittent power loss. It said there  was 
nothing to suggest that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of supply.
Miss N wasnt  happy with the response so she complained  to this service.
Our investigator said there wasnt enough evidence to show that the car was suffering power 
loss. Because  of this, he said he wouldnt be asking Vauxhall Finance to do anything about 
this issue. But in relation to the replacement of the coil pack,  the investigator said that this 
wasnt a part which would be expected to fail on a car which  had only covered 13,000  miles.  
The investigator said that because of this, and because the coil pack needed replacing a 
second time at 29,000 miles, he didnt think the car was of satisfactory quality. The 
investigator recommended that Vauxhall Finance allowed Miss N to terminate the agreement 
and refund her deposit.
Vauxhall Finance  didnt  agree. It said that Miss N had purchased the car in December 2015 
and hadnt reported any issues until January 2017.  It said a coil pack replacement was a 
minor repair which didnt render the car of unsatisfactory quality. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because Vauxhall Finance has supplied  the car under a conditional sale agreement  theres 
an implied term that the car is of satisfactory quality. Cars are of satisfactory  quality if they 
are of a standard that a reasonable person would expect, taking into account all of the 
relevant circumstances such as (amongst other  things) the age and mileage of the car and 
the price paid. I would  expect a brand new car to be free from minor defects and for the 
component parts to last a reasonable period  of time before requiring repair or replacement.
Ref: DRN50032842Miss N and Vauxhall Finance disagree  about  whether the car was of satisfactory quality at 
the point of supply. In order to reach  a decision I need to look at the available  evidence and 
determine, on the balance of probabilities, whether I think  the car was of satisfactory quality.
In relation to the intermittent power loss, theres no evidence to support  the finding  of a fault 
with the car. Thats not to say that I dont believe Miss N. But because  this issue  arose  after 
the first 6 months, its up to Miss N to show that this is a fault which was present at the point 
of supply. The available evidence doesnt do this.
In relation to the coil pack, I can see that this was first replaced in December 2016. At this 
point, the car (which  was brand new at the point of supply) had covered 13,000 miles. The 
coil pack was replaced a second time in July 2018. At this point the car had covered 29,000 
miles. 
A coil pack  isnt a part of a car which would usually require replacement  after 13,000 miles. 
And to require two replacements within  such a short period of time and taking into account 
the low mileage is, I think, suggestive of a problem. 
A coil pack  general fails as a result of age or if it is being overworked for some  reason. Its 
not for me to speculate  on exactly why the coil pack needed replacement,  but Ive taken into 
account that Miss Ns car was less than 2 years old and had covered only 13,000  miles 
when the coil pack failed  the first time.  I dont think a reasonable person would expect a new 
car to experience coil failure like this. 
One of the factors I have  to take into account when considering whether a car is of 
satisfactory quality is durability. The coil pack required replacement at 13,000  miles,  and 
then again at 29,000  miles only 18 months later. 
This leads  me to conclude that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of sale. 
Because of this, I think Miss N should be allowed to cancel  the agreement.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint.  Vauxhall Finance plc should:
Cancel the agreement with nothing further  to pay
Arrange for the car to be collected  at no cost to Miss N.
Refund Miss Ns deposit  of £5000 together with 8% simple  interest  per year from the 
date of payment  to the date of settlement
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss N to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 December 2019.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5003284