K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a loan payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 2008. 
Mrs C says 1st Class Credit Union Limited  mis-sold her the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Due to the time thats passed since this policy was sold, theres some uncertainty  about the 
level of cover that the policy  offered.  I say this because theres an indication that the level of 
cover may have been accident and sickness only, as 1st Class Credit Union Limited in their 
submissions to our Service made  reference to this level of cover.  
1st Class Credit  Union Limited have since told me that at the time of sale they offered a 
choice of accident and sickness cover or accident,  sickness and unemployment cover 
(ASU)  which Mrs C was sold. However, Ive not seen any supporting  evidence  that there 
would have been a choice  between  the two levels of cover.  I say this because the paperwork 
from the sale shows two options for PPI  to accept or decline ASU. But I havent seen any 
evidence that there  would have been an option  to choose between  the level of cover. 
I also tried to contact the underwriter of this policy to definitively establish  the correct  level of 
cover, but unfortunately their records are incomplete. So, Ive considered  that in this case,  
its likely  the only level of cover available was ASU as it appears from the application form, 
that this was the only option. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Cs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think 1st Class Credit Union Limited made it clear that Mrs C didnt have to take out 
the PPI and she chose to take it out  although  I can understand why she may not 
remember this.
I say this because  Ive seen some  of the paperwork completed at the time of sale. On       
Mrs Cs loan application form there are two options for PPI. Theres  an option to take 
PPI; I wish to insure my loan for accident,  sickness and unemployment cover, and 
theres also an option to decline  PPI; I do not wish to take payment protection  
insurance.  Theres an indication that the option  to take PPI was selected  and Mrs C 
signed the overall application on 17 July 2008.
Ive also seen a loan agreement that Mrs C has signed on 28 July 2008 to agree to 
the loan and PPI.
Ive carefully considered  what Mrs C has said about being advised  to take out the 
protection policy to assist  her application. Based on everything I've seen, Ive not 
seen any supporting evidence that this was the case. In my opinion, the PPI was 
presented as optional on the paperwork and Im satisfied that Mrs C chose to take it 
out.
Ref: DRN519397421st Class Credit  Union Limited  didnt recommend  the PPI to Mrs C so it didnt have to 
check if it was right for her. But it did have to make  sure Mrs C got the information 
she needed to decide if it was right for her. 
Its possible the information 1st Class Credit Union Limited gave  Mrs C about the PPI 
wasnt as clear  as it shouldve been.  But she chose to take out the PPI - so it looks 
like she wanted this type of cover. Based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at 
the time it doesnt look like she was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits  on 
the PPI cover - so it would have been  useful for her if something went  wrong.   
Mrs C has said she didnt need  PPI because of her existing means  of making  her 
loan repayments  if she was unwell and unable to work or if she was made 
unemployed. 
But for a successful accident or sickness claim, this policy could have paid out for 
longer (for up to 24 months) than Mrs Cs sick pay likely would have lasted. Ive also 
considered that although  Mrs C would likely  have  been entitled to a decent 
redundancy pay out if she was made  unemployed  due to her length of employment,  
this PPI policy would have paid out in addition to her redundancy. 
So I still think that she could have found  the PPI useful if she needed to make a 
claim. 
It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont think better information about the 
PPI would have  put her off taking out the cover. 
Ive also thought about the commission Mrs C paid on her policy  and whether 1st Class 
Credit Union Limited treated her unfairly. 
1st Class Credit  Union Limited has told us that the commission for Mrs Cs policy  was less 
than half of what she paid for each  premium. Weve looked at how 1st Class Credit Union 
Limited has been working this out and based  on what weve seen it looks  like its right    
Mrs Cs commission  was less than half the cost of the policy. As thats the case,  I dont think  
it needed to tell her about the commission  so I dont think 1st Class Credit Union Limited  
treated her unfairly. This means it doesnt need  to pay Mrs C back any of the commission 
she paid for the PPI. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs C to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 April 2019.
Daniel OShea 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN51939743
Ref: DRN5193974