K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs T are unhappy Zurich Assurance  Ltd (Zurich)  wont  pay their childrens critical
illness benefit claim.
background
In 2016, Mr and Mrs T took out a life and critical illness policy with Zurich, which
automatically included  childrens critical illness benefit.
Mr and Mrs T say that in March 2017, a month after their daughters birth,  she was
diagnosed with a congenital  heart  condition, involving holes in her heart and the narrowing of
a blood vessel  opening. And that they were told she needed open  heart  surgery  in March
2018, which took place five months  later to repair the holes and widen her pulmonary  valve.
In August  2018,  Mr and Mrs T got in touch with Zurich, via their broker,  to make a childrens
critical illness benefit claim  for the listed operations  of either heart surgery,  or heart valve
replacement or repair.  Zurich declined their claim,  saying it was excluded as their daughter
was suffering from her condition before  cover  started.
Unhappy with this, Mr and Mrs T complained to Zurich that the operation put their daughter
in a critical state. They said while her condition was diagnosed at birth and they were
advised she might need  an operation in her first few years of life, the nature and extent of
her condition was unclear.  And that the timing  and type of operation  she might need wasnt
known until over a year later. They also said the policy only mentions some  conditions that
Zurich doesnt  cover, and they feel it should  make them  aware of every condition that isnt
covered.
In response, Zurich  said the childrens critical illness benefit applied  from the date a child
turns three months old. And it wont pay a claim for a medical condition a child was already
suffering from before  this (whether or not there were symptoms).  Zurich said Mr and Mrs Ts
daughters surgery  was required to treat a condition  that existed before she was three
months old. And that while  its obliged to inform customers whats covered under  their policy,
it isnt expected to list all the conditions that arent.
Unhappy with this, Mr and Mrs T brought their complaint to our service. One of our
investigators looked into it and said Zurich acted  fairly. They  said it isnt material when their
daughters condition became symptomatic or when  they found  out what operation she
needed, as her condition pre-dates the benefit start date. And that we wouldnt expect Zurich
to list all the conditions  that arent covered in the policy.
Mr and Mrs T dont  agree.  They say their daughters  diagnosis was only made early because
of their profession. They feel Zurich is acting inconsistently by not covering congenital heart
conditions when it covers  some other inherited conditions. And that covering some
contradicts its rationale that it wont pay claims for a condition a child was suffering from
before the benefit started.
So the complaints  been passed  to me for a decision. I initially  let Zurich know that I thought
the exclusion it relied on was ambiguous, as this says it wont  pay a claim for a medical
condition and Mr and Mrs Ts claim is for their daughters operation. And that on a fair and
reasonable basis, this should be interpreted in Mr and Mrs Ts favour.
Ref: DRN55967962Zurich replied saying  the position isnt ambiguous, as the medical condition the operation
relates to is a pre-existing one, which is excluded. It says Mr and Mrs Ts daughters
surgery is directly  linked to the pre-existing heart condition she was born with  the
operation was required because of this  so theres  an uninterrupted link between  the
two. And that the main  principle behind the exclusion is to prevent claims for conditions that
exist prior to cover and anti-selection.
It also says this fundamental principle of insurance  has been applied  for years  this type of
wording which excludes congenital conditions is common in the market. It says the exclusion
was to allow easy acceptance and affordability  for customers. And while some policies now
cover these conditions, this is with an increased premium.
Mr and Mrs T replied  and said while  their daughters operation  related to her condition, the
policy terms dont say that an operation required as a result  of that condition is excluded.
And they dont think their daughter can be considered  as about to have an operation  before
she was included on the plan, for the reasons theyve already given.
Mr and Mrs T say that anti-selection doesnt apply here, as they purchased  the policy  before
their daughter was born and couldnt have known about her condition during Mrs Ts
pregnancy. And that Zurich hasnt explained why it covers some inherited conditions,  while
also including the general exclusion that its relied  on here.
I issued a provisional decision. In that decision, I said:
Both Zurich  and Mr and Mrs T have made a number of points and while  Ive thought  about
them all, Ive focused on the issues I think are central to reaching a fair and reasonable
outcome to this complaint. Namely  whether  Zurich  acted  fairly by turning down Mr and
Mrs Ts claim for their daughters operation because of a pre-existing medical condition.
Mr and Mrs Ts policy says:
Childrens critical  illness  benefit  applies from the date each child turns  three months
And the exclusion Zurichs relied  on to decline  their claim  says:
We wont pay a childrens  critical  illness  benefit claim if the claim is for a medical condition
from which the child was already suffering  before the start of the cover  (whether or not there
were any symptoms).
Firstly, Ive considered whether the exclusion is clearly worded and Im satisfied  it is - it
clearly excludes claims for a medical condition a child was already suffering from at the time
cover started. And, while I think it captures this less clearly when a claim is for an operation,
I think it does this clearly enough where  an operation has had to be carried out because  of a
medical condition.  Especially when considering the exclusion in line with its purpose, the
context of the policy and the way childrens critical illness benefit usually works.
An insurer  is entitled to decide what risks its willing to accept and it usually does this through
an underwriting process. When Mr and Mrs T applied  for their policy they would have
answered health questions in order for Zurich to carry  out this process. But a childrens
critical illness benefit isnt usually part of a process like this. Its often  an additional benefit
that allows children  to be covered before its possible for an insurer  to have any relevant
medical information about them.  So exclusions,  like the one used by Zurich here, are put in
Ref: DRN55967963place to ensure  claims are only made  for conditions that didnt exist at the point  cover
started.
And I can see Mr and Mrs Ts policy explains the purpose of its exclusions. It says:
An exclusion  removes our obligation to pay the cover or the benefits (or both) where the
claim results from you taking part in certain  specified  occupations,  pursuits or activities, or
where you suffer from certain specified  illnesses, disabilities or medical conditions. Well
include any specific exclusions on your plan schedule.
And, while Mr and Mrs T claimed for their daughters operation, Im satisfied she wouldnt
have needed to undergo  the operation if it wasnt for her medical condition  it resulted  from
that. So, I think their daughters medical  condition is the reason for their claim  its the main
cause of it. In which  case, for the reasons Ive given above, I think the exclusion captures Mr
and Mrs Ts claim  for their daughters operation. So Im satisfied that Zurich acted fairly when
it used the exclusion  to decline their claim.
I understand Mr and Mrs T say their daughters condition  was able to be diagnosed shortly
after her birth due to their professions. But I think the very fact that she was suffering from it
before cover  started  means their claim is captured by the exclusion. The reason  why her
condition came to light, when the true nature of it became known and whether she had any
symptoms isnt material. So, I dont  think Zurich has acted unfairly by relying on the
exclusion to decline their claim.
Mr and Mrs T have  also said the policy only mentions some conditions that Zurich  doesnt
cover, and they feel it should make them aware  of every condition  that isnt covered. But
their policy covers the illnesses that I would expect it to, and I wouldnt expect  Zurich  to set
out the illnesses it doesnt cover in the policy.
And while I understand Mr and Mrs T feel its contradictory for Zurich to cover some inherited
conditions while also including an exclusion like the one its relied on here, Zurich  is entitled
to decide which illnesses it is prepared to offer cover  for.
In summary,  I think Zurichs acted fairly  by relying  on the exclusion it has to decline Mr and
Mrs Ts claim.
I explained I intended to issue a final decision along  these  lines. But I asked  both parties to
provide any further  comments they had first. 
Zurichs said it accepts my provisional  decision, with nothing  further  to add. 
Mr and Mrs T said they dont accept it. And theyve made several points in response, which  
Ive summarised below. 
Mr and Mrs T have  said the policy refers to conditions and operations  separately. And that 
the exclusion covers claims for medical conditions, when theyre claiming for their daughters 
operation. They feel that the policy isnt explicitly clear that the exclusion captures operations 
needed as a direct or indirect result of a medical  condition, and it doesnt include the 
Association of British Insurers (ABI) Guide to Minimum  Standards  for Critical Illness  Covers 
example introductory  wording for model exclusions,  which says We will not pay a critical 
illness claim if it is caused directly  or indirectly from any of the following. 
Ref: DRN55967964Mr and Mrs T also feel that Zurichs  failure  to refer to and make them  aware of industry 
standards and norms  when purchasing the policy is unfair and misleading. And theyve said 
their policy schedule doesnt detail any specific exclusions that apply to their plan. 
Mrs and Mrs T said its incorrect to think the reason their daughters condition came to light,  
when its true nature became known and when she had any symptoms  isnt material,  as a 
congenital heart condition can go unnoticed  for many years. And that its unfair for Zurich to 
reject their claim  when their daughter could have  gone for much longer without an initial 
diagnosis. 
The complaint has now come back to me for a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account all the further  points made by Mr and Mrs T, and while I know they 
will be disappointed, my decision hasnt changed.
I recognise Zurich hasnt used the ABI introductory  wording  for model  exclusions.  But that 
doesnt mean its acted  unfairly or in a misleading  way, or that the exclusion should be 
interpreted in a way thats more  favourable to Mr and Mrs T. I would  only consider doing that 
if I didnt think its exclusion was clear  enough. And I think it is, for the reasons Ive already  
given. 
I appreciate Mr and Mrs Ts comments about  the nature and extent of their daughters  
condition. And that theyve said a congenital  heart condition  can go unnoticed  for years, so 
they think its unfair that their claim has been rejected when their daughter could have  gone  
much longer  without an initial diagnosis. 
However, Im considering  whats  happened in these  particular circumstances. Mr and Mrs T 
told us their daughter  had symptoms and received her diagnosis  when she was a month old, 
which was before cover started. And, even if her symptoms had gone  unnoticed  until after 
that, my decision wouldnt  be any different. Their daughters circumstances would  still be 
captured by the exclusion, as she was already suffering from her congenital  condition  before 
cover started, regardless of whether she had any symptoms at that point.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  8 July 2020.
Martina Ryan  
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5596796