K822xcomplaint
Miss E complains  that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited declined  her application 
for refinance.
background 
In April 2014 Miss E was supplied with a car and entered into a hire purchase agreement  
with VWFS. The agreement was for 48 months with an optional final payment of £7,552.50  
to purchase the car.
Towards the end of the agreement, Miss E decided she wanted to re-finance  the final 
payment and keep  the car.
In January 2018, Miss E asked VWFS if she could refinance. She explained that she had 
changed her name since entering into the agreement.  VWFS asked her to send proof  of her 
name change. Miss E sent her deed  poll document.
In March 2018 Miss E submitted a refinance  application to VWFS. VWFS requested  further 
information and Miss E provided a passport, a bank statement and a further copy  of the 
deed poll document.
VWFs advised Miss E that the deed  poll document wasnt valid because it wasnt certified.  
Miss E sent in a certified copy  and her refinance was approved  in May 2018, with document  
sent to her to sign and return.
Miss E made a request  for an extension  of time to complete the documents. VWFS agreed 
an extension but didnt tell Miss E how long it was for. Miss E returned the documents in 
June 2018. VWFS advised her that they werent  completed properly and asked her to send 
further documents. Miss E sent these to VWFs  and says she didnt  hear anything  further.
Some time later, Miss E realised that payments werent being taken from her account. She 
contacted VWFS and was advised that her re-finance application had been declined.
Miss E complained to VWFS. In its final response, VWFS said Miss Es documents  were 
received more than 90 days  after her application had been submitted and a new credit check 
was required.  It said that following resubmission of the application, it was declined  because 
Miss E didnt meet the lending criteria. VWFS said it was unable to overturn the decision and 
that the options available to Miss E was to settle the agreement.
Miss E wasnt happy with the response and complained to this service.  She says she made 
VWFS aware that she was studying  abroad  but it didnt advise her that everything had to be 
completed within 90 days. She wants VWFS to overturn the decision and refinance the final 
payment.
Our investigator upheld  the complaint in part. She felt that both VWFS and Miss E had 
contributed towards  delays in the refinance  process. She said VWFS should  have  made 
Miss E aware in January  2018 that her name change  hadnt been actioned. She also said 
that Miss E couldve saved time in April 2018  by sending a certified  copy  of her deed poll, 
which was what had been requested. The investigator felt that both parties were responsible 
for delays  in June  2018 when Miss E didnt send the correct documents  back  and when 
VWFS sent the direct debit forms in Miss Es previous name. The investigator felt that VWFS 
shouldve informed Miss E that it was carrying out a second credit  check  and felt that the 
Ref: DRN51236032default notice  was unfair. The investigator said that Miss E would have to pay the final 
payment if she wanted to keep the car, or pay the arrears under the agreement if she 
wanted to return  the car. She said VWFS  should  remove the default notice and pay 
compensation of £200.
VWFS accepted the view. But Miss E didnt agree. She said she was hoping  to be able to 
refinance the final payment with VWFS  as originally planned and explained  that she was 
unable to refinance elsewhere because of the adverse information on her credit file.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at what happened during the refinance process. Based on what Ive seen, I think  
its fair to say that there  were delays for which  both parties must accept responsibility.
I appreciate how frustrating it mustve been  for Miss E because she sent her deed poll to 
VWFS before the agreement ended. VWFS has said that it didnt receive the deed pool. Its 
unfortunate that VWFS didnt query the name change with Miss E when she called in March 
2018, because  Miss E specifically referred  to this during the conversation,  however,  the 
advisor didnt notice that Miss Es name  hadnt been  changed on the system.
That said,  I dont think it would have  made  any difference if VWFS had received the deed  
poll in January 2018 because the document wasnt certified. And the further copies of the 
deed poll which Miss E sent to VWFS  in April 2018 werent certified  either. It wasnt  until May 
2018 that VWFS received certified  copies. I think Miss E has to accept some responsibility 
for the delay  here. If shed sent in a certified  deed poll sooner, its likely  that the refinancing 
process wouldve  proceeded  quicker  and arguably  within the 90 day timeframe.
There are other aspects of delay  in the process  where I think  Miss E couldve responded 
quicker. That said, I appreciate that she was living abroad at the time and its possible that 
there were delays in the postal system with documents not reaching her as quickly as they 
would if she had been in the UK.
I can see that further delays occurred when  Miss E asked for an extension.  It took VWFS a 
week to respond to the request. If VWFS had made it clear to Miss E that the process  had to 
be completed within 90 days, I think this might  have served as an incentive for both parties  
to do things more  quickly. As it was, Miss E provided her completed documents  outside  the 
90 day period.
I understand why Miss E feels that she shouldve been told about  the second  credit check. 
VWFS has said that the re-submitted application was treated as a new application. In these 
circumstances, I would have expected  VWFS  to advise Miss E that a further credit  check 
was being carried  out. That said, Ive no reason to think that the outcome of the credit  check 
wouldve been any different even if Miss E had known  about it.
I appreciate that Miss E wants VWFS  to refinance the final payment.  But Im unable to ask 
VWFS to do this. Miss E failed the second credit  check and Im unable  to ask a business to 
alter its lending criteria.
Ref: DRN51236033Miss E has explained that she wants to keep the car but that shes  finding it difficult  to 
refinance it elsewhere due to the entries on her credit file, one of which  is the default notice 
issued by VWFS. VWFS issued the notice when the agreement  ended.  I appreciate that if 
the refinance application had been approved, the default  notice wouldve been  removed. But 
because the refinance wasnt approved, and because Miss E hasnt been able to pay the 
final payment, the default notice remains recorded  on her credit file.
Taking all of the circumstances into account,  and given that VWFS was aware in March  
2018 that Miss E intended to refinance  the final payment I dont thank  VWFS acted fairly in 
issuing the default notice.  I appreciate that the final payment  was due on 2 May 2018 and 
that no payments  have  been made to the account  since then. But I think  VWFS issued the 
default notice  too soon.  
Im upholding the complaint in part but I cant give Miss E the outcome she wants.  If Miss E 
wants to keep the car she must  pay the final payment. If she hands the car back, shell  be 
liable for arrears on the account.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint  in part. Volkswagen Financial Services  (UK) 
Limited must:
Remove the default notice and correct Miss Es credit file with the search  that took 
place in June  2018
Pay £250 for distress  and inconvenience
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 February  2020.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5123603