K822xcomplaint
Mrs B is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC are holding her responsible for four loans 
which she says she didnt  take out.
background 
The parties are aware of the background to this complaint. So, I dont intend to set it out in 
detail here.  In summary though, four loans  were taken out in Mrs Bs name between 2010  
and 2014, totalling almost  £39,000.
Mrs B has told us that she thinks her husband took these loans out in her name without her 
consent. They have  since split up, following which she discovered  that Barclays were 
holding her responsible for the amounts that remained outstanding. Shes also discovered  
that these loans have been  recorded on her credit  file as defaults. And this continues  to add 
to the financial  problems that shes experienced since the end of her marriage.
Our investigator looked into Mrs Bs complaint. And concluded that she had, more likely than 
not, been the victim of economic abuse  during her marriage. Her husband  had dealt with all 
of the finances.  And although Mrs B would appear to have had some benefit from the loans, 
as they were partially used to pay for domestic expenses,  shed been  unaware that theyd  
been taken out in her name.  So, he thought Mrs B should bear some responsibility for the 
principal sums outstanding on the loans, but not have to pay for all of them. In that regard, 
he agreed that Barclays goodwill offer to give Mrs B a 50% discount  was fair.
Neither Barclays nor Mrs B agreed  with the investigators recommended  outcome. Barclays 
didnt think this was a case of economic abuse.  And it thought that the loans  should  remain  
recorded on Mrs Bs credit record. Mrs B didnt think it was fair for her to still be held 
responsible for loans  that she hadnt consented to and knew nothing about.
Prior to this final decision, I issued a provisional decision to the parties. Barclays  had by then 
already charged  off the loans and said it wouldnt  be pursuing Mrs B for the remaining debt. 
So that aspect  of Mrs Bs complaint has been settled. And theres  no need for me to 
consider the repayment of the loans themselves in this final decision.  
Before my provisional decision, Barclays hadnt agreed to remove  references to the loans 
from Mrs Bs credit  file. It said that it hadnt accepted that these loans were taken out 
fraudulently, so it didnt  think  it should  be removing them from Mrs Bs credit  record. So that 
aspect of Mrs Bs complaint remained outstanding.  I considered it in my provisional decision,  
where I provisionally found that Mrs B had experienced economic abuse, and I thought  that 
the loans should be removed from her credit record.
Both Mrs B and Barclays agreed with the findings  in my provisional decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision,  I said:
Ref: DRN54470442I was very sorry to hear about Mrs Bs split with her husband. This cannot have been easy. 
And Mrs Bs subsequent  discovery that she was in significant debt will of course  have made 
this all the worse.
Barclays believes that Mrs B knew about the debts that had been taken out in her name.  
And as they were  paid into her joint account  with her husband, she has had some benefit  
from them over the years,  particularly as the money appears to have been  spent in part on 
household expenses.
Mrs B has said that she wasnt involved in the family finances at all. She rarely used a 
computer and her husband handled  everything concerning money.  When Mrs Bs husband  
left her and the children, it came  to light soon after that the familys financial  situation was 
very poor. Mrs B has told us that her husband had intercepted  all of her post. So, shed  not 
been aware of the debt that theyd been in.
At least  three  of the loans that were taken out in Mrs Bs name appear to have  been  applied 
for through  an online loan comparison website. No wet ink signatures will have been 
required on the applications. And everything will have been concluded on the web.  It strikes  
me as strange  that these  loans from Barclays were taken out through a third-party website, 
when Mr and Mrs B had both been long-term customers  of the bank.  So, its unusual that 
Mrs B didnt go to Barclays direct to borrow the money (if it was her), as clearly she was 
deemed to have been an acceptable credit risk at the time.
Mr and Mrs B also had their mortgage  with Barclays. And this had a secured mortgage 
current account facility  on it that had also been maxed out. Again,  Mrs B has told us that this 
was something that she wasnt  aware of. It has also transpired that Mr B took out a £25,000 
loan secured by a second charge over their house from another  lender.  This was also 
something that Mrs B has said she didnt  know about, the witness signature on the mortgage 
being that of someone she doesnt  know.
As Mr B was in control of all the finances, hed applied for online banking  for Mrs B to which 
only he had access.  This came to Mrs Bs notice  only when she herself came to apply  for a 
personal account after the split with her husband.  Using this, Mrs B has said that shes since  
found out that Mr B had spent both her savings and that of their children, in addition  to 
running up the other debts outlined in this complaint.  Whilst thats not something that I 
consider Barclays to be responsible for, the money  seemingly  having gone on day to day 
expenses and been part of many movements  in and out of those accounts, it does add to the 
picture of economic abuse that was taking place over a number of years.
After Mr B left, he appears to have asked his creditors  to agree to an individual voluntary 
arrangement (an IVA).  This is a type of insolvency process where  an individual agrees with 
their creditors to either pay a lower  amount than they owe,  and/or to make payments over 
time. Weve asked Barclays if they have a copy of the IVA and Mr Bs statement of affairs 
showing the extent  of his debts. Unfortunately, Barclays  have been  unable to find this. 
But I do consider  that the existence of this IVA supports Mrs Bs contention that her husband  
had additional  debts other than those of which Mrs B is now aware. Given  he clearly needed 
to take out an IVA, its reasonable  to presume that those  debts  must  have  been  
considerable. And that they were with creditors other than Barclays too. So, the extent of Mr 
Bs debts  may well have  been such to have given  him a significant motive to apply for debts 
in Mrs Bs name  without  her knowledge.
Ref: DRN54470443When Mrs B discovered what her husband had been doing  with their finances,  she reported 
him to the police.  Weve contacted the police officer involved. And he has told us that Mrs B 
was a credible witness,  although there wasnt sufficient evidence to be sure of obtaining a 
successful criminal prosecution.
Barclays records indicate that Mr B admitted to one of their cashiers that hed taken out the 
four loans in Mrs Bs name without  her consent. Although  Barclays continue to doubt 
whether or not Mrs B was aware of the loans anyway.
Having taken all of the evidence into account, its my finding that Mrs B more likely than not 
didnt know about  these loans when they were taken out in her name.  They were all applied  
for online. And Mrs B has given a persuasive account of how the family finances were  
handled by her ex-husband. The subsequent IVA also lends to the conclusion that Mr B had 
a motive to take out these loans without  Mrs Bs knowledge. So, its my finding thats more  
likely than not what happened here.
Whilst Mrs B may have benefitted in part from the principal sums borrowed,  given that the 
money went into her joint account with her ex-husband,  she wont  have  had sight  of, or 
agreed to, the terms and conditions of the loans. Her husband made  the loan payments over 
the years, and it would  appear  he may have funded these from debts he was incurring with 
Barclays and others   noting  of course the IVA and the possible extent  of other  debts Mr B 
may have  had too. 
As Ive found that Mrs B didnt agree  to the loans, I dont consider that these should remain 
recorded on her credit  file. The loans werent Mrs Bs. And so shouldnt be recorded against 
her name.
As both Mrs B and Barclays  have  accepted  my provisional decision, I see no need to change 
the findings above that I made in it, which I adopt in full in this final decision.
my final decision
Its my final decision to uphold this complaint in part. I require that Barclays  Bank  UK PLC 
arrange with the credit reference agencies to which it reports, for all records  of these four 
unsecured loans, and any defaults relating to them, to be removed from Mrs Bs credit file.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 August 2021.
James Kennard
ombudsmano
Ref: DRN5447044