K820x#14complaint
Mr H says Nationwide Building  Society  mis-sold him a payment protection  insurance (PPI) 
policy.
background
Mr H bought the policy in 2001 at the same  time as taking out a loan. The loan included  an 
amount to pay for the policy.  The policy provided  cover for Mr H if he couldnt  work because 
of accident, sickness  or unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld. Mr H disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here),  I reach my conclusions on the balance  
of probabilities  that is, what I think is most  likely to have happened in light of the available 
evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Hs case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Hs complaint because:
I think Nationwide made Mr H aware the PPI was optional  and that he chose to take it 
out. Mr H applied  for his loan over the phone. Nationwide  no longer has a recording of 
the phone  call, which isnt surprising given  the amount of time thats  passed  since the 
loan was sold. But based on what we know about Nationwides  phone  sales at the time, 
Im satisfied  that the optional nature of the PPI wouldve been made clear to Mr H during  
the call.
Following the call the loan agreement was produced. The PPI was listed  as Optional 
Credit Insurance on the agreement, and was set out separately to the loan amount Mr H 
was borrowing. So I think Mr H wouldve realised that he had a choice  about  whether or 
not to buy it.
From what  Ive seen, I think Nationwide did enough to make Mr H aware that the PPI 
was optional.
Nationwide didnt recommend the PPI to Mr H. So, Nationwide had to give him clear  enough 
information about the policy so he could decide if he wanted  to buy it. . Its possible the 
information Nationwide gave Mr H about  the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve  been. But I 
dont think better information  would have  stopped  Mr H from buying  the policy. I explain why 
I say that below: 
Mr H was eligible for the policy.
Its possible Nationwide didnt point out the main things the policy  didnt cover. But its 
unlikely Mr H would have  been  affected by any of these.
Ref: DRN54728592I think its likely that Mr H had a need  for the cover the policy  could provide. Mr H told us 
he had employer sick pay and savings he couldve used if he couldnt work. But the 
policy could have  paid out for up to a year if Mr H lost his job, and for the duration  of the 
loan if he was too ill to work through sickness or accident. So, having considered this, I 
think that Mr H could  have  found the policy useful.
The policy appears to have been flexible  in that Mr H may have got back a pro rata 
refund of the PPI premium if he cancelled it early. 
The cost of the policy was shown on the loan agreement  including  the amount of the 
premium, the interest payable on the premium and the total cost. So I think  Mr H would 
have understood  how much  the PPI would  cost if he kept the policy for its full term. And 
given how long the policy could have paid out for, most likely, if Mr H made a successful 
claim, he could have got back quite a bit more  than he paid for it.  
So, for the reasons given above,  I dont think better  information about the PPI would have put Mr H 
off taking out the cover. 
When I take all of these  points into account,  Im not persuaded that the policy was mis-sold.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 August 2019.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5472859