K820x#14complaint
Mr D says Malcolm  Aplin  (MA) recommended an unsuitable Unregulated Collective 
Investment Scheme (UCIS) investment to him in 2013, from which he lost money. He seeks  
compensation for the financial loss and for commission associated with the investment.
background
Mr Ds summary  of the background includes the following:
Between 2012 and 2013 he closed his company and retired.  He had capital of 
£325,000 to invest and he instructed his accountant and MA to put together a plan for 
this purpose. A meeting, featuring all three  parties, followed.
In 2013 MA recommended his investment of £200,000 into an Axa (now Phoenix) 
Wealth portfolio and £125,000 into the UCIS (the New Earth Recycling  Fund). In 
2014 all three parties met again  and MA recommended his investment of an 
additional £40,000 in the UCIS. He invested  a total of £165,000 in the UCIS.
The UCIS collapsed  in 2016 and he subsequently learnt that it ought not to have 
been promoted or recommended  to him  with regards  to the former, he was a 
novice investor and not the sort of investor that a UCIS  fund should  have been 
promoted to, and with regards to the latter the UCIS was too risky for his novice and 
retiree investor profile, and financial capacity, at the time. 
MA disputes the complaint. In the main, it says:
It promoted but did not recommend  the UCIS to Mr D. It initially promoted  but did 
not recommend   the UCIS to Mr Ds accountant, who invested in it. The accountant 
then referred Mr D as a willing investor, so the UCIS was promoted to him and he 
invested in it in 2013. The same  arrangement  applied in 2014, whereby Mr D 
invested further in the UCIS  without  its recommendation to do so. It played  an 
execution only role in the UCIS investment.
There is documentary evidence of Mr D signing and dating  agreements in which he 
expressly undertook  that he was an experienced investor and had invested without 
seeking or receiving  advice from MA; and evidence  of Mr D signing  and dating  High 
Net Worth (HNW) and sophisticated  investor declarations that created the basis on 
which the UCIS was reasonably promoted  to him.
Around 2007 it assisted Mr D in a mortgage application within  which information 
about his real estate  investments and annual  earnings (between  £160,000 and 
£182,000) over the preceding three  years  was available. In 2013 nothing  was 
presented to it to suggest Mr Ds financial circumstances had changed and his 
signing of the HNW  declaration supported this understanding. The same  
understanding was supported in writing  by Mr Ds accountant, in which  Mr Ds HNW  
status was reaffirmed.
Given that it did not recommend the UCIS investment(s) it holds no responsibility for 
its suitability (for Mr D), and its commission was agreed with him.
One of our investigators  looked into the complaint  and concluded that it should not be 
upheld. Overall, he took the view that the balance of documentary  evidence supported MAs 
position  that promotion  of the UCIS  to Mr D was appropriate due to his HNW  status and 
that the UCIS was not recommended  to him by MA, so it is not responsible for its suitability.
Ref: DRN51148512Mr D disagreed with this outcome. He repeated his key claims. He referred to evidence  that, 
he said, showed the UCIS was unsuitable  for him and showed how this ought to have been  
clear to MA when it recommended the investment to him. In terms of the promotion and 
MAs denial of giving  him financial advice, Mr D mainly said:
He had a meeting  in 2012  with MA during  which it was informed that he had retired 
and no longer had earned  income,  so it knew his circumstances had changed and it 
could not have reasonably relied on his earned income from 2007.
MA also knew he was a novice  investor. He signed the HNW declarations because 
he was convinced, by MA, that he needed  to do so in order  to qualify to invest  in the 
UCIS. He was also unaware  of the commission that MA was to earn from it.
This service should refer to, and follow, two of its previous decisions  which he 
identified  in which the New Earth  Recycling  Fund was concluded as unsuitable in 
circumstances similar to his.
The matter  was referred to an ombudsman.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Promotion of the UCIS  Investment
MA does not appear to dispute that it promoted  the UCIS investment to Mr D, upon  his 
accountants referral, and arranged it for him. It says, in the main,  that it did the former on 
the basis of the HNW declaration and did the latter  on an execution  only basis.
UCIS investments could  be promoted to a limited category of potential  investors in 2013 and, 
since then, regulation of their promotion was tightened further. HNW  and sophisticated 
investors fell within the limited category  in 2013,  hence MAs argument that it was 
appropriate to promote the UCIS investment to Mr D because he was both.
Available evidence  includes  the documented HNW declaration signed and dated by Mr D in 
2013. By signing it he made the following declarations  
I can receive financial promotions  that may not have been approved by a person  authorised  
by the Financial Services Authority 
 such  financial promotions may not conform to rules issued by the Financial Services 
Authority 
 I may lose significant rights 
I am a certified high net worth individual because at least one of the following applies  
(a)I had, during the financial  year immediately preceding the date below, an annual 
income to the value  of £100,000 or more;
(b) net assets to the value of £250,000 or more 
I accept that I can lose my property and other assets from making decisions based on 
financial promotions.
Ref: DRN51148513I am aware that it is open to me to seek advice from someone who specialises in advising 
on investments.
There is also a letter from Mr Ds accountant  that was sent to MA at the time echoing Mr Ds 
HNW declaration. However, I note that Mr D challenges the validity  of this letter. 
Nevertheless, the validity of the declarations he signed is not in doubt.
The Investor Declaration Mr D signed  for the UCIS investment included confirmation that he 
was  an investor with the relevant knowledge,  experience and level of sophistication as 
defined in the Funds prospectus  
The parties differ in their respective narrative about how these declarations were signed by 
Mr D. He says he was convinced to sign them, despite not having an HNW and 
sophisticated investor status, but MA disputes this. I do not have enough  evidence  to tip the 
balance  one way or another   in this respect.  What was verbally discussed by Mr D, his 
accountant and MA at the time of the investment remains uncertain.
However, the declarations quoted above are important and they provide a basis upon which 
to test, on the balance of probabilities, Mr Ds argument. They state, in stark terms, 
declarations that Mr D would have known   or ought  reasonably to have known  he would 
be bound  by. If, as he asserts,  he was a novice investor, he was not a sophisticated  investor 
and he was not an HNW  investor, the wordings of the declarations should have deterred 
him. I am not persuaded that he could  have been  convinced, against his will, to make 
declarations that were  untrue.   
The implication that arises  in the absence of a basis to safely conclude  that he intentionally 
and untruthfully  made the declarations  is that he stood by them at the time and considered 
himself to have HNW  and sophisticated investor  status. I appreciate that, in hindsight, he 
appears to have taken  a different view,  but at the time MA was entitled to rely upon  his 
declarations and on that basis  it promoted  the UCIS  investment to him.
Suitability of the UCIS Investment
In the absence of evidence  showing fact finding and/or suitability assessment, by MA, in 
relation to the UCIS investment, a similar  analysis applies to the matter of responsibility  for 
the UCIS  investments suitability. I also note the lack of evidence to establish, on the balance 
of probabilities, the verbal recommendation that Mr D says MA gave him.
In order to be responsible for the suitability  of the UCIS  investment  (for Mr D) it needs to be 
shown that MA did more than arrange  the investment   and that it recommended,  and 
advised Mr D to invest in, it. 
MAs Execution Only service form, which Mr D signed and dated, states the opposite. It 
includes the following   
 I wish to make  an investment  on an EXECUTION ONLY basis 
I have not asked for or received advice 
Nothing  I have received from [MA] should  be construed as constituting  advice or a 
recommendation.
Ref: DRN51148514It was my decision alone to take out the investment 
The same letter from Mr Ds accountant echoed  his agreement to invest  on an execution 
only basis. I repeat, he questions this letter, but there is no doubt over the form he signed.
A similar implication,  as in the promotion  issue above, arises.  In the absence of a basis to 
safely conclude that Mr D falsely agreed to an execution only service (without investment 
advice), the implication  is that he sought and received such a service. I do not consider it 
conceivable that Mr D could have signed an agreement for such a service  if it was at odds 
with any advice he intended to receive or was due to receive or had received from MA. 
On balance and despite Mr Ds submissions, it appears more likely (than not) that the 
agreement reflects MAs arrangement of the UCIS  investment for him on an execution  only 
basis, without recommending the investment to him. In which  case, it is not responsible  for 
its suitability. The matter  of commission is arguably part of the alleged unsuitability of the 
UCIS investment, so this conclusion also applies to the suitability of the commission 
arrangement.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I do not uphold Mr Ds complaint. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or reject  my decision 
before 26 April 2020.
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN5114851