K820x#14complaint
Mrs H says Canada Square  Operations Limited (trading at the time as Egg)  mis-sold her a 
payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.  
background
Mrs H bought the policy in 2001, at the same time as taking out a credit card online.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs H disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Hs case.
Having done that, I dont  think  this PPI policy was mis-sold  Ill explain why.
Ive looked at a copy  of the online sales process  Mrs H wouldve used at the time of her sale. 
From that, I can see there was a section for PPI. It wouldve  given her a brief overview of 
what the policy was for and what it cost, then offered two options:  one to take the policy and 
one to turn it down.  Both options appear to have been equally prominent  and neither appear 
to have been pre-selected. According to the electronic  record of Mrs Hs application, she 
chose the option to buy PPI. So I think that Canada Square made  Mrs H aware she had a 
choice about buying the PPI, and that she chose to take it at the time  though I can 
understand if she no longer remembers doing so after so long. 
Canada Square  didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs H, so they didnt have to check if it was 
right for her. They did have to give Mrs H enough  information to decide if the PPI was right 
for her.
Its possible that the information Canada  Square  gave Mrs H about PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  The question, then,  is whether  I think better information was likely to have 
changed her mind.  Here, it looks like Mrs H chose to take out the policy,  which implies she 
wanted this type of cover. And based on what Ive seen  of her circumstances at the time it 
doesnt look like she was affected by any of the policys main exclusions or limitations.
While Mrs H had some sick pay through work, the PPI wouldve paid out on top of that, and it 
covered her more comprehensively  especially when her sick pay reduced to just half pay. 
And she doesnt seem to have had any other protection in case  she lost her job. Mrs H 
pointed out she never  needed to claim, but thats only something she knows in hindsight   
there was always the chance she couldve been  off sick or lost her job. And the policy  would 
have been useful for Mrs H if something went wrong. Then if Mrs Hs circumstances  
changed or she changed her mind, she could cancel  it at any time without a penalty. Overall, 
I dont think better information  about  the PPI was likely to have  put Mrs H off taking it out.
Ref: DRN54231212Lastly, I understand that Mrs H may have received refunds for other PPI policies. But 
different types  of policies worked in different ways and were  sold by different methods at 
different times. So just because one policy was mis-sold, it doesnt mean  that all others 
were. Ive explained above why I think that this particular  PPI policy was not mis-sold.
my final decision
For the reasons  I explained above, I dont  uphold Mrs Hs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 May 2019.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5423121