K820x#14complaint
Mrs H complains that J D Williams and Company  Limited (trading  as Marisota) increased the 
interest rate on her account  without  telling her.
background
In 2014 Mrs H opened an account with J D Williams. She recently  discovered  that the 
interest rate on the account balance  had increased  from 58.67%  to 69.9%.
Mrs H is unhappy that she didnt receive  notice  of the increase or been given an explanation 
for it. To resolve her complaint Mrs H wants a refund of the additional interest shes paid, 
backdated to June 2017.
In its response,  J D Williams said it could vary the interest rate in accordance with the terms 
and conditions of the account.  It said the interest  rate depended on individual  circumstances 
and that it had written  to Mrs H giving  her notice of the increase.
Mrs H wasnt happy with the response so she complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. He said J D Williams had sent a letter to Mrs H 
in May 2017  telling her about  the increase. He said it was a business decision for J D 
Williams to increase the interest rate and that it was allowed to do this under the terms and 
conditions of the account.
Mrs H didnt agree. She said she hadnt  received a letter telling her about the interest rate 
increase. She wanted to know the reason why the rate had been  increased (with reference 
to the 5 possible reasons as set out in the terms and conditions of the account). Mrs H said 
that if the rate of interest had been increased  because her risk profile had increased then 
she felt that J D Williams  shouldntve increased her credit limit subsequently. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that the interest rate on Mrs Hs account was increased  on 17 June 2017. The 
terms and conditions of the account  allow J D Williams to increase the interest rate provided 
that it gives at least 21 days notice in writing.
The information provided to me shows that J D Williams  sent a letter  to Mrs H on 23 May 
2017 telling  her about the interest rate increase.  The interest rate increase didnt take effect 
until 17 June 2017 so Im satisfied  that at least 21 days written notice was given. Because of 
this Im unable to say that J D Williams has acted unfairly.
I appreciate that Mrs H says she didnt  receive  the letter. It was sent to her on the date 
shown and at the registered address held on her account. Im satisfied it was sent. Its 
possible that the letter went missing in the post but if thats the case, I cant fairly hold J D 
Williams responsible for the failings of the postal system.
I understand that its important to Mrs H to know the reason why the interest rate was 
increased. There are a number of circumstances in which  J D Williams can increase the 
Ref: DRN55661112interest rate and these are set out in section  10 of the terms and conditions.  I cant  be certain  
which of the 5 circumstances caused J D Williams  to decide to increase the rate. In any 
event, this is a business  decision for J D Williams and not one with which  this service  can 
interfere, unless the decision has been  made unfairly.
Mrs H feels it was the case that J D Williams increased the rate for the 5th reason (changes  
in the risk make-up of customers  or the overall  mix of fees and charges applied,  or both). 
She says that J D Williams should  not have increased her credit limit after June  2017  if she 
had become a high risk customer.
J D Williams has explained that the risk assessment  for credit  limit increases is different from 
the risk assessment  to determine  the interest  rate. So it doesnt follow that a customer  
whose interest rate has been increased wont be considered for  and given - a credit  limit 
increase.
Taking all of the available evidence into account,  I cant say that J D Williams has treated 
Mrs H unfairly.  The terms and conditions  provide  for the rate of interest to be increased and 
Im satisfied Mrs H was provided with the correct advance notice of the increase. Theres  no 
evidence to suggest that J D Williams has increased the interest rate for a reason other  than 
one of those set out in the terms and conditions. If the reason was a change  in Mrs Hs risk 
profile then Im unable  to say that J D Williams has done anything wrong, as this is a 
business decision which it is entitled to take.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 June 2019.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5566111