K820x#14Complaint
Mr H has complained about the fees charged  by Curtis Banks Limited to administer his Self-
Invested Pension Plan (SIPP).
Background
Mr H has a SIPP which has been  administered and held by Curtis Banks since 2013.
In December 2017 Mr H referred a complaint  to our service, as hed been the subject  of 
court action by Curtis Banks in respect of fees it said he owed for the administration of his 
SIPP. Mr H said hed had no dealings with Curtis Banks before now,  and the value of his 
SIPP was essentially zero. So, he didnt think it was fair for Curtis Banks to charge what he 
considered to be disproportionate fees.  He said Curtis Banks  shouldve  contacted  him about 
closing the SIPP given the limited  value of it.
We referred the matter  to Curtis Banks to provide a final response.  It said Mr H owed fees 
payable to A, the previous SIPP administrator, before  it took it over in 2013. He also owed 
further fees to date.  Curtis Banks said it was Mr Hs responsibility to ask it to close the SIPP  
 it couldnt provide advice or act proactively. It said the fees were  payable regardless of the 
underlying value of the SIPP and it had contacted Mr H about the fees he owed in 2014 and 
2015 before  ultimately starting legal action. Curtis Banks said it couldnt close the SIPP due 
to an investment held within it which required further  action from Mr H.
Mr H remained  unhappy and asked  our service to consider  his complaint. Despite an initial 
hearing having already taken place, the court confirmed  proceedings were stayed pending 
our consideration of the complaint.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint, he said Curtis Banks  was required by 
HM Revenue & Customs  (HMRC) to administer the SIPP. He didnt think the charges 
applied were unreasonable,  despite  the low value of the SIPP. The investigator  thought  it 
was Mr Hs responsibility to contact Curtis Banks  to arrange to close  the SIPP  and he 
couldnt see he had done this before 2018.
Mr H didnt accept the investigators view but said he was prepared to come  to a settlement  
to avoid the matter  going  back to court. This was put to Curtis Banks, who said it would 
accept a reduced sum of £2,500, payable over 12 months. Mr H said he would pay £1,500  in 
instalments of £100 per month.  Curtis  Banks maintained its offer of £2,500 was fair.
As no agreement could be reached  the complaint has been passed  to me to make  a final 
decision. Mr H still believes Curtis Banks  is treating him unfairly by charging him 
disproportionate fees to administer a SIPP that isnt viable. He says Curtis Bank is refusing 
to close the SIPP, despite the judge  at an earlier hearing telling it to close it down.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding it.
Ref: DRN57207652SIPP fees
Mr Hs SIPP  was formerly administered by A. Mr H doesnt appear to dispute that A or 
indeed Curtis Banks was entitled to charge him fees to administer his SIPP.  However, he 
feels that it was unfair to charge him the same level of fee given that the value in the SIPP 
reduced to £122  in 2008. He also believes that it should have been  obvious to Curtis Banks 
that he had no interest  in keeping the SIPP going  and so it should have contacted him to 
discuss his options.  Mr H also says he phoned A in 2009 to ask it to close the SIPP but he 
was told it wasnt possible.
Curtis Banks is the SIPP  administrator, so under HMRC  rules it has an obligation to 
administer it. Curtis  Banks charges a fee to administrator  the SIPP and the reporting  of it, 
which is set out in its fee schedule. Ive seen the fee schedule and it doesnt make  any 
distinction about the fee payable being  dependent of the value of the investments held. So, 
while I appreciate  Mr Hs frustration that the annual fee charged exceeds  the value of his 
SIPP, I dont think its unreasonable for these sums to be charged.
Its clear that Mr H considers his SIPP had essentially no value from 2008, but it was for him 
to contact A or Curtis Banks to discuss his options if he no longer wished to be charged fees 
for it. I wouldnt  have expected either  A or Curtis Banks to contact Mr H about this issue  as 
they, being only the SIPP administrators, couldnt provide Mr H with any advice.
Curtis Banks says Mr H owes in excess of £6,000  in fees.  However, it has said it would 
accept £2,500 to settle the matter.  Overall, that seems to be a fair offer,  given that I think  
Curtis Banks was entitled the charge Mr H the fees despite the limited  value of the SIPP.  
I understand Mr H still doesnt feel this is reasonable so the matter may be decided by the 
court in any event.
Closing the SIPP
Mr H says he spoke with A in July 2009 asking it to close  the SIPP, but this was refused.  We 
havent been provided with any evidence of that contact by either party. So, I havent seen 
enough to say this conversation did in fact take place. Given Mr H continued to be charged 
the same  fee to administer the SIPP and received  annual statements to this effect,  
I wouldve  expected  him to have made  further  efforts to close  the SIPP  or transfer it away 
from A or Curtis Banks after this point. However, it appears Mr Hs first contact with 
Curtis Banks was in 2014. I say this because Curtis Banks has sent us a copy of a letter 
dated 13 August  2014, which said:
Our last correspondence  with you indicated that contributions were  going to be made  into 
your Self Invested  Personal Pension, however nothing has been received. I would be 
grateful if you could clarify your intentions with this product.
There are also outstanding fees on the account.
So, it seems  to me Mr H was offered an opportunity to discuss his plans for the SIPP  by 
Curtis Banks in August  2014. But Curtis  Banks didnt hear from Mr H again  until late 2017 
after it issued legal  proceedings  against  him, despite sending him a number of letters 
chasing the outstanding  fees. Mr H says he was in touch with Curtis  Banks  in 2015, but 
again I havent seen any evidence to support  this.
Ref: DRN57207653Ultimately Mr H wants the SIPP  to be closed. Hes said the judge told Curtis Banks to 
arrange this in the first hearing. Im not aware of any ruling having been made on this case   
it was stayed to allow  for our investigation  to take place. Mr H also hasnt  provided  any 
evidence to show a ruling was made on this point.  In any event, I think  Curtis  Banks  has 
made reasonable attempts to close the SIPP.  It has explained that the SIPP holds an 
investment in a company that Mr H is the director of. And in order  for the SIPP to be closed 
the investment  would need to be transferred elsewhere or sold,  or it would have to be 
satisfied it had zero value.
Mr H says the company  went  into liquidation  years ago so Curtis Banks should be able to 
close the SIPP regardless. But according to Companies House, the company is still active. 
So, I think it was reasonable for Curtis  Banks to keep the SIPP open whilst the investment is 
still held within it. I also think it has made it clear to Mr H what  he needs to do to move  things 
forwards. In an email  dated 7 March  2018, Curtis Banks said:
The SIPP  could sell the investment to another party on commercial terms. If the investment 
was sold to you, this would  be deemed by HMRC  as a connected party  transaction  and the 
SIPP trustees would need to be provided  with a valuation  of the investment, which  could be 
a nominal value  if the investment is deemed impaired. An accountant  would need  provide 
the valuation to the trustees and they will need  to be able to report  on an independent basis.
If you would  like to proceed with the sale of the investment or transfer the investment to 
another pension  arrangement please  let me know.
It then explained  if the investment couldnt  be transferred or sold, to close  the SIPP  
Curtis Banks would  need to be satisfied the underlying investments had no value. Based on 
the evidence Ive seen, I dont think it has received sufficient evidence  showing thats  the 
case, particularly  as the company is still showing as active on Companies  House.  So, whilst 
I appreciate Mr Hs ongoing frustration with this, I dont  think Curtis Banks has treated him 
unfairly by not closing  the SIPP.
My final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 March  2020.
Hannah Wise
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN5720765