K820x#14complaint
Mrs B says Santander UK Plc (then trading as Alliance and Leicester, but Ill just refer to 
Santander from now on) mis-sold  her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
In 1995 Mrs B took out a PPI policy alongside a mortgage. She paid a monthly  amount for 
the policy and it protected  her mortgage repayments  in the event  of accident, sickness  and 
unemployment.  
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs B disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. 
Mrs B mainly  complained  that she felt Santander had pressured her to take out the policy 
and she wasnt told it was optional.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.  
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Bs complaint. Ill explain my reasons.
I cant know exactly what (if anything) was said about the PPI when Mrs B arranged to take it 
out. It wouldnt be reasonable  to expect her to recall exactly what was discussed at the time. 
This means  that what  Mrs B says now isnt enough on its own for me to be able to uphold  
her complaint about the way Santander  sold her the PPI. 
But I think the paperwork wouldve made it clear to Mrs B that PPI was an available option  
with her mortgage and it was up to her to say if she wanted any cover. Theres  nothing 
mentioned in the mortgage application she completed thats  likely to have made  Mrs B think 
she had to have  PPI. I say this because on the mortgage application  form it said With this 
application you will find details of our  Mortgage  PaymentCover  just tick the 
appropriate box and we will send you an application form.
PaymentCover is what Santander called its mortgage PPI. When Mrs B completed  her 
mortgage application she didnt tick anything in this part of the form to indicate that she was 
interested in having this sort of cover. So I think its likely she understood that it was up to 
her to say if she wanted to find out more about the PPI and to apply for the cover  if it was 
something she wanted with her mortgage. She signed her completed mortgage  application 
confirming the information shed put on the form was accurate.
Although I havent  seen  how Mrs B applied for PPI it looks like she must have filled in a 
separate application form in order to have it added on to the mortgage.  I say this because  
Santander sent her a welcome letter in August 1995 which confirmed that she had been 
accepted for Mortgage PaymentCover  and said May I take this opportunity  to welcome  you 
to the scheme.
Ref: DRN58580602It also included the schedule of insurance  and Statement of Cover showing  the cover  shed 
taken. Mrs B couldve queried the PPI then if this wasnt something she wanted. But, from 
what Ive seen, it doesnt look as if that happened.
I can see why Mrs B mightve wanted PPI when she was responsible on her own for paying  
the mortgage. It was a big financial  commitment  and her home couldve been at risk if she 
wasnt able to make her mortgage  monthly  repayments in full and on time. So I can 
understand that protecting her repayments  wouldve  been an important  consideration for her. 
On balance, I think its likely that Mrs B decided that she wanted to have the benefits the 
policy offered her. I find on balance that Mrs B signed up for the policy  knowing it was up to 
her to say if she wanted to take out the cover. And it was added to her mortgage account  
when she requested this.
Santander advised Mrs B to take out the PPI. If a financial business makes  a 
recommendation about PPI it has to take reasonable steps to make  sure the cover it 
recommends is suitable as well as giving  important policy information in a clear way.
Mrs B told us that she was entitled  to at least 3 months full sick pay. She also mentioned she 
had savings worth at least 6 months of her salary. But I think PPI still couldve  been useful. 
The policy wouldve paid out in addition to any employment benefits and for longer than her 
employer wouldve paid her sick pay  up to 12 months per claim if shed been  off work as a 
result of accident or sickness  . Also the policy wouldve covered her mortgage repayments 
for up to 12 months per claim if shed lost her job unexpectedly and was out of work. 
I dont know if Mrs B wouldve  always  had savings she couldve relied on if shed needed to 
make a claim. And, bearing in mind that it appears  she didnt put all her money towards 
keeping down the cost of borrowing, I think shed  have valued the protection  PPI offered if it 
meant she could keep her savings  intact to provide financial  security.   
Having PPI wouldve  meant Mrs B could  be sure shed always  be able to keep up the 
monthly repayments in order to protect her home.  Mrs B couldve made  repeated claims on 
the policy, giving her long term protection for her mortgage.
So, looking  at her circumstances at the time, I think PPI was suitable.
The policy didnt cover some things. But it doesnt  look as if that wouldve affected Mrs B. 
So, I dont think more  information about the policy exclusions and limitations wouldve made 
any difference to Mrs Bs decision to take out PPI. 
I dont know if the PPI cost was made  clear to Mrs B before she signed up to have it. The 
cost of the policy was shown  in the welcome letter sent to her and she couldve  queried it 
then if she decided this wasnt  something she wanted to pay for. It doesnt look like that 
happened. From what Ive seen, Mrs B hasnt suggested that she couldnt afford the monthly 
premiums. And, as she asked to have PPI when she didnt have to take it out, it seems  she 
was happy at the time to pay for it. 
Overall its possible there  may have  been  some failings  in the way this policy  was sold.  But 
I think Mrs B still wouldve  decided to buy the policy if shed been better informed as the 
policy gave her worthwhile protection in her particular situation. I dont think having  better  
information wouldve  stopped her buying  it.
Ref: DRN58580603This means  that I dont find that Mrs B has lost out as a result of anything that Santander  did 
wrong. So it doesnt need to do anything to put things right.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Bs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 July 2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5858060