K822xcomplaint
Mrs H complains that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) took far too long to identify 
the source of a leak in her home, leaving her to cope for many months in a damp  house.  
Mrs H wants RSA to pay her £2,000  compensation for this.
background 
Mrs H reported a leak at her home in November 2017. RSA sent a plumber out to find the 
source of the leak. He didnt, and also didnt keep a second appointment. RSA appointed a 
second plumber  who visited in later December  and although he didnt find the source  of 
the leak either, attempts  to dry the house  started. 
By March the house was still damp  and the leak persisted. RSAs  contractor  tried a 
different method of drying the house, and accidentally  damaged  some other pipes, which 
Mrs H says were  only temporarily repaired.
After this RSA had the leaking water  tested  and said it thought  the water was from an 
external source   in which case Mrs H wouldnt be covered.
Tests by Mrs Hs water supplier showed  it was treated water  which  meant the leak wasnt  
from a natural source, and RSAs new plumber agreed.  Eventually  Mr H carried  out some  
tests  and thought the leak was from a particular part of the incoming mains pipe. This 
turned out to be the case.
The leak was fixed and the property dried out three weeks after that.
Mrs H complained to RSA about the delay  and also about her inability to renew her 
insurance. RSA responded and agreed  it could have done  some things better, but this had 
been a complex  claim.
Mrs H was dissatisfied with this response and brought her complaint to us. Our investigator 
looked only at the delays  in the claim (so not the problem with renewal) and thought  RSA 
should have done more,  and had unnecessarily delayed  things.  She thought RSA should 
pay £500 compensation for this.
RSA agreed to pay this. Mrs H says it should be increased to £2,000 because of the stress  
and inconvenience  she and her family have had to put up with.
Ive been asked to look into this complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought carefully about what Mrs H has said about the time this claim took to sort out. 
Its fair to say that having  a leak in your home and the subsequent need to make a claim and 
have repairs done  is upsetting and inconvenient.  But that isnt something RSA is responsible  
Ref: DRN52936812for. But it is responsible  if the way it deals with the claim causes additional and unnecessary 
trouble and upset.
From the evidence Ive seen there  were some delays when a plumber didnt keep  one 
appointment or re-arrange it. That was early on in the process. After that it appears RSA was 
trying to sort things out  but finding the source  of the leak proved difficult. That can happen, 
but I do think this took too long, as Mrs H says.
I also dont think it was fair for RSA to tell Mrs H the source of the water was external (that is 
from a natural source), when it wasnt. I accept  that was most  likely  a mistake, but it 
shouldnt have happened. Thats especially so when  the consequences   which were that 
Mrs H didnt have cover for that sort of damage   must have been distressing for her.
Fortunately Mrs H got her water supplier  to test the water too  and one of the plumbers sent 
by RSA witnessed the test and agreed it was treated water  not from a natural  source.
Mr H eventually carried out what appear to be tests based on common sense   and shortly 
after that the source of the leak was found. I can understand  why Mrs H thinks RSA was 
using less than competent  contractors.
I understand there was some damage  caused by one of RSAs  contractors, and I trust RSA 
has ensured that this is permanently  repaired,  as it should be.
I do accept that Mrs H was caused  a lot of trouble by RSAs handling of the claim, and shes 
explained the stress this caused  and how its affected her family.  But overall, I think  £500  is 
a fair amount of compensation for this. I should say this decision  does  not consider any of 
the issues about the renewal of the policy, which  I believe is also being looked at by this 
service.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint, and I order Royal  & Sun Alliance Insurance  Plc to 
pay Mrs H £500 for the way it dealt her claim.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 January 2020. 
Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5293681