K821x#15complaint
Mr T complains that TSB Bank plc placed  two Credit  Industry Fraud  Avoidance System 
(CIFAS) markers against his name.  He says this has stopped him from being able to open  a 
bank account.  He wants TSB to remove the markers. 
background
Prior to October 2015 Mr T made a number of online applications to TSB for current  and 
savings accounts.  He made a number of these  applications  using  aliases. After  identifying 
that Mr T had made these  applications,  TSB closed all of Mr Ts accounts  with them and 
added two different  CIFAS markers on Mr Ts credit file  these were for application  fraud 
and misuse of facility. 
Mr Ts bank  account with another bank was also closed  and on doing so they informed him 
it was closed because  he had a CIFAS marker placed against his name.
In February 2016  Mr T complained to TSB about the markers. He said he was suffering from 
mental health problems and was distressed and inconvenienced by TSBs actions. 
TSB responded saying that they can confirm theyve added  information to his CIFAS records  
and they believe  theyve acted correctly in doing  so.
As Mr T didnt agree with TSBs outcome he brought his complaint to our service.  
One of our adjudicators investigated Mr Ts case  and asked TSB further  questions  about the 
applications Mr T had made.  TSB provided evidence that Mr T had applied for around 20 
bank accounts  with TSB over the period  and hed used three different names  (with  the 
same date of birth and address) to make these applications. TSB also provided evidence 
that Mr T had a number  of defaults recorded against  his name and argued  that its likely  hes 
attempted to avoid  his poor credit  history by using  aliases.  Our adjudicator  didnt think  that 
TSB had done anything  wrong in adding  the markers. 
Mr T initially accepted our adjudicators opinion but later came back  to our service advising 
that hed received further information  from CIFAS  and hes now aware of why the markers 
were added  but he still thinks they were added unfairly. He explained that at the time the 
markers were added he was suffering from deteriorating mental  health   and he must  have  
accidentally used his middle rather than forename when making an application for a TSB 
account online. Mr T provided evidence from his Community Psychiatric  Nurse (CPN) 
explaining that he was suffering from deteriorating  mental health in 2015 and this may have 
been a factor in him using  different names  when making the account applications. 
On reviewing Mr Ts case our investigator  thought  that TSB were  fair to place the application 
fraud markers on his credit file but not the marker for misuse of facility  she wasnt satisfied  
TSB had provided sufficient evidence for this marker  to be added. 
Neither TSB nor Mr T accepted our investigators opinion.
Mr T said that hes previously been  known  legally under different names  and hes changed 
his name  on a number  of occasions through deed poll. He explained his change  in 
medication had also led him to use his middle  name  by mistake  on one occasion but he 
didnt make any of his applications  fraudulently. 
Ref: DRN50250282TSB responded to say they believe its appropriate  for all of the CIFAS markers to remain  
based on the number of different names  Mr T has used in his applications. 
As neither party agreed its been  passed  to me for a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And in doing so Ive come to the same  
conclusion as the investigator. Ill explain why below.
Ive considered the two sets of markers separately in my decision.  Firstly  Ive considered  if 
the misuse of facility  marker was added appropriately. 
Firstly Ill explain  what a business needs to demonstrate when adding a marker to a credit 
file. CIFAS guidance says the businesses must have carried out checks to a sufficient depth  
to meet  the burden of proof set by CIFAS,  which at the time was that TSB needed to have 
enough information to make a formal complaint to the police or other  relevant  law 
enforcement agencies. And that any filing should be for confirmed cases  of fraud, rather  than 
mere suspicion.  In addition, CIFAS guidance  sets out businesses  are expected to retain the 
evidence they rely upon when applying a CIFAS marker for at least six years.  
Our investigator asked  TSB to provide relevant information regarding  why they thought  it 
was appropriate  to record this marker.  As the markers were added in 2015 TSB have 
explained they dont have  the information  they relied on at the time.  So, when considering 
CIFAS guidance  and the need for TSB to retain the evidence  for at least six years  I cant 
see TSB had enough evidence  to satisfy the CIFAS  burden of proof. And Ill be asking them  
to remove the misuse of facility marker. 
Ive moved on to look at whether the application  fraud markers were  fairly applied. 
Ive seen evidence  from TSB that Mr T applied for a number of different accounts  with TSB 
between 2013  and 2015 in three  different names.  Mr T has explained  that he changed  his 
name on two occasions through  deed  poll  once to a new legal name  and on the second  
occasion back to his birth name. Hes provided evidence of the second  deed poll  when he 
changed his legal name back  to his birth name. 
TSB argue that Mr T is deliberately attempting to avoid them  identifying  his defaults when 
applying for the new accounts. Ive considered the legal changes in name  in relation to his 
account applications. 
Mr T wasnt able to provide evidence  of his change from birth name to his new legal name, 
but I can see that there was a significant overlap  between applications  using both names  
which even if Mr T could  evidence his change in deed poll  concerns  me. Id expect, once 
Mr T changed his name legally on the two occasions, that hed make applications using his 
new legal  name   and not use the two names  interchangeably for applications. Towards  the 
end of 2015 Mr T also made a number of applications using  his middle as his first name  
which he doesnt dispute wasnt his legal name at any time. His explanation for this is the 
change in medication that occurred at the time.  
Ref: DRN50250283Ive thought about the impact of Mr Ts medication  on him  and the evidence provided   to 
see if Im satisfied  it more likely than not led to him making incorrect  applications.   
Mr Ts CPN  has provided evidence  which explains that towards the end of 2015 Mr T 
suffered deterioration  in his mental  health.  Mr Ts CPN says that towards the end of 2015 
Mr T found it hard to concentrate which may well have been a factor  in him completing an 
application form incorrectly.  
Ive thought about whether Mr Ts change  in medication could be the explanation for the 
change in name on the applications. For me to accept the change in medication  led to him 
using his middle name, Id have to be satisfied  he made the error on four separate TSB 
account applications. But I dont think it was and Ill explain why. 
I find it unlikely that  if as Mr T says he was confused due to the change  in medication  his 
applications to TSB at the end of 2015 were consistent. He applied in only his birth name 
and his middle name  which Mr T has confirmed hes never been legally known as. 
He didnt use any other versions  of his names or any alternative names  which you might  
expect if he was confused. Or even more likely Id expect, if concentration was an issue,  for 
him to get other details wrong.  But, on the applications made Mr T consistently  got his date 
of birth and home address  correct.  Furthermore  Ive not seen  any evidence to show  he made  
any applications where he spelt his birth, legal or new name  incorrectly  again indicating  the 
ability to concentrate to a sufficient level. 
Ive also considered why Mr T may wish to use a different name at this point in time  and 
Ive seen evidence  that suggests  there  is an identifiable motivation for him. When  Mr T made 
the applications under his middle  name  he had various defaults in his birth and legal names.  
Ive thought whether this was just a coincidence  but  as TSB argue  I think  its more likely 
than not Mr T was applying for accounts  with TSB,  in this name,  to avoid the defaults. And it 
wasnt, for the reasons Ive explained  above, a genuine mistake on Mr Ts part. 
In conclusion I think TSB should  remove the misuse of facility marker from Mr Ts record but 
Im satisfied that TSB had met the burden  of proof required by CIFAS to add the markers for 
application fraud. Although I understand this will be disappointing to Mr T I wont be asking 
them to remove these.
my final decision
I uphold Mr Ts complaint in part:
I direct  TSB Bank plc to:
-Remove the misuse  of facility marker  from Mr Ts credit file.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 September  2019.
Jeff Burch
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5025028