K822xcomplaint
Ms H complains Calpe  Insurance Company Limited has requested she pay the excess
relating to a claim  made by a third party against  her car insurance. Ms H doesnt believe the
incident was her fault and disputes the damage to the third partys  vehicle.
background 
The incident  took place on 29 March 2016. Ms H says she was turning into her driveway, but
had to stop for her son to remove an obstacle  in the driveway  before  she could park. This left
the car partly on the road and Ms H says the third party tried to squeeze past, which  is when
she says there was some contact between the two cars. The third party  has said Ms H was
reversing into the road when  contact  was made.
Calpes engineer, after inspecting Ms Hs vehicle  estimated repair costs of £924.12  and
during its investigation noted Ms Hs version  of events was consistent.  Calpes  initial
inspection of Ms Hs car noted the damage as light.
In view of the third partys  repairs compared to Calpes review  of Ms Hs car, Calpe initially
defended the claim.  But by 10 August 2016 Calpe  closed  the case due to no response from
the third partys insurer  which it had asked for further comments/ evidence.
On 9 March 2017 Calpe received some  photos from the third partys insurer, re-opened the
case and referred them  to their in-house  engineer who said, I have reviewed the photos for
both vehicles and I would  suspect that TPV may have had some  pre-existing damages along
left side, however in my opinion it would be very difficult to argue what was pre-existing and
what was actually caused by PHV. In my opinion we have no choice other than to accept
TPV repair figures as presented by TPR.
Because of this Calpe  decided to settle  all costs with the third party.  By this time Ms H had
already paid £356 to Calpe for assessing the claim and paying for the engineers  reports (as
there were two visits to assess  Ms Hs car, with the first being unsuccessful  as Ms H had
moved home  and hadnt yet notified Calpe).
Our investigator said Ms Hs complaint  should be upheld as they didnt think  information
about Ms Hs version of what  happened had been properly shared with the third party
insurer. And they had concerns about some of the compatibility of the available submissions
and evidence  which they challenged with Calpe.
I issued my provisional findings to both parties, which are copied below. 
Ive considered all available  evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair and reasonable in
the circumstances of this complaint.
I cant look at who is liable  for the incident, but I can look to see if Calpe has been fair and
reasonable in its assessment of the claim as I would expect the insurer  to be able to show
theyve reached a reasonable outcome.
Ill firstly  comment  on the £356 Ms H was asked to pay Calpe. I understand £200 was to
recognise Calpes  investigation into the claim and £156 to pay engineers costs. Im mindful
of Calpes terms and conditions, but I think its fair to say theres  a general expectation that 
as the insurer   Calpe will incur costs when assessing a claim. So I dont think its fair for
Ref: DRN58306062Ms H to have paid this sum.
Ms H has been consistent in saying she was stationary at the time there was some  contact
with the third party  in that she was part on the road and part of the way towards  her
driveway, with the third party  trying to squeeze behind her car to pass. The third partys
submissions are very limited.  They  simply  say Ms H was reversing out of the driveway  and
hit them  while they were driving  along  the road.
Theres no real evidence  of what happened. There are no independent  witnesses, there is
no CCTV and no photos from the day; neither did anyone  report anything  to the police - so
there is no other record of what happened  apart  from Ms Hs and the third partys testimony,
together with what Ms Hs son has been  able to share  and his submissions include
reference to the third party  vehicle having  a fair amount of damage  as it drove off.
There doesnt appear to be any dispute  there  was contact,  but in light of the limited
evidence, its very difficult to be confident who is at fault here or what exactly was caused by
the contact made between the two cars.
Calpe has relied  heavily on the in-house  engineers report. And while  the report
acknowledges there may have been previous damage to the third party  vehicle, it says it
would be difficult to know what  was caused by this incident, so Calpe should  accept  the
repair figures provided by the third party.
I understand and respect the expertise of the engineer. But I have  to ask myself the
question, has Calpes sole reliance on this report been fair to Ms H?
Prior to the engineers desktop review, theres clearly  an acknowledgment on Calpes part
that some  of the damage being  claimed  for by the third party is questionable.
Calpes internal notes comment that some of the repairs in the third partys invoice, such as
the front left tyre, seem  surprising compared  to the pictures of damage  to Ms Hs car - some
light marks on the rear of the vehicle - and it also questions some of these marks being  too
low to have caused  a lot of the third party vehicles damage. I dont think its fair to ignore the
engineers comments  that theres  a real possibility  some  of the damage on the third partys
vehicle could be pre-existing. Following Calpes early inspection of Ms Hs car, they referred
to the damage  on her car as light. Our investigator  also asked Calpe about the difference in
height between  some of the damage  on the third partys vehicle and Ms Hs car, which
seemed inconsistent. And having  searched a picture of the road where  the incident  occurred
Ive been able to see that the road itself is fairly narrow which  could go some way to
supporting Ms Hs version of what happened   and the third party  trying  to squeeze past.
From the submissions available, it would  seem theres very little detail or evidence  been
made available from the third party  or their insurer, so I have to question  whether Calpe took
enough reasonable steps to assess this claim properly.  To echo our investigators questions
to Calpe, what really changed to alter Calpes position so that it no longer wished to dispute
liability or quantum?   particularly, as it appears Calpe neither sent their own report  to the
third party insurer or photos of Ms Hs car. Calpes own terms and conditions explain they
will exchange information with other  parties  involved with the incident or claim. But I cant
see this really happened in this case.
It may be that Ms H is partly responsible for the incident  Calpe notes  in its submissions to
us that as a minimum  it believes Ms H is 50% liable in this case. Calpes submissions are
Ref: DRN58306063that whether Ms H is 50% or 100% liable this doesnt change  anything,  and it falls back  to
relying on its in-house engineers opinion that they should pay the third partys repairs.
However, I disagree. I think  as our investigator  pointed out to Calpe  this does make a
difference as the amount  involved for Ms H is significant. And its important for Calpe to be
able to show its reached a reasonable outcome  in this case,  Im finding it difficult  to
conclude that it has. I say this as theres  no clear account from the third party  of what
happened which would be reasonable to expect to have on a case  like this, and the
inaccuracies in the claim from the third party dont appear to have been  properly  investigated
or explained.
Ms Hs policy  includes  an All Sections policy excess of £3,000. The amount of excess
Calpe has calculated for Ms H is £2,075.88 as  under the terms of the policy   it has
deducted its estimated  costs for repairs to Ms Hs vehicle (£924.12). And it has recognised
Ms H has already paid £356, so it says Ms H owes £1,719.88.
my provisional decision
My provisional decision is that Ms Hs complaint is upheld in part. There  are limited
submissions from the third partys insurer,  I cant see that some of the information available
to Calpe was exchanged  with the third party  insurer, and there seem to be questions  about
some of the damage  being claimed  for (which  even Calpe itself recognised initially). So,
while I accept its possible Ms H isnt entirely  without  fault as Calpe says,  I cant  say that
Calpes outcome was reasonable.
In view of all this, my provisional decision is that its fair for Calpe  Insurance Company
Limited to consider this claim on its recognition that as a minimum Ms H is 50% responsible.
Im unaware that anything  has actually been paid for repairs  to Ms Hs car  but the parties
can let me know in response to this provisional decision whether anything  has been paid out
for Ms Hs car. So it seems the claim relates  solely to the repairs  for the third party  -
£2,337.75. At 50% this would mean Ms H is responsible  for £1,168.88.
For the reasons  above, I dont think Ms H should  have paid Calpe Insurance  Company
Limited £356. So this should be deducted  from the £1,168.88. Therefore Im minded to say
that Ms H should pay Calpe Insurance Company  Limited  £812.88 to settle  this matter.
I also think that Calpe Insurance Company Limited should separately pay Ms H £100 to
recognise the trouble and upset this has caused her. I think if Calpe Insurance  Company
Limited had handled things differently this would have  caused Ms H less upset, particularly
given her initial expectations were raised  in that she thought Calpe were going to defend  the
claim but then when the case  was reopened, sometime later,  the position was changed
without much explanation.
Responses to my provisional decision 
Calpe replied to my provisional decision to confirm they would accept  my provisional  
findings. Ms H also responded to my provisional decision, and whilst she was unhappy with 
my provisional conclusions, she had nothing further to add.  
Ref: DRN58306064my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Calpe has accepted  my provisional  decision and Ms H has not provided  me with any 
further evidence  or submissions to consider, I see no reason to alter my provisional 
conclusions. 
my final decision
For the reasons  above, my final decision is that Ms H needs to pay Calpe Insurance  
Company Limited  £812.88 to settle  the claim. And that Calpe Insurance Company Limited 
pay Ms H £100 to recognise the trouble and upset this has caused her. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 August 2019.
Kristina Mathews 
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN5830606