K822xcomplaint
Mr P complains that Secure Trust Bank Plc (trading as Moneyway) gave him incorrect 
information, took too long to collect a car and applied damage  charges after he ended a 
finance agreement
background in 
Mr P acquired this car with a hire purchase agreement from Moneyway in October  2015.  He 
decided to end the agreement using  a process known as voluntary termination (VT) and 
spoke to Moneyway  about that in the middle of November 2017.  Mr P thought hed only have  
to pay around £1,000  - from conversations hed had with Moneyway previously. But the call 
handler said he needed to pay over £2,000  - and hed be liable for any damage found after 
the car was returned. 
A third party  collected the car on Moneyways  behalf in January 2018  and Moneyway  asked  
Mr P to pay over £1,000  for damage. Mr P thinks the collection took too long and the car was 
damaged as a result.  He wants Moneyway to remove  the damage  charges and reduce the 
amount owed - to take account of incorrect information provided  and the late collection. 
Moneyway says Mr P was given the correct  VT figure during the November call. It 
apologised that collection took a bit longer  than usual - but says the third party agent had 
trouble getting  hold of Mr P to arrange that. Moneyway thinks the car sold for less than 
expected as a result  the damage  so the charges are reasonable. But, it offered to reduce 
them to just over £300, as a goodwill gesture. 
Our adjudicator is satisfied that Mr P was given the correct  amount to VT when he phoned to 
end the agreement in November 2017.  He accepts there was some delay collecting the car 
and he doesnt  think theres enough  evidence to show that the damage  charged for is 
present. To put things  right he recommends  Moneyway should remove outstanding charges 
of just over £300 and retrieve  the debt from collectors and deal with it in house - by providing 
an affordable payment  arrangement if thats  appropriate. He thinks  this represents a fair 
outcome overall.  
Moneyway agreed  to waive  the charges but Mr P doesnt accept our adjudicators 
conclusions. He asked  for an ombudsman to consider the matter. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I am sorry to disappoint Mr P but I have 
reached much the same conclusions as our adjudicator for broadly the same  reasons. 
The right to VT this sort of finance  is provided  under section  99 of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974 (CCA). This says a borrower  can end the agreement at any time by giving notice.  
Section 100 of the CCA sets out the financial consequences of terminating under section 99 
- it says the borrower  is liable for half of the total amount payable  along with any outstanding 
liability under  the finance  at the point of termination. 
This is reflected in the finance agreement Mr P signed which says 
Ref: DRN50991842You have the right to end this agreement. To do so you should  write to the person you 
make your payments to. They will then be entitled to the return of the goods and to half the 
total amount payable  under this agreement that is £10,054.90.  If you have already paid this 
amount plus any overdue instalments and have  taken reasonable care of the car you will not 
have to pay any more.  
I have listened  to a recording of the phone call between Mr P and Moneyway in November 
2017. Im satisfied the call handler told Mr P he would have to pay around £2,350  to VT this 
agreement. Ive also seen a statement of account  that shows  the balance  on the account 
was about £12,400 at this point. The halfway amount was just over £10,000  (as set out in 
Mr Ps finance agreement). And Im satisfied the call handler gave Mr P the correct  VT figure 
during the call in November  2017.  
Its clear from the November call that Mr P was unhappy with the amount he was quoted and 
felt hed been given different information in previous calls.  Mr P understood he would reach  
the halfway mark  the following February meaning  hed only have to pay the equivalent of 
another three monthly  payments - about £1,000. Moneyway couldnt supply recordings of 
every call with Mr P due to the passage of time. But, even if I were to accept that Mr P was 
given incorrect or misleading information in an earlier call, I am satisfied that 
he was told the correct amount during the November call;
the call handler  explained that Mr P didnt have  to go ahead  with the VT at that stage  
if he didnt want to; and 
Mr P said hed like to proceed because he didnt use the car. 
I understand it must have been  frustrating  for Mr P to find he had to pay more  than he 
expected to VT this agreement. And I realise  it probably didnt help matters  when the car 
wasnt collected until six or seven weeks after the November call - and he got a bill for 
damage costing over £1,000 after that.  
Moneyway accepts it took longer  than usual to collect this car and it has apologised.  I can 
see the third party was instructed to arrange collection shortly  after the November call. And it 
looks as if the delay was caused (in part at least)  by the third party struggling to get hold of 
Mr P. I dont know  the reason for that, but I suspect the Christmas and the New Year break  
may have  played  a part. 
I can see why Mr P feels collection took too long but Im satisfied the car was picked up in 
early January 2018. Moneyway has agreed  to waive the damage charges now.  And I agree 
with our adjudicator  that seems a fair and reasonable outcome, in all of the circumstances. 
It looks as if this debt is in the hands  of a third party at present.  I understand Moneyway  
would rather not take it back and simply adjust the amount being collected. But I think  the 
fairest thing  here would  be for Moneyway  to take this debt back  and deal with it in house, in 
line with our usual  approach.  If Mr P isnt in a position financially to repay the balance 
immediately, Id expect  Moneyway  to respond sympathetically and positively - and arrange a 
suitable repayment plan, if thats appropriate.  
my final decision
My decision  is I uphold  this complaint. For the reasons Ive given, I require 
Secure Trust Bank Plc (trading as Moneyway) to take this debt back, write off the remaining 
Ref: DRN50991843damage charges  of £301.20 and arrange  a repayment plan suitable for Mr Ps financial 
situation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 July 2019.
Claire Jackson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5099184