K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains that Vitality  Corporate Services Limited failed to make  changes that he 
requested to his insurance policy. He says hes now developed a health  condition that 
wouldve been covered if the required changes had been made  earlier.   
background
I issued a provisional decision on Mr As complaint, a copy  of which is attached  and forms 
part of this final decision. In my provisional  decision I explained  why I didnt think the 
complaint should  be upheld.  
I said I could see from the documentation and the recordings of the calls Mr A had with 
Vitality that this had been a frustrating process.  But I couldnt identify a specific  failure that 
had left him without  cover.  And, further,  that had led to a loss from him no longer being  able 
to make a claim he might otherwise have been able to.   
I said it seemed that much of the confusion had resulted from the complexities of Mr As 
policy, which had many variables  more than generally seen on this type of policy. And 
while that had benefits it also meant that making changes became  quite  complex. Among 
other things,  some changes required underwriting, but some didnt.
So when Mr A asked  for illustrations for multiple changes he was often faced with multiple 
quotations. And, while frustrating, I felt this couldnt have been avoided. I didnt think Vitality 
acted incorrectly. Rather,  it simply had a procedure  for dealing with this type of situation that 
was unavoidably  complex because of the multiple  possible  variations. 
I felt Mr A wouldve been aware of what cover he had and didnt have.  And while it might 
have been an exasperating  process  to change things he couldve forced  the issue more in 
2014 if he had concerns  rather  than, to use his words, giving up on it. 
I noted that Vitality  had confirmed it had now made some  of the changes to the policy and 
could do more with the appropriate  health declaration. I acknowledged what  Mr A said about 
his health condition  a potentially covered  condition  for which  hed confirmed thered been  
no formal diagnosis. I acknowledged this wouldve been difficult  for him. But I felt I hadnt 
seen sufficient evidence  to find that Vitality  failed to put in place cover  that wouldve enabled 
him to make  a claim.  
Vitality confirmed it had nothing to add in response  to my provisional decision. 
Mr A responded to say, in brief;
The quotations provided were inadequate and gave no clear  indication of what they 
were for. 
A satisfactory  solution  wouldve been  for Vitality to acknowledge the issue  and 
provide him with direct access to its underwriters.
He even went as far as to give Vitality a list of requirements based on his priorities.
Vitalitys specific  failure was not responding to his requests in a clear  and 
comprehensible manner. 
It was incorrect to say that he didnt  respond to the earlier quotations.
Fair treatment of his requests would be to consider them  retrospectively, active  as of 
2014, as hes been put in this position by the failures of Vitality.
Ref: DRN56904762my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments, including  the further submissions, 
to decide whats  fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, 
Ive not been persuaded to depart  from my provisional conclusions. 
Ive noted everything  Mr A has said. But it remains the case  that he has been provided with 
numerous quotes since first taking  out the policy and has not until more  recently  responded 
to indicate what  he wanted to be changed.  
As I said before, I appreciate that the quotes are not the most straightforward documents. 
But thats a by-product of the flexibility of the cover available   this is not a straightforward 
type of policy. Mr A was provided with a quote to change from primary cover to 
comprehensive in June 2014  but Vitality has no record of him responding to it. I understand 
that it may have been that there were other changes that he also wanted to make. But he 
could have made individual amendments while still in the process of deciding what other 
changes he might want. 
Ultimately, in all the circumstances, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to hold Vitality 
responsible for Mr A not now having, for example, comprehensive rather  than primary cover 
given the quote provided to him in 2014.  
my final decision
For the reasons  given  here and in my provisional  decision, my final decision is that I dont 
uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 December  2019.
James Harris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN56904763COPY PROVISIONAL  DECISION
complaint
Mr A complains that Vitality Corporate Services Limited failed to make  changes that he requested to 
his insurance  policy. He says hes now developed a health condition that wouldve  been covered  if the 
required changes  had been made earlier.   
background
Mr As policy was taken out in May 2014 through an on-line agency,  so it wasnt advised  upon by 
Vitality. The policy provided Mr A, as the sole life assured, with £300,000 of indexed Serious Illness  
Cover over a twenty  year period for an initial premium  of £141.20. There  were two levels of cover 
available  primary  and comprehensive. Mr A initially  opted for the former,  which covered fewer 
conditions. 
Once Mr A had started the policy he began a series  of requests for quotations for the costs of making  
changes to it. These  primarily  involved  altering  the cover from primary to comprehensive, adding  his 
young son to the policy as an additional life assured, adding waiver or premium and increasing  the 
level of cover.
The first requests were  made in May and June of 2014, with quotations posted and emailed to Mr A. 
In February 2015 he contacted Vitality to confirm some details of the policy. In May 2016 he 
requested a copy of the plan schedule  be emailed  to him. And then during  August 2016  he requested 
more quotations, which were provided  to him along with a supplementary health questionnaire to 
complete. He requested  further  quotations  in October 2016  and into 2017, at which point in April 2017 
he complained to Vitality  that his desired changes hadnt been made.     
Vitaility didnt uphold the complaint. It stressed that Mr A hadnt responded  to the earlier quotations  
and hadnt ever completed the health questionnaire. It said that it had provided three quotations in 
April 2017 alone and Mr A had returned  all three associated alteration forms. Vitality had added his 
son to the policy, in line with one of the returned forms, but needed clarification of what  else,  if 
anything, Mr A required. It noted also that adding  his son was a change  it was able to make without 
underwriting but that any other changes would require  underwriting  hence the need for the health 
questionnaire.
Mr A wasnt satisfied with Vitalitys response so he referred  the complaint to this service. 
Our investigator noted that one of the quotations supplied to Mr A in 2014  hadnt included all the 
potential changes he was looking for. So she suggested Vitality pay him £100 for the inconvenience 
caused by this.  
But, that aside, she wasnt persuaded he wouldve acted differently if the correct quotation had been 
provided. She noted that in his call in February 2015 Mr A discussed  his payment details  and 
confirmed his policy details.  He then got in touch  over a year later to request further quotations. She 
said she could see that a quotation including everything Mr A had requested was provided  in August 
2016, which he accepted  but didnt complete the health  questionnaire attached.  The investigator felt it 
was reasonable that Vitality  had requested completion  of the health questionnaire  given that it was 
almost two years after Mr A had originally taken  out the policy.
In summary, the investigator felt that Vitality had generally acted correctly  and that it hadnt been 
responsible for changes not being made to the policy.
Mr A responded to say that, in summary:  
There should be further records  of contact with Vitality between  June 2014 and mid-2015 
beyond those noted by the investigator.  
Ref: DRN56904764The quotations never identified the details of the changes requested and when he asked for 
two or more variations it was confusing  to understand what had and hadnt  been considered, 
except by asking on a telephone call, which invariably turned out to be incorrect.
He acknowledged that while the correct papers were finally provided by Vitality  in Aug 2016,  
that was over two years late and he was unable to take up the changed  policy since he was 
then asked to complete  the health  declaration. This wouldve been treated as a new 
application meaning he would lose cover for a condition  he developed between 2014 and 
2016. 
As the investigator wasnt persuaded to change her opinion, the matters  been referred to me to 
review.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
I can see from looking at the documentation  and listening to the recordings of the calls Mr A had with 
Vitality over the period  in question that this has been a frustrating process. But, that said, Im 
struggling to identify a specific failure  or failures  on the part of Vitality that has left Mr A without cover 
he clearly wanted. And that further, has led to a loss in respect of him no longer being  in a position  to 
make a claim he might  otherwise have been able to.   
It seems that much of the confusion and difficulties  have resulted from the complexities  of the type of 
policy Mr A has. It has many  variables,  more than might generally be seen on this type of policy. And 
while that has benefits it does mean that providing  quotations and making changes  becomes quite a 
complex business.  Among other things, some changes require underwriting,  but some dont.
So when Mr A has asked for an indication of the cost of multiple changes and variations of those  
changes hes often been faced with multiple quotations.  And, while  frustrating, I dont see that there 
was a way that this could have been avoided. I dont think it appears that Vitality actually acted 
incorrectly. Rather, it simply had a procedure  for dealing  with this type of situation that was 
unavoidably somewhat complex because of the multiple possible variations.  
Ultimately, having received  the various quotations from Vitality Mr A wouldve been aware of what  
cover he had and didnt have. And while it might have been  an exasperating process  he could have 
forced the issue more  in 2014 if he had concerns rather than, to use his words,  giving up on it. 
Vitality has confirmed  it has now made some of the changes requested and is able to do more, with 
the appropriate  health declaration. I note what Mr A has said about the health condition  he has 
developed since first taking out the policy. But this is a potentially covered  condition, that became 
symptomatic in late 2014 and for which hes confirmed  there is still no formal diagnosis. I appreciate 
this will, of course, have been difficult and upsetting for Mr A but I havent seen sufficient  evidence to 
find that Vitality failed  to follow instructions to put in extended cover that would have  enabled him to 
make a claim. 
In summary, I dont think the complaint should be upheld. And, for clarity, that includes in respect of 
the £100  the investigator  felt should be awarded. Im not persuaded that an error that may have taken 
place with one of the quotations in 2014 warrants upholding the complaint,  even in part, and awarding 
compensation. 
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  given,  but subject to any further submissions I receive,  Im currently minded not to 
uphold the complaint. 
Ref: DRN5690476