K821x#15complaint
Mrs T complains that British Gas Insurance  Limited (BGI) failed  to trace  and rectify a leak 
in her central  heating  system when she called on it under her home emergency insurance 
policy. As a result she had to employ her own contractors  at considerable expense to do 
this.
background
Mrs T contacted BGI in February  2018  under her home emergency policy. She complained 
of fumes/gas  smell and that her boiler was losing pressure. BGIs engineers attended 
several times but this continued for three months.  BGI said there was a leak somewhere in 
the system. One small  leak was found but the loss of pressure continued. 
BGIs leak detectors  dug a three meter trench  in her living room without finding  a leak. At this 
stage Mrs T lost faith in BGI and instructed her own leak detectors and heating  engineers.  
They found  that the problem was a leak in the heat exchanger in the boiler, which  BGI 
replaced in April 2018.
Mrs T complained to BGI that over a long period it had failed to find the source of the leak,  
during which  she and her family had limited hot water and heating during an exceptionally 
cold time of year.  She asked BGI to reimburse  what its failure to find the source of the leak 
had cost her as follows:
Independent Gas Trace                                                                           £786.00
Independent heating engineer                                                                 £330.00
Time taken from work for various trades 18 days@  £40 per day            £720.00
Cost to reinstate  property                                                                         £890.00
Laminate flooring                                                                                      £350.00
Skirting tiles                                                                                             £  25.00
                                                                  Total                                   £3,101.00                                                                                                
When BGI didnt respond she complained to us.
Our investigator thought BGI had made  errors in failing to find the cause of the leak at the 
outset. The result was disruption,  distress, and inconvenience for Mrs T and her family for a 
considerable period. This included her living room floor being  dug up.
BGI had offered £30 for its delay in responding to Mrs Ts complaint. In addition the 
investigator recommended that BGI reimburse  the costs  Mrs T had claimed plus interest. He 
also said it should pay her compensation of £500 to acknowledge the significant distress and 
worry its actions had caused her.
BGI didnt  accept the investigators recommendation. It said an initial  leak had been found 
and repaired.  Its contractors tests indicated that further access would have to be made 
under the floor. At that stage Mrs T decided to employ her own contractors who found  the 
fault was with the heat exchanger in the boiler  and made good the floor.
BGI didnt  agree  that the sole fault had been in the heat exchanger all along. It said its 
contractors had carried out the correct  tests and had found  one leak.  It wasnt  responsible 
for Mrs Ts decision  to employ  her own contractors.
Ref: DRN53304332Our investigator said his view remained unchanged. BGIs engineers had said on more than 
one occasion  that there  was no problem with the boiler. But when the heat exchanger was 
fixed, the problem ceased.  He thought Mrs T had acted reasonably  when she at last decided 
to employ her own contractors.
As BGI hasnt accepted  this view, this complaint has been passed to me to issue  a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although there may have  been a small leak at one stage  which  BGIs contractors found and 
repaired, I accept  that:
the main leak which  caused  the problems over a long period was in the heat 
exchanger;
BGI consistently failed  to locate the source of this leak;
Mrs Ts contractors did; and
when the heat exchanger was fixed the problem of leaks  stopped.
Like the investigator, I find that Mrs T acted  reasonably in incurring the expenses she did, 
and its fair and reasonable that BGI should reimburse those expenses totalling £3,101 plus 
interest, as well as paying her £30 for its poor response to her complaint, and £500 
compensation for the distress  and inconvenience  its actions caused  her.
Ref: DRN53304333my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint, and order British Gas Insurance Limited to:
1.reimburse Mrs T the expenses totalling  £3,101 set out above;
2.pay Mrs T interest at the annual rate of 8% simple on each of those expenses  from 
the respective  dates  each was incurred until settlement;  (1)
3.pay Mrs T £30 for its poor response to her complaint; and
4.pay Mrs T compensation of £500  for the distress and inconvenience its actions 
caused her.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Lennox Towers
ombudsman
(1)  If BGI considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax 
from that interest, it should  tell Mrs T how much its taken off. It should also give    
Mrs T a tax deduction  certificate  if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue  and Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN5330433