K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs R are unhappy  with the settlement given to them  by Royal  & Sun Alliance 
Insurance Plc (RSA) in respect  of their home insurance claim for water  damage.
background
In July 2018 Mr and Mrs R suffered an escape of water when a bathful of water leaked out of 
a defective waste  pipe into the kitchen  below. They made a claim to RSA in respect  of the 
damage to the kitchen.  RSA appointed loss adjusters who sent in specialist contractors to 
strip out some flooring  and put dryers in. Mr and Mrs R tried to find a hotel nearby but none 
were satisfactory. So RSA agreed  to pay them a disturbance allowance, of £40 per day (two 
adults, two children)  for the time they were without  a usable kitchen. But RSA said the 
kitchen was usable once the drying out had been completed.  
Mr and Mrs R wanted to use their own contractors for fitting their replacement  kitchen. They  
obtained three quotes. RSA said it would only pay what it would have cost it to use its 
contractors. In particular  it said the quotes  for installation were  on the basis of the kitchen 
company also carrying  out installation. It said Mr and Mrs R could get a separate fitter to do 
this more cheaply. Although it didnt think the granite  worktops were damaged  by the escape 
of water it accepted that they would  be damaged  by their removal  so made an offer of 
payment for them. For the kitchen units, supply and installation and the granite worktops it 
offered £19,950.49, plus the cost of a new extractor fan. It has paid this without prejudice to 
our investigation.
Mr and Mrs R were dissatisfied with the payment and said it wouldnt be possible for them to 
get their kitchen fully replaced. They also considered that RSA should  pay them further  
payments for disturbance  allowance  as they have had their kitchen stripped out. They also 
alleged that the drying  contractor had damaged their cooker when moving it. RSA said its 
contractor had denied  causing any such damage  but was prepared to consider a repair if 
Mr and Mrs R obtained an estimate. It wouldnt pay any further disturbance allowance  as it 
said Mr and Mrs R didnt need to strip out the kitchen before arranging the installation of a 
new one. But it said it would consider further payments as and when  the kitchen repairs  got 
under way.
On referral to this service  our investigator  asked  RSA if it would  consider  a payment for the 
cooker, as Mr and Mrs R had a report saying it was beyond  economical repair  (BER). RSA 
pointed out that it took Mr and Mrs R six months  to advise it of this. It also noted that the 
report gave a different  reason for it being  BER,  saying  it was damaged by the escape of 
water. Because of this RSA said it would have to carry out further investigations.
Mr and Mrs R further said their daughter  had cut her foot on a piece of sharp  tile left after the 
drying out. RSA said its contractors had warned them about this.
In November 2018, when the policy came up for renewal, RSA said it wouldnt renew.  This 
was because its relationship with Mr and Mrs R had broken down.
Our investigator said that RSA had acted reasonably.  She pointed out that where a 
policyholder uses  their own contractor, rather than the insurer's, it was entitled to pay the 
claim on the basis of what it would have paid, had its contractors carried  out the installation. 
And that RSA didnt  have to renew  the policy if it felt the relationship had broken  down.
Ref: DRN51604402Mr and Mrs R didnt agree, and the matter has been passed to me for further consideration.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
cash settlement
Mr and Mrs R made  it clear to the loss adjusters that they wanted to use contractors 
employed by them  rather than use RSAs contractors. In particular I understand that they 
previously had used  RSAs contractors in another  matter and were dissatisfied  with them. 
RSA has said it would  have offered  to carry out the repairs using its contractors but in light of 
Mr and Mrs Rs express  wishes,  it was prepared to offer a cash  settlement.
In those circumstances RSA can offer a cash settlement to Mr and Mrs R, as it has done 
here. But if it does so, its only obliged to offer what it would have cost to carry out the 
repair/replacement. Here it has assessed  Mr and Mrs Rs three quotes. Mr and Mrs R didnt 
want to proceed with their lowest quote,  rather the middle one. RSA said the quote was too 
high for what it had assessed.  In particular it said using the kitchen companys fitters was 
considerably more expensive than using  an independent fitter.  Ultimately it offered what  it 
assessed it would have cost it to use its contractors.
I understand that Mr and Mrs R are unhappy with this, saying in particular that it doesnt 
allow them to fully repair the kitchen using their preferred contractors. I understand this, but 
as RSA is paying the claim  it is entitled to settle it on its terms. It may mean  that using its 
own contractors would  entitle it to discounts. But I think, bearing in mind what  Ive said,  that 
RSA acted reasonably  in settling the claim for the kitchen  in the way it has.
disturbance allowance
Mr and Mrs R say theyve been  without a kitchen since  October 2018. They say they had to 
have it stripped out because it was unsafe  and the cooker cant  be used.
Mr and Mrs R say the granite worktop was cracked and unsafe. From the photos this 
appears to be a narrow strip of worktop behind the sink. RSA says its loss adjusters didnt 
deem it to be unsafe. It also points  out that Mr and Mrs R didn't need to strip out the kitchen 
before they arranged  the installation of a new one. 
Mrs R tells us the worktop had to be removed so the plastering could be done. And I havent 
seen any documentary evidence that the worktop  was unsafe. Im not persuaded that Mr and 
Mrs R had to have  the kitchen removed before arranging the installation of a new one.
Mr and Mrs R had 49 days of disturbance allowance paid to them  at the start of the claim, to 
allow for removal of the floor and drying  out. After that the loss adjusters said the kitchen  
was usable. Ill deal with the issue of the cooker below. But I dont think that presently RSA 
has to pay any further disturbance  allowance. Its said its prepared  to review the allowance  
once the kitchen works are under way, which I think is fair.
Ref: DRN51604403cooker
Mr and Mrs R alleged that the cooker  was damaged by the drying contractor  pulling it out by 
its controls. The contractor has strenuously denied this. Nevertheless RSA decided  to give 
Mr and Mrs R the benefit  of the doubt  by agreeing to consider a repair,  if Mr and Mrs R 
obtained an estimate for this. In June 2019 they produced  an estimate for a new cooker  
endorsed with the comment that the old one was BER.  They also showed us, and RSA the 
gas engineers  report saying the appliance was water damaged.  
The evidence was requested in October 2018,  and the above documents are dated 28 
December 2018,  although not produced  until June  2019. All the indications from RSAs  site 
visits, and Mrs Rs emails  at the time are that the cooker wasn't  damaged by the escape of 
water, rather  that Mrs R alleged it was damaged  by the contractor. So although RSA agreed  
to consider the cost of repair, it says it needs now to investigate this new information. I think 
thats fair  the basis upon which it was prepared to consider the damage  was the allegation  
that the damage was due to being  pulled out the wrong way. If Mr and Mrs R are now saying 
it was damaged by the escape  of water that is something its entitled to investigate further. 
So I will make no finding in respect  of this.
sharp tile in kitchen
Mr and Mrs R say that a sharp  piece  of tiling was left in place in the kitchen, and as a result 
their daughter cut her foot. From  the photos and the drying  contractors report it appears that 
this piece of tile couldnt be removed  because of its position under the cooker  leg/end  panel. 
I see also that the drying company advised  Mr and Mrs R in its handover certificate  of rough 
edges of floor adhesive and ends  of tile edges. I think  this was a sufficient  warning to 
Mr and Mrs R.
policy renewal
RSA said it wouldnt renew  the policy with Mr and Mrs R in November 2018. As the claim 
had been paid out by then, it wasnt obliged to renew the policy.  As it said the relationship  
had broken down  between  them, and as each renewal is a new contract  it would have been 
entitled to refuse to renew. Thats the reason  given  by RSA. In that case, except in very 
limited circumstances,  which dont  apply here, we wouldnt  consider it reasonable to 
interfere. RSA is entitled to decide not to renew in such a case.
Ref: DRN51604404my final decision
I dont uphold the complaint and make no award  against Royal  & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  17 January 2020.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5160440