K821x#15complaint
Miss P has complained  that Admiral  Insurance Company Limited  unfairly paid a claim under 
her motor policy without informing her.
Miss P is represented by her mother, Mrs P.
References to Admiral include all its agents.  
background
When Admiral  invited  Miss P to renew her policy in May 2018, the premium  amount was 
significantly increased in comparison  to what she had paid for the previous policy  year. 
When Miss P asked Admiral  why, she discovered another driver had made a claim on her 
policy and that Admiral had paid it without  ever talking to her about it or ensuring  it was a 
genuine claim.
So Miss P complained.  Admiral upheld most of Miss Ps complaint  points  and paid her £100 
compensation. But it didnt think it had done anything wrong with the premium  increase on its 
renewal invitation  or that it had dealt with the other drivers claim.
Miss P remained unhappy and brought her complaint to us. Then Admiral offered Miss P a 
further £150 compensation. On this basis the investigator thought this was a reasonably 
outcome.
Miss P didnt agree and so her complaint was passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision on 7 February and I said the following:
Admiral settled the other drivers claim without  ascertaining from Miss P that the 
accident happened. And without ascertaining that the damage  claimed  by the other 
driver was reasonable bearing in mind the circumstances and any possible  damage 
to Miss P car to verify  that damage. It doesnt  even seem that Admiral  ascertained  
from Miss P that she reversed into the front of the other drivers car, rather  than for 
example, into the back of the other drivers  car.  
Theres simply no detail of the circumstances of the accident from Miss Ps point of 
view or indeed from the other driver  on Admirals  file. I dont  consider  any of that 
reasonable. 
I understand Admiral  has a commercial relationship with the claims management 
company who represented  the other  driver,  but I dont consider that relationship  
simply means it then doesnt need to investigate and verify any claim made against 
any of its policyholders if the claim is presented  by this claims  management 
company. 
Admirals policy like almost every  other  policy has a clause where  its entitled  to take 
over, defend and settle any claim as it thinks fit. But it must do this reasonably  and I 
dont consider Admiral  did. This is because it didnt verify the accident  circumstances 
with Miss P or verify the damage  to the other drivers car. 
Ref: DRN54135222Miss P received her policy renewal invite from Admiral who obviously posted this out 
to her. The receipt of this letter prompted  Miss Ps call to Admiral.  Theres  nothing to 
show me that if Admiral  had also written a letter and posted it to Miss P once it 
received the other drivers  claim that Miss P would not have responded to that too. 
Whilst Admiral  maintains it emailed Miss P after it was presented with the claim from 
the other driver and left her a voicemail,  it hasnt produced any copy of that email on 
its file to us, or any evidence from its records that it phoned her number.  Emails  can 
in any event unwittingly get dumped in spam folders by email systems and calls on 
phones can be missed.  Therefore, I dont  consider  Admiral made reasonable efforts  
to make contact with Miss P following its receipt  of the other  drivers  claim. 
I also agree  with Miss P, given the seriousness of this for her, (and indeed any 
policyholder) it ought to have posted a letter out to her too and indeed  texted  her. Im 
glad to note Admiral itself has accepted its attempts to communicate  with Miss P at 
the time it was presented with the claim from the other driver  via its relationship with 
this claims management  company, fell short. Its paid compensation to Miss P for 
this. But I consider thats not all it should have done to put things right.
Admiral also failed to ascertain that the extent of the damage claimed by the other  
driver was reasonable. It paid the damage  claim without receiving even the 
engineering evidence of the damage. In fact, it never looked  at any such engineering 
evidence until the complaint came  to this service.  Obviously now it says the amount it 
paid to the other driver  is as per the engineering evidence finally  received from this 
claims management company. 
More importantly in my view, it singularly  failed to examine Miss Ps car at the time so 
as to verify  what the other  driver was saying was damaged in this incident was true. 
Miss P maintains she didnt damage  this other  drivers car. She said it had a scratch, 
which she thinks could have been  pre-existing also. It has since examined Miss Ps 
car once  her complaint came to us, but its never bothered to tell Miss P or indeed  
this service the outcome of that inspection. Bearing  in mind the passage of time in 
any event, I consider such a late inspection of Miss Ps car is rather  fruitless  in 
evidential terms. 
So in conclusion, 
Admiral has shown  us it didnt make any reasonable attempts to contact 
Miss P.
It also agrees its lack of effective  communication with Miss P was insufficient.  
It didnt verify with its policyholder Miss P that the accident occurred, as the 
other driver claimed.  
And it also didnt verify  the damage  of the other drivers car by inspecting 
Miss Ps at the time it received the claim from the other  driver.
In view of these failings,  I dont consequently  think its reasonable that as a result 
Admiral decided Miss P was at fault and now has a fault claim on her insurance 
record.
There is a clause in the policy, which does require  Miss P to report any incident, 
which Miss P didnt do. And I consider she ought  to have informed Admiral that an 
incident occurred.  But I dont consider the fact she didnt do so, permits Admiral  to fail 
in such an extended  way to investigate the veracity of the other drivers claim.
Ref: DRN54135223Consequently, I consider  Admiral should now amend  all internal and external 
databases showing the claim as non-fault in Miss Ps insurance record. 
It should also write a letter  to Miss P confirming its error in recording this, which 
Miss P can then show to her insurers since May 2018 in order  to obtain  any premium 
refund due. Miss P didnt  accept Admirals renewal invite and went  elsewhere. If 
Miss P has difficulty in obtaining such a refund from her these insurers,  Admiral 
should instead provide  the relevant refunds to Miss P, adding interest from the date 
of each new policy Miss P has since obtained. Going forward, Miss Ps insurance  
record will merely show a non-fault for this incident,  which should have less of an 
impact on her premium amounts on any subsequent  motor policies in her name.
Admiral should also correct her No Claim Discount (NCD), assuming it was affected 
by this incident.
Admirals failures have caused Miss P (a young  driver) a considerable level of upset 
and distress.  I dont  consider the sum of £250 compensation Admiral has paid to date 
is sufficient. I consider it should now pay Miss P a total sum of £500 compensation.
Miss P agreed with my provisional  decision. Admiral didnt. It said Miss P had never  denied  
hitting the other drivers car so I shouldnt deem it should be a non-fault  accident on her 
insurance record. It maintained it had sent her a letter by email to her correct email address 
and had left a message on her phone on the correct number. It consequently asked that I 
reconsider the matter.  
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I remain  of the view that 
this complaint should be upheld.
This is because theres still a lack of coherent verification of the accident and indeed  
verification of the other drivers account  of the damage to his car. Theres  still no evidence 
from Miss P as to whether  she hit the front or the back  of the car. Miss P maintains there  
was no damage to the other drivers car beyond a possible pre-existing scratch.  
Admiral has further confirmed now, that the claim was presented  to it by this claims 
management company  around two months after the incident occurred. But obviously, the 
other driver could have  had another accident in the meantime or indeed  shortly after the 
incident with Miss P. In Admirals file, the accident  date appears to be 14 October 2017. The 
engineers report  on the damage  to this other drivers car is dated  27 November 2017, with 
the inspection  said to have been done  on 13 November 2017  and its the front of the car, 
which had the damage.  Therefore, this is a month after the alleged  accident and I remain  of 
the view the chain of causation isnt adequately  proved. This is because of the lack of any 
examination of Miss Ps car at the time Admiral became aware of the other  drivers  claim.
 
Without any further verification of this accident and indeed that the alleged damage the other 
claimed was done  by Miss Ps car on the balance of probability, I remain  of the view Admiral 
hasnt sufficiently proved  the case against  Miss P. Therefore,  I dont think it was fair and 
reasonable for it to have dealt with the other drivers  claim  on a without prejudice basis.  
Doing that changed the onus of proof from Admiral having to be clear its policyholder was 
Ref: DRN54135224involved, to Miss P having  to prove the incident didnt cause the extent of the damage  the 
other driver claimed. Thats not fair given Miss P is Admirals policyholder, not this other 
driver. Therefore I consider Admiral didnt use its right to deal with any other  claim as it 
thought fit, fairly in this case.
Therefore, I consider  this complaint should be upheld. As I explained in my provisional 
decision emails sadly can get unwittingly dumped  in spam folders and telephone messages 
missed. 
my final decision
So for these reasons, its my final decision that I uphold this complaint.
I now require Admiral  Insurance Company  Limited to do the following:
Remove all records  of a fault accident on Miss Ps insurance record,  substituting it 
with a non-fault accident.
Amend Miss Ps NCD to show the accident was non-fault if it was affected.
Write  a letter to Miss P confirming this, which she can then show to her subsequent 
insurers who should be able to provide a refund of some of the premium  she paid if 
those insurers adversely rated her premium.
If Miss P has any difficulty in obtaining  this from her subsequent  insurers,  Admiral 
should provide  the refunds itself, adding interest  of 8% simple  from the date Miss P 
paid any increased  premiums to the date of its refund.  If income tax is deducted from 
the interest by Admiral, appropriate documentation  should  be provided to Miss P for 
HMRC purposes.
Ensure Miss P is now paid a total of £500 compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 March 2020.
Rona Doyle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5413522