K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains that Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited  (LV) unfairly declined  
part of a claim he made on his buildings insurance policy.
background
Mr D is represented by a third party in bringing  this complaint. References I make  to the 
actions of Mr D also include the actions of the third party.
Mr D has a buildings insurance policy with LV. In January 2016 he discovered an escape of 
water at his property which caused extensive damage to a number of areas. He made a 
claim on his LV policy and it was accepted.  
Following the escape  of water, the property needed to be dried out which  took some time. 
Mr D noticed mould  appearing on some of the wooden window frames in the house.  He said 
this was caused by the dampness  in the property following  the leak, and was made worse by 
LVs claims process being slow.
Mr D says LV was slow in agreeing an action plan for dealing with the damage. He thought 
the windows were deteriorating rapidly  and was concerned  the mould was a health hazard. 
He says hed been told by a window company that theyd need to be replaced before any 
remedial work on the house was started. So he arranged for the windows to be replaced. 
LV said Mr D had arranged this work without seeking its approval in advance, and it wasnt  
happy to cover the cost of the replacement windows. It said its contractors said the windows 
could be repaired.  So it offered Mr D the £1,881  it says it would have  paid its contractor to do 
this repair.
Mr D wasnt happy with this and complained to LV saying it should  cover the whole cost. He 
also complained  about the time the claim and repairs  had taken. LV maintained  its position  
so Mr D brought his complaint to us.
Our investigator considered the evidence and concluded that LV hadnt acted unfairly in 
declining cover for the replacement windows. And she thought the £2,500  LV had paid for 
the delays was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. Mr D was unhappy with her 
conclusions on the replacement windows and asked an ombudsman  to make a decision on 
this part of the claim.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And having  done so, Ive reached the 
same conclusion as the investigator and for the same reasons. I know Mr D will be 
disappointed so Id like to explain the reasons for my decision.
LV is free to decide what it will and wont cover under the policy, and the terms and 
conditions of the policy will define what those things are. So what I need to decide here is 
whether LV acted within those terms and whether its acted fairly and reasonably  in the 
circumstances.
Ref: DRN55144312When a consumer makes a claim on a policy, the onus is on them to show that, on balance, 
an insured event caused the damage. In this case,  LV has accepted there was an insured 
event and that caused damage. But whats in dispute is whether LV acted  fairly  when it 
declined the claim  for the replacement windows.
LVs claim notes  show its contractors said the windows didnt need replacing and could 
instead be repaired. Mr D has challenged the professional  opinion  and competency of LVs 
contractors. And he said other  wood  in the house  was deemed to be in need  of replacement 
as a result  of damp and says its a reasonable  conclusion that, because of this, the windows 
would have needed replacing as well.
But Mr D hasnt presented  any evidence to substantiate this opinion. And by the time a 
surveyor visited the property, the windows had already been  replaced so there was no way 
of them  confirming this. So, in the absence  of evidence to the contrary Im left to conclude  it 
was reasonable  for LV to rely on the professional opinion of its contractor, and Ive seen no 
reason to doubt their professionalism.
LV declined the claim for the replacement windows, offering instead to cash settle the claim 
and pay Mr D the £1,881 it would have  cost it for the repairs. Ive looked  at the policy  to 
decide whether  this was in line with its terms and conditions.
The terms explain how LV can settle claims:
Settling claims
If the loss or damage is covered by this insurance  we will agree with you whether to:
1.Arrange for a repair  or replacement using  one of our suppliers, or
2.Pay the cost of the repair,  or
3.Make  a cash payment
From this Im satisfied LV has a choice  about  how it settles claims. In this case,  Mr D had 
already replaced  the windows so the option  of repairing them  was no longer available  to LV. 
It therefore decided  to cash settle  the claim and Im satisfied  this was one of the options  
available to it. 
The terms go on to explain what will happen in the case of a cash settlement:
Cash payments
If we can offer a repair or replacement through one of our suppliers and you choose 
not to have the item repaired or replaced,  well pay no more than the amount we 
would have paid our supplier
So Im satisfied, in offering Mr D the amount it would have paid its contractors, LV has 
settled the claim in line with the terms of the policy. 
Mr D says the contractors underestimated the cost of the work they undertook  on the 
property. And because of this, he thinks theyre  likely to have done the same if theyd 
repaired the windows.  He therefore  says LV should  increase the amount it offered in light of 
this. But its not my role to make a finding on something that might have happened had 
circumstances been different   I can only look at what actually did happen. And looking at 
what did happen, Im satisfied the way LV offered to fairly settle this part of the claim is in 
line with the policy terms.
Ref: DRN55144313In summary,  Im not upholding this complaint and I wont be asking LV to do anymore.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 May 2019.
Paul Phillips
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5514431