K821x#15complaint
Mr S complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold him a payment protection  insurance 
(PPI) policy in connection with a business  overdraft.
background
In 2000 Mr S applied  for a business  overdraft with Lloyds. At the same time he was sold PPI 
to cover his overdraft repayments if he was unable to work due to accident  or sickness.
Our adjudicator thought Mr Ss complaint  should  be upheld  because he didnt think Lloyds 
had made  the costs  of the policy clear  enough.  In particular he didnt think it was made clear 
Mr S would have to pay PPI premiums  even when his account  was not overdrawn.
Lloyds disagreed. So this complaint has come to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Ss case.
Ive decided to uphold Mr Ss complaint.
When selling  the policy Lloyds needed  to make sure Mr S was given  enough information  
about the policy to decide whether  it was right for him. That information had to be clear, fair 
and not misleading.
I think an important feature of the policy was that Mr S wouldve  had to pay the PPI 
premiums even if his account wasnt overdrawn.  
Lloyds says that Mr S wouldve been given product information at the time of the sale and 
the policy exclusions and cost of the insurance wouldve been explained by its adviser. But 
Ive seen a screen  shot that shows what the adviser  discussed at the time of the sale.  Two of 
the questions  the adviser  was asked were  Was the client orally  informed of all of the main 
characteristics of the policy including benefits and exclusions? and Was the client  orally  
informed of the monthly and cumulative cost of the policy?
Next to both questions I can see the letter N has been imputed. I think  the N recorded 
stands for no. So I dont think Mr S did have  all the information on the policy properly 
explained to him because  that is what Lloyds itself have recorded about  the sale. 
So the question  I have to ask is whether Mr S wouldve acted differently if hed been given 
more or better information. I think he wouldve. I think it wouldve been important for Mr S to 
keep his costs  down as he was running his own business. I dont think  he wouldve wanted 
to pay for a policy to protect an overdraft when he wasnt using it.
I acknowledge that Lloyds have given us some information to show that Mr S did use his 
overdraft. But this doesnt show me that he thought at the time he took out his overdraft he 
thought he was going to be consistently using it or that he was consistently in overdraft. 
Ref: DRN50024042So I think if Lloyds had given better  information  about the premiums being payable  even 
when not in overdraft, Mr S wouldnt have agreed to take the policy.  
So it follows  that Mr S has lost out as a result of Lloyds  failings.  
what Lloyds should do to put things  right
Lloyds should  put Mr S in the financial position hed be in now if he hadnt taken out PPI.
A.Lloyds should find out how much Mr S would have owed when he closed his overdraft 
account if the policy hadnt  been  added.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges. 
Lloyds should  then refund  the difference between  what Mr S owed when he closed his 
account and what  he would have owed if he hadnt  had PPI.
If Mr S made a successful  claim under  the PPI policy, Lloyds can take off what  he got 
for the claim from the amount it owes him.  
B.Lloyds should add simple interest  on the difference between  what Mr S would have 
owed when he closed his account  from when  he closed it until he gets the refund. The 
interest rate should  be 15% a year until April 1993 and 8% a year from then on.
C.If  when  Lloyds  works out what Mr S would have owed each month  without PPI  Mr S 
paid more than enough  to clear  his balance, Lloyds should  also pay simple interest on 
the extra Mr S paid. And it should  carry on paying interest until the point when  Mr S 
wouldve owed Lloyds something  on his overdraft.  The interest rate should be 15% a 
year until April 1993  and 8% a year from then on.
D.Lloyds should tell Mr S what its done  to work  out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Lloyds to take off tax from this interest. Lloyds must give 
Mr S a certificate  showing  how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Ref: DRN50024043my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained I uphold Mr Ss complaint against  Lloyds  Bank PLC and direct  
it pay the fair compensation outlined above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 July 2019.
Caroline Davies
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5002404