K821x#15complaint
Mr B complains that The One Stop Money Shop Limited was irresponsible to agree to lend 
to him.
Mr B wants  The One Stop Money Shop to refund the interest and charges that he paid on 
the loans.
background
Mr B took out 3 instalment  loans with The One Stop Money Shop between January 2018  
and January 2019. A summary  of the loans is below:
Loan Date of loan Amount Date Repaid Instalments Highest repayment 
1 06/03/2017 £300 26/01/2018 12 £49
2 10/11/2017 £300 25/10/2018 12 £98
3 26/01/2018 £400 25/01/2019 12 £114
Mr B says that with better checks,  The One Stop Money Shop wouldve  seen  that he couldnt 
afford to take on loans  and had become reliant on payday lending.
The adjudicator recommended that Mr Bs complaint be upheld. The adjudicator  thought that 
The One Stop Money Shop shouldnt  have agreed  any of the loans. He recommended  that 
The One Stop Money Shop refund the interest  and charges that Mr B had paid on the loans.
The adjudicator recommended that Sunny remove any negative information about  the loans 
from Mr Bs credit  file. 
The One Stop Money Shop disagreed with the adjudicators view. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  lending - including  all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
The One Stop Money Shop needed  to take reasonable  steps  to ensure that it didnt  lend 
irresponsibly. In practice this means that it should have carried  out proportionate  checks to 
make sure Mr B could  repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks  could take 
into account a number of different things, such as how much was being  lent, the repayment 
amounts and the consumers income  and expenditure. 
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think  less thorough checks  
might be reasonable  and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that The 
One Stop Money  Shop should fairly and reasonably have done more  to establish that any 
lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
Ref: DRN52247512the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think its important for me to start by saying that The One Stop Money Shop was required to 
establish whether  Mr B could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan 
payments were affordable on a strict  pounds and pence calculation.  
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the FCAs Consumer  Credit Sourcebook defines sustainable as 
being without  undue  difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make 
repayments on time, while meeting other  reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. 
So it follows  that a lender  should realise, or it ought  fairly and reasonably  to realise,  that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if they will need to borrow  
more money to afford the repayments.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Bs complaint.
When Mr B applied  for loan one, The One Stop Money Shop carried  out a credit check that 
showed he had at least three other  outstanding short term loans at the time. 
Short term loans  - even  those lasting up to 12 months  arent  intended for long term 
borrowing. Instead, they are aimed at customers who might  struggle to access mainstream  
credit and who need help with an unexpected expense. The fact that Mr B owed almost £800 
to other  short term lenders shouldve been  taken as an indication  that he was having 
problems managing his money.  In the circumstances,  regardless of Mr Bs declared income 
and outgoings  -  I dont  consider that it was reasonable of The One Stop Money Shop to 
agree loan one or any subsequent loans.
The One Stop Money Shop says the fact that Mr B made his repayments on time indicated 
that he was able to sustainably  repay all his loans but I dont necessarily agree. Mr B 
continued to borrow  from multiple short term lenders. At the time that Mr B took out loan 
three with The One Stop Money Shop, he had outstanding balances  on at least two other  
short term loans taken  out towards the end of 2017. And Mr B still owed  money on loan two 
with The One Stop Money Shop. I also understand that Mr B also made  a loan application  to 
The One Stop Money Shop in between loans one and two.
It appears that Mr B was stuck in a cycle of borrowing money from different lenders to keep 
up with his repayments  this wasnt sustainable.  And I agree with the adjudicator that The 
Ref: DRN52247513One Stop Money  Shop knew  enough  about Mr Bs other short term credit commitments to 
have realised this.
Overall, I consider that its reasonable to uphold Mr Bs complaint. 
putting things right  what The One Stop Money  Shop needs  to do
refund  all interest and charges that Mr B paid on loans one to three;
 
add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum  to each  of these amounts from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement*;  and
remove any negative information  about the loans from Mr Bs credit  file
*HM Revenue & Customs requires The One Stop Money Shop to take off tax from this 
interest. The One Stop Money Shop must give Mr B a certificate showing how much tax its 
taken off if he asks for one. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Bs complaint and direct  The One Stop Money  Shop 
Limited to put things  right as detailed above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 November  2019.
Gemma Bowen
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5224751