K821x#15complaint
Ms H through her husband  Mr B complains that Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) acted 
unfairly and unreasonably  when dealing with her claim under a travel  insurance  policy. She 
wants matters put right.
background
Ms H had a single trip travel insurance  policy with IPA. She travelled abroad and became 
unwell, and required hospitalisation from 3 February 2019 onwards. Ms H had travelled 
abroad for work purposes and was covered by its travel insurance; she had also taken out 
the policy with IPA to cover her when the work  travel  insurance policy ended as she had 
decided to stay in the country for a short personal  trip between  2 and 9 February 2019. 
IPAs doctors advised that she was moved  to a hospital at a lower  altitude but those treating 
her were  unwilling to arrange  this until IPA confirmed  that all the costs were  covered. Ms Hs 
employer and work insurer in the end covered her medical costs and travel home, but didnt 
refund the unused  flight home and accommodation.
Mr B said that he dealt with IPA as Ms H was so unwell. He was unhappy that it said the 
claim wouldnt be covered as the entire  trip shouldve been covered under the policy for the 
claim to be valid.  Mr B said that the website through which the policy  had been poorly 
designed and didnt properly explain what the questions meant. He also said that IPA 
delayed dealing with the matter, which caused permanent  damage to Ms Hs vision  as shed 
been left at the higher  altitude hospital.  Mr B said Ms H suffered  nightmares about being 
trapped in the hospital and blamed  IPA.
Mr B complained to IPA. It said that the decline of the claim was correct as the terms and 
conditions of the policy said that a trip had to start when the policyholder left home and end 
on their return  to the UK and be covered by the policy the whole time.  IPA also said that the 
policy had to be taken  out before the trip started  and while the policyholder  was in the UK. It 
stated that until the claim was accepted,  it was fair and reasonable not to approve  any 
expenses, such  as a hospital move, to ensure Ms H didnt end up paying  more if the claim 
was rejected. IPA said that the time taken wasnt unnecessary delay, but merely exploring 
every avenue before declining the claim.
Mr B complained to us, saying that the policy was taken out before Ms H left the UK. IPA 
said that the policy was started  after Ms H left the country and so she wasnt covered due to 
the definition of a single  trip. The whole of the trip had to be insured  with IPA for a claim to 
be eligible in its view.
The investigators view was that IPA hadnt  acted fairly. He said that Ms H took out the policy 
before she left the UK, and it didnt properly or clearly explain that the whole  trip had to be 
insured with IPA. The investigator said that the policy could be read as simply saying  that if 
the policy was taken out in the UK before the trip started, that was sufficient.  He noted that 
no other reason  had been given by IPA to decline the claim and Ms Hs only alternative  
wouldve been to have two insurance policies covering the same trip due to the work  
insurance policy, which wasnt usual.  The investigator said that Ms H had given the correct 
dates for which she needed cover  and had been  unfairly treated. He said the claim should 
be reconsidered in light of the rest of the policy and interest paid. 
Ref: DRN54042152The investigator also said that IPAs handling  of the claim wasnt  good  enough.  It was told 
repeatedly that Ms H had to be moved  to a lower  altitude and it didnt do so. He didnt think  
that it was fair or reasonable to wait for the claim to be accepted before taking such urgent 
action  the investigator said IPA put its policy before  Ms Hs health  and had delayed  
offering a disclaimer to allow the move to happen while the claim was considered  (this 
wouldve meant Ms H and Mr B wouldve  been  liable for the costs  if the claim was declined). 
He noted that Ms H hadnt provided  evidence of the health problems she said had been  
suffered as a result, but thought £500 for the trouble and upset caused should be paid.
IPA disagreed. It said that the policy was designed  to cover the whole trip and not trips that 
had already started. IPA also thought that it wasnt unfair or unreasonable  for it to have  
taken eight days to decline  the claim. Mr B also disagreed and said more compensation 
should be paid.  No medical evidence  was provided. The investigator  asked  IPA for evidence 
of what Ms H wouldve  seen on the website when  taking  out the policy, but that wasnt 
provided either.
my provisional decision
In my provisional decision,  I said:
When I refer to IPA, Im also referring  to its agents.
The relevant  rules and industry guidelines say that IPA has a responsibility to handle  claims 
promptly and fairly.  And it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
Is the claim covered?
The relevant  rules and industry guidelines say that IPA has a responsibility to handle  claims 
promptly and fairly.  And it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
The starting point  is the terms and conditions  of the policy. It defines a trip as a return  
journey which  starts and ends in the UK. But Ms Hs trip did start and end in the UK; she just 
didnt insure the whole trip with IPA. As this is a single trip policy, I think theres an 
implication that the one policy is meant to insure  the whole trip, but it isnt spelt  out clearly 
within the policy in my view.
For example, IPA has dwelled on the term that says However any trip that had already 
begun when you purchased this insurance will not be covered. Ms H bought  the 
insurance while she was in the UK and hadnt departed. But its possible that IPA may mean  
that if the insurance only covers a period after a trip from the UK has been started, it isnt 
covered. Its another way of saying that the whole trip should be insured  to be covered.  If 
that is what IPA means within this term, it isnt clear  its ambiguous. Ms H reasonably  
thought it might that the insurance  couldnt be bought if the trip had started. And given the 
use of the word when, I think thats  what the term really is saying.
The terms and conditions  dont say clearly that the whole of the trip must be covered by the 
one single trip policy. The rules of legal interpretation say that if something is ambiguous,  it 
should be read in the way that favours  the consumer as they didnt draft the policy. So I dont 
think IPA is correct in saying that the policy excludes Ms Hs claim. It couldve easily  have 
said this within the policy in a much clearer way.
Ref: DRN54042153And in any event, if I am wrong  about  the terms and conditions  of the policy, Im able to put it 
to one side and look at whats fair and reasonable. I havent been  able to look at Ms Hs web 
journey, but Ive seen the journey used in other  complaints Ive considered. It wouldve been 
easy to include wording  in the list of assumptions  that made it clear that the whole trip had to 
be insured with IPA, but all thats said (and relevant) is that its assumed that the consumer 
was travelling to and from the UK. Ms H was travelling to and from the UK; its just that her 
trip involved work and leisure, and her needs  were that she was covered  for work under her 
employers policy, but not the additional  days in the country she planned to stay for pleasure. 
Theres no warning that it was the insured  trip that needed  to start and finish  in the UK. And 
Ive already found that the policy itself didnt make this clear either. It was the fact that this 
wasnt made clear to her thats led to the situation Ms H now finds herself.
Its also difficult to see what prejudice  IPA has suffered here.  Ms Hs claim is in respect of 
the dates she was insured with IPA. I cant see any disadvantage to IPA that Ms H was 
initially covered  by another insurer and then chose to be insured  with IPA for the leisure part 
of her trip.
In all the circumstances of this case,  I think IPA hasnt acted fairly or reasonably  in declining  
the claim.  The claims in respect of the unused flight home (as another  insurer  covered the 
repatriation costs), effective curtailment costs  such as accommodation,  and hospital  benefit 
should be considered in line with the remaining terms and conditions  of the policy. Any 
payments made should receive simple  interest at 8% a year from the date the claim was first 
submitted to the date of payment should be paid.  If Ms H is unhappy with how her claim is 
assessed by IPA, shes able to raise  a new complaint with his service after complaining  to 
IPA.
The handling  of the claim
I dont think IPA acted fairly  or reasonably when dealing with the claim. It took eight days  to 
decline, despite the fact that it knew the dates of Ms Hs journey early on. Its clear from the 
evidence available  to me that the delay wasnt anything to do with exploring all options,  but 
waiting for the results  of a retro screening  to see if the premium was affected. Ms H had no 
relevant medical  history  (which again IPA knew early on) and it knew  from the reports  of the 
treating hospital  that it was likely Ms H was unwell  due to the altitude.
Matters become much more serious when I note that IPAs  own medical team was 
repeatedly and urgently telling it to move  Ms H to a lower altitude as her health was at risk if 
she stayed. The treating doctors  confirmed this. IPA didnt take any positive action. It was 
warned about  the hospital at which Ms H was being  treated as well, but still didnt take 
action. It took it five days to even  suggest to Mr B that he signed  a disclaimer  to allow  Ms H 
to be moved at their cost if it turned out the claim was declined.  That is unreasonable.  The 
investigator used strong words about  how IPA treated  Ms H, but I think  they were fair  IPA 
didnt prioritise Ms H, but was focused  on whether it could decline the claim, and it took far 
too long to even do that.
Ref: DRN54042154I accept that Mr B didnt  agree to sign the disclaimer but said hed wait for the decision about 
whether the claim  was to be declined. And I know another insurer became involved, but I 
dont know what was happening with it while Ms H was in the first hospital. I bear these  
points in mind when considering compensation, but they dont  change  the fact that Ive found 
IPA to be fault. And as Ms H hasnt  provided any medical evidence  showing that her vision  
has been permanently  affected due to IPAs delay, I can only award compensation for 
trouble and upset  caused by the decline  of the claim, the delays caused by IPA in moving  
Ms H and declining her claim, and its general administration of the claim which I find was 
unfair and unreasonable.
Money never  truly compensates for trouble and upset, and I cant  award  anything  for Mr Bs 
trouble and upset  as he wasnt  the policyholder or covered by the policy. Im told that Ms H 
was sedated for much of the time (which  is likely  due to the nature of her treatment), but 
there are calls that show she was upset.  I accept that she felt trapped  and frightened, and 
while theres no medical evidence, I think its likely she has suffered nightmares about her 
experience of being stuck in a hospital  knowing that it wasnt  a safe place for her. And I 
know that the experience went on for well over a week. In all the circumstances, I dont think  
£500 is fair and reasonable  compensation, and think an increased sum of £750  which  is in 
the substantial  range for our service - is much  more reflective of Ms Hs suffering.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
In response to my provisional decision,  IPA accepted my view and Ms H didnt respond.  In 
light of this, I remain of the view as set out in my provisional decision and confirm it is my 
final decision.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint.  Inter Partner Assistance SA should 
reconsider Ms Hs claim for the unused flight home  and curtailment of her trip in light of the 
rest of the terms and conditions of the policy, and pay interest  as outlined above on any 
payment made as a result, together with £750 compensation for the trouble and upset 
caused to her by its failings. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im 
required to ask Ms H to accept or reject my decision before 13 June 2020.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5404215