K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that he was unable  to take his pension  benefits with Scottish Widows 
Limited online despite being  told he could  do so. This caused  a delay and his fund value 
went down. Mr S wants to be compensated for this and the poor service  he received.
background
Mr S completed an online application  to take his benefits and thought his benefits would be 
paid. However, he then found  out that because hed had already taken his tax-free cash 
lump sum at an earlier date, Scottish  Widows required  a telephone call to take place. 
Mr S had to complete  the process again by telephone and he says this delay  caused  a 
financial loss as his fund value fell in this time.
Scottish Widows  responded and upheld Mr S complaint. It said that it had received Mr Ss 
online application on 19 February 2019 and this was picked up by a member of its 
administration team the day after.  This was when  Scottish Widows noticed the application 
couldnt be completed online and it tried to call Mr S but couldnt  reach  him. Scottish Widows 
say it tried to call Mr S again  on 22 February but with the same result. On 25 February  Mr S 
called Scottish Widows  and the application was completed but Mr S was unhappy  as the 
value had fallen.
Scottish Widows  offered Mr S £100 for the trouble and upset it had caused by not making it 
clear that he couldnt  process the application online and it also apologised  that it had not 
raised the complaint as early  as it should. It said it had worked out the fund loss and this 
equated to £22.92 and it agreed to refund  this to Mr S.
Mr S remained unhappy  and raised a complaint with our service.  Our investigator looked into 
the complaint  but felt that Scottish Widows offer fairly compensated Mr S for his financial 
loss and the trouble and upset caused.
Mr S disagreed with this. He said that with other  pension providers he had been able to 
encash plans  online and he received the money quickly  without having to speak to someone. 
And he said hes lost money  with Scottish  Widows due to its delay.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The issue  to decide  here is whether Scottish Widows has adequately compensated Mr S for 
any financial  loss incurred  and for the trouble and upset caused.
Mr S argues  that Scottish Widows hasnt paid him enough and he wants the difference  paid 
between 19 and 27 of February. He says his loss is more than what has been offered. 
Scottish Widows  has already explained to Mr S how its pricing system works and how the 
daily values are calculated. Its explanation  is in line with what  we know about unit-linked 
pricing and is the industry norm. It has also provided  evidence comparing the fund values 
and unit-prices for what Mr S wouldve received without the issues  with the online 
encashment and what Mr S actually  received.  There was only a short  delay and the unit-
price changes in this time were small.
Ref: DRN51873532Our approach at this service when  an error  has occurred is to put the customer  back into the 
position they wouldve been  in had the error not occurred. And Scottish Widows offer has 
done this. It has paid Mr S the value he wouldve received had he been  able to encash his 
plan without issue.
Scottish Widows  also offered Mr S £100  as compensation for any trouble and upset caused.  
Mr S is unhappy that he had to have a telephone conversation to take out his money and 
has said that other providers have allowed  him to take his pension online.
However, Scottish Widows says that if a customer has already taken out a tax-free cash  
sum, the online encashment process  isnt available. This is its process and it doesnt have to 
offer online encashment, so it hasnt done  anything wrong here regardless of whether other 
providers have the capability to do this. So even if Scottish Widows had done everything 
correctly, Mr S wouldve  still have needed to make  a telephone call to encash his plan. The 
error that Scottish Widows  made was that it did not make this clear before and the result of 
this was Mr S completed the online process  needlessly. Scottish  Widows  has also said it 
shouldve raised  a complaint for Mr S earlier than it did. Mr S has also complained he wasnt  
given a direct number to call into so had to be passed through  and calls were  put on hold. 
He says it wasnt until he complained that he was given a direct number. Mr S is also 
unhappy that he was called from withheld numbers  by Scottish  Widows.
Looking at the circumstances of what happened, Scottish Widows  corrected its error quickly  
and tried to call Mr S as soon as possible.  And a few days  later it was able to complete the 
encashment. Mr S did have to make a call and answer the same  questions hed previously 
done online. I dont think receiving calls from withheld numbers or having to wait to be 
passed through to the correct person  warrants further compensation  above  £100. I think  the 
£100 offered is sufficient  taking into account all the circumstances of this case  and our 
guidelines for awards. I therefore will not be making  any further award.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained I do not uphold Mr S complaint and I make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 April 2020.
Simon Hollingshead
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5187353