K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that Gatehouse Bank Plc took too long dealing with his application to 
refinance his buy to let (BTL) property. 
background
In July 2018 Mr M applied  for a Diminishing Musharakah Residential Financing Product 
(product) through  a broker  to refinance  a BTL flat he already owned.
The valuation was carried  out on 13 September and that noted the surveyor  had no details 
of the lease so an unexpired term in excess of 85 years  had been  assumed. A product offer 
was produced on 24 September on that basis.
On 1 October Mr Ms broker  informed Gatehouse that the unexpired  lease term was wrong, 
and there  was only 70 years left.
Gatehouse referred it back to the surveyor who produced a revised report  on 5 October. The 
surveyor said the property  was worth slightly less due to that, and recommended Mr M look 
into a lease extension  to protect the future value of the flat.
A revised  product offer was issued with the 70-year lease term noted and a lower  finance 
figure, and Mr M signed to accept that on 19 October.
On 4 February 2019 Mr Ms solicitor notified Gatehouses  solicitor that the lease term was 
now only 69 years. Although that was outside Gatehouses lending criteria it agreed  to 
continue with the product on condition Mr M extended the lease to a minimum of 85 years 
before the end of the two-year  fixed term.
Unhappy with that Mr M complained to Gatehouse. Gatehouse said it hadnt done  anything 
wrong and so Mr M referred his complaint to us. Our investigator  didnt uphold the complaint. 
Mr M didnt  agree and so the matters been passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I trust Mr M wont  take it as a discourtesy 
that Ive condensed his complaint  in the way that I have. Ours is an informal  dispute 
resolution service, and Ive concentrated on what I consider to be the crux of the complaint.
Although Ive read and considered the whole file, Ill keep my comments  to what  I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point, its not because Ive not considered it but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach  the right outcome.  
I can see the determination with which Mr M has brought his complaint. He sees  error or 
wrong-doing in almost everything  Gatehouse  has done (or not done). Thats a natural, 
subjective reaction,  and entirely understandable. Be that as it may,  I must take a different 
approach. Im impartial and I must look at things objectively, sometimes taking  a step back  
and focussing  on the broader  picture.  Thats what Ive done. 
Mr M has said he wants us to compel Gatehouse  to honour its agreement, as he thought  
it very unfair  that the Bank would try to amend the terms of our fully executed mortgage 
Ref: DRN57793312offer. And that is where Mr Ms complaint fails. Its not a case  of Gatehouse not honouring 
that offer or trying to amend  it. That offer said, at condition  9.4, that it required Confirmation 
from the solicitors acting for the Bank that upon  completion the Property  will have an 
unexpired term of 70 years. As soon as that condition couldnt  be met - which was on 
25 December 2018 when the lease  anniversary  meant the unexpired  term was now 69 years 
 then completion couldnt take place as the conditions of the offer couldnt be met.
At that time Gatehouse  could  have just refused to proceed as Mr Ms property didnt meet its 
product criteria but instead it gained high level agreement to proceed to try to assist Mr M. 
Financing a property isnt a right,  and Gatehouse  is entitled to ensure any application  made 
fits its product criteria. If that means Gatehouse  requires  Mr M to extend  the lease within the 
next two years, then thats its right.
Its a shame Mr Ms solicitor didnt  tell Gatehouses solicitor about the lease issue sooner but 
thats not something I can hold Gatehouse liable for. Im also satisfied any delays werent  
down to Gatehouse or its solicitor, so it wasnt Gatehouses fault that matters didnt complete 
before 25 December (when the unexpired lease term reduced).  As I can only consider the 
actions of Gatehouse and its solicitor  when acting as Gatehouses agent, I cant comment 
further on the cause of the delays as its not within my power to do so. Mr Ms solicitor was 
acting for him alone, irrespective of how and why he came to appoint them, so any issues he 
may have  hed have  to take up with them directly.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  My final decision concludes  this services consideration of the 
complaint, which  means Ill not be engaging in any further discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2020.
Julia Meadows
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5779331