K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs R have complained about the cancellation of a car insurance  policy  by Admiral  
Insurance Company Limited. 
background
Mr and Mrs R had a multi-car policy for two cars they owned.  Mr R was the policyholder for 
one car (which Ill refer to as policy A) and Mrs R was policyholder for the other car (which  
Ill refer to as policy  B). Mr R was a named driver on policy  B and Mrs R was a named 
driver on policy A. 
Mr R had an accident in Mrs Rs car and made a claim under policy B. The car was written  
off and policy B was cancelled  by Admiral as there was no longer  a car to insure. Mr and 
Mrs R said they were  under the impression that both policies  continued to run, as they were  
both paid up in full. They therefore believed they continued to receive the benefits provided 
under both the policies. 
One of those benefits was the policyholder (ie not a named  driver) being  covered to drive 
another persons car. So the policy would only cover Mrs R if policy  B remained active.
Mrs R, believing she had cover under policy B, had an accident while she was driving  a 
friends car. She was told she wasnt covered to drive other cars because  policy  B had been 
cancelled after the previous accident. So she wasnt covered for the accident. Mr and Mrs R 
complained as they werent happy  that policy B had been cancelled  and they hadnt  been 
made aware  of it. 
Our investigator didnt  think the complaint should be upheld. He felt Admiral had given 
Mr and Mrs R clear enough  information  that policy B had been cancelled.  Mr and Mrs R 
disagreed with our investigator as they didnt feel enough weight had been placed on their 
interpretation of what had been said during a telephone call, and that a contract shouldnt be 
cancelled without acknowledgement from both parties. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive listened to the call in which Mr R reported  the claim. During  the call it was ascertained  
that the damage to the car would result  in it being written off and arrangements were made 
to have it picked  up by the relevant. At the end of the call Admiral explained that because 
there was no longer  a car to insure  policy B would be cancelled,  and all benefits under it 
(including the driving other cars cover) would cease. Mr R acknowledged  this, but explained 
that when this happened to his previous car both policies were cancelled  by mistake.  So he 
wanted to make sure it was just policy B that was cancelled. Admiral  confirmed  that it was 
only policy B, and that this was Mrs Rs policy. 
As Admiral confirmed policy B was paid up in full and that it could be reinstated if Mrs R got 
a new car, I acknowledge that Mr R got the impression policy  B would continue. But I have to 
assess whether or not Admiral acted  unfairly.  And based on the phone conversations Ive 
heard, I think  it made it clear that policy B would be cancelled and that all benefits that came 
Ref: DRN50640092with it would end. Mr R confirmed he understood that. So Im satisfied that Admiral 
sufficiently explained  the situation  over the phone  to Mr R.
Admiral followed the call up by confirming the situation in writing.  The letter specifically 
confirmed that the cancellation included the driving other cars cover.  Mr and Mrs R said 
they didnt receive  the letter and questioned whether  or not this was sent. Ive only got a 
copy of the letter; its correctly addressed to Mrs R. Its standard  practice  for a letter  to go out 
to confirm cancellation of the policy, and Ive nothing to show  that it wasnt  sent. 
Unfortunately there are occasions where  letters go missing that arent  the fault of the sender, 
and on the balance of probabilities I think its more likely than not that this letter was sent. 
I appreciate Mr and Mrs R may not have received the letter. But theres no obligation  on 
Admiral to check its been received or acknowledged, or for it to be sent recorded delivery. 
The policy simply says that if a car is deemed a total loss Admiral  will cancel  the policy 
without prior notice by writing to the policyholders  last known address. In any event,  I dont 
think my decision in the specific circumstances of this case turns on whether or not the letter  
was received. This is because, in my view, Admiral  had already sufficiently told Mr R that 
policy B was cancelled and that there  was no more cover under it during  the call when he 
reported the claim.
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  9 November 2019.
Paul Daniel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5064009