K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that Canada Square Operations Limited (Egg)  mis-sold payment protection  
insurance (PPI) to him alongside a credit card in 2000. 
When Canada Square Operations  Limited  sold this PPI to Mr B, it was trading as Egg. For 
consistency, Ill refer to Egg for the rest of this decision. 
background
Our adjudicator didnt  think this complaint should be upheld. Through his representatives, 
Mr B disagreed with that view. He said he hadnt  been provided with any documentation to 
show that hed bought  the PPI policy. He reiterated his view that he didnt need the cover 
because hed have  been able to rely on help from his family members if he was out of work. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken that into account  in deciding 
this case.
Having thought carefully about all of the information Mr B provided, Ive decided  not to 
uphold this complaint.  Ill explain why below.  
The parties agree that this PPI policy was sold to Mr B online.  I havent seen the exact  
screenshot that Mr B completed. But Ive seen  a sample of the screens that Egg used  to sell 
PPI at that time.  Im satisfied that I know what Mr B would have seen as he was applying for 
his credit card. 
The first thing Ive considered is whether  Mr B would have known PPI was optional and he 
didnt have to buy it if he didnt want it. I dont doubt  that what Mr B told us is what he 
honestly recalls about what  happened. But I also have to take into account  that its difficult to 
remember what happened  18 years  ago, which is when this policy  was sold.  I can see that in 
order to progress with his application,  Mr B would have had to select one of two options   
that he either wanted a PPI policy or he did not. As the PPI was added, I think Mr B must 
have selected  that he wanted  the cover. 
Egg has also sent us some copies of Mr Bs credit card statements. I can see that PPI is 
recorded on his statements  as credit card repayment  protector . So I think he would have 
queried what those  payments were for if he didnt know about the cover at the time. 
Egg didnt  advise Mr B to take this policy out. But it still had to make sure he had enough 
information about the PPI so he could decide  for himself whether it was a good fit for his 
needs. That information had to be clear,  fair and not misleading. 
As I said above, Ive seen  a sample  of the information that would have been provided  to 
Mr B. I dont think  the information was as clear as it could  have  been.  For example, I dont 
think its apparent that Mr B would have to pay interest on his premiums if he didnt repay  his 
credit card balance in full every month. So the question  for me now is whether  Mr B would 
have acted differently  if Egg had told him everything  it should  have done.  To help me decide 
Ref: DRN52557272what hes likely to have done,  Ive looked  carefully at what  he told us about  his personal 
circumstances. And Ive also looked at the terms and conditions of the PPI. 
I can see that if hed been  out of work, 10% of Mr Bs credit card balance would have been 
repaid for every month he was unable to work up to a maximum of 12 months. Mr B told us 
that if hed become unwell, hed have received less than 3 months sick pay from his 
employer. So I think the PPI would have paid out for longer than the cover  he already had in 
place from work. 
Ive carefully considered  what Mr B said about his family support. And I dont doubt for a 
moment that it would have been  the intention of Mr Bs family members to help him in the 
manner he describes. But circumstances can change and theres  no guarantee that help 
would have been available to Mr B as and when he needed it. 
Mr B told us he was in good health  when the cover was sold.  So I dont think  hed have been 
affected by any of the policys exclusions about medical conditions. And I havent seen 
anything unusual about his employment  circumstances that would have stopped Mr B from 
making a successful claim if he needed to. 
With all of this in mind, I think the PPI could have been helpful to Mr B if he was out of work. 
So I dont  think hed have  acted differently if hed been given more or better information 
about the cover. 
I know Mr B feels strongly that he didnt  need this PPI and Im sorry to disappoint  him. But 
for the reasons set out above,  I havent  upheld his complaint.  I dont need  to tell Egg to take 
any further action.  
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint about Canada Square  Operations Limited. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 April 2019. 
Nicola Bowes
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN5255727