K821x#15complaint
Mr R complains that loans he had from CashEuroNet UK LLC (trading as QuickQuid) were 
unaffordable.
background
Mr R had seven instalment loans from QuickQuid between February  2017  and October  2017 
as follows:
Loan Date Amount Term Max Repayment Due Repaid
1 9 Feb 2017 £150 43d £166.80 24 Mar 2017 3 Mar 2017
2 2 Apr 2017 £300 47d £333.60 19 May 2017 13 Apr 2017
3 13 Apr 2017 £750 43d £834 26 May 2017 3 May 2017
4 26 May 2017 £150 42d £166.80 7 Jul 2017 21 Jul 2017
5 21 Jul 2017 £600 42d £667.20 1 Sep 2017 7 Aug 2017
6 22 Aug 2017 £400 45d £444.80 6 Oct 2017 6 Oct 2017
7 8 Oct 2017 £800 41d £889.60 17 Nov 2017 Outstanding
Mr R says he was in a debt spiral because he couldnt afford the repayments.  He said he 
had to borrow more  frequently,  and from other short-term  lenders, to pay off the loans.
QuickQuid says it looked at Mr Rs credit record and asked him about  his monthly income  
and expenditure.  QuickQuid  adds that it validated the information provided. It says it found  
Mr R had more than enough to cover  the repayments and could not agree that the loans 
were unaffordable.  It adds that his borrowing history did not suggest  he was dependent  on 
the loans and he had a good repayment history. However, QuickQuid noted that it approved 
a loan after Mr R told it he was in financial  difficulties. It offered to refund interest  and 
charges (plus 8% statutory interest) on loans 4 to 7.
Mr R did not accept this offer.
Our adjudicator recommended  the complaint should  be upheld. She was satisfied that 
QuickQuid did enough checks  before  approving loans 1 and 2, but did not consider it likely 
that Mr R would have  been able to sustainably repay loans 3 to 7. This is due to his 
borrowing pattern  and the amount  borrowed in comparison to his income. She 
recommended that QuickQuid should  refund interest  and charges on loans 3 to 7 (plus 8% 
statutory interest) and offset this amount against  the principal balance  still owed on loan 7. 
She further added that loans 6 and 7 should  be removed from Mr Rs credit  file, and negative 
information recorded about loans  3 to 5 should also be removed.
QuickQuid responded  to say, in summary, that its checks were  adequate and proportionate 
to the type and amount  of credit provided. It says that it could  not see how the assessment 
could determine  the sustainability of the loans without analysing  Mr Rs specific 
circumstances at the time of each loan.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN50932092QuickQuid needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly.  In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr R 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that QuickQuid should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that QuickQuid was required to establish 
whether Mr R could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether  the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to 
make repayments on time,  while meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without 
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont  be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Rs complaint.
As our adjudicator explained, a proportionate  check for loans 3 to 5 would most likely have 
shown that Mr R:
couldnt afford to make the repayment  on loan 3 as it was a significant proportion of 
his declared income;
was borrowing again in order to make repayments;
was in financial difficulty  based  on his borrowing pattern and repayment  history.
Ive also looked  at the overall pattern of QuickQuids lending  history with Mr R, with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which QuickQuid should reasonably  have seen that further  
lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so QuickQuid should have realised 
that it shouldnt  have provided  any further  loans. 
Ref: DRN50932093Given the particular  circumstances of Mr Rs case, I think  that this point was reached by loan 
6. I say this because:
From  loan 6 onwards  Mr R was provided  with a new loan within  days of settling a 
previous one. So QuickQuid ought  to have realised it was more  likely than not Mr R 
was having to borrow further  to cover the hole repaying his previous loan was leaving 
in his finances and that Mr Rs indebtedness  was increasing unsustainably.
Mr R wasnt  making  any real inroads  to the amount he owed QuickQuid. Loan  7 was 
taken out 8 months after Mr Rs first loan. And it was for a much larger amount. Mr R 
had paid large amounts of interest  to, in effect, service a debt to QuickQuid over an 
extended period.
I think that Mr R lost out because QuickQuid continued to provide borrowing  from loan 3 
onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Rs indebtedness by allowing  him 
to take expensive credit intended  for short-term  use over an extended  period of time.
the sheer number  of loans was likely to have had negative  implications on Mr Rs 
ability to access mainstream credit and so kept him in the market for high-cost loans.
So Im also upholding  the complaint about loans 6 and 7 and QuickQuid should put things 
right.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. CashEuroNet UK LLC (trading  as QuickQuid) 
should:
Refund all interest  and charges that Mr R paid on loans 3 to 7;
Pay interest of 8% simple a year on all refunds from the date of payment to the date 
of settlement*;
Write  off any unpaid interest and charges  for loan 7, apply the refund to reduce any 
capital outstanding and pay any balance to Mr R; 
Remove any negative  information about loans 3 to 5 from Mr Rs credit file.
Remove all entries about loans  6 and 7 (once the principal has been repaid) from Mr 
Rs credit  file as the number of loans taken from loan 6 onwards means any 
information recorded about them is adverse.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires QuickQuid  to take off tax from this interest. QuickQuid  
must give Mr R a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one. If 
QuickQuid intends  to apply the refund to reduce any outstanding capital balance,  it must do 
so after deducting  the tax.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 May 2019.
Amanda Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5093209