K820x#14complaint
Miss Y and Mrs Y have complained about  Admiral Insurance Company Limiteds handling of 
a claim on their motor insurance policy.
Miss Y is the policyholder  and Mrs Y is a named driver on the policy. But almost all the 
correspondence and communication  concerning the complaint has been with Miss Y. So for 
ease Ill refer to her actions and comments as being in respect of both her and Mrs Y.
background
Miss Y was in an accident. She didn't  think it was her fault.  She claimed on her policy. 
Admiral said that her car was a total loss and wasn't  fit to be repaired.  It paid Miss Y what  it 
considered to be the cars market value.  Miss Y was very unhappy about many  aspects  of 
Admirals service. Admiral acknowledged  some  delays  and paid Miss Y £25 compensation. 
Miss Y brought her complaint to us. I issued a provisional decision on 10 December 2019. 
For ease Ive copied the key points from my provisional findings below. I said:
During the course of Miss Ys claim and complaint  shes made many detailed points. I've 
considered everything  that she and Admiral have  said. But in this decision I will focus on 
what I see as being the key outstanding points.
Admirals response to our investigators recommendations  
Miss Y said that Admirals compensation cheque was £100  short.  But I think shes made  a 
mistake. Our investigator recommended that Admiral should increase the compensation 
figure to £150  in total. As Admiral had already paid Miss Y £25 that meant it needed to pay 
her a further £125.  The investigator also recommended Admiral pay Miss Y a further £300 to 
increase the value of her car. It added simple interest to that, which was £6.21. Admiral  then 
sent Miss Y a cheque for [125 + 300 + 6.21] £431.21, which  Miss Y cashed.  That was the 
amount our investigator  recommended. So Im satisfied Admiral  paid Miss Y the right 
amount.
Miss Y said that Admiral didn't adhere to the clause  she added when accepting  the 
investigators recommendations. I can see that she wrote on the settlement form that she 
accepted the investigators conclusions as long as Admiral paid her £524 and returned  the 
cars registration plate.  As I've indicated above I think Admiral  paid Miss Y the correct  
amount of compensation, so I wouldn't  have expected it to pay Miss Y £524. Also I don't 
know if Admiral  physically  returned the car's  rear number plate, although I do know that 
Miss Y has kept the registration  number. But returning the rear number plate wasn't one of 
our investigators recommendations; so I wouldn't have expected Admiral to be bound  by 
what Miss Ys wrote on the settlement form. And in any event we reopened the complaint 
when she said she wasn't happy  with the way Admiral settled it. 
ownership of the car
Miss Y said she still has ownership of the car and she still has the relevant paperwork. Shes 
not happy that Admiral said the car is its property. Its not for me to determine who has legal 
ownership of the car. My remit  is only to decide  whether Admiral has acted fairly and 
reasonably and in line with Miss Ys policy. Miss Ys policy says that in the event her car is 
beyond economical  repair:
Ref: DRN50067102Once we [Admiral] make a payment to you, your car will become  our property.
Admiral sent Miss Y a total loss payment on 3 October 2018. I understand that Miss Y wasn't 
happy with Admiral deeming her car a total loss or of the amount  that it paid her for its 
market value. But I don't think  that matters. Miss Ys policy allows Admiral to decide  how it 
wishes to settle  a claim. In this case its clear that Miss Ys car was beyond economical  
repair, so Admiral sent her a total loss settlement. Thats  something  its allowed to do and I 
think its done so fairly.  So, by the terms of Miss Ys policy the car became Admirals 
property once it had sent her the total loss payment. And as such  I think it was reasonable 
for Admiral to deal with the car as it saw fit.
Miss Y has suggested that Admirals action have been criminal.  An allegation of criminal 
wrongdoing isnt for me to determine.  That would be a matter for the police and the 
Crown Prosecution Service.  But as I've said above,  given the terms of her policy, I think  
Admirals actions have  been reasonable.
bias
Miss Y said that Admiral was biased against  her because she is disabled and vulnerable. 
But while I can see there were times  when  Admirals customer  service could have been 
better, I don't think its shown any bias against  her whatsoever. Its not uncommon for 
policyholders to disagree with their insurer over things like whether or not a car is a total loss 
and if so its categorisation. And we deal with many complaints about settlement figures and 
customer service.  But just because  a consumer is unhappy with an insurers  decisions 
doesn't mean that the insurer has shown bias against them. And Im satisfied that's the case  
here. I haven't  seen any evidence, beyond Miss Ys comments, that Admiral has treated her 
any worse because she has a disability or for any other reason.
liability
Miss Y said that Admiral forced a fault decision on to her. She was also unhappy that our 
investigator said that the question of liability could be best settled in court.  It might  help if I 
explain that it's not the role of this service to decide  on whos at fault for an accident.  And our 
investigator is correct that is ultimately the responsibility of the courts. And, like all motor 
policies, Miss Ys policy allows Admiral to settle  claims as it sees fit. That means  it doesnt  
require Miss Ys consent to decide how to settle  a claim. So even  if she didn't ever accept 
that she was at fault for an accident  Admiral may still accept liability on her behalf.  But Ill 
look to see if its done so reasonably.
I've looked  carefully at the evidence of how the accident took place. Miss Y said she was 
pulling out from a side road when an oncoming car kept going straight on when Miss Y 
thought it was turning left. The two cars collided. In those circumstances as I understand it, it 
would be Miss Ys responsibility  to ensure that the lane was clear before she entered  it, 
regardless of whether the other driver was indicating or not. And I note that Miss Y doesn't  
have any independent witnesses to support her that the other driver was at fault. So I think it 
was reasonable  for Admiral to settle the claim as it did.
conclusion
As I've said above it's clear that some  of Admirals customer service  could have  been  better. 
And I understand that the accident  and its aftermath  have had a significant  impact on 
Ref: DRN50067103Miss Y. But an accident, particularly one that results  in the loss of a cherished  car, is always  
likely to be upsetting  and inconvenient.  And I don't think all the problems Miss Ys 
experienced as a result of the accident  are Admirals fault. It follows  that I think our 
investigators proposals to put things right, which Admiral has already complied with, were 
appropriate in the circumstances. So I'm not going  to direct it to take any further  action.
Neither Admiral nor Miss Y provided  any further comments.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I'm going  to partly uphold  
it. 
As neither Admiral nor Miss Y raised  any objection to my provisional decision I see no 
reason to change  it.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above and in my provisional  decision  I partly uphold this complaint. 
But I think Admiral has already done  enough to put things right so I dont intend to direct  it to 
take any further action.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to Miss Y and Mrs Y to 
accept or reject my decision  before  8 February  2020.
Joe Scott 
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN5006710