K820x#14complaint
Mrs B complains about the end of term refurbishment charges that shes  been  asked to pay 
by Volkswagen Financial  Services  (UK) Limited (VWFS).
background
Mrs B took receipt of a new car in May 2015.  She financed  the deal through a four year hire 
purchase agreement  with VWFS. Mrs B voluntarily  terminated the agreement in the summer 
of 2018 and at this point  the car was inspected by a third party  before  being taken to auction.
Mrs B was disappointed to subsequently receive  a bill from VWFS they said the following 
damage had been  noted during  the inspection and that this damage was beyond  acceptable 
wear and tear:
1.bonnet front  unsatisfactory repair
2.left hand front door dented
3.left hand rear quarter panel  unsatisfactory repair needs  refinishing
4.right hand rear quarter  panel  unsatisfactory repair  needs  refinishing
Mrs B accepted responsibility  for the damaged bonnet but disputed the other  charges with 
VWFS. They  waived the charge for items 2 and 3 but insisted that item 4 was chargeable.
So Mrs B, still dissatisfied, referred  her complaint to this service  and our adjudicator provided 
an opinion. She explained  that the industry  guidelines on fair wear and tear were provided by 
the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association  (BVRLA) and they said there shouldnt be 
obvious evidence of poor repair such as flaking paint, preparation marks, paint  
contamination, rippled  finish  and poorly matched paint. She reviewed the pictures in the 
inspection report but she thought images  8 and 10, of the right hand rear quarter  pane,  
showed the paintwork to be rippled and wobbly. So she thought  VWFS were right to levy a 
charge.
But Mrs B disagreed and she asked  for a final decision  by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicators view and for similar reasons. Please let me explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file including the video and pictures  sent in by Mrs B. But 
Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific 
point its not because Ive failed to take it on board and think about   it but because  I dont 
think I need to comment  on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome.
The terms of Mrs Bs finance agreement explain that shes  responsible  for any damage or 
deterioration to the vehicle in excess of fair wear and tear and the BVRLA  provide guidance 
about how to establish what is, and is not, fair wear and tear.
Ref: DRN57663022That guidance, as the adjudicator has explained,  amongst  other things says that paintwork 
shouldnt be rippled and here I think the photographs in the report, of the rear right quarter 
panel, show that it is. The reflections are warped in areas that I dont think the contouring of 
the body panels would  explain. So I think,  on balance, that the charges being applied  by 
VWFS are reasonable in the circumstances.
Mrs B has expressed her disappointment that VWFS  have  waived charges for one quarter 
panel but not for the other. Shes suggested that both are similarly affected but I dont  think  
thats the case. Whilst I can see a warped reflection  in the images of the rear right quarter 
panel I dont think  that can be said to be the case for the other panel.
Shes also concerned  that the third party inspector  hasnt, to her mind, followed the industry 
guidelines as, if he had it wouldnt have been necessary for VWFS to waive charges for 
items 2 and 3. I dont  think it would be reasonable of me to make  the same observation  on 
the pictures alone and I think VWFS have been fair here when being prepared  to waive  
some charges that were not supported  by adequate  photographic  evidence.
I understand that this panel  has been subject to a previous guaranteed repair from a repairer 
who is accredited to the appropriate standards. But that doesnt  mean  the repair that was 
completed was satisfactory. And any claim for unsatisfactory  workmanship would, I think its 
reasonable to suggest, be for Mrs B to make to the body shop that carried out the work.  
So overall, Im persuaded that the charges currently levied by VWFS for items  1 and 4 above 
are being  reasonably made and Im not asking  them  to take any further action.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 August 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5766302