K822xcomplaint
Mr J complains that Barclays  Bank  UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard) continued to contact 
him for payment after hed reported hed been  the victim of identity theft.
background 
Mr J discovered  that a credit card account at Barclaycard had been opened in his name by a 
third party using his identity. He contacted Barclaycard several time in April 2018 and spoke 
with the fraud department. On 3 May 2018  the fraud department wrote to him to say that it 
accepted someone  other than him had applied for credit using his details. And that 
fraudulent spending and charges had been  removed from his name  and his credit file 
amended. Barclaycard also said it had registered the information at CIFAS, the national  
fraud prevention database, to hep protect him in future.
Mr J though continued to receive requests for payment  from Barclaycard  and which 
escalated to a notice of default  dated 22 August 2018. Mr J has provided evidence  of those 
letters and described how he both phoned  and wrote in response to Barclaycard explaining  
the position. He says on 22 September  2019  a member of staff in the payments team said 
Mr J would receive a call back  and which he didnt. And nor did he hear back  from the 
complaints department before he contacted this service. He thinks that this has all affected  
his ability  to get credit elsewhere.
Barclaycard offered him £175 in compensation accepting that there had been a breakdown 
in communication  between its fraud  department and collections  department. This offer has 
since been increased to £250  and then to £500. The last increase Barclaycard said was to 
recognise the particular distress and inconvenience  to Mr J. Our adjudicator  said she 
thought that was fair and that we wouldnt be in a position to tell Barclaycard to change its 
processes to stop this happening again.
Mr J wanted his complaint  to be referred to an ombudsman. He said that he thought that the 
compensation was now more  reflective of the time he had spent dealing with this. But that a 
four figure sum would  be more appropriate and would take into account the stress he was 
caused. He remained  disappointed that Barclaycard  wouldnt be required to say what it 
would do to stop this happening  again  to other customers but accepted  that was outside this 
services remit.  He thought that a hefty financial penalty might  make it take notice. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  to hear that Mr J has been the victim of identity theft. The person responsible for 
that is the fraudster  and I dont doubt  that person caused Mr J considerable distress and 
inconvenience from the outset.
As I understand it Mr J told Barclaycard  about  this in April 2018  and wanted to sort this out. 
He thought he had when  he received the letter referred to above  dated 3 May 2018.  And I 
think that by then Barclaycard had fairly had time to investigate  things  especially given 
there was well over £7,000 in borrowing at stake.  
Ref: DRN54342352If matters had ended there Id have said Barclaycard had done what  Id have expected to 
resolve this. But Mr J has provided clear evidence  of further contact he received asking for 
payments. While he may have initially believed this had still been sorted out as time went  on 
and his calls and letters were having  no impact I dont doubt his growing concern. And thats 
especially when he was told of a notice of default   a serious matter for him. Hes not 
provided a copy of his credit record to this service so I dont know  either  what was shown or 
is showing on that now. And I cant link any other  credit application  he made that he says 
was declined to what Barclaycard did or reported.  Barclaycard has assured this service that 
the adverse entries have now been removed.
I need to think  about  appropriate compensation here. Since the complaints been with us 
thats been increased by Barclaycard. This compensation isnt intended to be punitive or to 
mark what happened  its to reflect the impact  on Mr J. I know hes looked  at the time and 
stress involved. We tend to take an overall  view on things and dont normally award  amounts 
for time spent  and if we do that would be at a modest rate. So instead Im going to be 
looking at everything  thats happened  together here.  
Having done so and considered what Mr Js said Ive come to the view that the total 
compensation of £500 is fair. Ive used my judgement  in making that decision and taken into 
account our published guidelines. Ive also noted  that Barclaycard had previously agreed it 
would write  to him to confirm the position,  that the account was closed and there was no 
debt in his name or adverse credit information still reported to credit reference agencies.  So 
Im going  to make that part of my award too. I cant really  mandate Barclaycard to make  a 
meaningful apology to him if thats  not heartfelt. But it might want to think about  that when 
crafting the letter to him. I appreciate that this resolution will amount to less than Mr J wants  
but I hope he understands my reasons for this.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint and require Barclays Bank  UK PLC (trading as 
Barclaycard) to
1)Pay Mr J £500.
2)Write  to him to confirm that there is no debt recorded in his name, it hasnt reported 
any adverse credit  information now as that has been  amended  and that the account 
is closed.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to Mr J to accept or reject 
my decision  before 13 January 2020.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5434235