K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that goods  acquired  through a finance agreement supplied by Caversham 
Finance Limited  were  not of satisfactory quality. He wants to reject the goods and obtain  a 
refund. 
background
Mr M tells us he purchased a washing machine  with a wi-fi capability.  He says the washing 
machine was supposed to be supplied with a tablet  computer but that was out of stock. So 
after a few weeks he went to the local BrightHouse store  and obtained it from there. But he 
found it wouldnt connect to the machine and the wi-fi feature wasnt working.  Mr M has told 
us that he was informed by a branch manager that he neednt  pay whilst the machine didnt 
work. And that BrightHouse had refused to collect the machine when he tried to reject it. 
BrightHouse told us that Mr M had taken  out the agreement on 9 September  2017.  It had 
replaced the washing machine on 14 September. And when Mr M had complained it would 
still not connect to the tablet it had sent out engineers on 4 October and 12 October. The 
engineers had not found any faults.  It said Mr M had not made any payments  for the goods  
since 30 September 2017.  So it had defaulted the account and terminated the agreement in 
January 2018.
The adjudicator did not recommend the complaint  should be upheld.  She didnt think the 
goods (washing  machine  and replacement tablet) were  faulty.  And she thought BrightHouse  
had acted correctly  - as Mr M had stopped  making payments - in terminating  the account.
Mr M did not agree and said BrightHouse had sent delivery drivers - not engineers  - who 
had no clue of what was going on. And it had refused to accept payments. As its not been 
possible to resolve  this complaint an ombudsman has been asked to make the final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  Mr M wasnt satisfied with the goods he acquired. And I can understand why he 
would be disappointed if things didnt work out as well as he anticipated.
We are an evidence-based service  and we take into account not just what the parties tell us 
but also documentary  and other  types of evidence with which were provided. And where 
evidence is unclear, incomplete  or contradictory - as some  of it is here-  I have  to make my 
decision on the balance  of probabilities. That is I decide what  is the most likely explanation 
to account for whats happened.
As the supplier of goods under the finance  agreement BrightHouse is responsible for the 
items supplied being  of satisfactory quality. And I can see it replaced the washing  machine 
shortly after supply.
It then sent out engineers - Im not sure why Mr M thinks they were just delivery drivers - 
who didnt find any faults with the goods.  The service engineers are named on the reports  
and BrightHouse has confirmed their status.
Ref: DRN54807782As no faults  were identified it seems Mr M was referred back  to his local store  from where 
the tablet had been provided. Although Im not sure why it was thought this would solve  the 
issue as it was being implied  the problem probably lay with the wi-fi connection.
Theres a dispute  of fact as to what took place  subsequently. Mr M has told us that 
BrightHouse refused to collect  the goods  and he was told he neednt  pay anything  whilst  the 
items didnt  work. The customer  contact  notes that BrightHouse have supplied  record that Mr 
M indicated he was refusing to pay as the items  did not work. 
Ive seen no persuasive evidence that the items supplied were  faulty. Whilst I dont  doubt  Mr 
M when he says the wi-fi connection to the items would not work - thats confirmed  by one of 
the engineers  report - theres nothing to say this was due to the items being  faulty  as 
opposed to an issue with the wi-fi signal itself. 
And as Mr M has retained the items - yet not made  any payments since 30 September  2017 
- I cant say BrightHouse has done anything wrong in defaulting the account and terminating 
the agreement.
I think it unlikely that any business would refuse to take payments it was due - and 
BrightHouse has provided evidence it took payments  for other  items it had supplied  to Mr M 
before that account also defaulted.
So whilst Im sorry it will disappoint Mr M Ive seen nothing to say that BrightHouse has 
acted unfairly in this matter. And so I shant be asking it to do anything else.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 May 2019.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5480778