K820x#14complaint
Mr P and Mrs M say Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold them a payment  protection  insurance 
(PPI) policy.  
background and summary to complaint
Mr P and Mrs M bought  the policy in 2001  at the same time as taking out a mortgage. They  
applied for the mortgage and PPI policy in branch.  
The policy provided  cover  for Mr P for accident, sickness, and unemployment  subject to its 
exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay  £745.56 a month towards  Mr P and Mrs Ms 
mortgage balance  in the event of a successful claim. At the time,  it cost £40.62 a month. 
At the time,  Mr P was employed as an engineer. He has told us he was entitled to statutory 
sick and redundancy  pay and didnt  have any other  means of repaying  the mortgage  should 
he be unable  to work. Mr P has said he had a week off work  due to depression in 1990 and 
one month  off work in 1995 after suffering burns. He told Bank of Scotland that he didnt 
have any health  problems at the time of sale.
Mrs M wasnt covered for accident, sickness or unemployment. But the policy did also 
provide Mr P and Mrs M with life and critical illness cover. However, as Mr P and Mrs M 
have not expressed  any dissatisfaction with those aspects of the policy,  I have  not 
considered them here.  
Bank of Scotland has sent us screenshots to show that the mortgage account closed in 
2003. And that Mr P made an unsuccessful claim in 2003.
Mr P and Mrs Ms representative has made lengthy  and substantial  representations on their 
behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr P and Mrs Ms representative says:
Bank of Scotland failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In 
those circumstances,  applying the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr P and Mrs M 
wouldnt have taken  out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr P and 
Mrs Ms representatives believe  there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Bank of Scotland 
should have told Mr P and Mrs M about the poor value;  
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Bank of Scotland should have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mr P and Mrs 
M and the impact  they would have had on their chances of making  a claim;
Ref: DRN53654592The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
The information Mr P and Mrs M received was misleading. These  policies were  
promoted as providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations 
on the scope of the cover meant  this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr P and Mrs M disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion for several  reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr P and Mrs Ms. I dont intend to set 
that out in much detail here,  but Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr P and Mrs Ms 
complaint.
This sale took place  in 2001 before the sale of general insurance products like this became 
regulated by the FSA in January 2005.  So, the FSAs and the FCAs overarching principles 
for businesses and insurance  conduct rules (ICOB and ICOBS) are not applicable to this 
complaint; nor is the FCAs Perimeter Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2003. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance 
Code for private  customers   the GISC Code. 
This sale was made during a period  of industry  self-regulation by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC).  It published the GISC Code, which  set out minimum standards  of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling  insurance, including  PPI. 
Ref: DRN53654593The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
Bank of Scotland, selling insurance  at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
While not all intermediaries  who sold PPI at the time were a member of the ABI or GISC, I 
consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Bank  of Scotland at the time. So, Im satisfied  I should  take these codes 
into account when  deciding, what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable in the circumstances 
of Mr P and Mrs Ms case.
There was also the Mortgage Code which was a voluntary code followed by subscribing 
lenders and mortgage intermediaries. While predominantly about  mortgage related matters, 
it also included some insurance related commitments. 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Banking  
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Banking  Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman  was 
required to decide  complaints by reference  to what was, in his opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances   and that the Ombudsman was required to observe any applicable 
rule of law or relevant judicial authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Bank of Scotland was required to take into account the provisions  in DISP App 3 as if they 
were guidance  when considering Mr P and Mrs Ms complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
Ref: DRN53654594-If Bank  of Scotland gave advice, whether it advised Mr P and Mrs M with reasonable 
care and skill  in particular, whether the policy was appropriate or suitable for them,  
given their needs and circumstances. 
-Whether Bank of Scotland gave Mr P and Mrs M sufficient, appropriate and timely 
information to enable them to make an informed  choice  about whether to take out the 
policy, including drawing to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions of the policy  and significant  limitations  and 
exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr P 
and Mrs M, I must then go on to consider  whether and to what  extent Mr P and Mrs 
M suffered loss or damage  and what I consider would amount to fair compensation 
for that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr P and Mrs M 
and Bank  of Scotland, Ive decided  not to uphold  Mr P and Mrs Ms complaint. Ive set out 
my reasoning below.  
did Mr P and Mrs M know they had a choice?
Bank of Scotland had to make it clear that the PPI policy was optional.  
Mr and Mrs M signed on the mortgage  application  specifically to confirm they wanted to 
apply for the PPI. 
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mr P and Mrs M knew the policy  
was optional and they agreed  to take it out without undue pressure. 
did Bank of Scotland provide advice?
Both Bank of Scotland and Mr P and Mrs M agree  that advice was provided  during this sale.  
This means  Bank of Scotland had to advise Mr P and Mrs M with reasonable care and skill, 
in particular whether  the policy was appropriate or suitable given their needs  and 
circumstances.
the advice
While I dont know what was discussed  in the meeting, the documentary evidence suggests  
that Bank  of Scotland took some steps to establish  whether the policy was a suitable 
recommendation for Mr P and Mrs M. The adviser  had information  about some of Mr P and 
Mrs Ms financial circumstances as part of the mortgage application.  But although some 
questions were asked  about their wider circumstances such  as their health  I dont think  it 
did enough to ensure  the PPI was suitable.  This is because, for example,  Bank  of Scotland  
did not seek information about  their employee benefits and other means  of repaying their 
mortgage. 
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded Bank of Scotland  did all it should 
have done to determine whether the policy was suitable for Mr P and Mrs M given their 
Ref: DRN53654595circumstances. So, Im not persuaded Bank of Scotland advised  with reasonable care and 
skill.
While Im not persuaded Bank of Scotland did all it should have done to make sure the policy 
was suitable for Mr P and Mrs M, I do think its more likely than not that the policy  was 
ultimately suitable for them.  In reaching  that conclusion Ive taken into consideration:
-Mr P met the eligibility criteria for the policy.
-Mr P and Mrs M had a need  for the policy  Mr P was the main  wage earner  and it 
seems likely Mr P and Mrs Ms finances would be put under strain if he was not 
working  even allowing for the sickness and redundancy  benefits  he was entitled  to. 
The policy would have helped Mr P and Mrs M manage the consequences  were Mr P 
unable to work.
-Although Mr P and Mrs M say they were  financially stretched at the time,  Ive seen 
nothing else to suggest the monthly cost of the PPI wasnt affordable.
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mr P and Mrs M. 
There was nothing  about Mr P and Mrs Ms employment or occupation which  would 
have made it difficult for him to claim. Regarding pre-existing  medical  conditions,  
Mr P has told us about depression and burns which caused him to have time off work  
some years before  taking out the PPI. But these conditions dont appear to be caught  
by the policy  exclusions, which dont exclude  pre-existing medical  conditions.  The 
policy had some requirements for making claims for mental health conditions, but I 
dont think these  made the policy  unsuitable. 
-While  the policy would  only pay benefits  for a maximum of 24 months for each claim 
for accident, sickness and unemployment,  it still provided useful cover given Mr P 
and Mrs Ms circumstances.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Bank  of Scotland  gave Mr P and Mrs 
M sufficient information about the cover provided  by the policy  to enable them  to understand 
what Bank of Scotland was recommending to them and make an informed decision about 
whether to follow that advice and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr P and Mrs M were given a broad description  of 
what the policy was intended to cover  (that is that the policy  would protect their payments if 
Mr P were  unable to work  through accident, sickness or unemployment) and of the 
approximate costs. I have  reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely  Mr P and 
Mrs M would  have  taken out the policy without any sense of what the policy was for and of 
how much  the premium might be.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Bank  of Scotland  gave 
sufficient information  about the actual monthly  benefit, the actual cost or about the 
exclusions or limitations before Mr P and Mrs M agreed to take out the policy. 
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr P and Mrs M Im not persuaded 
Bank of Scotland did enough to present information  about the policy  it was recommending  in 
Ref: DRN53654596a way that was fair and reasonable to them. Im not persuaded Bank of Scotland gave Mr P 
and Mrs M all of the information they needed  about  the policy to make  an informed decision 
about whether  to follow the recommendation and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr P and Mrs Ms representative has raised  
a number of general  points  in regards to the requirements on a business  when providing  
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr P and 
Mrs Ms. Ive considered these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr P and Mrs Ms representative considers to 
be poor value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business rather 
than the insurer.  
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr P and Mrs M about the limitations  and exclusions,  it should  have gone further 
and explained  the significance of them  to them. 
Im not persuaded by Mr P and Mrs Ms representatives views on this. The duty of utmost 
good faith in insurance law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose 
material facts and not to make material misrepresentations.  While I cant be certain what a 
court would say  I think its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer  
having to disclose the claims ratio information or explaining the significance of the limitations 
and exclusions in the way Mr P and Mrs M have suggested. And taking into account  the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude that Bank  of Scotland ought to have done either. 
what effect did Bank of Scotlands shortcomings have on Mr P and Mrs M? To what 
extent did Mr P and Mrs M suffer loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that Bank of Scotland didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy  to 
Mr P and Mrs M. So, I have gone on to consider  whether it would be fair and reasonable to 
conclude Mr P and Mrs M suffered loss and damage as a result.  To answer  this, I must 
decide whether  or not Mr P and Mrs M would have  still taken out the policy,  had Bank of 
Scotland done things properly. 
While Im not persuaded Bank of Scotland took the steps it should  have done to establish 
whether the policy  it recommended was suitable  for Mr P and Mrs M, I have found that the 
policy was ultimately suitable for them.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr P and Mrs M have suffered 
loss or damage in this case primarily depends on whether,  if Bank of Scotland  had explained 
things properly, Mr P and Mrs M would have  acted differently, or whether they would have  
taken out the policy  in any event.
Mr P and Mrs M say they wouldnt  have  taken it out and believe I should presume this to be 
the case given  the significant failings identified above. Ive considered the representations  of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Ref: DRN53654597Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mr P and Mrs M had some  interest  in taking out 
payment protection insurance. By this I mean when Bank of Scotland advised  them  that 
there was a suitable product they could buy that would  protect  their mortgage payments in 
the event they were  unable to work because of accident, sickness and unemployment, they 
concluded they wanted that product. But they made that decision based  on incomplete 
information, meaning what they thought  they were getting is not exactly what they got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr P and Mrs Ms circumstances 
at the time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for them.
Although I consider it more likely than not that Mr P and Mrs M knew  they would have to pay 
something for the policy, it doesnt appear Bank  of Scotland told them the exact premium  at 
the point Mr P and Mrs M applied for the policy. Having  said that, it seems likely Mr P and 
Mrs M would  have  been told the cost before the policy  started, so if the costs  were 
significantly at odds  with their expectations at the point of sale,  its possible they might  have 
raised that with Bank of Scotland  at the time or reconsidered their decision.
Overall, Im not persuaded Mr P and Mrs M would have found the cost unacceptable if they 
had been given the exact figure during  the meeting in which  they agreed to the policy.
In addition, Im not persuaded  Bank of Scotland made clear  exactly what  Mr P and Mrs M 
would get back  in return in the event they made a successful claim. But I think its unlikely 
Mr P and Mrs Ms expectations about what the policy would pay in the event of a claim (an 
amount sufficient to meet their mortgage  payment) were significantly different to what  the 
policy actually did  if anything, it is more likely than not that the policy  actually paid more in 
the event of a claim than they would have  expected  as there  was an additional cash  
payment.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr P and Mrs M thought they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions placing more onerous evidential requirements to support a claim  on those 
grounds;
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr P 
wasnt a permanent employee;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mr P be unable  to 
do his own job, any similar  job or any paid work which their experience, education or 
training reasonably qualified him to do;
The policy protected payments for up to 24 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Mr P and Mrs M pause  for thought  and may well have caused them  to conclude the policy 
wasnt as good  as they thought, and they might have decided not to proceed. The limitations 
Ref: DRN53654598on the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might  have dissuaded  
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr P and Mrs M from taking out the 
policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mr P and Mrs Ms circumstances at the time of sale shows  that the 
policy wasnt fundamentally wrong  or unsuitable  for them.  Mr P were  eligible for its benefits 
and it provided cover  that, despite  its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable  to 
them should  the insured  risks have become a reality. I also havent seen any evidence  to 
suggest Mr P wouldve been  caught  by any of the significant exclusions  the policy didnt  
exclude pre-existing medical conditions and Mr P was in permanent employment.  So, I still 
think Mr P and Mrs M had some good reasons to take the policy out.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were  more onerous than Mr P and 
Mrs M might reasonably have  expected. But its unlikely they would have expected to be 
able to make  a disability  claim without  having to provide  some  evidence to support that 
claim. And while this limitation might have  dissuaded  some consumers in slightly  different 
circumstances to Mr P and Mrs M from taking out the policy, Mr P and Mrs M, in their 
circumstances, still had some good  reasons to take it out.
If Mr P and Mrs M had known they could only claim for disability if Mr P was unable  to do 
both his job and any similar job which in the insurers  view they might reasonably  become  
qualified for, it might  have  played into their thinking about what  they would have  done.  And I 
accept it may have given  them pause  for thought  although its possible they may not have 
been overly concerned given that if Mr P were unable (through  disability)  to carry on their 
own occupation the chances  that they would  be able to take up a similar occupation would 
also, in all probability, be limited.
Bank of Scotland may not have told Mr P and Mrs M that any claim they made would be 
limited to a 24-month  period. This may have  differed  from what they expected and might 
have hoped for  but they had limited other means to fall back  on.
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mr P and Mrs M would still have thought a policy 
that paid up to 24 monthly mortgage payments would have been of benefit  to them and 
would help them manage the consequences  should Mr P be unable  to work in the 
circumstances covered by the policy. The policy allowed for multiple claims to be made, it 
could help reduce their outgoings at a difficult and uncertain time and ensure their home was 
not placed at risk. 
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr P and Mrs M would still have taken out the policy. The policy  was suitable for 
them, was sufficiently close  to what its likely  they thought they were  getting and provided 
benefits that would help them manage  the consequences if Mr P were  made  redundant, or 
unable to work through accident  or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely 
than not Mr P and Mrs M would have taken out the policy  in any event notwithstanding the 
limitations on cover.
Mr P and Mrs Ms representatives say the rules  about how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP 
App 3) make it clear that, where a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
Ref: DRN53654599That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration, so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr P and Mrs M would not have bought the PPI they bought unless, in the 
particular circumstances  of the complaint, there is evidence to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr P and Mrs 
Ms circumstances as detailed above, I consider  it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr P 
and Mrs M found themselves in as a result  of the sale was the same position they would 
have been in had the breach or significant  failings  not occurred. 
Mr P and Mrs M believe  the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr P and Mrs M in the position they would have been in if 
they had not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that they would not have taken  out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that they would still have 
taken out the PPI had they been  given clear, fair and not misleading information about the 
policy they were buying. So, Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude Bank  of Scotland should  pay Mr P and Mrs M compensation, as 
that would  put them  in a better position  than they would have been in if everything had 
happened as it should have done. 
Im also aware that Mr P and Mrs M think Bank of Scotland misrepresented the terms of the 
policy in how it described the PPI. While  I accept there is a possibility a court might conclude 
some of Bank of Scotlands statements misrepresented  the contract, in my opinion  the 
reason why Bank of Scotland failed to act fairly  and reasonably was not because  of what it 
did or didnt  say in the information  it provided   but because the overall information Bank of 
Scotland gave  Mr P and Mrs M, in the way it did, was insufficient to meet the standards  I 
consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to have met in 2001 when providing  information 
about an insurance policy. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mr P and Mrs Ms representative says a court  might  
take if it were to find Bank of Scotland negligently misrepresented  the contract  to Mr P and 
Mrs M and about the remedy a court  might  award if it were to find that Bank  of Scotland had 
been in breach of its duty of utmost good faith.  But this doesnt persuade  me to alter my 
conclusions about  what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of the complaint  
including what I think is fair compensation in the circumstances of this case. For the reasons 
Ive already set out I dont think it would be fair and reasonable  to put Mr P and Mrs M in a 
better position than if everything had happened  as it should have done. 
Ref: DRN536545910my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  26 April 2021.
Phillip Lai-Fang
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5365459