K820x#14complaint
Mr F complains that The Royal Bank  of Scotland Plc allowed a hotel to make  a transaction  
using his credit card without his permission, PIN or security number. He is also unhappy  with 
the length of time it took for The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc to look into his complaint.
background
On 5 April 2018  Mr F used his RBS credit card to book a hotel in Ireland, via an online site, 
Ill call B. He was due to spend three  nights at this hotel from 9 until 12 April. Mr F said the 
price shown on Bs website to book this hotel was €180.18, which he said was the sterling 
equivalent of £157. 
Mr F said when  he booked  this hotel he provided B with his credit card number, expiry  date 
and full name. He also said he thought his card details would be used  for security and that 
payment would be taken once  he arrived at his hotel. But on arriving  at his hotel, Mr F 
discovered that it had already taken the payment. 
Mr F says on his return to the UK he discovered hed been charged  £165.40  by the hotel and 
that this amount had been authorised by RBS.  When he complained  to RBS that this was 
more than hes been expecting to be charged  it told him the hotel had requested  the money 
for his stay in Sterling  not Euro.  And it said it wasnt its fault he had been charged more than 
the price he said he had seen when he made his booking online.  It said it hadnt made a 
mistake in authorising  the payment. But, as a gesture  of goodwill it credited his account  with 
£10 to reflect the difference between the prices advertised and paid.  
But Mr F wasnt happy with this so he brought his complaint to our service. He said the hotel 
had used his credit card to buy sterling,  which he hadnt authorised.  And he believed  RBS 
hadnt protected his money because  he said the hotel hadnt had his PIN or security number 
(CVC code). So he said RBS shouldnt have authorised the payment requested by the hotel. 
Our investigator looked into this and didnt think RBS had done anything  wrong  or needed  to 
do anything more here. But Mr F disagreed and asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not intending to 
uphold this complaint.  Ill explain why.
The issue  here is whether  RBS acted fairly  and reasonably in authorising this payment. And 
I think its important to say at the outset that based on what  Ive seen, I dont think  it did 
anything wrong. I say this because RBS said that when a customer  makes an online  
purchase, such as a hotel booking, it would authorise a request  for payment if the merchant  
was able to provide the long card number, expiry date, CVC code and customer  name. 
RBS said Mr F gave  B his credit  card CVC code but Mr F disputes this. Where  there  is a 
disagreement about what happened, as there is here, I have to base my decision on what I 
think is more likely  to have happened  in the circumstances,  on balance  of the evidence 
available. Ive given  careful consideration to what  is being  said here and Ive also looked 
carefully at Bs website.
Ref: DRN56577102Having done so, I can see that as part of the booking process  Mr F wouldve had to give B 
information about the type of payment card he was using,  the long number, expiry date and 
the CVC  code. He wouldnt have been  able to complete his booking  without  giving all of this 
information to B because  the screen  requiring the CVC code cant be bypassed.  So, based 
on the evidence  Ive seen, I think its more likely than not, on balance, that Mr F gave B his 
CVC code.
Having given all of that information  to B, it would,  most likely, have passed this information 
on to the hotel so it could  finalise Mr Fs reservation.  This explains how the hotel was able to 
use the information Mr F had given  B to ask RBS to authorise this transaction. 
RBS said it was provided with the all information Mr F had given B about  his credit card. And 
it said this information  matched  the information it had for Mr Fs credit card account.  So, it 
authorised the transaction request. It also said, because the information the hotel had 
provided was correct, it wouldnt have had any reason  to make any further  checks  on the 
payment before taking a decision to authorise it. And, given the overall circumstances, Im 
satisfied that it was reasonable for RBS to think it had been  presented  with a legitimate 
request for payment,  which Mr F had authorised.  Im also persuaded there was no reason for 
the bank not to make the payment in these circumstances.
In providing his credit card details to B, Im satisfied Mr F gave his authority  for his credit 
card to be pre-authorised or charged. I understand Mr F is unhappy that the hotel took his 
payment in advance  of his arrival  and Ive seen a copy of a receipt,  which shows the hotel 
requested payment from Mr Fs credit card on 8 April 2018  the day before he arrived.  
When he raised this with RBS, I can see that it looked into the terms and conditions that Mr 
F agreed to when he made his booking via Bs website. Having done so, it was satisfied that 
the hotel requested payment in line with the terms. So it didnt think  it had done anything  
wrong in authorising this payment.
Based on what Ive seen  on Bs website, when Mr F booked his hotel he had the option of 
paying immediately  or being changed  by the property in line with the booking  conditions that 
applied. From what Mr F has told us, I believe its more likely than not that he wouldve 
chosen the latter. Ive looked carefully at the booking terms to see if there was anything  that 
shouldve prevented RBS from authorising the payment before Mr F arrived at his hotel.  But 
based on what Ive seen, Im persuaded the payment was requested  in line with the booking  
terms. So, RBS did nothing wrong  in authorising the payment.  I say this because its clear  
from the terms and conditions of Bs website that hotels are permitted to take payment 
upfront in some circumstances   as the hotel he booked did here. 
Having also seen the booking confirmation  B sent Mr F it clearly states he would be charged 
a prepayment of 70% of the total price after reservation and the remaining  amount in the 30 
days before  arrival. As Mr F was due to arrive within 4 days  of the booking he made,  this 
explains why the full amount was taken in advance.  I think  it was clear from the booking 
confirmation B sent Mr F that the hotel would take immediate  payment. So, it follows  that I 
think it was fair and reasonable for RBS to authorise the transaction when it did.
Mr F was expecting  to pay a lower Sterling  price for the room he booked.  And hes unhappy  
that the price  he paid differed from the price he thought  he would be charged.  But, this isnt 
RBS fault. Ill explain  why.
Ref: DRN56577103Ive seen how the hotel in question advertises  its prices on Bs website  it shows  a 
customers currency and the property currency. So, while it shows the price  in Sterling it also 
gives its price  in Euro. Its clear from the website information Ive seen  that customers are 
told prior to confirming their booking  that the Sterling price shown is the amount after the 
price has been converted from Euro.  It also clearly  explains that the exchange  rate may 
change before payment is made.  
Mr F thinks the hotel used his credit  card to buy sterling, which it RBS shouldnt have 
allowed. But, here the hotel used its own bank  to request that RBS send over the money  in 
Sterling instead  of Euro. And, for the reasons already outlined, there was no reason for RBS 
not to authorise  this transaction request. RBS has explained that the hotel exchange rate 
used was as a result of an agreement between the hotel and another bank. So it wouldnt be 
fair to hold RBS responsible here for the price difference because that was beyond  its 
control. 
Mr F says he has concerns regarding the security of his account with RBS. But theres  no 
evidence that security has been  compromised here by. Im satisfied Mr F gave B the 
information the hotel used  to request payment  from RBS. And based  on the evidence Ive 
seen theres nothing to suggest that RBS gave B or the hotel any information about  Mr Fs 
credit card account. In any event,  I should explain that its not our role to decide  whether a 
breach of data protection legislation has taken place. Thats the role of the Information 
Commissioners Office  but, overall,  I dont  think RBS has done anything wrong here.
Mr F is unhappy  by the length of time he says he had to engage with RBS after he made his 
complaint. But, from the evidence  Ive seen I think it undertook a prompt investigation once 
Mr F had made it aware of his concerns, I say this because  RBS issued its final response  
letter on 16 April 2018. This was within three  days of Mr Fs complaint. And I can also see 
that each time Mr F communicated  further  with RBS about his complaint it responded in a 
timely manner. So I am satisfied it looked into Mr Fs complaint promptly  and as wed expect 
it to.
So while I acknowledge Mr Fs strength of feelings about these matters,  Im satisfied that 
RBS correctly authorised  this transaction. It acted fairly and reasonably and Im not going to 
be asking it to do anything  more.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 April 2019.
Julie Robertson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5657710