K820x#14complaint
Mrs C complains about how Santander UK Plc processed an online faster payment that she 
had made  to her father. Shes also unhappy with the service  she received. 
 
background
On 19 April 2019 Mrs C instructed Santander to make an online faster payment from her 
account to her father.  This payment was for a large amount  namely £18,000. Mrs C said 
she was led to believe by Santanders website that these funds had been  successfully  
transferred to her father. So she was surprised when, on visiting a Santander branch the 
following day, she found the payment had been  stopped.
Mrs C said staff at the Santander  branch she visited were unhelpful and directed  her to 
contact head office to query why her funds hadnt been successfully transferred to her father. 
Mrs C tried to log into her online  banking but she discovered that her account had been 
blocked. 
Mrs C complained to Santander  about  what had happened and was told she would receive  a 
call within 24 hours. But she didnt hear from Santander until after that period had lapsed. 
When Santander contacted her she confirmed  her faster payment had been  genuine and her 
payment was processed. But Mrs C said Santander  wasnt aware she had logged a 
complaint and she doesnt feel her complaint was escalated properly. Overall,  Mrs C thought 
she had received poor service.
After Santander  investigated what had happened  it told her it didnt think it had done 
anything wrong  and it didnt uphold her complaint. In its final response letter  it explained why 
Mrs Cs payment had been delayed. But she said she didnt receive this correspondence.  
Being dissatisfied with Santanders response  Mrs C brought her complaint to us. Our 
investigator looked into it and thought Santander  had dealt with Mrs Cs complaint fairly. 
They didnt think Santander  had done anything wrong. But Mrs C didnt agree and asked for 
her complaint to be referred to an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our investigator didnt  uphold Mrs Cs complaint  either about the problems with her 
payment transfer  or her concerns about  how Santander handled her complaint. Strictly 
speaking, we dont  have the power to look at how financial businesses deal with complaint 
handling  as its not a regulated  activity under the legislation that governs our service. So, 
even if I did think Santander  hadnt done things well in this regard, I wouldnt be able to 
uphold that element of her concerns or make an award. I cant act outside the law. So, I 
wont spend any time in this decision  on that. Ill deal solely with the problems Mrs C had 
making her online transfer to her father.
Having carefully considered everything  Mrs C and Santander have said relating to this part 
of her complaint, Im not persuaded  that Santander made a mistake or did anything wrong 
when it delayed her online transfer  until it was able to confirm it was a genuine  transaction.  
Ill explain  why.
Ref: DRN53270512Banks have a duty to have robust strategies to safeguard customer accounts from potentially  
fraudulent transactions. Preventing fraud is as important for the bank as it is for its 
customers. To do so a bank may subject online payments to security checks and delay them 
until it can confirm their authenticity.
Santander has an automated security  check system  in place that checks transactions.  If it 
suspects fraud it will delay  the payment and contact the customer to confirm  its authenticity.  
Its reasonable for Santander to have  processes  in place  to check online transfers given the 
fraud it inevitably experiences as a banking organisation. And its entitled to determine its 
own policy in this regard.  So, we cant comment on whether a business policy  is right  or tell 
it that its policy should be changed. 
Santander said this online payment  prompted additional security checks because it was for a 
large amount and it was unusual activity for Mrs C. In view of that, I think Santander  had 
cause to be vigilant  and reason to suspect this transaction may not be genuine. And it 
couldnt have  known whether it was or wasnt until it could  confirm the circumstances of this 
transfer with Mrs C. For these reasons Im satisfied that delaying  this payment until it could 
speak to Mrs C to confirm its authenticity was a reasonable precaution for Santander to 
adopt here. This was just as much for Mrs Cs protection as it was for Santanders. 
Overall, Im satisfied Santander followed its own policy on security  checks  for online 
transfers. So, I cant fairly conclude it made an error  when it subjected the online transfer 
Mrs C had wanted to make to a security check.  That said, I can understand that this was an 
inconvenient and frustrating experience  especially given that the transaction  was genuine. 
In her complaint Mrs C said she was unhappy  she didnt find out her payment hadnt been 
processed until she attended her branch the following day. So, Ive thought about  whether 
Santander acted  reasonably in alerting her about  what had happened with this transaction. 
After a payment  is delayed by Santander  it says it aims to contact customers as quickly  as 
possible to query the activity. Santander has provided our service with evidence of its call 
logs. Based  on that evidence, Im satisfied it attempted  to contacted  Mrs C at 11:11,  13:07 
and 16:33 on the date the transfer was made  by Mrs C. She said she wasnt aware of these 
calls. But Im satisfied Santander  tried to reach  her as quickly as it could to notify  her that it 
had concerns about the authenticity of her payment and security  of her account.  I dont think  
it couldve taken any additional steps here. And I cant fairly hold it responsible for the fact 
that Mrs C didnt answer those calls.  
Im satisfied the payment was processed promptly by Santander once it was able to confirm  
with Mrs C that it had not been a fraudulent transaction. I say this because Mrs C made  her 
online payment  request  on 19 April 2019,  which was Good  Friday.  In accordance with the 
terms and conditions that apply to Mrs Cs account Santander would treat this payment as 
being received  the next working day, which would  be 23 April 2019 taking into account the 
Easter bank holidays. I understand that this payment was processed  on 21 April 2019. As 
this was two days  earlier  than the timescale  outlined in its terms and conditions  Im satisfied 
Santander adhered to its terms  and conditions here even  though  this payment had prompted 
additional security  checks. It follows that I cant agree with Mrs C that Santander 
unnecessarily held up her payment as she thinks.
I can appreciate why Mrs C was unhappy  when  discovered her account was blocked  when 
she tried to login  online.  But until Santander is able to confirm  a transaction  is genuine  it 
Ref: DRN53270513restricts a customers access to their account  by blocking it. This is due to security  concerns  
and to prevent  fraud. And Im satisfied this is a reasonable precaution for it to take. 
I understand Mrs C feels very strongly about the issues raised in this complaint. But taking  
everything into consideration,  Im persuaded it was reasonable for Santander to respond in 
the way it did to ensure it was acting in Mrs Cs best interests.  In doing so, I believe 
Santander was simply trying to safeguard Mrs Cs account from potential  fraud.  And thats 
not something I can fairly criticise  Santander  for. So I wont  be upholding this complaint  or 
asking Santander  to do anything.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 October  2019.
Julie Robertson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5327051