K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs D have complained that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) didnt  provide  an 
appropriate refund in connection with their motor insurance policy.
Reference to UKI includes its agents.
background
Mrs D was in an accident that wasnt her fault.  The accident claim took some time to settle 
and during that period  Mr and Mrs Ds premiums were affected by the open claim and so 
they paid a higher premium for two policy years. After the claim was settled UKI provided a 
premium refund of roughly £212 and £116  for the two policy  years respectively.  But Mr and 
Mrs D didnt think that was enough. They brought their complaint to us.
I issued a provisional decision on 30 August 2019. For ease Ive copied my provisional 
findings below.  I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, its likely I wont uphold 
it. 
Mr and Mrs D had a separate complaint about the handling of the claim. But weve  dealt with 
that under  a different reference number so Im not going to refer to that in this decision.
Mr and Mrs D feel that UKI misadvised them. In particular they say it told them  that once the 
claim was settled their premiums would return to what they were before the accident and 
that UKI would refund  the difference. So when that didnt happen they complained.  
I asked UKI for copies  of the call recordings with both Mr and Mrs D. Owing  to the passage  
of time the call recording of conversations with Mr D are no longer available.  UKI has 
provided me with the notes of those  conversations  but those are extremely  brief and they 
dont indicate  that UKI told Mr D it would reduce the premium to the level that it was before 
the claim affected their premium. 
But, in any case,  Ive listened to the call when Mrs D actually  paid to renew  her premium for 
the first time following  the claim. UKI told her it would  recalculate the premiums if UKI 
recovered its outlay  and the claim was closed as non-fault. But it didnt say that would result  
in the premium reducing to its original amount. Nor did it say that this was the only factor  
affecting the premium.
In fact UKI clearly explained that the premium was being affected  by other factors. And those 
included a change  in car and a speeding conviction. And it told Mrs D how much  those 
factors had affected  the premium at that point.  Mrs D asked how much had been added  to 
the premium because of the claim and what potentially they would get back.  And UKI told 
her that sum was in the region of £180.  Mrs D made  a further change to her policy,  by 
extending her annual mileage, which caused  the premium to increase further, and then went 
ahead and renewed the policy for the premium UKI quoted.
So, at the point that Mrs D renewed the policy, UKI told her that the premium had increased 
and the factors  affecting that, including a change of car, a speeding conviction and increased 
mileage. And UKI gave  her an indication of how much she could expect to get back  for that 
Ref: DRN56798222year  if the claim was closed as non-fault. In other words, regardless of what  UKI had 
previously discussed  with Mr D, at the point that Mrs D paid for her renewal premium she 
was aware of the amount  that UKI were likely to refund for that year if the claim closed as 
non-fault and she renewed on that basis. So I think UKI gave her enough information to 
decide if she wanted to renew with UKI or not at that time. 
It later transpired that UKI actually refunded £212 for the first year affected  by the open 
claim. That was around £30 more than it had told her to expect.  So I dont think  it did give 
Mr and Mrs D an expectation that they should receive more back  than they actually received. 
The refund figure for the second year was less. But I havent seen any evidence that UKI 
gave Mr and Mrs D the impression that the refund would be the same  for both years.
I can understand that Mr and Mrs D might  have been disappointed that they didnt  receive a 
larger refund. But I dont think thats  because  UKI miscalculated it or did anything to give 
them the impression  that their premium  would return to the level it was at before the claim. 
So I think it dealt with them fairly.
developments
UKI accepted my provisional decision but Mr and Mrs D didnt reply.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not going to uphold 
it. 
As the parties to the complaint didnt  raise any objections to my provisional decision I see no 
reason to change  it. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  4 November 2019.
Joe Scott
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN5679822