K821x#15complaint
Mr K has complained ePayments Systems Limited  wont refund him for payments he didnt 
authorise.
background
Mr K held both a card and wallet with ePayments.  Hed opened his account in January 2017. 
On 8 October 2018 six payments were  made  using  the card. In three cases, ePayments sent 
a SMS to Mr Ks mobile. Mr K received  three of these (one message went to a phone  that 
wasnt his) but as he didnt recognise  where the messages had come from and knew  hed 
not used his ePayments account, he ignored  them.
When he realised his account had been  debited with transactions  hed not authorised,  Mr K 
complained to ePayments. As three of the payments  hadnt  been authenticated using 3D 
secure (sending of SMS), ePayments refunded those but wouldnt refund the others.  The 
SMS for the seventh  payment had been  sent to the new mobile number registered on Mr Ks 
account before any of the transactions had been  made. Mr K brought  his complaint to the 
ombudsman service.
Our investigator reviewed  the evidence. This included information from ePayments  that it 
was likely Mr Ks account had been hacked as mobile phone  details  had been  changed.  This 
request had come from an IP address not normally associated with Mr K. It hadnt been 
actioned until after six of the payments had been made.
Our investigator thought all the evidence showed  Mr Ks details had been used without his 
authority. He asked  ePayments to refund him along  with 8% simple  interest.
EPayments didnt agree with this outcome. They believed Mr K had authorised  these 
payments. This complaint  has now been  referred  to an ombudsman  for decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusion as our investigator  and for roughly similar reasons.
The Payment Services Regulations primarily  require banks and payment institutions  to 
refund customers if they didnt make or authorise payments themselves. Certain other 
circumstances do apply   specifically whether the customer was grossly  negligent  in looking 
after their card and online  account details  but nothing thats had a marked impact  on the 
decision Im making here because of the impact  of the distance selling regulations. So when  
we look at whether  a business has acted fairly in rejecting someones fraud complaint, one 
of the things we consider is whether the customer made  the transactions  themselves or 
allowed them to be made. If they did, then we generally wouldnt ask the bank to refund 
them.
So to help me decide what happened, Ive looked at the evidence of the transactions, as well 
as what both ePayments and Mr K have told us. Ive also asked further questions of Mr K 
following evidence ePayments  gave to us about  Mr Ks passport details being  used as 
authentication.
Ref: DRN57664762Firstly I can see the timeline of events and how the transactions were made were 
comprehensively covered in our investigators view of 24 October 2019. I dont intend to 
repeat everything  that was said there. Except  to say Im satisfied Ive reviewed the complaint 
thoroughly.
I think the following  issues are relevant to this complaint:
Some of ePayments  evidence has been  contradictory. For example they told us 
Mr Ks account was only compromised after the disputed  payments were made. But 
their own timeline  clearly says they were asked  to change the mobile  phone  details 
before any of the payments were  made.  I appreciate they only changed  the mobile 
phone number after the sixth payment and before the seventh but the person  trying 
to make these transactions wouldnt have known that.
Late on ePayments  provided us evidence they believed showed Mr K changed the 
phone number himself.  A photo was sent to them of Mr K which they required to 
authenticate this change. I can see this is Mr K as ePayments  holds a copy of Mr Ks 
passport. But this doesnt match  other evidence ePayments has presented   that the 
details were changed from an IP address  in a different country.
Mr K accepts  he sent a photo  of himself holding his passport to identify himself  to 
ePayments. But he didnt send this when his phone number was changed. 
ePayments hasnt  shown us that this photo arrived with them  when the mobile phone 
number was changed.
I can see ePayments refunded three payments to Mr K. They  say this was because  
they were not authenticated  by 3D secure so they were acting under card scheme  
rules. Im aware what these rules state.  But I think its fair to say they also must have 
refunded these payments because they didnt think Mr K had made  them. If they 
thought hed made them, I wouldnt have  expected  them to refund them so promptly.
So like our investigator  I wonder  why they believe Mr K made the other  payments. 
Theyve not been able to show whether these transactions were all made from 
different IP addresses or devices  or whether  these  were the same as Mr Ks.
The transactions that were refunded were made  based on the timing on 
ePayments transaction log  at 15:58 (twice) and 15:59. The transactions 
ePayments didnt  refund  were made  at 12:39, 15:28 and 15:34.
Bizarrely looking at Mr Ks account usage, the most likely transactions for Mr K to 
have made are the transactions at 15:58  and 15:59 rather than the other three  which 
bear no similarity to the usage  Mr K made  of his ePayments card.
The three disputed  transactions were made using Mr Ks ePayments card. These  
transactions  using  a card  fall under the distance selling regulations.  ePayments 
has disputed this impacts them as they are not a consumer  credit business. I should 
stress the legislation  covers the transactions and not the business. Transactions  
made using a card at a distance   as these were   fall under these regulations. This 
means that there are no gross negligence  considerations under the PSRs here as 
the requirements under the distance selling regulations  that if someone didnt 
authorise they get refunded  trumps considerations under the PSRs. Im surprised 
ePayments werent aware of this regulatory  requirement.
Ive noted  ePayments  state  they dont  hold device information as theyre  a small 
payment institution.  I appreciate the difficulties this must cause them but as they 
dont have this evidence, it makes it difficult to show  Mr K made the disputed  
transactions.
All parties seem to accept SMS messages were sent to Mr Ks phone. But Ive not 
seen any evidence  he responded  to these messages so I cant really  see the 
authentication ePayments claims.
Ref: DRN57664763Having considered all the facts, I dont think theres enough evidence to show Mr K 
authorised the three disputed transactions. On balance  I believe he didnt authorise these. I 
will be asking  ePayments to refund the amounts that debited  Mr Ks account, along with 8% 
simple interest. The three amounts were  in US dollars and according to ePayments  
transactions log were  $219.47, $809.72 and $616.76.
Our investigator also asked ePayments to pay Mr K a small amount of compensation.  I 
agree with this but have changed this to $100 as opposed to an amount in GBP.
During my review of this complaint, I have been in discussion with ePayments as they were 
keen to try to and resolve Mr Ks complaint informally.  We asked Mr K for details about his 
bank account.  This was then shared with ePayments. However they decided this wasnt 
sufficient for them to make the required payment. Ive confirmed  to them  that to resolve this 
complaint I am now issuing this final decision.
my final decision
For reasons given, my final decision is to instruct  ePayments  Systems Limited to:
Refund Mr K $1,646.15 for the three  transactions he didnt authorise;
Add 8% simple interest to that amount from 8 October 2018  until the date of 
settlement; and 
Pay Mr K $100 compensation for the inconvenience caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 July 2020.
Sandra Quinn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5766476