K820x#14complaint
Mrs T is unhappy  with the amount of compensation  offered to her following  fraud  that took 
place on her account during TSB Bank  Plcs (TSBs) IT issues  last year.
background
At the end of April 2018, TSB experienced some IT problems and these issues were 
on-going for some time. On 6 June 2018, Mrs T noticed a transaction  amounting  to £2.50 
had debited her current  account. Mrs T didnt  recognise the transaction and was concerned 
her account  details had been compromised  because of TSBs on-going issues. 
Mrs T contacted TSB to complain about  the transaction and on 15 June 2018, TSB refunded 
the £2.50 deduction. It cancelled Mrs Ts card and sent her a new card the next day. Mrs T 
was concerned that a fraudster may now have her current  account  details and that she may 
be at risk of future fraud. So TSB placed  a block on the account and offered to set up a new 
account for Mrs T and close  the old one down. But Mrs T said she didnt want this. 
TSB also offered  Mrs T £85 for the costs shed  incurred when trying to sort out the issue   
primarily call costs. And it also offered  £75 for the upset caused.  Mrs T didnt think was 
enough to compensate her for the worry she had been caused so she brought  her complaint 
to this service.
An investigator looked into Mrs Ts complaint and she thought the offer made was 
reasonable. And she didnt think TSB should do anything more. Mrs T disagreed.  
As an agreement couldnt  be reached, the complaint has been passed to me for a final 
decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive come to the same 
conclusions as our investigator. Ill explain why below.
TSB has accepted that the transaction  that debited Mrs Ts account was a fraudulent  
transaction and agreed to refund it in full. So Im not going to look into this aspect of the 
complaint any further here. But I do need  to think about whether  the offer of compensation 
made to Mrs T is a fair one. 
Mrs T hasnt  lost out financially because of what  happened with TSBs  IT systems   a full 
refund has already been offered. But its also not in dispute that Mrs T was impacted by the 
fraud that took place on her account and the worry this caused her. 
Mrs T didnt  know  how the fraudsters had got hold of her account information  or whether 
they would  try and take more than the £2.50  theyd  been able to charge to her card. Mrs T 
was worried that her account, the one she used  for her day-to-day banking, was at risk. And 
I understand this is a worrying and stressful situation for Mrs T to find herself in. And so I 
need to think about whether it would be fair and reasonable for me to direct TSB to pay 
Mrs T more than the £160 it has already  offered to compensate her for this worry.    
As Ive said,  I dont doubt that this situation  wouldve caused Mrs T some  concern as she 
thought her money was at risk -  especially given that she didnt know  what  account details 
Ref: DRN54739832had been compromised or how. But on the other hand, I have to bear in mind that current 
account details  can be compromised in many ways and I havent seen any evidence that 
persuades me that it was most likely the IT glitch  that allowed Mrs Ts details to be obtained 
by a fraudster. Its equally  likely  they were compromised in another way  especially given 
the type of fraud that happened on Mrs Ts account. 
So Im not persuaded that its most likely this transaction was allowed as a direct result  of 
anything TSB has done wrong. But even if I were to assume it was, I still think  the offer of 
compensation currently put forward  by TSB is a fair one.  
I say this because  I think  TSB recognised the distress the situation caused  Mrs T in a timely 
fashion and that TSB acted appropriately  to put Mrs Ts mind  at rest. As soon as it was 
notified of the transaction, I think it did as much as it could to ensure the security of her 
account. It cancelled  her card and sent her a new card straightaway.  It blocked access  to her 
telephone banking. And it offered to open a new current account  and close the old one down 
so any potential fraudsters wouldnt have access to her new account details. And so its 
difficult for me to see what more  TSB couldve done. 
TSB also compensated Mrs T for any call costs she had to incur as a result of trying to sort 
out the issue. And it acknowledged the upset caused to Mrs T and offered her £75 in 
compensation. And I think this is a reasonable amount having taken into account all of the 
evidence Ive been presented with here. 
I should stress that we are not here to punish financial businesses. Our role is to put 
consumers in the position they wouldve been  in had nothing gone wrong. Mrs T didnt lose 
out financially. And whilst I have no doubt  the situation was worrying and stressful for her, it 
isnt possible to give someone back their time or take away upset caused. Overall, I consider  
a total award of £160 fairly reflects the inconvenience and upset Mrs T has experienced.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I think the offer made by TSB Bank Plc is fair. And I wont  be 
asking TSB Bank Plc to do anything  more. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 September  2019.
Emly Hanley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5473983