K821x#15complaint
Mr N complains that Home Retail Group  Card  Services  Limited,  trading as Argos, will not 
refund him for a product he did not purchase.
background
In May 2018, whilst searching the history of his expenditure with Argos, on his Argos Card,  
for the date of a particular purchase, Mr N noticed an item for £99 he did not recognise.  The 
date of that purchase was February  2017.  Mr N had no recollection of it and contacted Argos 
to query  it.
Argos confirmed it was for a small electrical item. They said it was purchased  in store  using 
the Argos Card and that it had been  signed  for. As a result, Argos thought that Mr N had 
made the purchase, albeit  he may have forgotten, but did not think that meant they should  
refund him.
Having been told what the specific item was, Mr N was even more sure that he did not make 
the purchase. So he brought  his complaint to this Service.
He confirmed to the investigator, looking into the complaint, that he could not account for 
how his card was used  he had not given it to anyone  to use and there was no-one  obvious 
who would  find and use it. However, he could remember other purchases around the same 
time. He would go into store but usually  he brought things  on-line, so he felt he would have 
remembered something so specific.
Argos said that Mr N had not complied with their terms  and conditions,  which  stated that an 
Argos card-holder should check their statements each month and they must tell us 
straightaway if you do not agree with any transaction on your statement. Given that Mr N 
complained in May 2018, 13 months  after the transaction, they felt that irrespective of 
whether he did or did not carry out the transaction, it was just too late for a refund.
The investigator looking into the complaint, didnt think that was fair. He considered all the 
regulations relevant to this complaint. He noted that Argos  could not produce records  to 
evidence how the payment was made.  But he also could see why Mr N could have missed 
that purchase in his statements and that he did report it as soon as he realised. Overall, he 
thought the fair outcome was a refund of the payment and £100  for the distress and 
inconvenience to Mr N.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigator. Ill explain why.
Under the regulations, I need  to be satisfied that Mr N authorised the payment. An important 
element of that is being satisfied that the payment was authenticated. This falls to Argos to 
Ref: DRN54444052show. In this case, Argos say that Mr Ns card was swiped and that the purchase was signed 
for; thus authenticating the payment.
Argos, though,  cannot provide any evidence to support that assertion. I have factored in that 
13 months had passed between  the transaction and the complaint and, as a result, Argos no 
longer retained  the information.  I cannot  tell Argos for how long they should keep their 
records, but I note that the same relevant regulations expect  a complaint from a consumer to 
a business to be brought within 13 months.  With that in mind, it must be within  reason that 
records are kept for that long in anticipation  of a potential complaint.
In any event, I am not satisfied that the payment was authorised. Because of that I think the 
search for an explanation from Mr N about  his card is unfair  since  I am not satisfied his 
card was used and if it was that it was he who signed for it.
Taking a broader  look at the complaint though, I can see how that payment could be 
overlooked. In March,  it was clear from the statement (relating to February)  that there was 
no minimum payment due.  One would have expected a minimum payment was due given 
the purchase. In March, Mr N did make a purchase and the statements thereafter reflect  that 
in the minimum payments  falling due (and which by then included  an amount referable  to the 
£99 purchase).
Mr N said he got notifications about minimum payments. He would take note of the amount  
and duly pay. Often  he would pay more  than was actually due, which can be seen from the 
statements. Given there was no initial minimum payment and thereafter the £99 was 
subsumed into the later calculations, as I say I can see how it was overlooked.  Im satisfied 
Mr N did complain as soon as he realised there was an issue.
Overall, therefore, I think the fair and reasonable outcome is that Mr N receives a refund and 
the account is re-structured as though  the payment had not been  made.  Any refund of 
interest or charges relating to the payment should  also be made.
I agree  that a payment  of £100 in acknowledgement of the distress and inconvenience is 
fair; Argos should have  appreciated they did not have the information  and that it would have 
been reasonable of them  to resolve this without protracting matters.
Argos have not expressed  their wish to withhold  £50 possible under their terms and 
conditions. I think that is fair - given the relative values in this case it would be 
disproportionate and so I do not think it would  be fair or reasonable for them to do so.
Ref: DRN54444053my final decision
To resolve  this complaint,  I require  Home Retail Group Card Services Limited,  trading as 
Argos, to:
1)Refund Mr s account  in the sum of £99;
2)Restructure the account to reflect  that a payment of £99 had not been made and 
refund any corresponding interest or charges relating to the payment.
3)Not to withhold £50 from the refund;
4)Pay £100 to Mr N personally in acknowledgment  of distress and inconvenience. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 January 2020. 
Anna Keighley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5444405